# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocols for Proximity-based Services
(ProSe) between:
\- the ProSe-enabled UE and the ProSe Function (over the PC3 interface); and
\- two ProSe-enabled UEs (over the PC5 interface).
The present document defines the associated procedures for ProSe service
authorisation, ProSe direct discovery, EPC-level ProSe discovery and ProSe
direct communication.
The present document also defines the message format, message contents, error
handling and system parameters applied by the protocols for ProSe.
The present document is applicable to:
\- the ProSe-enabled UE; and
\- the ProSe Function.
In this release of the specification, ProSe direct discovery is supported only
when the UE is served by E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.344: \"Proximity-services (Prose) Function to Home Subscriber
Server (HSS) aspects; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.345: \"Inter-Proximity-services (Prose) Function signalling
aspects; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.303: \"TS on ProSe Security\".
[7] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20041028: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[8] IETF RFC 4122: \"A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN Namespace\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.333: \"Proximity-services (ProSe) Management Objects (MO)\".
[10] IETF RFC 1035: \"DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[13] Wi-Fi Alliance Technical Committee P2P Task Group, \"Wi-Fi Peer-to-Peer
(P2P) Technical Specification\", Version 1.1.
[14] IEEE Std 802.11-2012: \"IEEE Standard for Information technology \-
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems - Local and
metropolitan area networks - Specific requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN
Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
[15] IETF RFC 4862: \"IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration\".
[16] IETF RFC 3927: \"Dynamic Configuration of IPv4 Link-Local Addresses\".
[17] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[18] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[19] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[20] WAP-168-ServiceLoad-20010731-a: \"Service Loading\".
[21] OMA-WAP-TS-PushOTA-V2_1-20110405-A: \"Push Over the Air\".
[22] OMA-AD-Push-V2_2-20110809-A: \"Push Architecture\".
[23] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[25] IETF RFC 3023: \"XML Media Types\".
[26] IETF RFC 4288: \"Media Type Specifications and Registration Procedures\".
[27] 3GPP TS 32.277: \"Proximity-based Services (ProSe) charging\".
[28] IETF RFC 1166: \"Internet Numbers\".
[29] IETF RFC 5952: \"A Recommendation for IPv6 Address Text Representation\".
[30] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**ProSe Function CTF (ADF):** Accounting Data Forwarding (ADF) function block
of the Charging Trigger Function (CTF) in the ProSe Function.
**Usage information report:** usage information related to one collection
period.
**Usage information report list:** one or more usage information report(s) and
associated with a UE identity.
**Not served by E-UTRAN:** the UE is either:
\- outside of E-UTRAN coverage;
\- within E-UTRAN coverage but not camped on any cell;
\- within E-UTRAN coverage but camped on a non-E-UTRAN cell; or
\- camped on an E-UTRAN cell not operating on the carrier frequency
provisioned for ProSe direct service.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2] apply:
**Local PLMN**
**ProSe-enabled UE**
**Geographical area**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ADF Accounting Data Forwarding function block
CTF Charging Trigger Function
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
MIC Message Integrity Check
MIME Multi-Purpose Internet Mail Extensions
ProSe Proximity-based Services
TTL Time To Live
UUID Universally Unique IDentifier
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
Proximity-based Services (ProSe) are services that can be provided by the 3GPP
system based on UEs being in proximity to each other. In this release of the
document, the 3GPP system enablers for ProSe include the following functions:
\- ProSe direct discovery;
\- ProSe direct communication;
\- EPC-level ProSe discovery; and
\- EPC support for WLAN direct discovery and communication.
Among the above functions, ProSe direct discovery and EPC-level ProSe
Discovery is applicable for both Public Safety UE and non-Public Safety UE.
ProSe direct communication is applicable for Public Safety UE only.
In this release of the document, the stand-alone procedure for EPC support for
WLAN direct discovery and communication is not supported.
The communication security over the PC3 interface is specified in 3GPP TS
33.303 [6]. The communication security over the PC3ch interface is the same as
communication security over the PC3 interface specified in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6].
# 5 ProSe service authorisation and authorisation update procedure
## 5.1 Service authorisation and authorisation update for ProSe direct
discovery and ProSe direct communication
### 5.1.1 General
The service authorisation for ProSe direct discovery and ProSe direct
communication determines whether the UE is authorised to use ProSe direct
discovery announcing or ProSe direct discovery monitoring or both, and to use
ProSe direct communication, in a particular PLMN or when not served by
E-UTRAN. In this release of the specification, ProSe direct communication is
supported only for Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE. The service authorisation
is either:
1) pre-configured in the UE. The pre-configured service authorisation may be
stored in the ME, or in the USIM as specified in 3GPP TS 31.102 [17], or in
both the ME and the USIM. If both the ME and the USIM contain the same
parameters, the values stored in the USIM shall take precedence. The UE shall
not use the pre-configured service authorisation if the contents of the USIM
indicate that the UE is not authorised to use them (see 3GPP TS 31.102 [17]);
or
2) transferred between the UE and the ProSe Function over the PC3 interface
with the ProSe Direct Services Provisioning Management Object or the ProSe
Public Safety Direct Services Provisioning Management Object as specified in
3GPP TS 24.333 [9].
When using option 2) above, the UE shall request service authorisation to use
ProSe direct discovery or ProSe direct communication or both from the ProSe
Function of the HPLMN. As specified in 3GPP TS 29.345 [5], the ProSe Function
of the HPLMN contacts the ProSe Function of each local PLMN or VPLMN to obtain
the service authorisation, merges it with its own service authorisation and
sends the merged service authorisation to the UE.
NOTE 1: How the Prose Function in the HPLMN merges the authorisation policy is
implementation dependent.
The service authorisation provided by the ProSe Function of the HPLMN for
ProSe direct discovery contains a list of PLMNs in which the UE is authorised
to use ProSe direct discovery.
The service authorisation provided by the ProSe Function of the HPLMN for
ProSe direct communication indicates:
\- whether the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct communication when not
served by E-UTRAN, and if so, the required radio parameters to be used for
ProSe direct communication when not served by E-UTRAN;
\- the ProSe direct communication policy parameters; and
\- the list of PLMNs in which the UE is authorised to use direct communication
when served by E-UTRAN.
Alternatively, the ProSe direct communication policy parameters mentioned
above can be provided by the third party public safety provider application
server, using mechanisms that are out of scope of the present specification.
If the UE receives the same parameters from the third party public safety
provider application server as those which had been previously transferred
between the UE and the ProSe Function over the PC3 interface with the ProSe
Public Safety Direct Services Provisioning Management Object, the UE shall use
the parameters provided by the third party public safety provider application
server for ProSe direct communication.
The UE discovers the IP address of the ProSe Functions of the HPLMN as
specified in subclause 5.1.2.
Optionally, the operator can configure the UE with configuration parameters
for establishment of the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function.
If the UE is configured with the configuration parameters for establishment of
the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function (see 3GPP TS 24.333
[9]):
a) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is not
established yet, the UE shall establish the PDN connection for reaching the
HPLMN ProSe Function according to the UE configuration and shall send the HTTP
request message via the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
and
b) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is already
established either due to other ProSe feature or due to other application, the
UE shall send the HTTP request message via the PDN connection for reaching the
HPLMN ProSe Function.
After the UE is authorised to use ProSe direct discovery or ProSe direct
communication or both, the ProSe Function of the HPLMN shall update the
service authorisation:
a) when the ProSe Function of the HPLMN is informed the ProSe related
subscription data is updated at the HSS;
b) when the ProSe Function of the HPLMN decides to revoke the authorization
for ProSe direct service; or
c) when the ProSe Function of the HPLMN is informed the ProSe Function of the
VPLMN or local PLMN decides to revoke the authorization for ProSe direct
service.
The ProSe Function of the HPLMN sends the updated authorization for ProSe
direct service to the UE, e.g. by sending an OMA push message. The updated
authorization for ProSe direct service does not include:
a) the authorization for ProSe direct service (discovery or communication or
both) which is to be revoked; and
b) the PLMN ID of the PLMN in which the service authorisation is to be
revoked.
NOTE 2: The ProSe Function of the HPLMN can send the updated authorization for
ProSe direct service to the UE immediately or wait for the next time when the
UE communicates with the ProSe Function of the HPLMN based on operator\'s
policy; in the latter case, the UE is allowed to use ProSe direct services
until the next time that it will communicate with the ProSe Function of the
HPLMN.
### 5.1.2 ProSe Function discovery
The IP address of the ProSe function in the HPLMN may be pre-configured in the
UE and in this case, the UE may use the pre-configured IP address.
Alternatively, the FQDN of the ProSe Function in the HPLMN may be self-
constructed by the UE, i.e. derived from the PLMN ID of the HPLMN. The UE may
perform DNS lookup as specified in IETF RFC 1035 [10].
### 5.1.3 Service authorisation from ProSe Function
The UE shall initiate the service authorisation procedure to the ProSe
Function of the HPLMN:
a) when the UE receives a request from upper layer to perform ProSe direct
discovery announcing or monitoring or direct communication and has no valid
service authorisation;
b) when the UE is performing ProSe direct discovery announcing or monitoring
or direct communication and changes its registered PLMN to a PLMN which is not
included in the list of PLMNs in which the UE is authorised to perform the
corresponding service, and the request from upper layer to perform the
corresponding service is still in place in the new registered PLMN; or
c) when timer T4005 associated with a valid service authorisation policy
expires and the request from upper layer to perform ProSe direct discovery
announcing or monitoring or direct communication in the corresponding PLMN is
still in place.
NOTE 1: In order to ensure continuity of ProSe direct discovery service or
ProSe direct communication service, the UE can request service authorisation
from the ProSe Function of the HPLMN before the timer T4005 associated with a
service authorisation policy in a PLMN expires.
The UE shall obtain the service authorisation from the ProSe Function of the
HPLMN over the PC3 interface by requesting the ProSe Direct Services
Provisioning Management Object or the ProSe Public Safety Direct Services
Provisioning MO as specified in 3GPP TS 24.333 [9]. The UE waits for an
implementation dependent time for an answer from the ProSe Function. If the
ProSe Function does not respond within that time, the UE may retry the service
authorisation procedure. The number of retries performed by the UE is
implementation dependent. Unless the UE receives a response from the ProSe
function for service authorisation, the UE shall not consider that the request
has been authorised.
The ProSe direct discovery service authorisation from the ProSe Function of
the HPLMN may include:
a) the PLMNs in which the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery
monitoring, and for each PLMN a timer T4005 indicating for how long the
monitoring authorisation policy in that PLMN is valid;
b) the PLMNs in which the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery
announcing , and for each PLMN, it indicates:
1) a timer T4005 indicating for how long the announcing authorisation policy
in that PLMN is valid; and
2) the authorised announcing range (short/medium/long).
c) whether the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery monitoring
when not served by E-UTRAN;
d) whether the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery announcing
when not served by E-UTRAN;
e) the radio parameters to be used for ProSe direct discovery monitoring when
not served by E-UTRAN; and
f) the radio parameters to be used for ProSe direct discovery announcing when
not served by E-UTRAN.
The ProSe direct communication service authorisation from the ProSe Function
of the HPLMN may include:
a) whether the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct communication when not
served by E-UTRAN;
b) the radio parameters to be used for ProSe direct communication when not
served by E-UTRAN as defined in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12] and the geographical
area(s) in which the UE is allowed to use these radio parameters;
c) the PLMNs in which the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct
communication when served by E-UTRAN, and for each PLMN a timer T4005
indicating for how long the direct communication authorisation policy in that
PLMN is valid; and
d) the ProSe Direct communication policy parameters, consisting of, for each
group:
1) the ProSe Layer-2 Group ID;
2) the ProSe Group IP multicast address;
3) whether the UE should use IPv4 or IPv6 for that group;
4) an IPv4 address to be used by the UE as a source address in case IPv4 is
used; and
5) the address of the ProSe Key Management Function that the UE shall use to
obtain group-related security contents; and
NOTE 2: Neither ProSe direct discovery announcing nor ProSe communication
operation is applicable to local PLMNs.
e) the usage information reporting configuration, including:
1) the address of the server to which the UE shall upload the usage
information reports;
2) the collection period;
3) the reporting window;
4) whether or not the UE shall report the Group Parameters in the usage
information;
5) whether or not the UE shall report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information;
6) whether or not the UE shall report the amount of data transmitted during
the collection period in the usage information, and whether with location
information;
7) whether or not the UE shall report the amount of data received during the
collection period in the usage information, and whether with location
information;
8) whether or not the UE shall report the time stamps when it went in and out
of E-UTRAN coverage during the collection period in the usage information;
9) whether or not the UE shall report the list of locations of the UE when in
E-UTRAN coverage during the reporting period in the usage information; and
10) whether or not the UE shall report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information.
The UE shall start the timer(s) T4005 with the values included in this service
authorisation. The UE shall consider that an authorisation policy is valid in
the associated PLMN until the corresponding the timer T4005 expires or is
stopped.
# 6 ProSe direct discovery
## 6.1 Overview
This clause describes the PC3 Control Protocol procedures between the UE and
the ProSe Function for ProSe direct discovery announcing and monitoring. It
also describes the ProSe Protocol procedures at the UE for ProSe direct
discovery of other ProSe-enabled UEs over the PC5 interface.
### 6.1.1 Transport protocol for PC3 Control Protocol messages for ProSe
direct discovery
The UE and ProSe Function shall use HTTP 1.1 as specified in IETF RFC 7230
[18] and IETF RFC 7231 [19] as the transport protocol for ProSe messages over
the PC3 interface. The ProSe messages described here shall be included in the
body of either an HTTP request message or an HTTP response message. The
following rules apply:
\- The UE initiates ProSe transactions with an HTTP request message containing
the PC3 request(s);
\- The ProSe Function responds to the requests with an HTTP response message
containing the PC3 response(s) for the PC3 request(s); and
\- HTTP POST methods are used for PC3 direct discovery procedures.
Optionally, the operator can configure the UE with configuration parameters
for establishment of the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function.
If the UE is configured with the configuration parameter for establishment of
the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function (see 3GPP TS 24.333
[9]):
a) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is not
established yet, the UE shall establish the PDN connection for reaching the
HPLMN ProSe Function according to the UE configuration and shall send the HTTP
request message via the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
and
b) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is already
established (e.g. either due to other ProSe feature or due to other
application), the UE shall send the HTTP request message via the PDN
connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
## 6.2 Procedures
### 6.2.1 Types of ProSe direct discovery procedures
The following PC3 Control Protocol procedures are defined:
\- announce request;
\- monitor request; and
\- match report.
All procedures are initiated from the UE to the ProSe Function in the UE\'s
HPLMN.
In the following descriptions of PC3 Control Protocol procedures, the terms
\"request\" and \"response\" refer to the corresponding PC3 Control Protocol
messages, not to the HTTP request or response. The following procedure
descriptions use a single PC3 Control Protocol message for illustration
purposes.
NOTE: A single HTTP request message can contain multiple PC3 Control Protocol
requests and a single HTTP response message can contain multiple PC3 Control
Protocol responses.
### 6.2.2 Announce request procedure
#### 6.2.2.1 General
The purpose of the announce request procedure is for the UE to obtain a ProSe
Application Code to be announced over the PC5 interface, upon a request for
announcing from upper layers as defined in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2].
The UE shall be authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing in the
registered PLMN based on the service authorisation procedure as specified in
clause 5, before initiating the announce request procedure.
The UE includes the ProSe Application Code obtained as a result of a
successful announce request procedure in a PC5_DISCOVERY message and passes
the PC5_DISCOVERY message to the lower layers for transmission over the PC5
interface.
#### 6.2.2.2 Announce request procedure initiation
Before initiating the announce request procedure, the UE is configured with
the data structure of the ProSe Application IDs appropriate for its HPLMN.
This step is performed using mechanisms out of scope of 3GPP.
If the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery announcing in the
registered PLMN, it shall initiate an announce request procedure:
a) when the UE is triggered by an upper layer application to announce a ProSe
Application ID and the UE has no valid corresponding ProSe Application Code
for that upper layer application;
b) when the validity timer T4000 assigned by the ProSe Function to a ProSe
Application Code has expired and the request from upper layers to announce the
ProSe Application ID corresponding to that ProSe Application Code is still in
place; or
c) when the UE selects a new PLMN while announcing a ProSe Application Code
and the UE is authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing in the new
PLMN.
When the UE selects a new PLMN while announcing a ProSe Application Code and
the UE is not yet authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing in the new
PLMN, the UE shall initiate an announce request procedure only after the UE is
authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing in the new PLMN.
NOTE 1: To ensure service continuity if the UE needs to keep announcing a
ProSe Application Code corresponding to the same ProSe Application ID, the UE
can initiate the announce request procedure before the TTL timer T4000
assigned by the ProSe Function for a Prose Application Code expires.
The UE initiates the announce request procedure by sending a DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message with a new transaction ID, the ProSe Application ID set to the ProSe
Application ID received from upper layers, the command set to \"announce\",
the UE identity set to the UE\'s IMSI, and the Application Identity set to the
Application Identity of the upper layer application that requested the
announcing.
NOTE 2: A UE can include one or multiple transactions in one DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message for different ProSe Application IDs, and receive corresponding
\ element or \ element in a
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message for each respective transaction. In the following
description of the announce request procedure, only one transaction is
included.
Figure 6.2.2.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe Function
in the announce request procedure.
Figure 6.2.2.2.1: Announce request procedure
#### 6.2.2.3 Announce request procedure accepted by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a DISCOVERY_REQUEST message with the command set to
\"announce\", the ProSe Function shall check that the application
corresponding to the Application Identity contained in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message is authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing. If the
application is authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing, the ProSe
Function may also check whether the ProSe Application ID contained in the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is known. If the ProSe Application ID is known or
the ProSe Function skips the check of the ProSe Application ID, the ProSe
Function shall check whether there is an existing context for the UE
associated with the requested ProSe Application ID.
If there is no associated UE context, the ProSe Function checks with the HSS
whether the UE is authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing as
described in 3GPP TS 29.344 [3]. If the check indicates that the UE is
authorised, the ProSe Function shall also check whether the UE is authorised
to use the ProSe Application ID contained in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message. If
the UE is authorised to announce the ProSe Application ID, the ProSe Function
shall allocate the corresponding ProSe Application Code and a value for
validity timer T4000.
If the requested ProSe Application ID is country-specific or global as
described in subclause 24.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], the ProSe Function shall
allocate a corresponding ProSe Application Code according to subclause 24.3 of
3GPP TS 23.003 [4]. The temporary identity part of the ProSe Application Code
is taken from the data structure corresponding to the country-specific or
global ProSe Application ID namespace according to subclause 24.3 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. The ProSe Function shall use the MCC and MNC of the PLMN ID of
this ProSe Function for the PLMN ID part of the ProSe Application Code.
After the ProSe Application Code is allocated, the ProSe Function then
associates this ProSe Application Code and its validity timer T4000 with a new
context for the UE that contains the UE\'s subscription parameters obtained
from the HSS, and starts timer T4001. The HSS also provides to the ProSe
Function the PLMN ID of the PLMN in which the UE is currently registered. For
a given ProSe Application Code timer T4001 shall be longer than timer T4000.
By default, the value of timer T4001 is 4 minutes greater than the value of
timer T4000.
If there is an existing context for the UE associated with the requested ProSe
Application ID, the ProSe function shall either update the context with a new
validity timer T4000, or allocate a new ProSe Application Code for the
requested ProSe Application ID with a new validity timer T4000, and restart
timer T4001.
If a new context was created or an existing context was updated and the UE is
currently roaming, the ProSe Function checks with the VPLMN\'s ProSe function
whether the UE is authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing as
described in 3GPP TS 29.345 [5].
If the check indicates that the UE is authorised then the ProSe Function shall
send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element
with the transaction ID set to the value of the transaction ID received in the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message from the UE, the ProSe Application Code set to the
ProSe Application Code allocated by the ProSe Function for the ProSe
Application ID received in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message from the UE, Validity
Timer T4000 set to the T4000 timer value assigned by the ProSe Function to the
ProSe Application Code and the Discovery Key set to a value provided by the
ProSe Function.
If the UE does not initiate a new announce request procedure before timer
T4001 expires, the ProSe Function shall remove the entry, which associates the
UE with the corresponding ProSe Application ID, from the UE\'s context.
#### 6.2.2.4 Announce request procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message, if the transaction ID
contained in the \ element matches the value sent by the UE
in a DISCOVERY_REQUEST message with the command set to \"announce\", the UE
shall, for each ProSe Application Code received in the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE
message, stop the validity timer T4000 if running and start the validity timer
T4000 with the received value. Otherwise the UE shall discard the
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message and shall not perform the procedures below.
The UE may perform direct discovery announcing as described below.
The UE requests the parameters from the lower layers for Prose direct
discovery announcing (see 3GPP TS 36.331 [12]). The UE shall perform direct
discovery announcing only if the lower layers indicate that ProSe direct
discovery is supported by the network. If the UE in EMM-IDLE mode has to
request resources for ProSe direct discovery announcing as specified in 3GPP
TS 36.331 [12], the UE shall perform a service request procedure or tracking
area update procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [11]. The UE shall obtain
the UTC time for the next discovery transmission opportunity for ProSe direct
discovery from the lower layers.
If a valid UTC time is obtained, the UE shall generate the UTC-based counter
corresponding to this UTC time as specified in subclause 12.2.2.18, and then
use the UTC-based counter to compute the MIC field for the PC5_DISCOVERY
message as described in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6].
The UE shall use the ProSe Application Code received in the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE
message, along with the MIC and the four least significant bits of the UTC-
based counter, in order to construct a PC5_DISCOVERY message, according to the
format defined in subclause 11.2.5.
The UE then passes the PC5_DISCOVERY message to the lower layers for
transmission if:
\- the UE is currently authorised to perform direct discovery announcing in
the registered PLMN;
\- the validity timer T4000 for the allocated ProSe Application Code has not
expired; and
\- a request from upper layers to announce the ProSe Application ID associated
with both the ProSe Application Code and the authorised Application Identity
is still in place.
The UE shall ensure that it keeps on passing PC5_DISCOVERY messages to the
lower layers for transmission until the validity timer T4000 of the ProSe
Application Code expires. How this is achieved is left up to UE
implementation.
During the announcing operation, if one of the above conditions is no longer
met, the UE may instruct the lower layers to stop announcing. When the UE
stops announcing, if the lower layers indicate that the UE is required to send
a discovery indication to the eNodeB and the UE is in EMM-CONNECTED mode, the
UE shall trigger the corresponding procedure in lower layers as specified in
3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
#### 6.2.2.5 Announce request procedure not accepted by the ProSe Function
If the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message cannot be accepted by the ProSe Function, the
ProSe Function sends a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element to the UE including an appropriate PC3 Control Protocol cause
value.
If the application corresponding to the Application Identity contained in the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is not authorised for ProSe direct discovery
announcing, the ProSe Function shall send the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message
containing a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value
#1 \"Invalid application\".
If the ProSe Application ID contained in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is
unknown to the ProSe Function, the ProSe Function shall send a
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3
Control Protocol cause value #2 \"Unknown ProSe Application ID\".
If the UE is not authorised for ProSe direct discovery announcing, the ProSe
Function shall send the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #3 \"UE authorisation
failure\".
If the UE is not authorised to use the ProSe Application ID contained in the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message, the ProSe Function shall send the
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3
Control Protocol cause value #3 \"UE authorisation failure\".
If the UE requests a country-specific ProSe Application ID for a country that
does not correspond to the country of its HPLMN, and the ProSe Function has
not authorized the UE to announce in that country, the ProSe Function shall
send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with
PC3 Control Protocol cause value #8 \"Scope Violation in Prose Application
ID\".
If the UE requests a country-specific ProSe Application ID for a country that
does not correspond to the country of its HPLMN, and the ProSe Function has no
agreement to access the country-wide ProSe Application ID database of that
country, the ProSe Function shall send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing
a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #8 \"Scope
Violation in Prose Application ID\".
#### 6.2.2.6 Abnormal cases
##### 6.2.2.6.1 Abnormal cases in the UE
The following abnormal cases can be identified:
a) Indication from the transport layer of transmission failure of
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message (e.g. after TCP retransmission timeout)
The UE shall close the existing secure connection to the ProSe Function,
establish a new secure connection and then restart the announce request
procedure.
b) No response from the ProSe Function after the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message has
been successfully delivered (e.g. TCP ACK has been received for the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message)
The UE shall retransmit the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message.
NOTE: The timer to trigger retransmission and the maximum number of allowed
retransmissions are UE implementation specific.
c) Indication from upper layers that the request to announce the ProSe
Application ID is no longer in place after sending the DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message, but before the announce request procedure is completed
The UE shall acknowledge the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message received from the
ProSe Function but discard its contents and then abort the procedure.
d) Change of PLMN
If a PLMN change occurs before the announce request procedure is completed,
the procedure shall be aborted. If the UE is authorized to announce in the new
PLMN, the procedure shall be restarted once the UE is registered on the new
PLMN.
##### 6.2.2.6.2 Abnormal cases in the ProSe Function
The following abnormal cases can be identified:
a) Indication from the lower layer of transmission failure of
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message
After receiving an indication from lower layer that the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE
message has not been successfully acknowledged (e.g. TCP ACK is not received),
the ProSe Function shall abort the procedure, and stop any associated timer(s)
T4001, if running.
### 6.2.3 Monitor request procedure
#### 6.2.3.1 General
The purpose of the monitor request procedure is to allow a UE to receive and
process PC5_DISCOVERY messages upon a request for monitoring from upper layers
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2].
The UE shall only initiate the monitor request procedure if it has been
authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring at least in one PLMN based on
the service authorisation procedure.
As a result of the monitor request procedure completing successfully, the UE
obtains one or more Discovery Filters, along with a TTL (Time-To-Live) timer
T4002 for each Discovery Filter indicating the time during which the filter is
valid.
#### 6.2.3.2 Monitor request procedure Initiation
Before initiating the monitor request procedure, the UE is configured with the
data structure of the ProSe Application IDs it wants to monitor. This step is
performed using mechanisms that are out of scope of 3GPP.
If the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery monitoring in at
least one PLMN, it shall initiate a monitor request procedure:
a) when the UE is triggered by an upper layer application to perform ProSe
direct discovery monitoring corresponding to a ProSe Application ID and the UE
has no valid Discovery Filters corresponding to the requested ProSe
Application ID for that upper layer application; or
b) when the TTL timer T4002 assigned by the ProSe Function to a Discovery
Filter has expired and the request from upper layers to monitor that ProSe
Application ID is still in place.
NOTE 1: To ensure service continuity if the UE needs to keep monitoring the
same Discovery Filter, the UE can initiate the monitor request procedure
before the TTL timer T4002 assigned by the ProSe Function for a Discovery
Filter expires.
The UE initiates the monitor request procedure by sending a DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message with a new transaction ID, the ProSe Application ID set to the ProSe
Application ID received from upper layers, the command set to \"monitor\", the
UE identity set to the UE\'s IMSI, and the Application Identity set to the
Application Identity of the upper layer application that requested the
monitoring.
NOTE 2: A UE can include one or multiple transactions in one DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message for one or more ProSe Application IDs, and receive corresponding
\ element or \ element in the
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message for each respective transaction. In the following
description of the monitor request procedure, only one transaction is
included.
Figure 6.2.3.2.1 illustrates the interaction between the UE and the ProSe
Function in the monitor request procedure.
Figure 6.2.3.2.1: Monitor request procedure
#### 6.2.3.3 Monitor request procedure accepted by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a DISCOVERY_REQUEST message with the command set to
\"monitor\", the ProSe Function shall check that the application corresponding
to the Application Identity contained in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is
authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring. If the application is
authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring, the ProSe Function checks
whether there is an existing context for the UE associated with the requested
ProSe Application ID.
If there is no associated UE context, the ProSe Function checks with the HSS
whether the UE is authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring as
described in 3GPP TS 29.344 [3]. The HSS provides to the ProSe Function the
PLMN ID of the PLMN in which the UE is currently registered. If the
subscription check indicates that the UE is authorised, the ProSe Function
creates a new context for the UE associated with the requested ProSe
Application ID.
If the PLMN ID indicated in the ProSe Application ID is PLMN-Specific and that
PLMN ID is not the same as that of the PLMN to which the ProSe Function
belongs, then the ProSe Function executes the procedures defined in 3GPP TS
29.345 [5] to obtain the Discovery Filter(s) for the ProSe Application ID.
Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall allocate one or more Discovery Filters for
the requested ProSe Application ID if it is known to the ProSe Function. _Each
Discovery Filter consists of a ProSe Application Code, one or more ProSe
Application Masks, and a TTL timer T4002._ If the requested ProSe Application
ID is country-specific or global or PLMN-specific as defined respectively in
subclause 24.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], the ProSe Function shall allocate the
Discovery Filter which contains ProSe Application Code and ProSe Application
Mask(s) in the corresponding scope. If the ProSe Application ID is country-
specific or global, the ProSe Application Mask(s) enclosed in the Discovery
Filter hides the PLMN ID part correspondingly and the temporary identity part
is taken from the data structure corresponding to the global or country-wide
ProSe Application ID namespace, as specified in subclause 24.3 of 3GPP TS
23.003 [4]. If the requested ProSe Application ID is PLMN-specific, the ProSe
Function shall allocate one or more PLMN-specific Discovery Filters. Each of
these Discovery Filters shall contain a PLMN-specific Prose Application Code
and the ProSe Application Mask(s) whose PLMN ID portion shall be set such that
when the mask is applied to the ProSe Application Code, the outcome matches
the full PLMN ID of that specific PLMN. _After the Discovery Filter(s) are
allocated, t_ he ProSe Function then associates the Discovery Filters with the
UE context and starts timer T4003 assigned for each Discovery Filter. For a
given Discovery Filter timer T4003 shall be longer than timer T4002. By
default, the value of timer T4003 is 4 minutes greater than the value of timer
T4002.
Similarly, if there is an existing context for the UE associated with the
requested ProSe Application ID, the ProSe function updates the content of
Discovery Filter(s), associate the context with the updated Discovery
Filter(s) and restart timer T4003 for each filter. The update of a Discovery
Filter content includes setting new TTL timer(s) and if necessary, assigning
new ProSe Application Code and ProSe Application Mask(s).
Then the ProSe Function shall send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element with the transaction ID set to the value of the
transaction ID received in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message from the UE, and one
or more Discovery Filters allocated by the ProSe Function(s) for the ProSe
Application ID received in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message from the UE.
If the UE does not initiate a new monitor request procedure before timer T4003
expires, the ProSe Function shall remove the UE\'s association with the
corresponding Discovery Filter. Furthermore, the ProSe Function shall remove
the entry, which associates the UE with the corresponding ProSe Application
ID, from the UE\'s context.
#### 6.2.3.4 Monitor request procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message, if the transaction ID
contained in the \ element matches the value sent by the UE
in a DISCOVERY_REQUEST message with the command set to \"monitor\", the UE
shall, for each Discovery Filter assigned by the ProSe Function, stop TTL
timer T4002 if running and start TTL timer T4002 with the received value.
Otherwise the UE shall discard the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message and shall not
perform the procedures below.
The UE may perform monitor for discovery messages received over the PC5
interface as described below.
_For a ProSe Application ID requested by the monitoring UE, the ProSe Function
may have assigned one or more Discovery Filters. The UE should apply all
assigned Discovery Filters to its monitoring operation. Using these Discovery
Filters may result in a match event. In case of a match event, the UE shall
consider that the ProSe Application ID it seeks to monitor has been
discovered. A match event is defined as follows:_
_There is a match event when, for any of the_ ProSe Application Masks _in a
Discovery Filter, the output of a bitwise AND operation between the ProSe
Application Code contained in the_ received _PC5_DISCOVERY message and th_ e
ProSe Application Mask, _matches the output of a bitwise AND operation between
the_ ProSe Application Mask _and the ProSe Application Code_ contained _in the
same Discovery_ F _ilter._
NOTE: A ProSe Application Mask with all bits set to \"1\" is assigned by the
ProSe Function for full matching.
The UE may instruct the lower layers to start monitoring if all of the
following conditions are met:
\- the UE is currently authorized to perform monitoring in at least one PLMN;
\- the UE has obtained at least one Discovery Filter and their respective TTL
timer T4002(s) have not expired; and
\- a request from upper layers to monitor for the ProSe Application ID
associated with an authorised Application Identity is still in place.
If the UE is in EMM-CONNECTED mode, the monitoring UE shall also trigger the
corresponding procedure in lower layers as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
During the monitoring operation, the UE receives all PC5_DISCOVERY messages
and associated UTC times from the lower layers.
During the monitoring operation, if one of the above conditions is no longer
met, the UE may instruct the lower layers to stop monitoring. When the UE
stops monitoring, if the UE is in EMM-CONNECTED mode, the UE shall trigger the
corresponding procedure in lower layers as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
#### 6.2.3.5 Monitor request procedure not accepted by the ProSe Function
If the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is not accepted by the ProSe Function, the
ProSe Function shall send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element to the UE including an appropriate PC3 Control
Protocol cause value.
If the application corresponding to the Application Identity contained in the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is not authorised for ProSe direct discovery
monitoring, the ProSe Function shall send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message
containing a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value
#1 \"Invalid application\".
If the ProSe Application ID contained in the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message is
unknown to the ProSe Function, the ProSe Function shall send a
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3
Control Protocol cause value #2 \"Unknown ProSe Application ID\".
If the UE is not authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring, the ProSe
Function shall send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #3 \"UE authorisation
failure\".
If the UE requests a country-specific ProSe Application ID for a country that
does not correspond to the country of its HPLMN, and the ProSe Function has
not authorized the UE to monitor in that country, it shall send a
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3
Control Protocol cause value #8 \"Scope Violation in Prose Application ID\".
If the UE requests a country-specific ProSe Application ID for a country that
does not correspond to the country of its HPLMN, and the ProSe Function has no
agreement to access the country-specific ProSe Application ID database of that
country, the ProSe Function shall send a DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message containing
a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #8 \"Scope
Violation in Prose Application ID\".
#### 6.2.3.6 Abnormal cases
##### 6.2.3.6.1 Abnormal cases in the UE
The following abnormal cases can be identified:
a) Indication from the transport layer of transmission failure of
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message (e.g. after TCP retransmission timeout)
The UE shall close the existing secure connection to the ProSe Function,
establish a new secure connection and then restart the monitor request
procedure.
b) No response from the ProSe Function after the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message has
been successfully delivered (e.g. TCP ACK has been received for the
DISCOVERY_REQUEST message)
The UE shall retransmit the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message.
NOTE: The timer to trigger retransmission and the maximum number of allowed
retransmissions are UE implementation specific.
c) Indication from upper layers that the request to monitor the ProSe
Application ID is no longer in place after sending the DISCOVERY_REQUEST
message, but before the monitor request procedure is completed
The UE shall acknowledge the DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message received from the
ProSe Function but discard its contents and then abort the procedure.
d) Change of PLMN
If a PLMN change occurs before the monitor request procedure is completed, the
procedure shall be aborted. If the UE is authorized to monitor in the new
PLMN, the procedures shall be restarted once the UE is registered on the new
PLMN.
##### 6.2.3.6.2 Abnormal cases in the ProSe Function
The following abnormal cases can be identified:
a) Indication from the lower layer of transmission failure of
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message
After receiving an indication from lower layer that the DISCOVEY_RESPONSE
message has not been successfully acknowledged, the ProSe Function shall abort
the procedure, and stop any associated timer(s) T4003, if running.
### 6.2.4 Match report procedure
#### 6.2.4.1 General
The purpose of the Match report procedure is to allow a UE to send a ProSe
Application Code that was matched during the monitoring operation and receive
the corresponding ProSe Application ID, if there is no such a mapping stored
locally.
The UE shall only initiate the match report procedure if it has been
authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring in the monitored PLMN based
on the service authorisation procedure.
As a result of the match report procedure completing successfully, the UE
obtains a ProSe Application ID and potentially other information, which the UE
may store locally and pass to the upper layers.
#### 6.2.4.2 Match report procedure initiation
The UE shall meet the following pre-conditions before initiating this
procedure:
\- a request from upper layers to monitor for the ProSe Application ID, which
resulted in the matched ProSe Application Code, is still in place;
\- the lower layers have provided a \"Monitored PLMN ID\" value, and UTC time
information, along with the discovery message containing a ProSe Application
Code; and
\- the TTL timer T4002 associated with the Discovery Filter, which resulted in
a match event of the ProSe Application Code, has not expired.
If the UE is authorised to perform ProSe direct discovery monitoring in the
monitored PLMN, it should initiate a match report procedure:
a) when there is a match event of one of the ProSe Application Codes received
from the lower layers, and the UE does not have a corresponding ProSe
Application ID already locally stored;
b) when the UE has a locally stored mapping for the ProSe Application Code
that resulted in a match event, but the validity timer T4004 of the ProSe
Application Code has expired; or
c) when the UE has a locally stored mapping for the ProSe Application Code
that resulted in a match event, but the match report refresh timer T4006 of
the ProSe Application Code has expired.
The UE initiates the match report procedure by sending a MATCH_REPORT message
with a new transaction ID and shall set the message contents as follows:
\- the UE shall set the ProSe Application Code to the ProSe Application Code
for which there was a match event;
\- the UE shall set the UE identity to the UE\'s IMSI;
\- the UE shall set the UTC-based counter as follows:
\- the UE shall generate two UTC-based counters with:
1) the first counter composed of:
\- the 27 most significant bits of the UTC-based counter set to the 27 most
significant bits of the UTC time provided by the lower layers for the
PC5_DISCOVERY message that contained the ProSe Application Code for which
there was a match event encoded as specified in subclause 12.2.2.18;
\- the 28^th^ most significant bit of the UTC-based counter set to \'0\'; and
\- the 4 least significant bits of the UTC-based counter set to the 4 least
significant bits of the UTC-based counter contained in the PC5_DISCOVERY
message that contained the ProSe Application Code for which there was a match
event, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6]; and
2) the second counter composed of:
\- the 27 most significant bits of the UTC-based counter set to the 27 most
significant bits of the UTC time provided by the lower layers for the
PC5_DISCOVERY message that contained the ProSe Application Code for which
there was a match event encoded as specified in subclause 12.2.2.18;
\- the 28^th^ most significant bit of the UTC-based counter set to \'1\'; and
\- the 4 least significant bits of the UTC-based counter set to the 4 least
significant bits of the UTC-based counter contained in the PC5_DISCOVERY
message that contained the ProSe Application Code for which there was a match
event, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6]; and
\- then the UE shall select, among the two counters described above, the
counter that is nearest to the UTC time provided by the lower layers for the
PC5_DISCOVERY message that contained the ProSe Application Code for which
there was a match event encoded as specified in subclause 12.2.2.18, and set
the UTC-based counter in the MATCH_REPORT message to that counter;
\- the UE shall set the MIC to the MIC of the PC5_DISCOVERY message that
contained the ProSe Application Code for which there was a match event;
\- the UE shall set the Monitored PLMN ID to the PLMN ID of the PLMN where the
PC5_DISCOVERY message was received, as provided by the lower layers;
\- if the UE was roaming when the match event occurred, the UE shall set the
VPLMN ID to the PLMN ID of the PLMN in which the UE was registered when the
match event occurred; and
\- the UE shall set the Metadata Flag to indicate whether or not it wishes to
receive metadata information associated with the ProSe Application ID in the
MATCH_REPORT_ACK message from the ProSe Function.
NOTE 1: A UE can include one or multiple transactions in one MATCH_REPORT
message for different ProSe Application Codes, and receive corresponding
\ element or \ element in the MATCH_REPORT_ACK
message for each respective transaction. In the following description of match
report procedure, only one transaction is included.
NOTE 2: The value of the Metadata Flag is determined through an indication
from upper layers in the original request to monitor for a ProSe Application
ID.
Figure 6.2.4.2.1 illustrates the interaction between the UE and the ProSe
Function in the match report procedure.
Figure 6.2.4.2.1: Match report procedure
#### 6.2.4.3 Match report procedure accepted by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a MATCH_REPORT message, the ProSe Function shall check whether
there is an existing context for the UE identified by its IMSI. If there is no
associated UE context, the ProSe Function checks with the HSS whether the UE
is authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring as described in 3GPP TS
29.344 [3].
The ProSe Function shall also check the PLMN ID in the ProSe Application Code
received from the UE. If the PLMN ID in the ProSe Application Code is not the
same of that of the PLMN to which the ProSe Function belongs, the ProSe
Function shall execute the procedures defined in 3GPP TS 29.345 [5].
Otherwise, the ProSe Function shall check whether the received ProSe
Application Code is authorised to be transmitted on the monitored PLMN
indicated in the Monitored PLMN ID in the received message.
If the ProSe Application Code is PLMN-specific, the ProSe Function shall
verify if the PLMN ID in the ProSe Application Code is the same as the PLMN of
the ProSe Function. If so, the ProSe Function shall map the ProSe Application
Code to the corresponding ProSe Application ID from the PLMN-specific
database. If the ProSe Application Code is country-specific, as specified in
subclause 24.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], the ProSe Function shall check whether
the MCC of the PLMN ID part of the ProSe Application Code corresponds to the
country of the ProSe Function. If so, the ProSe Function shall map the ProSe
Application Code to the corresponding ProSe Application ID from the country-
specific database. If the ProSe Application Code is global as specified in
subclause 24.3 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [4], the ProSe Function shall map the ProSe
Application Code to the corresponding ProSe Application ID from the global
database.
The ProSe Function shall analyse the ProSe Application Code received from the
UE and determine the validity of the ProSe Application Code.
NOTE: This might require the ProSe Function to execute procedures defined in
3GPP TS 29.345 [5].
The ProSe Function shall check if the MIC value and its corresponding UTC-
based counter are valid, as defined in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6].
If the outcome of above processing is successful, the ProSe Function shall
send a MATCH_REPORT_ACK message containing a \ element with the
transaction ID set to the value of the transaction ID received in the
MATCH_REPORT message from the UE, the ProSe Application ID set to the ProSe
Application ID provided by the ProSe Function and corresponding to the ProSe
Application Code contained in the MATCH_REPORT message, the Validity Timer
T4004 set to indicate for how long this ProSe Application Code is valid, and
the Match Report Refresh Timer T4006 set to indicate for how long the UE will
wait before sending a new Match Report for this ProSe Application Code. If the
UE has set the Metadata Flag to indicate that it wishes to receive metadata
information associated with the ProSe Application ID, the ProSe Function shall
set the Metadata to the metadata information associated with the ProSe
Application Code received in the MATCH_REPORT message.
#### 6.2.4.4 Match report procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message, if the transaction ID contained
in the \ element matches the value sent by the UE in a MATCH_REPORT
message, the UE shall store the mapping between the ProSe Application Code and
ProSe Application ID locally, start timers T4004 and T4006, and may inform the
upper layers of this match of the ProSe Application ID. Otherwise the UE shall
discard the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message.
Upon receipt of the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message, if the transaction ID contained
in the \ element matches the value sent by the UE in a
MATCH_REPORT message and if the received PC3 Control Protocol cause value is
#5 \"Invalid MIC\", as specified in subclause 6.2.4.5, the UE shall stop timer
T4004 if it is running.
NOTE 1: It is an implementation specific choice whether the UE informs the
upper layers every time a ProSe Application ID triggers a match event, or only
the first time this match occurs.
NOTE 2: The UE can also inform the upper layers if a ProSe Application ID is
no longer matched, because the validity timer T4004 of the corresponding ProSe
Application Code expires.
NOTE 3: The UE can also inform the upper layers if a ProSe Application ID is
no longer matched, because the validity timer T4004 of the corresponding ProSe
Application Code is stopped upon receving MATCH_REPORT_ACK message with a
\ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #5 \"Invalid
MIC\".
#### 6.2.4.5 Match report procedure not accepted by the ProSe Function
If the MATCH_REPORT message is not accepted by the ProSe Function, the ProSe
Function sends a MATCH_REPORT_ACK message with a \ element to
the UE including an appropriate PC3 Control Protocol cause value.
If the ProSe Application Code contained in the MATCH_REPORT message is unknown
by the ProSe Function, the ProSe Function shall send the MATCH_REPORT_ACK
message with a \ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value
#4 \"Unknown ProSe Application Code\".
If the check of the MIC contained in the MATCH_REPORT message fails, the ProSe
Function shall send the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message with a \
element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #5 \"Invalid MIC\".
If the check of the UTC-based counter contained in the MATCH_REPORT message
fails, the ProSe Function shall send the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message with a
\ element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #6 \"Invalid
UTC-based counter\".
If the UE is not authorised for ProSe direct discovery monitoring, the ProSe
Function shall send the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message with a \
element with PC3 Control Protocol cause value #3 \"UE authorisation failure\".
#### 6.2.4.6 Abnormal cases
##### 6.2.4.6.1 Abnormal cases in the UE
The following abnormal cases can be identified:
a) Indication from the transport layer of transmission failure of MATCH_REPORT
message (e.g. after TCP retransmission timeout)
The UE shall close the existing secure connection to the ProSe Function,
establish a new secure connection and then restart the match report procedure.
b) No response from the ProSe Function after the MATCH_REPORT message has been
successfully delivered (e.g. TCP ACK has been received for the MATCH_REPORT
message)
If the TTL timer T4002 associated with the Discovery Filter which resulted in
a match event has not expired, the UE shall retransmit the MATCH_REPORT
message.
NOTE: The timer to trigger retransmission and the maximum number of allowed
retransmissions are UE implementation specific.
c) Change of PLMN
If a PLMN change occurs before the match report procedure is completed, the
procedure shall be aborted.
#### 6.2.5 Direct discovery time synchronisation by the Prose Function
To ensure time synchronisation as specified in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6], the ProSe
Function shall include timing-related information in parameters Current Time
and Max Offset as defined in subclause 12.2.2.2A and subclause 12.2.2.2B in
DISCOVERY_RESPONSE message. It shall also include Current Time in
MATCH_REPORT_ACK message.
# 7 EPC-level ProSe discovery
## 7.1 Overview
This clause describes the PC3 Control Protocol procedures between the UE and
the ProSe Function for EPC-level ProSe discovery.
### 7.1.1 Transport protocol for PC3 Control Protocol messages for EPC-level
ProSe discovery
The UE and the ProSe Function shall use HTTP 1.1 as specified in IETF RFC 7230
[18] and IETF RFC 7231 [19] as the transport protocol for EPC-level ProSe
discovery messages over the PC3 interface. The ProSe messages described here
shall be included in the body of either an HTTP request message or an HTTP
response message.
### 7.1.2 Handling of UE-initiated procedures
The following rules apply for UE-initiated procedures:
\- The UE initiates ProSe transactions with an HTTP request message containing
the PC3 request(s); and
\- The ProSe Function responds to the requests with an HTTP response message
containing the PC3 response(s) for the PC3 request(s).
Optionally, the operator can configure the UE with configuration parameters
for establishment of the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function.
If the UE is configured with the configuration parameter for establishment of
the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function (see 3GPP TS 24.333
[9]):
a) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is not
established yet, the UE shall establish the PDN connection for reaching the
HPLMN ProSe Function according to the UE configuration and shall send the HTTP
request message via the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
and
b) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is already
established (e.g. either due to other ProSe feature or due to other
application), the UE shall send the HTTP request message via the PDN
connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
### 7.1.3 Handling of network-initiated procedures
The network-initiated messages for EPC-level ProSe discovery over the PC3
interface shall be contained in an HTTP response message. Either HTTP long
polling, or OMA Push, can be used to trigger the HTTP request corresponding to
this HTTP response message. The UE and the ProSe Function shall support OMA
Push for network initiated procedures. Optionally the UE and ProSe Function
should support long polling as well for network initiated procedures.
During the UE registration procedure, the UE and the ProSe Function decide
which method to use. If the UE supports long polling method, the UE indicates
that to the ProSe Function in the UE-registration request with a \"Method for
server-initiated transaction\" IE. If the ProSe Function supports long polling
method as well and if it prefers to use the long polling method for network
initiated procedures, then it checks if UE can also support long polling
method via the \"Method for server-initiated transaction\" IE included in the
registration request message and indicates the use of long-polling in the
registration response message. If the ProSe Function supports OMA Push only or
if it chooses to use OMA Push then it ignores the \"Method for server-
initiated transaction\"IE in UE registration request.
#### 7.1.3.1 HTTP long polling
The HTTP long polling method involves the following steps:
a) the UE sends an empty HTTP request message as a polling request when it
expects network initiated message(s) over the PC3 interface;
b) the ProSe Function defers its response to the UE's request until;
i) one ore more network-initiated PC3 message(s) for the UE are available. The
ProSe Function will enclose the message(s) in an HTTP response message and
send it to the UE; or
ii) a particular timeout for HTTP polling has occurred. The ProSe Function
then sends an empty HTTP response message as the polling response to the UE.
c) After receiving the response from the ProSe Function, the UE may keep
polling after some waiting period if:
i) the UE receives an empty polling response; or
ii) the UE receives network-initiated message(s) from the ProSe Function but
still expects additional network-initiated message(s).
NOTE: The implementation of the HTTP polling process can be coordinated with
the SUPL (Secure User Plane Location) procedures to synchronize the SUPL
location report procedures and the HTTP polling procedure so as to reduce
unnecessary wait time of polling.
If the UE is trigged to send a PC3 message to the ProSe Function while it has
a pending HTTP polling request, the UE shall open another HTTP connection to
the ProSe Function to send this new request. Alternately the UE may always use
a separate dedicated HTTP connection for polling.
#### 7.1.3.2 OMA Push
The OMA Push method involves the following steps:
a) if one or more network-initiated PC3 message(s) for the UE are available,
the ProSe Function sends a push message containing a particular URL to the UE
via the OMA-Push Architecture as defined in OMA-AD-Push-V2_2-20110809-A [22].
The URL is linked to the PC3 message(s) to be sent to the UE. The ProSe
Function (performing OMA Push Proxy Gateway functionality) generates a Push
Message as specified in OMA-WAP-TS-PushOTA-V2_1-20110405-A [21] with the PDU
set according to WAP-168-ServiceLoad-20010731-a [20]. The URL information
shall be included in the PDU payload;
b) After receiving the push message, the UE retrieves the URL from the payload
of the message and sends an HTTP GET request to the ProSe Function with this
URL; and
c) the ProSe Function sends an HTTP response message containing the PC3
message(s) to the UE.
## 7.2 Procedures
### 7.2.1 Types of EPC-level ProSe discovery procedures
The following PC3 Control Protocol procedures are defined:
\- UE registration;
\- application registration;
\- proximity request;
\- proximity request validation;
\- proximity alert;
\- UE deregistration; and
\- proximity request cancellation.
EPC support for WLAN direct discovery and communication may be requested as
part of the EPC-level ProSe discovery procedure.
### 7.2.2 UE registration procedure
#### 7.2.2.1 General
The purpose of the UE registration procedure is for the UE to register with
the ProSe Function to obtain EPC-level ProSe discovery services as defined in
3GPP TS 23.303 [2]. The UE registers with the ProSe Function residing in the
HPLMN.
#### 7.2.2.2 UE registration procedure initiation
Based on pre-configuration, if the UE is authorised to perform EPC-level ProSe
discovery in the registered PLMN, it shall initiate the UE registration
procedure when the UE is triggered by upper layers to obtain EPC-level ProSe
discovery services and the UE has no corresponding EPC ProSe User ID.
The UE initiates the UE registration procedure by sending a
UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message with the UE identity set to the UE\'s IMSI. If
the UE intends to use EPC support for WLAN direct discovery and communication
and if the UE uses a permanent WLAN link layer identifier, then the UE also
includes the WLAN link layer identifier in the UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST
message. If the UE supports long polling method for network initiated
procedures then the UE also includes a \"Method for server-initiated
transaction\" parameter indicating to the ProSe Function that it support long
polling method.
Figure 7.2.2.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe Function
in the UE registration procedure.
Figure 7.2.2.2.1: UE registration procedure
#### 7.2.2.3 UE registration procedure accepted by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message, the ProSe Function interacts
with the HSS as described in 3GPP TS 29.344 [3] in order to authenticate the
user and check whether the user is authorised to use EPC-level ProSe discovery
services corresponding to the IMSI contained in the UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST
message in the registered PLMN.
If the ProSe Function contains all the settings related to authentication and
authorisation for the user corresponding to the IMSI contained in the
UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message then the ProSe function need not interact with
the HSS and the ProSe Function checks locally if the user is authorised to use
EPC-level ProSe discovery services.
If the UE is authorised to use EPC-level ProSe discovery services, the ProSe
Function generates an EPC ProSe User ID corresponding to the IMSI contained in
the UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message and shall send a UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE
message containing a \ element to the UE with the EPC ProSe
User ID. The EPC ProSe User ID is a number generated by the ProSe Function
that is unique within the ProSe Function on a per UE basis. The \ element shall also contain a server-initiated method configuration
parameter indicating to the UE which method to use to handle server-initiated
procedures.
#### 7.2.2.4 UE registration procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message containing a \ element the UE stores the EPC ProSe User ID and may start the
application registration procedure. The UE shall use the method configured in
UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message to handle server-initiated procedures.
#### 7.2.2.5 UE registration procedure not accepted by the ProSe Function
If the UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message is not accepted by the ProSe Function,
the ProSe Function shall send a UE_REGISTRATION _RESPONSE message containing a
\ element to the UE including an appropriate PC3 EPC Control
Protocol cause value.
If the UE is not authorised for EPC-level ProSe discovery, the ProSe Function
shall send the UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #2 \"UE
authorisation failure\".
### 7.2.3 Application registration procedure
#### 7.2.3.1 General
The purpose of the application registration procedure is for the UE to
activate EPC-level Prose discovery for a specific application as defined in
3GPP TS 23.303 [2]. The UE registers the specific application with the ProSe
Function residing in the HPLMN.
#### 7.2.3.2 Application registration procedure initiation
When the user uses applications on the UE, an Application ID is used to
identify the corresponding application server platform. When the user
registers an application with the application server, the user is designated
an Application Layer User ID. If the application requires EPC-level ProSe
discovery, the UE is configured with the data structure of the Application IDs
and the Application Layer User ID. This step is performed using mechanisms
outside of the scope of 3GPP. The user may have multiple Application Layer
User IDs for an application, but may choose to register only one of these to
activate EPC-level ProSe discovery. The UE shall initiate the application
registration procedure after successfully completing the UE registration
procedure.
If the UE is authorised to perform EPC-level ProSe discovery in the registered
PLMN, it shall initiate the application registration procedure when the UE is
triggered by upper layers to activate EPC-level Prose discovery for a specific
application and the application is not registered.
The UE initiates the application registration procedure by sending an
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message by including a new transaction ID,
the UE\'s EPC ProSe User ID, the Application ID for the application that is to
be registered and the user\'s Application Layer User ID for the application
that is to be registered.
NOTE: A UE can include one or multiple transactions in one
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message for different Application IDs, and
receive corresponding \ element or \
element in the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message for each respective
transaction. In the following description of the application registration
procedure, only one transaction is included.
Figure 7.2.3.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe Function
in the application registration procedure.
Figure 7.2.3.2.1: Application registration procedure
#### 7.2.3.3 Application registration procedure accepted by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving an APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message, the ProSe Function
retrieves the user profile based on the UE\'s EPC ProSe User ID included in
the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message. The ProSe Function then checks
if the list of authorised applications in the user\'s profile includes the
requested application based on the Application ID in the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message.
If the check is successful then the ProSe Function sends a request to the
application server so that the user of this application identified by
Application Layer User ID in the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message can
use EPC-level ProSe discovery for that application.
If the user is authorised to use EPC-level ProSe discovery for the specified
application, the ProSe Function generates one or more allowed range classes
corresponding to the Application ID contained in the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message. The ProSe Function shall send an
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message containing a \
element to the UE with transaction ID set to the value of the transaction ID
received in the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message from the UE and the
set of allowed range classes. The set of allowed range classes for each
Application ID is stored in the ProSe Function.
#### 7.2.3.4 Application registration procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message, if the transaction ID
contained in the \ element matches the value sent by the UE
in an APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message the UE stores the set of
allowed range classes for this Application ID and may start the proximity
request procedure.
#### 7.2.3.5 Application registration procedure not accepted by the ProSe
Function
If the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message is not accepted by the ProSe
Function, the ProSe Function shall send an APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE
message containing a \ element to the UE including an
appropriate PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value.
If the application corresponding to the Application ID contained in the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message is not authorised for EPC-level ProSe
Discovery in the registered PLMN, the ProSe Function shall send the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message containing a \
element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #1 \"Invalid Application\".
If the UE is not authorised for EPC-level ProSe Discovery, the ProSe Function
shall send the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #2 \"UE
authorisation failure\".
If the Application Layer User ID contained in the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message is unknown to the Application Server,
the ProSe Function shall send the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE message
containing a \ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause
value #10 \"Invalid Application Layer User ID\".
### 7.2.4 Proximity request procedure
#### 7.2.4.1 General
The purpose of the proximity request procedure is to allow a UE (UE A) to
request to be alerted when it enters in proximity with a targeted UE (UE B) as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2]. UE A performs the proximity request procedure
with the ProSe Function residing in the HPLMN.
#### 7.2.4.2 Proximity request procedure initiation
Before initiating the proximity request procedure, UE A needs to register the
user\'s Application Layer User ID A with ProSe Function A as described in
subclause 7.2.3. UE A shall initiate the proximity request procedure when
triggered by upper layers to activate EPC-level Prose discovery for a specific
application and for a specific targeted user identified via its Application
Layer User ID B.
UE A initiates the proximity request procedure by sending a PROXIMITY_REQUEST
message to ProSe Function A by including a new transaction ID, UE A\'s EPC
ProSe User ID, the Application ID for the application for which the request is
made, UE A\'s Application Layer User ID (Application Layer User ID A), the
Application Layer User ID of UE B (Application Layer User ID B), a requested
range class value selected from the set of allowed range classes for this
application, UE A\'s Current Location with the best known accuracy and a Time
Window indicating the time interval during which the request is valid.
NOTE: A UE can include one or multiple transactions in one PROXIMITY_REQUEST
message for different Application IDs, and receives corresponding \ element or \ element in the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message for each respective transaction. In the
following description of the Proximity Request procedure, only one transaction
is included.
If UE A, subsequent to successful proximity detection with UE B, wishes to
engage in WLAN direct discovery and communication, UE A also includes a WLAN
Indication in the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message.
Figure 7.2.4.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe Function
in the proximity request procedure.
Figure 7.2.4.2.1: Proximity request procedure
#### 7.2.4.3 Proximity request procedure accepted by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a PROXIMITY_REQUEST message from UE A, ProSe Function A
retrieves the user profile based on the UE\'s EPC ProSe User ID included in
the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message. ProSe Function A then checks that UE A has
previously registered the application identified with the Application ID in
the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message and that the requested range class value belongs
to the set of allowed range classes for this application.
If the check is successful then ProSe Function A interacts with the
Application Server to obtain the identifier of ProSe Function B that owns the
user profile of the targeted user, as well as its EPC ProSe User ID (EPC ProSe
User ID B). ProSe Function A then propagates the proximity request to ProSe
Function B on the targeted UE side (the B-side). The Current Location of UE A
included in the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message may be used by ProSe Function B to
determine whether the proximity request is accepted or not.
NOTE: The mechanism used by ProSe Function B to determine acceptance or non-
acceptance of PROXIMITY_REQUEST messages is outside the scope of this
specification.
If the proximity request is accepted by the B-side, ProSe Function A stores
Application Layer User ID A, Application Layer User ID B, EPC ProSe User ID B,
requested range class and Time Window in the UE A\'s context identified with
EPC ProSe User ID A. The WLAN Indication is also stored, if it was included in
the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message. Then ProSe Function A shall initiate location
reporting for UE A and send a PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element to UE A with transaction ID set to the value of the
transaction ID received in the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message from UE A.
#### 7.2.4.4 Proximity request procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message, if the transaction ID
contained in the \ element matches the value sent by the UE
in a PROXIMITY_REQUEST message, the proximity request procedure is
successfully completed.
#### 7.2.4.5 Proximity request procedure not accepted by the ProSe Function
If the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message is not accepted by the ProSe Function, the
ProSe Function shall send a PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element to the UE including an appropriate PC3 EPC Control
Protocol cause value.
If the application corresponding to the Application ID contained in the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST message is not authorised for EPC-level ProSe discovery, the
ProSe Function shall send the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #1
\"Invalid Application\".
If the application corresponding to the Application ID contained in the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST message has not been registered for EPC-level ProSe
discovery, the ProSe Function shall send the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE
message containing a \ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol
cause value #4 \"Application not registered\".
If the requested Range Class value is not allowed for this application, the
ProSe Function shall send the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #5
\"Range Class not allowed for this application\".
If based on the Current Location the B-side determines that UE A and targeted
UE B are unlikely to enter proximity within the requested Time Window, the
ProSe Function shall send the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #6
\"Proximity detection unlikely within requested time window\".
If the ProSe Function determines that the targeted UE has not registered the
application identified with Application ID, the ProSe Function shall send the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a \ element
with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #7 \"Targeted user not registered
for this application\".
If the B-side rejects to validate the proximity request, the ProSe Function
shall send the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE message containing a \ element with PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value #8 \"Proximity
validation rejected by B side\".
### 7.2.5 Proximity alert procedure
#### 7.2.5.1 General
The purpose of the proximity alert procedure is to inform the UE (UE A) that
it has been determined to be in proximity with the targeted UE (UE B) as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2]. If UE A has indicated in the proximity request
procedure that it wishes to engage in WLAN direct discovery and communication
with UE B, the proximity alert procedure is also used to provide Assistance
Information that expedites the WLAN direct discovery and communication to both
UE A and UE B. The proximity alert procedure is initiated by the ProSe
Function residing in the HPLMN.
#### 7.2.5.2 Proximity alert procedure initiation by the network
When ProSe Function A on the A-side determines that UE A and UE B are in
proximity, it cancels the location reporting for UE A with the SUPL Location
Platform and sends a PROXIMITY_ALERT message to UE A including the Application
ID, Application Layer User ID A and Application Layer User ID B.
UE A may have registered multiple proximity requests for applications with
different Application IDs. In this case the ProSe Function may combine the
multiple alerts for each of the different Application IDs and send a combined
PROXIMITY_ALERT message to the UE.
If UE A\'s context contains a WLAN Indication, the ProSe Function generates
Assistance Information for WLAN direct discovery and communication according
to the underlying WLAN technology, includes the Assistance Information in the
PROXIMITY ALERT message and forwards the alert towards the B-side.
If the context of UE A does not contain WLAN Indication then ProSe Function A
sends a cancellation request towards ProSe Function B.
After transmitting the PROXIMITY_ALERT message to UE A and alerting (or
sending a cancellation request to) the B-side, the ProSe Function deletes the
information related to this specific Proximity Request in UE A\'s context.
NOTE: If UE A has signalled a permanent WLAN Link Layer ID during UE
Registration procedure as described in subclause 7.2.2, the WLAN Link Layer ID
for UE A is retrieved from UE A\'s context; otherwise a random WLAN Link Layer
ID is generated for UE A by the ProSe Function. Similarly, if during the
Proximity Request procedure the ProSe Function has received a permanent WLAN
Link Layer ID for UE B, the WLAN Link Layer ID for UE B is retrieved from UE
A\'s context; otherwise a random WLAN Link Layer ID is generated for UE B by
the ProSe Function.
When ProSe Function B is alerted that UE A and UE B are in proximity, it
cancels the location reporting for UE B and shall send a PROXIMITY_ALERT
message to UE B including the Application ID, Application Layer User ID A and
Application Layer User ID B.
Figure 7.2.5.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe Function
in the proximity alert procedure.
Figure 7.2.5.2.1: Proximity alert procedure
#### 7.2.5.3 Proximity alert procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the PROXIMITY_ALERT message the UE shall inform the
application identified via the Application ID in the PROXIMITY_ALERT message
including Application Layer User ID A and Application Layer User ID B. If the
Assistance Information for WLAN direct discovery and communication is included
in the PROXIMITY_ALERT message, the UE uses this information to engage in WLAN
direct discovery and communication with the peer UE.
### 7.2.6 UE deregistration procedure
#### 7.2.6.1 General
The UE deregistration procedure is used to deregister the UE for EPC-level
ProSe discovery services. It can be initiated at any time by the UE or by the
ProSe Function residing in the HPLMN.
#### 7.2.6.2 UE-initiated UE deregistration procedure
##### 7.2.6.2.1 UE-initiated UE deregistration procedure initiation
When the UE decides to deregister for EPC-level ProSe discovery services, it
shall send the UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST message to the ProSe Function
residing in the HPLMN. The message includes the EPC ProSe User ID.
Figure 7.2.6.2.1.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe
Function in the UE-initiated UE deregistration procedure.
Figure 7.2.6.2.1.1: UE-initiated UE deregistration procedure
##### 7.2.6.2.2 UE-initiated UE deregistration procedure accepted by the ProSe
Function
Upon receiving the UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST message, the ProSe Function
retrieves the user profile based on the UE\'s EPC ProSe User ID included in
the UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST message, cancels any ongoing proximity alert
procedures for this UE, clears the UE context and shall send a
UE_DEREGISTRATION_RESPONSE message to the UE.
##### 7.2.6.2.3 UE-initiated UE deregistration procedure completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the UE_DEREGISTRATION_RESPONSE message by the UE, the UE
deregistration procedure is complete.
#### 7.2.6.3 Network-initiated UE deregistration procedure
##### 7.2.6.3.1 Network-initiated UE deregistration procedure initiation
When the ProSe Function residing in the HPLMN decides to deregister the UE for
EPC-level ProSe discovery services, it shall send the
UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST to the UE.
Figure 7.2.6.3.1.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe
Function in the network-initiated UE deregistration procedure.
Figure 7.2.6.3.1.1: Network-initiated UE deregistration procedure
##### 7.2.6.3.2 Network-initiated UE deregistration procedure in the UE
Upon receiving a UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST message, the UE deletes all context
information related to EPC-level ProSe discovery and shall send a
UE_DEREGISTRATION_RESPONSE message to the network.
##### 7.2.6.3.3 Network-initiated UE deregistration procedure completion by
the network
Upon receipt of the UE_DEREGISTRATION_RESPONSE message by the ProSe Function
the UE deregistration procedure is complete.
### 7.2.7 Proximity request cancellation procedure
#### 7.2.7.1 General
The proximity request cancellation procedure is used by the UE or ProSe
Function to cancel an ongoing proximity request that was sent earlier as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.303 [2]. The UE initiates the proximity request
cancellation procedure due to occurrence of certain event (e.g.termination of
the corresponding application). The ProSe Function initiates the proximity
request cancellation procedure (e.g. due to excess of time window).
#### 7.2.7.2 UE initiated proximity request cancellation procedure
##### 7.2.7.2.1 Initiation of UE initiated proximity request cancellation
procedure
The UE initiates the proximity request cancellation procedure by sending a
CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message to the ProSe Function including a new
transaction ID, the UE\'s EPC ProSe User ID, the Application ID for the
application for which the cancellation is being made and the targeted user\'s
Application Layer User ID B.
NOTE: A UE can include one or multiple transactions in one
CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message for different Application IDs, and receive
corresponding CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE message for each respective
transaction. In the following description of the proximity request
cancellation procedure, only one transaction is included.
Figure 7.2.7.2.1.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe
Function in the UE initiated proximity request cancellation procedure.
Figure 7.2.7.2.1.1: UE initiated proximity request cancellation procedure
##### 7.2.7.2.2 UE initiated proximity request cancellation procedure handling
by the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message from UE A, ProSe Function A
retrieves the user profile of UE A based on UE A\'s EPC ProSe User ID included
in the CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message. ProSe Function A then uses the
Application ID and Application Layer User ID B to identify the ProSe Function
identifier of ProSe Function B which owns the context of the targeted user and
forwards the cancellation request towards ProSe Function B as defined in 3GPP
TS 29.345 [5].
The ProSe Function A shall send a CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE message to UE A
with transaction ID set to the value of the transaction ID received in the
CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message from UE A. If UE A has no other ongoing
proximity requests then ProSe Function A cancels the location reporting for UE
A.
##### 7.2.7.2.3 UE initiated proximity request cancellation procedure
completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE message with transaction ID set
to the value of the transaction ID received in the CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST
message, the UE A shall abort the proximity request procedure and the UE
initiated proximity request cancellation procedure is complete.
#### 7.2.7.3 ProSe Function initiated proximity request cancellation procedure
##### 7.2.7.3.1 Initiation of ProSe Function initiated proximity request
cancellation procedure
The ProSe Function initiates the proximity request cancellation procedure by
retrieving the user profile of UE A based on UE A\'s EPC ProSe User ID
included in the PROXIMITY_REQUEST message sent by UE A earlier.
The ProSe Function A shall send a CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message to UE A
with transaction ID set to the value of the transaction ID received in the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST message from UE A, the UE A\'s EPC ProSe User ID, the
Application ID for the application for which the cancellation is being made
and the targeted user\'s Application Layer User ID B. If UE A has no other
ongoing proximity requests then ProSe Function A cancels the location
reporting for UE A.
NOTE: A ProSe Function can include one or multiple transactions in one
CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message for each respective transaction. In the
following description of the proximity request cancellation procedure, only
one transaction is included.
Figure 7.2.7.3.1.1 illustrates the ProSe Function initiated proximity request
cancellation procedure.
Figure 7.2.7.3.1.1: ProSe Function initiated proximity request cancellation
procedure
##### 7.2.7.3.2 ProSe initiated proximity request cancellation procedure
handling by the UE
Upon receiving a CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message from ProSe Function A, the
UE A shall abort the proximity request procedure and send a
CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE message to ProSe Function A with transaction ID set
to the value of the transaction ID received in the CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST
message from ProSe Function A.
##### 7.2.7.3.3 ProSe Function initiated proximity request cancellation
procedure completion by the ProSe Function
Upon receipt of the CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE message by ProSe Function A, the
ProSe Function initiated proximity request cancellation procedure is complete.
### 7.2.8 Proximity request Validation procedure
#### 7.2.8.1 General
If the targeted UE\'s profile indicates that the proximity requests for the UE
need to be explicitly validated then the network uses the proximity request
validation procedure to request the targeted UE (UE B) to confirm permission
for the proximity requests (e.g. user B may have temporarily disabled the
ProSe functionality on UE B). It is initiated by the ProSe Function residing
in the HPLMN as part of the overall proximity request procedure defined in
3GPP TS 23.303 [2].
#### 7.2.8.2 Initiation of the proximity request validation procedure
Upon reception of a proximity request from UE A, the ProSe Function on the
targeted UE side (B-side) retrieves the stored profile of UE B. If UE B\'s
profile indicates that the proximity requests for UE B need to be explicitly
validated, ProSe Function B shall send the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION
message to UE B including the Application ID of the application for which the
proximity request is being validated.
Figure 7.2.8.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the targeted UE and the ProSe
Function in the proximity request validation procedure.
Figure 7.2.8.2.1: Proximity request validation procedure
#### 7.2.8.3 Proximity request validation procedure in the UE
Upon receiving a PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION message, UE B checks whether the
application corresponding to the Application ID included in the message is
ready for accepting a proximity request from other users.
If the application corresponding to the Application ID contained in the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION message is ready for accepting proximity requests
from other users, the targeted UE shall send the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION_ACCEPT message to the ProSe Function.
If the application corresponding to the Application ID contained in the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION message is not ready for accepting proximity
requests from other users, the targeted UE shall send the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION_RESPONSE message with PC3 EPC Control Protocol
cause value #9 \"Application disabled temporarily\".
#### 7.2.8.4 Proximity request validation procedure completion by the network
Upon receipt of the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element, ProSe Function B initiates location reporting for
UE B and acknowledges the proximity request towards ProSe Function A.
Upon receipt of the PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION_RESPONSE message containing a
\ element, ProSe Function B forwards an indication towards
ProSe Function A that the proximity request is rejected.
### 7.2.9 Abnormal cases
#### 7.2.9.1 Abnormal cases in the UE
In case of the messages listed below:
\- UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST;
\- UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST; and
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION.
the following abnormal cases can be identified.
a) Indication from transport layer of transmission failure of a message (e.g.
after TCP retransmission timeout)
The UE shall close the existing connection to the ProSe Function, establish a
new connection and then restart the appropriate procedure.
b) No response from the ProSe Function after a message has been successfully
delivered (e.g. TCP ACK has not been received)
The UE shall retransmit the message.
#### 7.2.9.2 Abnormal cases in the ProSe Function
In case of the messages listed below:
\- UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE;
\- APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE;
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE;
\- PROXIMITY_ALERT;
\- UE_DEREGISTRATION_RESPONSE;
\- CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE; and
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION_RESPONSE.
the following abnormal cases can be identified.
a) Indication from the lower layer of transmission failure of a message
After receiving an indication from lower layer that a message has not been
successfully acknowledged (e.g. TCP ACK is not received), the ProSe Function
shall abort the procedure.
# 8 EPC support for WLAN direct discovery and communication
In this release of the document, the stand-alone procedure for EPC support for
WLAN direct discovery and communication is not supported.
# 9 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
## 9.1 General
The procedures specified in the present document apply to those PC3 or PC5
messages which pass the checks described in this subclause.
This subclause also specifies procedures for the handling of unknown,
unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data by the receiving entity. These
procedures are called \"error handling procedures\", but in addition to
providing recovery mechanisms for error situations they define a compatibility
mechanism for future extensions of the protocols.
Detailed error handling procedures in the network are implementation dependent
and may vary from PLMN to PLMN. However, when extensions of this protocol are
developed, networks will be assumed to have the error handling that is
indicated in this subclause as mandatory (\"shall\") and that is indicated as
strongly recommended (\"should\").
Also, the error handling of the network is only considered as mandatory or
strongly recommended when certain thresholds for errors are not reached during
a dedicated connection.
## 9.2 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data in
messages sent over the PC5 interface
### 9.2.1 Message too short
When a message is received that is too short to contain a complete message
type parameter, that message shall be ignored.
### 9.2.2 Unknown or unforeseen message type
If the UE receives a PC5_DISCOVERY message with Message Type not defined as in
subclause 12.2.2.10, it shall discard the whole PC5_DISCOVERY message.
If the UE receives a PC5_DISCOVERY message with Message Type indicating a
discovery model or discovery type that is not supported by the UE, it shall
discard the whole PC5_DISCOVERY message.
## 9.3 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data in
messages sent over the PC3 interface
### 9.3.1 Invalid XML
The protocol data over PC3 interface are encapsulated as XML contents, which
may contain one or more PC3 messages. The XML content shall be validated with
the XML schema defined in subclause 11.2.3.
When the UE receives an invalid XML content, it shall discard the whole XML
content. When the ProSe Function receives an invalid XML content, it shall
discard the whole XML document and send an HTTP response message containing a
\"400 Bad Request\" error code to the UE.
### 9.3.2 Unforeseen message type
If the UE receives a PC3 message with a message type corresponding to a ProSe
discovery mechanism that the UE is not authorised to use by the network, the
UE shall discard the message. For example, if a UE not authorised for EPC-
level ProSe discovery receives messages specified for EPC-level ProSe
discovery procedures in subclause 7, the UE shall discard the message.
If the ProSe Function receives a PC3 message whose message type indicates that
this is a ProSe discovery mechanism the sending UE is not authorised to
support, the ProSe Function shall discard the message.
# 10 ProSe direct communication
## 10.1 General
This clause describes the procedures at the UE, and between UEs, for ProSe
direct communication over the PC5 interface.
When served by E-UTRAN, the UE shall be authorised for ProSe direct
communication in the registered PLMN based on the service authorisation
procedure as specified in clause 5, before initiating one-to-many ProSe direct
communication.
When not served by E-UTRAN, the UE shall be authorised for ProSe direct
communication for \"not served by E-UTRAN\" based on the service authorisation
procedure as specified in subclause 5, before initiating one-to-many ProSe
direct communication.
## 10.2 One-to-many ProSe direct communication
### 10.2.1 General
One-to-many ProSe direct communication is applicable only to ProSe-enabled
Public Safety UEs. One-to-many ProSe direct communication can only apply when
the UE is:
a) served by E-UTRAN and authorised for ProSe direct communication in the
registered PLMN;
b) not served by E-UTRAN, and authorised for ProSe direct communication for
\"not served by E-UTRAN\"; or
c) in EMM-IDLE mode and in limited service state as specified in 3GPP TS
23.122 [24] and authorised for ProSe direct communication for \"not served by
E-UTRAN\", if the reason for the UE being in limited service state is one of
the following:
i) the UE is unable to find a suitable cell in the selected PLMN as specified
in 3GPP TS 36.304 [23];
ii) the UE received an ATTACH REJECT message or a TRACKING AREA UPDATE REJECT
message or a SERVICE REJECT message with the EMM cause #11 \"PLMN not
allowed\" as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [11] or a LOCATION UPDATING REJECT
message or a GPRS ATTACH REJECT message or ROUTING AREA UPDATE REJECT message
or SERVICE REJECT message with cause #11 \"PLMN not allowed\" as specified in
3GPP TS 24.008 [30]; or
iii) the UE received an ATTACH REJECT message or a TRACKING AREA UPDATE REJECT
message or a SERVICE REJECT message with the EMM cause #7 \"EPS services not
allowed\" as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [11] or a LOCATION UPDATING REJECT
message or a GPRS ATTACH REJECT message or ROUTING AREA UPDATE REJECT message
or SERVICE REJECT message with cause #7 \"GPRS services not allowed\" as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [30].
Upon receiving a request from upper layers to send or receive data for ProSe
direct communication in a given group, the UE shall initiate the procedure for
ProSe direct communication. For case a, the UE shall perform ProSe direct
communication procedures specified in subclause 10.2.2. For case b and c, the
UE shall perform ProSe direct communication procedures specified in subclause
10.2.3.
If the UE is camped on an E-UTRAN cell not operating on the carrier frequency
provisioned for ProSe direct communication which indicates that ProSe direct
communication is supported by the network, the UE can perform either ProSe
direct communication procedures specified in subclause 10.2.2 or ProSe direct
communication procedures specified in subclause 10.2.3.
The UE shall obtain the ProSe direct communication policy parameters for that
group as specified in subclause 5.
If the ProSe direct communication policy parameters indicate that the UE is
configured to use IPv6 for that group, the UE shall auto-configures a link
local IPv6 Address following procedures defined in RFC 4862 [15]. This address
can only be used as the source IP address for one-to-many ProSe direct
communication.
If the ProSe Direct communication policy parameters group indicate that the UE
is configured to use IPv4 for that group, then the UE shall:
\- use the configured IPv4 address for that group as source address; or
\- if there is no configured IPv4 address for that group, use Dynamic
Configuration of IPv4 Link-Local Addresses as specified in IETF RFC 3927 [16].
### 10.2.2 ProSe direct communication facilitated by serving E-UTRAN
When the UE is served by E-UTRAN and intends to use the ProSe radio resources
(i.e. carrier frequency) provided by an E-UTRAN cell, the UE requests the
parameters from the lower layers for transmitting or receiving ProSe direct
communication (see 3GPP TS 36.331 [12]). The UE shall perform direct
communication only if the lower layers indicate that ProSe direct
communication is supported by the network. If the UE in EMM-IDLE mode has to
request resources for ProSe direct communication as specified in 3GPP TS
36.331 [12], the UE shall perform a service request procedure or tracking area
update procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [11]. Once the radio resources
for transmitting or receiving ProSe direct communication are provided by
eNodeB as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12], the UE shall start ProSe direct
communication.
### 10.2.3 Procedure for UE to use provisioned radio resources
When the UE is not served by E-UTRAN, the UE shall select the radio parameters
to be used for ProSe direct communication as follows:
\- if the UE can determine itself located in a geographical area, and the UE
is provisioned with radio parameters for the geographical area, the UE shall
select the radio parameters associated with that geographical area; or
\- in all other cases, the UE shall not initiate ProSe direct communication.
NOTE 1: It is out of scope of the present specification to define how the UE
can locate itself in a specific Geographical Area. When the UE is in coverage
of a 3GPP RAT it can for example use information derived from the serving
PLMN. When the UE is not in coverage of a 3GPP RAT it can use other techniques
as determined by local regulations.
Before initiating ProSe direct communication, the UE shall check with lower
layers whether the selected radio parameters can be used in the current
location without causing interference to other cells as specified in 3GPP TS
36.331 [12], and:
\- if the lower layers indicate that the usage would not cause any
interference, the UE shall initiate ProSe direct communication; or
NOTE 2: If the lower layers find that there exists a cell operating the
provisioned radio resources (i.e., carrier frequency), and the cell belongs to
the registered PLMN or a PLMN equivalent to the registered PLMN, and the UE is
authorized for ProSe direct communication in this PLMN, the UE can use the
radio parameters indicated by the cell as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
\- else if the lower layers report that one or more PLMNs operate in the
provisioned radio resources (i.e. carrier frequency) then:
a) ifthe following conditions are met:
1) none of the PLMNs reported by the lower layers is the registered PLMN or
equivalent to the registered PLMN; and
2) at least one of the PLMNs reported by the lower layers is in the list of
authorised PLMNs for ProSe direct communication and provides radio resources
for ProSe direct communication as specified in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12];
then the UE shall:
1) if in EMM-IDLE mode, perform PLMN selection triggered by ProSe direct
communication as specified in 3GPP TS 23.122 [24]; or
2) else if in EMM-CONNECTED mode, either:
i) perform a detach procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [11] and then
perform PLMN selection triggered by ProSe direct communication as specified in
3GPP TS 23.122 [24]; or
ii) not initiate ProSe direct communication.
Whether the UE performs i) or ii) above is left up to UE implementation; or
b) else the UE shall not initiate ProSe direct communication.
If the registration to the selected PLMN is successful, the UE shall proceed
with the procedure to initiate ProSe direct communication as specified in
subclause 10.2.2.
If the UE is performing ProSe direct communication using radio parameters
associated with a geographical area and moves out of that geographical area,
the UE shall stop performing ProSe direct communication and then:
\- if the UE is not served by E-UTRAN or the UE intends to use radio resources
for ProSe other than those operated by the serving E-UTRAN cell, the UE shall
select appropriate radio parameters for the new geographical area as specified
above; or
\- if the UE is served by E-UTRAN and intends to use radio resources for ProSe
operated by the serving E-UTRAN cell, the UE shall proceed with the procedure
to initiate ProSe direct communication when served by E-UTRAN.
## 10.3 PC3ch Control Protocol for ProSe direct communication
### 10.3.1 Transport protocol for PC3ch Control Protocol for ProSe direct
communication
The UE and ProSe Function CTF (ADF) shall use HTTP 1.1 as specified in IETF
RFC 7230 [18] and IETF RFC 7231 [19] as the transport protocol for messages
transmitted over the PC3ch interface. The ProSe messages described here shall
be included in the body of either an HTTP request message or an HTTP response
message. The following rules apply:
a) The UE initiates ProSe transactions with an HTTP request message containing
the PC3ch request(s).
b) The ProSe Function CTF (ADF) responds to the requests with an HTTP response
message containing the PC3ch response(s) for the PC3ch request(s); and
c) HTTP POST methods are used for PC3ch procedures.
Optionally, the operator can configure the UE with configuration parameters
for establishment of the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function.
If the UE is configured with the configuration parameter for establishment of
the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function (see 3GPP TS 24.333
[9]):
a) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is not
established yet, the UE shall establish the PDN connection for reaching the
HPLMN ProSe Function according to the UE configuration and shall send the HTTP
request message via the PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
and
b) if a PDN connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function is already
established (e.g. either due to other ProSe feature or due to other
application), the UE shall send the HTTP request message via the PDN
connection for reaching the HPLMN ProSe Function;
### 10.3.2 Procedures for PC3ch Control Protocol for ProSe direct
communication
#### 10.3.2.1 Usage information report list sending procedure
##### 10.3.2.1.1 General
The purpose of the usage information report list sending procedure is to
enable a ProSe-enabled Public Safety UE to provide information necessary for
composing of charging events related to the ProSe direct communication as
defined in 3GPP TS 32.277 [27].
The UE shall perform the usage information report list sending procedure with
the Accounting Data Forwarding (ADF) function block of the Charging Trigger
Function (CTF) in the ProSe Function (ProSe Function CTF (ADF)) residing in
the HPLMN.
The UE shall construct the usage information report based on the policy
described in subclause 5.1.3.
##### 10.3.2.1.2 Usage information report list sending procedure initiation
The UE shall perform the usage information report list sending procedure if
the UE is in E-UTRAN coverage and if:
a) the following is true:
1) if a usage information report list sending procedure was already performed
after beginning of ProSe direct communication, the configured collection
period has elapsed since the end of the previous usage information report list
sending procedure;
2) if a usage information report list sending procedure was not performed yet
after beginning of ProSe direct communication, the configured collection
period has elapsed since beginning of ProSe direct communication;
3) the configured reporting window has not elapsed after the configured
collection period elapsed;
4) the UE is in the RRC CONNECTED mode; and
5) the UE has usage information for at least one collection period; or
b) the following is true:
1) if a usage information report list sending procedure was already performed
after beginning of ProSe direct communication, the configured collection
period has elapsed since the end of the previous usage information report list
sending procedure;
2) if a usage information report list sending procedure was not performed yet
after beginning of ProSe direct communication, the configured collection
period has elapsed since beginning of ProSe direct communication;
3) the configured reporting window has elapsed after the configured collection
period elapsed; and
4) the UE has usage information for at least one collection period.
The UE shall initiate the usage information report list sending procedure by
sending a USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message to the ProSe Function CTF
(ADF).
If the UE is configured with the IP address of the ProSe Function CTF (ADF),
the UE shall send the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message to the configured
IP address of the ProSe Function CTF (ADF). If the UE is not configured with
the IP address of the ProSe Function CTF (ADF), the UE shall send the
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message to the IP address of the ProSe Function
discovered as described in subclause 5.1.2.
In the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message, the UE:
a) shall include a new transaction ID;
b) shall include the UE identity set to the UE\'s IMSI;
c) for each collection period:
1) shall include a sequence number of the usage information report;
2) if the UE is configured to report the time stamps when it went in and out
of E-UTRAN coverage during the collection period in the usage information, for
each going in or out of E-UTRAN coverage:
A) shall include information whether the UE was in or out of E-UTRAN coverage;
B) shall include the time stamp of the move; and
C) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage and the UE is configured to report the
list of locations of the UE when in E-UTRAN coverage during the collection
period in the usage information, for each camping on a cell or usage of a cell
in the EMM-CONNECTED mode:
i) shall include the E-UTRAN cell global identification of the cell; and
ii) shall include the time stamp of beginning of the camping on the cell or of
beginning of the usage of the cell in the EMM-CONNECTED mode;
3) if the UE is configured to report the group parameters in the usage
information, for each group:
A) shall include the ProSe Layer-2 Group ID;
B) shall include the ProSe Group IP multicast address;
C) if the UE transmitted data during the collection period and the UE is
configured to report the time stamps of the first transmission/reception
during the collection period in the usage information, shall include the time
stamp of the first transmission to the ProSe Group IP multicast address in the
collection period;
D) if the UE received data during the collection period and the UE is
configured to report the time stamps of the first transmission/reception
during the collection period in the usage information, shall include the time
stamp of the first reception from the ProSe Group IP multicast address in the
collection period;
E) shall include an IP address used by the UE as a source address;
F) shall include the ProSe UE ID;
G) for each transmitter in one-to-many ProSe direct communication, shall
include the Source L2 ID and IP address of the transmitter;
H) if the UE is configured to report the amount of data transmitted during the
collection period with location information in the usage information, per each
in or out of E-UTRAN coverage period and per each E-UTRAN cell used when in
E-UTRAN coverage:
i) shall indicate whether the data are sent in or out of E-UTRAN coverage;
ii) if the UE transmitted data in an E-UTRAN cell during an in E-UTRAN
coverage period:
\- shall include the E-UTRAN cell global identification of the E-UTRAN cell;
\- shall include amount of the data transmitted in the E-UTRAN cell;
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first transmission in the E-UTRAN cell; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the indicator of which radio resources were used;
iii) if the UE transmitted data during out of E-UTRAN coverage period:
\- shall include amount of the data transmitted during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first transmission during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
iv) if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the used radio frequency; and
I) if the UE is configured to report the amount of data transmitted during the
collection period without location information in the usage information, per
each in or out of E-UTRAN coverage period:
i) shall indicate whether the data are sent in or out of E-UTRAN coverage;
ii) if the UE transmitted data during in E-UTRAN coverage period:
\- shall include amount of the data transmitted during the in E-UTRAN coverage
period;
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first transmission during the in E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the indicator of which radio resources were used;
iii) if the UE transmitted data during out of E-UTRAN coverage period:
\- shall include amount of the data transmitted during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first transmission during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
iv) if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the used radio frequency; and
J) if the UE is configured to report the amount of data received during the
collection period with location information in the usage information, per each
in or out of E-UTRAN coverage period and per each E-UTRAN cell used when in
E-UTRAN coverage:
i) shall indicate whether the data are sent in or out of E-UTRAN coverage;
ii) if the UE received data in an E-UTRAN cell during an in E-UTRAN coverage
period:
\- shall include the E-UTRAN cell global identification of the E-UTRAN cell;
\- shall include amount of the data received in the E-UTRAN cell;
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first reception in the E-UTRAN cell; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the indicator of which radio resources were used;
iii) if the UE received data during out of E-UTRAN coverage period:
\- shall include amount of the data received during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first reception during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
iv) if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the used radio frequency; and
K) if the UE is configured to report the amount of data received during the
collection period without location information in the usage information, per
each in or out of E-UTRAN coverage period:
i) shall indicate whether the data are sent in or out of E-UTRAN coverage;
ii) if the UE received data during in E-UTRAN coverage period:
\- shall include amount of the data received during the in E-UTRAN coverage
period;
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first reception during the in E-UTRAN coverage
period; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the indicator of which radio resources were used;
iii) if the UE received data during out of E-UTRAN coverage period:
\- shall include amount of the data received during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
\- if the UE is configured to report the time stamps of the first
transmission/reception during the collection period in the usage information,
shall include time stamp of the first reception during the out of E-UTRAN
coverage period; and
iv) if the UE is configured to report the radio parameters used for ProSe
direct communication (i.e. indicator of which radio resources used and radio
frequency used) during the reporting period in the usage information, shall
include the used radio frequency; and
4) if configured radio parameters for the ProSe direct communication
applicable in the geographical area of the UE were used during the collection
period, shall include the configured radio parameters for the ProSe direct
communication applicable in the geographical area of the UE; and
d) for each application specific data received from upper layers during the
collection period, shall include the received application specific data.
Figure 10.3.2.1.2.1 illustrates the interaction of the UE and the ProSe
Function CTF (ADF) in the usage information report list sending procedure.
Figure 10.3.2.1.2.1: Usage information report list sending procedure
##### 10.3.2.1.3 Usage information report list sending procedure accepted by
the ProSe Function
Upon receiving a USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message from UE, the ProSe
Function CTF (ADF) triggers one or more charging data requests according to
3GPP TS 32.277 [27].
If the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message is accepted by the ProSe Function
CTF (ADF), the ProSe Function CTF (ADF) shall send a
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE message to the UE, containing a
\ element with transaction ID set to the value of the
transaction ID included in the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message.
##### 10.3.2.1.4 Usage information report list sending procedure successful
completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE message containing
a \ element with transaction ID set to the value of the
transaction ID included in the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message, the
usage information report list sending procedure is successfully completed.
##### 10.3.2.1.5 Usage information report list sending procedure not accepted
by the ProSe Function
If the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message is not accepted by the ProSe
Function CTF (ADF), the ProSe Function CTF (ADF) shall send a
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE message to the UE. In the
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE message, the the ProSe Function CTF
(ADF):
1) shall include a \ element with transaction ID set to the
value of the transaction ID included in the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST
message; and
2) shall include appropriate cause value.
##### 10.3.2.1.6 Usage information report list sending procedure unsuccessful
completion by the UE
Upon receipt of the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE message containing
a \ element with transaction ID set to the value of the
transaction ID included in the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message, the
usage information report list sending procedure is unsuccessfully completed.
If the USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE message contains the cause value
set to #3 \"Invalid Message Format\", the UE shall not perform the usage
information report list sending procedure until the UE powers off and powers
on again or the USIM is removed.
# 11 Message functional definitions and contents
## 11.1 Overview
This clause contains the definition and contents of the messages used in the
procedures described in the present document.
## 11.2 ProSe discovery messages
### 11.2.1 General
This subclause defines the XML schema and MIME type related to ProSe direct
discovery messages and EPC-level ProSe discovery messages.
This subclause also defines the format of the PC5_DISCOVERY message
transmitted over the PC5 interface.
### 11.2.2 application/3gpp-prose+xml
The MIME type is used to carry information related to the ProSe discovery
operation. It shall be coded as an XML document containing one of the
following ProSe discovery messages:
\- DISCOVERY_REQUEST;
\- DISCOVERY_RESPONSE;
\- MATCH_REPORT;
\- MATCH_REPORT_ACK;
\- UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- UE_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE;
\- APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE;
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST;
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_RESPONSE;
\- PROXIMITY_ALERT;
\- UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- UE_DEREGISTRATION_RESPONSE;
\- CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST;
\- CANCEL_PROXIMITY_RESPONSE;
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION; or
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION_RESPONSE.
Each of those messages is presented in the XML document as an XML element
named after the corresponding message.
### 11.2.3 XML Schema
Implementations in compliance with the present document shall implement the
XML schema defined below for messages used in ProSe direct discovery
procedures over PC3 interface.
\
\
\
\
Info for ProSe Discovery Control Messages Syntax
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
An entity receiving the XML body ignores any unknown XML element and any
unknown XML attribute.
### 11.2.4 Semantics
#### 11.2.4.1 General
The \ element is the root element of this XML
document and it can be one of the following elements:
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \;
\- \ element containing other discovery message defined in future
releases; or
\- an element from other namespaces defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.2 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions sent
from the UE to the ProSe Function as announcing or monitoring requests. Each
\ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.2;
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.3;
d) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.4;
e) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.5;
f) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
g) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.3 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.23;
2) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.24;
3) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to an announcing request
if the ProSe Function accepts the request. Each \ consists
of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.6;
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
12.2.2.7;
d) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.9;
e) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
f) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
4) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to a monitoring request
if the ProSe Function accepts the request. Each \ consists
of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) one or more \ elements containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.2.2.12;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
5) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to an announcing or
monitoring requests if the ProSe Function cannot accept the request. Each
\ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.2.2.8.
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
6) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
7) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
8) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.4 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following element:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions sent from
the UE to the ProSe Function to report a matching of the direct discovery.
Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.6;
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.3;
d) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.16;
e) an optional \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.17;
f) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause 12.2.2.11;
g) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.18;
h) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.20;
i) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
j) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.5 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.23;
2) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions sent
from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to a match report if the ProSe
Function accepts the report. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.4;
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.19;
d) an optional \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.2.2.21;
e) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
f) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases;
g) a mandatory \"match-report-refresh-timer-T4006\" attribute containing the
parameter defined in subclause 12.2.2.26; and
h) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
3) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions sent
from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to an announcing or monitoring
requests if the ProSe Function cannot accept the match report. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.2.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.2.2.8;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
4) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
5) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
6) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.6 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions sent
from the UE to the ProSe Function to register the UE. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.2;
c) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.6;
d) a \ element containing the
parameter defined in subclause 12.3.2.14;
e) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
f) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
g) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.7 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to the
UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message if the ProSe Function accepts the request.
Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.7;
c) a \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.3.2.15;
d) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to the
UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message if the ProSe Function cannot accept the
request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.3.2.5;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
3) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
4) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
5) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.8 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the
following elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains
transactions sent from the UE to the ProSe Function to activate EPC-level
ProSe discovery for a specific application. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.7.
c) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.3;
d) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.4;
e) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
f) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.9 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the
following elements:
1) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message if the ProSe Function accepts the
request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) one or more \ element containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.3.2.8;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero,one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to the
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message if the ProSe Function cannot accept
the request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.3.2.5;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
3) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
4) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
5) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.10 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions sent
from the UE to the ProSe Function to request to be alerted when it enters in
proximity with a targeted UE. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.7;
c) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.3;
d) an \ element containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.3.2.4;
e) an \ element containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.3.2.4;
f) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.8;
g) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.11;
h) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.9;
i) an optional \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.12;
j) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
k) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
l) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.11 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the
following elements:
1) zero,one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to the PROXIMITY_REQUEST
message if the ProSe Function accepts the request. Each \
consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
c) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the ProSe Function to the UE as a response to the PROXIMITY_REQUEST
message if the ProSe Function cannot accept the request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
> b) a \ element containing the
> parameter defined in subclause 12.3.2.5;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
3) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
4) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
5) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.12 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions sent
from the ProSe Function to the (UE A) and optionally to targeted (UE B) to
alert them that they have entered in proximity. Each \
consists of:
a) \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.3;
c) an \ element containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.3.2.4;
d) an \ element containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.3.2.4;
e) an optional \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.3.2.13;
f) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
g) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
h) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.13 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions
sent either from the UE to the ProSe Function or from the ProSe Function to
the UE to deregister the UE. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.7;
c) a \ element containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.3.2.5;
d) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.14 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the
following elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions
sent either from the UE to the ProSe Function or from the ProSe Function to
the UE to complete the UE deregistration. Each \
consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
c) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.15 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the UE to the ProSe Function or from the ProSe Function to the UE to
request cancellation of an ongoing proximity request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.7;
c) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.3;
d) an \ element containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.3.2.4;
e) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
f) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.16 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the following
elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains
transactions sent from the ProSe Function to the UE or from the UE to the
ProSe Function as a response to CANCEL_PROXIMITY_REQUEST message. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
c) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.17 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of the
following elements:
1) One or more \ element which contains
transactions sent by the ProSe Function to the targeted UE (UE B) to request
confirmation of permission for proximity request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) an \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.3.2.3;
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
3) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
4) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
#### 11.2.4.18 Semantics of \
The \ element contains one or more of
the following elements:
1) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the UE to the ProSe Function as a response to the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION message if the application in the UE accepts the
request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
b) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
c) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
2) zero, one or more \ element which contains transactions
sent from the UE to the ProSe Function as a response to the
PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION message if the application in the UE does not
accept the request. Each \ consists of:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.3.2.1;
> b) a \ element containing the
> parameter defined in subclause 12.3.2.5.
c) zero, one or more elements defined in future releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases;
3) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
4) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
5) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
### 11.2.5 PC5_DISCOVERY
#### 11.2.5.1 Message definition
This message is sent by the UE over the PC5 interface for ProSe direct
discovery. See table 11.2.5.1.1.
Table 11.2.5.1.1: PC5_DISCOVERY message content
+------------------------+----------------+----------+---------------+ | Information Element | Type/Reference | Presence | Length (bits) | +------------------------+----------------+----------+---------------+ | Message Type | Message Type | M | 8 | | | | | | | | 12.2.2.10 | | | +------------------------+----------------+----------+---------------+ | ProSe Application Code | Binary | M | 184 | | | | | | | | 12.2.2.6 | | | +------------------------+----------------+----------+---------------+ | MIC | Binary | M | 32 | | | | | | | | 12.2.2.11 | | | +------------------------+----------------+----------+---------------+ | UTC-based Counter LSB | Binary | M | 8 | | | | | | | | 12.2.2.22 | | | +------------------------+----------------+----------+---------------+
## 11.3 Messages transmitted over the PC3ch interface
### 11.3.1 General
This subclause defines XML schema and MIME type related to messages
transmitted over the PC3ch interface.
### 11.3.2 application/3gpp-prose-pc3ch+xml
The MIME type is used to carry information related to message transmitted over
the PC3ch interface. It shall be coded as an XML document compliant to the XML
schema in subclause 11.3.3 containing one of the following messages:
\- USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST; or
\- USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST_RESPONSE.
Each of those messages is presented in the XML document as an XML element
named after the corresponding message.
The XML document can contain elements and attributes defined in future
releases of this document. Receiving entity ignores any element not defined by
this version of the specification and any attribute not defined by this
version of the specification.
### 11.3.3 XML Schema
\
\
\
\
Syntax of messages transmitted over the PC3ch interface
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 11.3.4 Semantics
#### 11.3.4.1 General
The \ element is the root element of this XML document.
The \ element contains one of the following:
a) \ element;
b) \ element;
c) \ element containing elements defined in future releases; or
d) one or more elements from other namespace defined in future releases.
The \ element contains zero, one or more attributes
defined in future releases.
#### 11.3.4.2 Semantics of \
The \ element contains:
a) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.4.2.1;
b) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.4.2.2;
c) one or more \ elements;
d) zero, one or more \ element;
e) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
f) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
g) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries one usage information report.
The \ element contains:
a) mandatory \"sequence-number\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.3;
b) zero, one or more \ elements;
c) zero, one or more \ element;
d) zero, one or more \ elements;
e) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
f) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
g) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information whether the UE was in E-UTRAN
coverage or out of E-UTRAN coverage. The \ element contains:
a) mandatory \"in-coverage\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.4;
b) optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time when the information given in the
element start being valid;
c) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage, zero, one or more \ elements;
d) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
e) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
f) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information about an E-UTRAN cell where the UE
was camping on or which the UE used in the EMM-CONNECTED mode. The \
element contains:
a) an optional \"ECGI\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.5;
b) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time when the information given in the
element start being valid;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information about the configured
radio parameters for the ProSe direct communication applicable in the
geographical area of the UE. The \ element contains:
a) a mandatory \"params\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.6;
b) a mandatory \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time when the information given in the
element start being valid;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information about a ProSe group. The \
element contains:
a) a mandatory \"prose-layer2-group-ID\" attribute containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.4.2.9;
b) a mandatory \"prose-group-IP-multicast-address\" attribute containing the
parameter defined in subclause 12.4.2.10;
c) an optional \"first-transmission-timestamp\" attribute containing the
parameter defined in subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first
transmission to the ProSe Group IP multicast address in the collection period;
d) an optional \"first-reception-timestamp\" attribute containing the
parameter defined in subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first
reception from the ProSe Group IP multicast address in the collection period;
e) a \ element containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.11, of the UE;
f) a \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.4.2.12, of the UE;
g) zero, one or more \ element;
h) zero, one or more \ element;
i) zero, one or more \ element;
j) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
k) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
l) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information about a transmitter in a ProSe
group. The \ element contains:
a) a mandatory \"source-IP-address\" attribute containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.4.2.11, of the transmitter;
b) a mandatory \"prose-UE-id\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.12, of the transmitter;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information about a transmission in a
ProSe group. The \ element contains:
a) a mandatory \"in-coverage\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.4;
b) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage when transmitting the data, an optional
\"ECGI\" attribute containing the parameter defined in subclause 12.4.2.5,
indicating E-UTRAN Cell Global Identification of the E-UTRAN cell where the UE
was camping on or which the UE used in the EMM-CONNECTED mode when
transmitting the data;
c) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage and the \"ECGI\" attribute is included:
1) a mandatory \"amount\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.13 indicating the amount of octets transmitted to the ProSe
group:
\- when the UE was camping on a cell identified by the \"ECGI\" attribute when
transmitting the data; or
\- when the UE used in the EMM-CONNECTED mode a cell identified by the
\"ECGI\" attribute when transmitting the data; and
2) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first transmission in the
E-UTRAN cell;
d) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage and the \"ECGI\" attribute is not
included:
1) a mandatory \"amount\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.13 indicating the amount of octets transmitted to the ProSe
group during the in E-UTRAN coverage period: and
2) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first transmission during
the in E-UTRAN coverage period;
e) if the UE was out of E-UTRAN coverage:
1) a mandatory \"amount\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.13 indicating the amount of octets transmitted to the ProSe
group during the out of E-UTRAN coverage period; and
2) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first transmission during
the out of E-UTRAN coverage period;
f) an optional \"radio-resources-ind\" attribute containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.4.2.14;
g) an optional \"radio-frequency\" attribute containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.4.2.15;
i) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
j) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
k) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element carries information about a reception in a ProSe
group. The \ element contains:
a) a mandatory \"in-coverage\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.4 indicating whether the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage when
receiving the data;
b) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage when receiving the data, an optional
\"ECGI\" attribute containing the parameter defined in subclause 12.4.2.5
indicating E-UTRAN Cell Global Identification of the E-UTRAN cell where the UE
was camping on or which the UE used in the EMM-CONNECTED mode when receiving
the data;
c) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage and the \"ECGI\" attribute is included:
1) a mandatory \"amount\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.13 indicating the amount of octets received from the ProSe
group:
\- when the UE was camping on a cell identified by the \"ECGI\" attribute when
receiving the data; or
\- when the UE used in the EMM-CONNECTED mode a cell identified by the
\"ECGI\" attribute when receiving the data; and
2) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first reception in the
E-UTRAN cell;
d) if the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage and the \"ECGI\" attribute is not
included:
1) a mandatory \"amount\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.13 indicating the amount of octets received from the ProSe
group during the in E-UTRAN coverage period: and
2) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first reception during the
in E-UTRAN coverage period;
e) if the UE was out of E-UTRAN coverage:
1) a mandatory \"amount\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.13 indicating the amount of octets received from the ProSe
group during the out of E-UTRAN coverage period; and
2) an optional \"timestamp\" attribute containing the parameter defined in
subclause 12.4.2.8 indicating date and time of the first reception during the
out of E-UTRAN coverage period;
f) an optional \"radio-resources-ind\" attribute containing the parameter
defined in subclause 12.4.2.14;
g) an optional \"radio-frequency\" attribute containing the parameter defined
in subclause 12.4.2.15;
h) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
i) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
j) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element contains an application specific data
received from upper layers during the collection period.
#### 11.3.4.3 Semantics of \
The \ element contains:
a) one of \ element and \ element;
b) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
c) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element indicates that a related
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message was accepted. The \
element contains:
a) \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.4.2.1 indicating the value of the transaction ID of the related
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message;
b) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
c) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
d) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
The \ element indicates that a related
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message was rejected. The \
element contains:
a) \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.4.2.1 indicating the value of the transaction ID of the related
USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message;
b) \ element containing the parameter defined in subclause
12.4.2.7;
c) zero or one \ element containing elements defined in future
releases;
d) zero, one or more elements from other namespaces defined in future
releases; and
e) zero, one or more attributes defined in future releases.
# 12 General message format and information elements coding
## 12.1 Overview
This clause contains general message format and information elements coding
for the messages used in the procedures described in the present document.
## 12.2 ProSe direct discovery message formats
### 12.2.1 Data types format in XML schema
To exchange structured information over the transport protocol, XML text
format/notation is introduced.
The corresponding XML data types for the data types used in ProSe messages are
provided in table 12.2.1.1.
Table 12.2.1.1: Primitive or derived types for ProSe Parameter Type
* * *
ProSe Parameter Type Type in XML Schema Integer xs:integer String xs:string
Boolean xs:boolean Binary xs:hexBinary Bit string xs:hexBinary Time
xs:dateTime
* * *
For complex data types described in subclause 12.2.2, an XML \"complexType\"
can be used.
Message construction shall be compliant with W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20041028:
\"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\" [7]
### 12.2.2 Parameters in ProSe direct discovery messages
#### 12.2.2.1 Transaction ID
This parameter is used to uniquely identify a PC3 Control Protocol for ProSe
direct discovery transaction when it is combined with other PC3 Control
Protocol for ProSe direct discovery transactions in the same transport
message. The UE shall set this parameter to a new number for each outgoing new
discovery request. The transaction ID is an integer in the 0-255 range.
#### 12.2.2.2 Command
This parameter is used to indicate the type of discovery request (announce or
monitor) contained in a DISCOVERY_REQUEST message. It is an integer in the
0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
1 announce
2 monitor
3-255 Unused
#### 12.2.2.3 UE Identity
This parameter is used to indicate the requesting UE\'s identity and is set to
the IMSI. The coding of IMSI is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.2.2.4 Prose Application ID
This parameter is used to carry an identity used for ProSe direct discovery,
identifying application related information for the ProSe-enabled UE. It is
coded as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.2.2.5 Application Identity
This parameter is used to identify the particular application that triggers
the DISCOVERY_REQUEST message. The format of the Application Identity consists
of two parts:
\- OS ID: operating system identifier. The format of the OS ID is a
Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) as specified in IETF RFC 4122 [8]; and
\- OS App ID: a string containing the OS specific application identifier.
NOTE: Further definition of the format of OS App ID is beyond the scope of
this specification.
#### 12.2.2.6 ProSe Application Code
This parameter is used to carry a ProSe Application Code. It is a bit string
coded as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.2.2.7 Validity Timer T4000
This parameter is used to carry the value of validity timer T4000 associated
with a ProSe Application Code. It is an integer in the 1-525600 range
representing the timer value in unit of minutes.
#### 12.2.2.8 PC3 Control Protocol cause value
This parameter is used to indicate the particular reason why a
DISCOVERY_REQUEST or MATCH_REPORT message from the UE has been rejected by the
ProSe Function. It is an integer in the 0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
1 Invalid Application
2 Unknown ProSe Application ID
3 UE authorisation failure
4 Unknown ProSe Application Code
5 Invalid MIC
6 Invalid UTC-based counter
7 Invalid Message Format
8 Scope violation in ProSe Application ID
9-255 Unused
#### 12.2.2.9 Discovery Key
This parameter is used to carry a Discovery Key allocated by the ProSe
Function. This key is used by the UE to compute the MIC that is included in
the PC5_DISCOVERY message. The format of Discovery Key is defined in 3GPP TS
33.303 [6].
#### 12.2.2.10 Message Type
This parameter is used to indicate the type of ProSe direct discovery.
This parameter is coded as shown in figure 12.2.2.10.1 and table 12.2.2.10.1.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Discovery type 0 0 0 0 Discovery model octet 1  
spare
* * *
Figure 12.2.2.10.1: Message Type parameter
Table 12.2.2.10.1: Message Type parameter
* * *
Discovery type value (octet 1)  
Bit  
8 7  
0 0 Reserved 0 1 Open discovery 1 0 Reserved 1 1 Reserved
Discovery model value (octet 1)  
Bit  
2 1  
0 0 Reserved 0 1 Model A 1 0 Reserved 1 1 Reserved
Bits 3 to 6 of octet 1 are spare and shall be coded as zero.
* * *
#### 12.2.2.11 MIC
This parameter is used to carry the MIC (Message Integrity Check) associated
with the ProSe Application Code contained in a PC5_DISCOVERY message.
#### 12.2.2.12 Discovery Filter
The elements in the Discovery Filter parameter are listed below.
\- ProSe Application Code: The ProSe Application Code is used by a monitoring
UE for full or partial matching of PC5_DISCOVERY messages received on the PC5
interface (see subclause 12.2.2.6). Only one code is allowed in a Discovery
Filter;
\- ProSe Application Mask: a bitmask provided by the ProSe Function in order
to allow the monitoring UE to perform a full matching or partial matching of
PC5_DISCOVERY messages received on the PC5 interface. A ProSe Application Mask
with all bits set to \"1\" is used for full matching. One or more ProSe
Application Masks may be included in a Discovery Filter. The length of the
ProSe Application Mask is as same as the length of ProSe Application Code; and
\- TTLTimer T4002: Time-to-live duration for which the associated Discovery
Filter is valid, after which it shall not be used. It is an integer in the
1-525600 range representing the timer value in unit of minutes.
#### 12.2.2.13 Void
#### 12.2.2.14 Void
#### 12.2.2.15 Void
#### 12.2.2.16 Monitored PLMN ID
This parameter is used to indicate the PLMN ID of the PLMN in which the
PC5_DISCOVERY message containing a ProSe Application Code for which there was
a match event was received. It is coded as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.2.2.17 VPLMN ID
This parameter is used to indicate the PLMN ID of the PLMN in which the
requesting UE is registered. It is coded as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.2.2.18 UTC-based counter
This parameter is used to indicate the UTC time associated with the discovery
transmission opportunity in which a PC5_DISCOVERY message is sent. It is
expressed in unit of seconds and coded in binary format as the 32 least
significant bits of the Coordinated Universal Time as defined in 3GPP TS
36.331 [12].
#### 12.2.2.19 Validity Timer T4004
This parameter is used to carry the value of Validity Timer T4004 associated
with a ProSe Application Code for which there was a match event. It is an
integer in the 1-525600 range representing the timer value in unit of minutes.
#### 12.2.2.20 Metadata Flag
This parameter is used to indicate whether the UE wishes to receive metadata
information associated with the ProSe Application ID in the MATCH_REPORT_ACK
from the ProSe Function. It is a Boolean value coded as follows:
> False the UE does not wishes to receive metadata information associated with
> the ProSe Application ID in the MATCH_REPORT_ACK from the ProSe Function
>
> True the UE wishes to receive metadata information associated with the ProSe
> Application ID in the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message from the ProSe Function
#### 12.2.2.21 Metadata
This parameter is used to carry the metadata that is associated with the ProSe
Application ID contained in the MATCH_REPORT_ACK message. The purpose of the
metadata is to carry additional application-layer information associated with
a particular ProSe Application ID. Examples of such information are postal
address, phone number, URL etc. The length and contents of the metadata are
out of scope of 3GPP. The format of the metadata is a UTF8-encoded string.
#### 12.2.2.22 UTC-based Counter LSB
This parameter is used to carry the four least significant bits of the UTC-
based counter associated with the discovery transmission opportunity used by
the UE performing ProSe direct discovery announcing.
This parameter is coded as shown in figure 12.2.2.22.1 and table 12.2.2.22.1.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
0 0 0 0 Four LSBs of UTC-based counter octet 1  
Spare
* * *
Figure 12.2.2.22.1: UTC-based Counter LSB parameter
Table 12.2.2.22.1: UTC-based Counter LSB parameter
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | UTC-based Counter LSB value (octet 1) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Bits 1 to 4 of octet 1 are set to the four least significant bits of | | the UTC-based counter encoded as specified in subclause 12.2.2.18. | | | | Bits 5 to 8 of octet 1 are spare and shall be coded as zero. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 12.2.2.23 Current Time
This parameter is used to carry the current UTC-based time at the ProSe
Function. The format of this parameter follows the XML data type defined in
table 12.2.1.1 for ProSe parameter type \"Time\".
#### 12.2.2.24 Max Offset
This parameter is used to indicate the maximum time difference between the
time on the UE\'s ProSe clock and the UTC-based counter associated with the
discovery slot in seconds, as specified in 3GPP TS 33.303 [6]. The Max Offset
is an integer in the 1-32 range.
#### 12.2.2.25 Void
#### 12.2.2.26 Match Report Refresh Timer T4006
This parameter is used to carry the value of Match Report Refresh Timer T4006
associated with a ProSe Application Code for which there was a match event. It
is an integer in the 1-525600 range representing the timer value in unit of
minutes.
## 12.3 EPC-level ProSe discovery message formats
### 12.3.1 Data types format in XML schema
To exchange structured information over the transport protocol, XML text
format/notation is introduced. XML data type definitions and requirements as
specified in subclause 12.2.1 apply.
### 12.3.2 Information elements in EPC-level ProSe discovery messages
#### 12.3.2.1 Transaction ID
This parameter is used to uniquely identify a PC3 Control Protocol for EPC-
level ProSe discovery transaction when it is combined with other PC3 Control
Protocol for EPC-level ProSe discovery transactions in the same transport
message. The UE shall set this parameter to a new number for each outgoing new
discovery request. The transaction ID is an integer in the 0-255 range.
#### 12.3.2.2 UE Identity
This parameter is used to indicate the requesting UE\'s identity and is set to
the IMSI. The coding of IMSI is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.3.2.3 Application Identity
This parameter is used to identify the particular application that triggers
the APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST message. The format of the Application
Identity consists of two parts:
\- OS ID: operating system identifier. The format of the OS ID is a
Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) as specified in IETF RFC 4122 [8]; and
\- OS App ID: a string containing the OS specific application identifier.
NOTE: Further definition of the format of OS App ID is beyond the scope of
this specification.
#### 12.3.2.4 Application Layer User ID
This parameter is used to carry an Application Layer User ID that identifies
the user in the context of specific application. It is encoded as a bit
string.
#### 12.3.2.5 PC3 EPC Control Protocol cause value
This parameter is used to indicate the particular reason why either the UE or
the ProSe function sends the UE_DEREGISTRATION_REQUEST message or why the
following messages have been rejected by the ProSe Function:
\- UE_REGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_REQUEST;
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST; and
\- PROXIMITY_REQUEST_VALIDATION.
It is an integer in the 0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
1 Invalid Application
2 UE authorisation failure
3 Invalid Message Format
4 Application not registered
5 Range class not allowed for this application
6 Proximity detection unlikely within requested time window
7 Targeted user not registered for this application
8 Proximity validation rejected by B-side
9 Application disabled temporarily
10 Invalid Application Layer User ID
11-255 Unused
#### 12.3.2.6 WLAN Link Layer ID
This parameter is used to carry WLAN link layer identifier. The value of WLAN
Link Layer ID is coded as a bit string of length 48.
#### 12.3.2.7 EPC ProSe User ID
This parameter is used to carry an EPC ProSe User ID that identifies the UE
registered for EPC-level ProSe Discovery in the context of the ProSe Function.
It is specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.3.2.8 Range Class
This parameter is used to carry one range class used for
APPLICATION_REGISTRATION_RESPONSE or PROXIMITY_REQUEST messages. It is an
integer in the 0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
1 0-50 m
2 0-100 m
3 0-200 m
4 0-500 m
5 0-1000 m
6-255 Unused
#### 12.3.2.9 Time Window
This parameter is used to specify a time interval in minutes during which a
proximity request is valid. The Time Window is an integer in the range of 1 --
1440 minutes.
#### 12.3.2.10 Void
#### 12.3.2.11 UE Location
The UE Location is set to the cell identity part of the Evolved Cell Global
Identifier, as described in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12] and obtained from the lower
layers of the UE. The value of UE Location is a bit string coded as specified
in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
#### 12.3.2.12 WLAN Indication
This parameter is used to carry an indication of whether the searching UE
wishes to engage in WLAN direct discovery and communication subsequent to
successful proximity detection. It is a Boolean value coded as follows:
False the searching UE does not wish to engage in WLAN direct discovery and
communication subsequent to successful proximity detection
True the searching UE wishes to engage in WLAN direct discovery and
communication subsequent to successful proximity detection
#### 12.3.2.13 Assistance Information
This parameter is used to carry information for expediting WLAN direct
discovery and communication. The content of this parameter depends on the WLAN
technology.
Wi-Fi Peer-to-Peer (P2P) specification [13] defines an architecture and set of
protocols that facilitate direct discovery and communication using the IEEE
802.11 technology [14]. To assist WLAN direct discovery and communication as
required by the Wi-Fi P2P technology, the Assistance Information includes the
following parameters.
\- SSID: The SSID to use for Wi-Fi P2P operation. To be compliant with the Wi-
Fi P2P specification [13] the SSID should be in the form \"DIRECT-ab\" where
a, b are two random characters;
\- WLAN Secret Key: The pre-shared key to be used by UEs to secure their Wi-Fi
P2P communication. This is used by UEs as the Pairwise Master Key (PMK);
\- Group Owner indication: If set, the UE should implement the Group Owner
(GO) functionality specified in the Wi-Fi P2P specification [13]. The UE
implementing this functionality essentially becomes an AP that transmits
Beacons with the P2P Information Element and accepts associations from other
Wi-Fi P2P devices or from legacy Wi-Fi devices (those not implementing the Wi-
Fi P2P functionality). If not set, the UE should behave as a Wi-Fi P2P client
that attempts to discover and associate with a GO;
\- P2P Device Address of self: This is the WLAN Link Layer ID to be used by UE
to advertise itself. A UE implementing the Group Owner and indicates the WLAN
Direct device from which the GO should accept WLAN association requests.
Association requests from all other WLAN devices should be rejected by GO.
\- P2P Device Address of peers: This is the WLAN Link Layer ID to be used by
UE to discover peer UEs. A UE implementing the Group Owner should accept WLAN
association requests only from devices that are in this list;
\- Operation channel: The channel on which Wi-Fi P2P discovery and
communication should take place; and
> \- Validity time: The time period during which the content provided in the
> assistance information is valid.
12.3.2.14 Method for server-initiated transaction
This parameter is used to indicate the capability of the UE to support methods
other than OMA Push (e.g., HTTP long polling method) for server initiated
procedures for EPC-level ProSe discovery. It is an integer in the 0-255 range
encoded as follows:
0 No extra methods available
1 HTTP long polling
2-255 Unused
#### 12.3.2.15 Method for server-initiated transaction configuration
This parameter is used to indicate the preference of a server-initiated method
type to be used by the UE and the ProSe Function for server-initiated
procedures for EPC-level ProSe discovery other than OMA Push (e.g., HTTP long
polling). It is an integer in the 0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 The ProSe Function does not prefer other method
1 HTTP long polling
2-255 Unused
## 12.4 Formats for messages transmitted over the PC3ch interface
### 12.4.1 Data types format in XML schema
To exchange structured information over the transport protocol, XML text
format/notation is introduced.
The corresponding XML data types for the data types used in ProSe PC3ch
messages are provided in table 12.4.1.
Table 12.4.1: Primitive or derived types for ProSe PC3ch Parameter Type
* * *
ProSe Parameter Type Type in XML Schema Integer xs:integer String xs:string
Boolean xs:boolean Binary xs:hexBinary Bit string xs:hexBinary Time
xs:dateTime
* * *
For complex data types described in subclause 12.4.2, an XML \"complexType\"
can be used.
Message construction shall be compliant with W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20041028:
\"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\" [7].
### 12.4.2 Parameters in messages transmitted over the PC3ch interface
#### 12.4.2.1 Transaction ID
This parameter is used to uniquely identify a message transmitted over the
PC3ch interface when it is combined with another message transmitted over the
PC3ch interface in the same transport message. The UE shall set this parameter
to a new number for each outgoing new message which includes this information
element and is transmitted over the PC3ch interface. The transaction ID is an
integer in the 0-255 range.
#### 12.4.2.2 UE Identity
This parameter is used to indicate the requesting UE\'s identity and is set to
the IMSI. The coding of IMSI is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.4.2.3 Sequence number
This parameter is used to indicate sequence number of the usage information
report. The sequence number is an integer in the 0-4294967295 range. The
sequence number is set to 0 on UE power up and is increased by 1 whenever a
new usage information report is created.
#### 12.4.2.4 In coverage
This parameter is used to indicate whether the UE was in E-UTRAN coverage. It
is a Boolean value coded as follows:
True the UE is in E-UTRAN coverage.
False the UE is out of E-UTRAN coverage.
#### 12.4.2.5 ECGI
This parameter is used to indicate E-UTRAN Cell Global Identification of the
E-UTRAN cell where the UE was camping on or which the UE used in the EMM-
CONNECTED mode. The coding of ECGI is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [4].
#### 12.4.2.6 ProSe direct communication radio parameters
This parameter is used to indicate the radio parameters used for ProSe direct
communication. Format of the value is according to the SL-Preconfiguration-r12
ASN.1 data type described in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
#### 12.4.2.7 Cause value
This parameter is used to indicate the particular reason why the ProSe
function CTF (ADF) rejects USAGE_INFORMATION_REPORT_LIST message. It is an
integer in the 0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
2 UE authorisation failure
3 Invalid Message Format
10 Unable to process usage information report list
1, 4-9, 11-255 Unused
#### 12.4.2.8 Timestamp
This parameter is used to indicate time and date. The format of this parameter
follows the XML data type defined in table 12.4.1 for ProSe PC3ch message
parameter type \"Time\".
#### 12.4.2.9 ProSe Layer-2 Group ID
This parameters is used to indicate a ProSe Layer-2 Group ID. The value of
ProSe Layer 2 Group ID is a 24-bit bit-string.
#### 12.4.2.10 Prose Group IP multicast address
This parameters is used to indicate a ProSe Group IP multicast address. If the
IP address is an IPv4 address, its value is coded as a string representing the
dotted-decimal format of the IPv4 address as specified in IETF RFC 1166 [28].
If the IP address is an IPv6 address, its value is coded as a string
representing the canonical text representation format of the IPv6 address as
specified in IETF RFC 5952 [29].
#### 12.4.2.11 IP address of the UE
This parameters is used to indicate an IP address used by the UE as a source
address. If the IP address is an IPv4 address, its value is coded as a string
representing the dotted-decimal format of the IPv4 address as specified in
IETF RFC 1166 [28]. If the IP address is an IPv6 address, its value is coded
as a string representing the canonical text representation format of the IPv6
address as specified in IETF RFC 5952 [29].
#### 12.4.2.12 Prose UE ID
This parameters is used to indicate a ProSe UE ID. The value of ProSe UE ID is
a 24-bit bit-string.
#### 12.4.2.13 Transported data amount
This parameters is used to indicate the amount of transported data in octets.
The value of this parameter is coded as an integer.
#### 12.4.2.14 Radio resources indicator
This parameters is used to indicate whether the operator-provided radio
resources or the configured radio resources were used for ProSe direct
communication.
It is an integer in the 0-255 range encoded as follows:
0 Reserved
1 the operator-provided radio resources
2 the configured radio resources
3-255 Unused
#### 12.4.2.15 Radio frequency
This parameter is used to indicate the radio frequency used for ProSe direct
communication.
Format of the value is according to the ARFCN-ValueEUTRA-r9 ASN.1 data type
described in 3GPP TS 36.331 [12].
# 13 List of system parameters
## 13.1 General
The description of timers in table 13.2.1 and table 13.2.2 should be
considered a brief summary. The complete descriptions of the timers are in the
procedures defined in subclause 5 and subclause 6.
## 13.2 Timers of ProSe direct services procedures
Table 13.2.1: ProSe direct services timers -- UE side
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TIMER NUM. | TIMER VALUE | CAUSE OF | NORMAL STOP | ON\ | | | | START | | EXPIRY | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4000 | NOTE 1 | Upon | Upon | Stop | | | | receiving a | receiving a | announcing | | | | ProSe | new T4000 | the | | | | Application | timer value | associated | | | | Code with | for the | ProSe | | | | an | same ProSe | Application | | | | associated | Application | Code over | | | | T4000 timer | Code or | the PC5 | | | | in a | receiving a | interface | | | | DISCOVER | new Timer | and | | | | Y_RESPONSE | associated | re-initiate | | | | message | with a new | the | | | | whose | ProSe | announce | | | | transaction | Application | request | | | | ID | Code for | procedure | | | | contained | the same | if the | | | | in the | ProSe | request | | | | \ | ID in a | layers to | | | | element | DISCOVER | announce | | | | matches the | Y_RESPONSE | the ProSe | | | | value sent | message. | Application | | | | by the UE | | ID | | | | in a | When the UE | co | | | | DISCOVE | selects a | rresponding | | | | RY_REQUEST | new PLMN. | to the | | | | message | | associated | | | | with the | | ProSe | | | | command set | | Application | | | | to | | Code is | | | | \" | | still in | | | | announce\", | | place. | | | | as | | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclau | | | | | | se 6.2.2.4. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4002 | NOTE 2 | Upon | Upon | Stop using | | | | receiving a | receiving a | the | | | | Discovery | new T4002 | associated | | | | Filter with | timer value | Discovery | | | | an | for the | Filter for | | | | associated | same | ProSe | | | | T4002 timer | Discovery | direct | | | | in a | Filter in a | discovery | | | | DISCOVER | DISCOVER | monitoring | | | | Y_RESPONSE | Y_RESPONSE | over the | | | | message | message. | PC5 | | | | whose | | interface | | | | transaction | | and | | | | ID | | re-initiate | | | | contained | | the monitor | | | | in the | | request | | | | \ | | if the | | | | element | | request | | | | matches the | | from upper | | | | value sent | | layers to | | | | by the UE | | monitor the | | | | in a | | ProSe | | | | DISCOVE | | Application | | | | RY_REQUEST | | ID | | | | message | | co | | | | with the | | rresponding | | | | command set | | to the | | | | to | | associated | | | | \ | | Discovery | | | | "monitor\", | | Filter is | | | | as | | still in | | | | described | | place. | | | | in | | | | | | subclau | | | | | | se 6.2.3.4. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4004 | NOTE 3 | Upon | Upon | The UE may | | | | receiving a | receiving a | inform the | | | | T4004 timer | new T4004 | upper | | | | in a | timer value | layers that | | | | MATCH_ | for the | the | | | | REPORT_ACK | same ProSe | co | | | | message | Application | rresponding | | | | whose | Code in a | ProSe | | | | transaction | MATCH_ | Application | | | | ID | REPORT_ACK | ID is no | | | | contained | message. | longer | | | | in the | | matched. | | | | \ | receiving a | | | | | element | MATCH_ | | | | | matches the | REPORT_ACK | | | | | value sent | message | | | | | by the UE | with a | | | | | in a | \ | | | | | ORTmessage, | element | | | | | as | containing | | | | | described | PC3 Control | | | | | in | Protocol | | | | | subclau | cause value | | | | | se 6.2.4.4. | is #5. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4005 | NOTE 4 | Upon | When the | Stop the | | | | receiving a | service | monitoring, | | | | monitoring, | au | announcing | | | | announcing | thorisation | or | | | | or | for the | co | | | | co | co | mmunication | | | | mmunication | rresponding | operation | | | | policy for | PLMN is | in the | | | | a given | revoked by | co | | | | PLMN with | the ProSe | rresponding | | | | an | Function. | PLMN and | | | | associated | | re-initiate | | | | T4005 value | Upon | the service | | | | in the | receiving a | au | | | | ProSe | new T4005 | thorisation | | | | service | timer value | procedure | | | | au | for the | if the UE | | | | thorisation | same | wants to | | | | as | operation | continue | | | | described | ( | performing | | | | in | monitoring, | announcing, | | | | subcl | announcing | monitoring | | | | ause 5.1.3. | or | or | | | | | com | co | | | | | munication) | mmunication | | | | | in the same | in that | | | | | PLMN. | | | | | | | PLMN. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4006 | NOTE 3 | Upon | Upon | The UE | | | | receiving a | receiving a | needs to | | | | T4006 timer | new T4006 | | | | | in a | timer value | send a | | | | MATCH_ | for the | Match | | | | REPORT_ACK | same ProSe | Report on | | | | message | Application | next | | | | whose | Code in a | instance it | | | | transaction | MATCH_ | detects the | | | | ID | REPORT_ACK | co | | | | contained | message. | rresponding | | | | in the | | ProSe | | | | \ | co | Code. | | | | element | rresponding | | | | | matches the | T4004 timer | | | | | value sent | for the | | | | | by the UE | ProSe | | | | | in a | Application | | | | | MATCH_REP | Code is | | | | | ORTmessage, | stopped or | | | | | as | expires. | | | | | described | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclau | | | | | | se 6.2.4.4. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this timer | | | | | | is provided | | | | | | by the | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | Function | | | | | | during the | | | | | | announce | | | | | | request | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this timer | | | | | | is provided | | | | | | by the | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | Function | | | | | | during the | | | | | | monitor | | | | | | request | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this timer | | | | | | is provided | | | | | | by the | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | Function | | | | | | during the | | | | | | match | | | | | | report | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this timer | | | | | | is provided | | | | | | by the | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | Function | | | | | | during | | | | | | service | | | | | | au | | | | | | thorisation | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 13.2.2: ProSe direct services timers -- ProSe Function side
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TIMER NUM. | TIMER VALUE | CAUSE OF | NORMAL STOP | ON\ | | | | START | | EXPIRY | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4001 | NOTE 1 | Upon | Upon | Delete the | | | | assigning a | receiving a | association | | | | ProSe | new | between the | | | | Application | DISCOVE | UE, the | | | | Code with | RY_REQUEST | requested | | | | an | message | ProSe | | | | associated | from the UE | Application | | | | T4000 value | with the | ID and the | | | | to the UE, | command set | co | | | | as | to | rresponding | | | | described | \ | ProSe | | | | in | "announce\" | Application | | | | subclau | for the | Code | | | | se 6.2.2.3. | same ProSe | allocated | | | | | Application | by the | | | | | ID. | ProSe | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | T4003 | NOTE 2 | Upon | Upon | Delete the | | | | assigning a | receiving a | association | | | | Discovery | new | between the | | | | Filter with | DISCOVE | UE, the | | | | an | RY_REQUEST | requested | | | | associated | message | ProSe | | | | T4002 value | from the UE | Application | | | | to the UE, | with the | ID and the | | | | as | command set | co | | | | described | to | rresponding | | | | in | \"monitor\" | Discovery | | | | subclau | for the | Filter | | | | se 6.2.3.3. | same ProSe | allocated | | | | | Application | by the | | | | | ID | ProSe | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this timer | | | | | | is assigned | | | | | | by the | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | Function | | | | | | during the | | | | | | announce | | | | | | request | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this timer | | | | | | is assigned | | | | | | by the | | | | | | ProSe | | | | | | Function | | | | | | during the | | | | | | monitor | | | | | | request | | | | | | procedure. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: Multiple timers T4001 and T4003 can run simultaneously in the ProSe
Function.
###### ## Annex A (informative): IANA registrations
# A.1 IANA registrations for MIME types
## A.1.1 General
RFC 4288 [26], subclause 9, states the process that applies in case of changes
to the registry of media types. Any changes to the format after the
registration with IANA would invoke this procedure.
## A.1.2 application/3gpp-prose-pc3ch+xml
Your Name:
\
Your Email Address:
\
Media Type Name:
Application
Subtype name:
Vendor Tree -- 3gpp-prose-pc3ch+xml
Required parameters:
None
Optional parameters:
\"charset\" the parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of
the \"application/xml\" media type as specified in section 9.1 of IETF RFC
7303.
Encoding considerations:
binary.
Security considerations:
Same as general security considerations for application/xml media type as
specified in section 9.1 of IETF RFC 7303 [25]. The information transported in
this media type does not include active or executable content. Mechanisms for
privacy and integrity protection of protocol parameters exist. Those
mechanisms as well as authentication and further security mechanisms are
described in 3GPP TS 33.303.
This media type does not include provisions for directives that institute
actions on a recipient\'s files or other resources.
This media type does not include provisions for directives that institute
actions that, while not directly harmful to the recipient, may result in
disclosure of information that either facilitates a subsequent attack or else
violates a recipient\'s privacy in any way.
This media type does not employ compression.
Interoperability considerations:
The media type allows for interoperability of messages transmitted over the
PC3ch interface, including those related to transport of the usage information
request of proximity services. The messages are sent between user equipment
and mobile network.
Published specification:
3GPP TS 24.334 (http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/24334.htm)
Applications which use this media type:
n/a
Fragment identifier considerations:
The handling in section 5 of IETF RFC 7303 applies.
Restrictions on usage:
None
Provisional registration? (standards tree only):
n/a
Additional information:
1\. Deprecated alias names for this type: n/a
2\. Magic number(s): n/a
3\. File extension(s): n/a
4\. Macintosh File Type Code(s): n/a
5\. Object Identifier(s) or OID(s): n/a
Intended usage:
Common.
Other information/general comment:
The media type is intended to be used in proximity service procedures.
Person to contact for further information:
\- Name: \
\- Email: \
\- Author/Change controller:
i) Author: 3GPP CT1 Working Group/3GPP_TSG_CT_WG1\@LIST.ETSI.ORG
ii) Change controller: \/\
## A.1.3 application/3gpp-prose+xml
Your Name:
\
Your Email Address:
\
Media Type Name:
Application
Subtype name:
Vendor Tree -- 3gpp-prose+xml
Required parameters:
None
Optional parameters:
\"charset\" the parameter has identical semantics to the charset parameter of
the \"application/xml\" media type as specified in section 9.1 of IETF RFC
7303.
Encoding considerations:
binary.
Security considerations:
Same as general security considerations for application/xml media type as
specified in section 9.1 of IETF RFC 7303. The information transported in this
media type does not include active or executable content. Mechanisms for
privacy and integrity protection of protocol parameters exist. Those
mechanisms as well as authentication and further security mechanisms are
described in 3GPP TS 33.303.
This media type does not include provisions for directives that institute
actions on a recipient\'s files or other resources.
This media type does not include provisions for directives that institute
actions that, while not directly harmful to the recipient, may result in
disclosure of information that either facilitates a subsequent attack or else
violates a recipient\'s privacy in any way.
This media type does not employ compression.
Interoperability considerations:
The media type allows for interoperability of messages transmitted for ProSe
over the PC3 interface. The messages are sent between user equipment and
mobile network.
Published specification:
3GPP TS 24.334 (http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/Specs/html-info/24334.htm)
Applications which use this media type:
n/a
Fragment identifier considerations:
The handling in section 5 of IETF RFC 7303 applies.
Restrictions on usage:
None
Provisional registration? (standards tree only):
n/a
Additional information:
1\. Deprecated alias names for this type: n/a
2\. Magic number(s): n/a
3\. File extension(s): n/a
4\. Macintosh File Type Code(s): n/a
5\. Object Identifier(s) or OID(s): n/a
Intended usage:
Common.
Other information/general comment:
The media type is intended to be used in proximity service procedures.
Person to contact for further information:
\- Name: \
\- Email: \
\- Author/Change controller:
i) Author: 3GPP CT1 Working Group/3GPP_TSG_CT_WG1\@LIST.ETSI.ORG
ii) Change controller: \/\
#