# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the possible scenarios for:
\- the interconnection of an Next Generation Corporate Network (NGCN) with a
Next Generation\ Network (NGN); and
\- the support of NGCN capabilities within an NGN, either towards a User
Equipment (UE) or to an NGCN.
Unless otherwise specified by reference to other documents, all requirements
relating to architecture and functional requirements are contained within the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.519: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Business Communication Requirements\".
[3] ETSI ES 282 001 (V.3.4.1): \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); NGN Functional
Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.524: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Hosted Enterprise Services; Architecture, functional description
and signalling\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.525: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Business trunking; Architecture and functional description\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.162: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Interworking between IM CN subsystem and IP networks\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; 3G Security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[8] ETSI TR 102 478 (V1.1.1): \"Enterprise Communication in Next Generation
Corporate Networks (NGCN) involving Public Next Generation Networks (NGN)\"
(also published as ECMA TR/91).
[9] IETF RFC 5863 (April 2010): \"Requirements from Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) Session Border Control (SBC) Deployments\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; 3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer
security\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.218: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; IP Multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purpose of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.519 [2] apply:
business trunking
business trunking application
Corporate telecommunication Network (CN)
Hosted Enterprise Services (HES)
Next Generation CN (NGCN)
NGCN site
PNP number
private network traffic
Private Numbering Plan (PNP)
public network traffic
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
API Application Programming Interface
AS Application Server
ASP Application Service Provider
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
CN Core Netwrok
CND Customer Network Device
CNG Customer Network Gateway
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
HES Hosted Enterprise Services
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IBCF Interconnection Border Control Function
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
IM IP Multimedia
IMCN IP Multimedia Core Network
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IOI Inter Operator Identifier
IP Internet Protocol
IWF InterWorking Function
MACF Multiple Association Control Function
NASS Network Attachment SubSystem
NAT Network Address Translator
NGCN Next Generation Corporate Network
NGN Next Generation Network
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
PNP Private Numbering Plan
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
RACS Resource and Admission Control Subsystem
S-CSCF Serving CSCF
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SSP Session Service Provider
TE Terminal Equipment
TSP Transport Service Provider
UE User Equipment
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 General modelling and relationship to NGN releases
A number of different scenarios will likely exist for enabling interactions
between Next-Generation Corporate Networks (NGCN) and Next Generation (public)
Networks (NGN). The present document describes a sub-set of these scenarios
and the architectural and functional requirements that arise from the support
of these scenarios. Future releases may document other scenarios as
requirements emerge.
## 4.2 Levels of service provision
The development of different interaction scenarios based upon the distribution
of the hosting of private network capabilities in the enterprise operator
and/or in the public NGN operator leads to the concept of the public NGN
operator being able to offer services to NGCNs and the NGCN users at a number
of different levels. This concept is further described in ETSI TR 102 478 [8].
The most basic level of service provision is IP connectivity. Differentiation
from the Internet can be in the form of improved or guaranteed quality of
service or security. For the purposes of the present document an NGN that
provides this level of service acts as a Transport Service Provider (TSP).
A second level of service provision is in session establishment and control of
communication sessions, e.g. voice, multimedia, messaging. Here the NGN adds
value by being involved in the signalling protocol used to establish and
control media sessions. For the purposes of the present document the primary
session control signalling protocol concerned is assumed to be the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP). Added value can include intelligent routing,
provision of quality of service for media, provision of gateway services to
legacy networks, assistance in NAT traversal, etc. For the purposes of the
present document an NGN that provides this level of service is known as a
Session Service Provider (SSP).
A third level of service provision is at the application level. Applications
can be many and varied, but for the purposes of the present document an
application is assumed to be applied on top of session level services. An
application may be able to monitor or control multi-media sessions (either
directly or through a protocol or API) and may or may not be involved in media
as well. Examples of applications that involve media include conferencing
services, transcoding and translation services and call distribution centres.
Examples of applications that monitor or control sessions but do not involve
media include presence services, call logging services and UA configuration
services. In addition, an application may be accessed through a session
control protocol such as SIP. For the purposes of the present document an NGN
that provides this level of service is known as an Application Service
Provider (ASP).
NOTE 1: An NGN acting as an ASP is not necessarily providing these
capabilities on an IMS application server, it is providing any level of
functionality above that of an SSP at any appropriate entity.
At the application level, the additional services can be provided by the home
network operator, or can be provided by a third party service provider. It is
also possible that the enterprise itself provides the services, by providing
equipment that acts as an application server beyond an ISC gateway function.
An NGN may provide services at one or more of these levels. Not all services
offered will be of interest to enterprise customers and of relevance for
interworking with NGCNs. Enterprise customers may use different NGNs for
different levels of service provision and may have different contractual
relationships with each of these NGNs. In addition, for a given communication
and depending on the number of parties to be interconnected and/or the number
of services to be accessed, multiple providers may be involved.
NOTE 2: Similarly an NGCN can provide services at these three levels to
enterprise users. In particular, services at the session establishment and
control level and/or application level can be provided by an NGCN site to
enterprise users on other NGCN sites or supported by hosted enterprise
services.
The scenarios provided in the present document are presented in accordance
with this concept.
## 4.3 Introduction to the scenarios covered by the present document
The present document has been structured following the service level
categories as introduced in subclause 4.2 in mind, as follows:
\- clause 6 presents scenarios that relate to provision of IP connectivity
level services offered by an NGN;
\- clause 7 presents scenarios that relate to provision of session
establishment and control of communication session services offered by an NGN;
\- clause 8 presents scenarios that relate to provision of application level
services offered by an NGN; and
\- clause 9 presents scenarios that relate to provision of session level
roaming services offered by an NGN.
The scenarios presented in clause 6 are IP level virtual leased line services
between NGCN sites or between an NGCN site and a remote NGCN UE.
The scenario presented in clause 7 is a session level virtual leased line.
The application level service scenarios presented in clause 8 are hosted
enterprise services (HES), subscription based business trunking and peering
based business trunking.
Clause 9 presents a special class of session level service scenarios that are
so distinct from other session level services that they are a service class of
their own. Roaming scenario covered in this release is the ability for an NGCN
user to be able to roam into an NGN with which the NGCN has a roaming
agreement. Other scenarios are listed for completeness, however these
scenarios are not in the scope of the current release or are already covered
as part of normal roaming procedures.
# 5 General requirements
No additional general requirements are identified in the present document for
this release.
# 6 Scenarios relating to a level of service of IP connectivity
## 6.1 Scenario 1: IP VPN providing a virtual leased line between NGCN sites
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to provide a
IP VPN providing a virtual leased line between two NGCN sites. The NGN
provides no other functionality.
### 6.1.2 Involved functional entities -- originating
Figure 6.1.1 shows the functional entities involved in the originating
scenario in support of IP VPN interconnection.
Figure 6.1.1: Originating scenario for IP VPN interconnection
### 6.1.3 Involved functional entities - terminating
Figure 6.1.2 shows the functional entities involved in the terminating
scenario in support of IP VPN interconnection.
Figure 6.1.2: Terminating scenario for IP VPN interconnection
### 6.1.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
Subclauses 6.1.2 and 6.1.3 can be combined together to provide an NGN transit
scenario.
Subclause 6.1.2 is also intended to interoperate with subclause 6.2.3, and
subclause 6.1.3 to interoperate with subclause 6.2.2, in order to allow
similar functionality allowing a remote terminal to access an NGCN site.
Interoperability with other business communication scenarios is not possible.
NOTE: Interconnection with other scenarios is not possible, because there is
no IP VPN termination in the NGN to support interworking the IP VPN.
### 6.1.5 Emergency calls
In this scenario, emergency calls have to be supported entirely within the
NGCN, and some other scenario provided for delivery to the NGN if required.
### 6.1.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
The IP level communication between the two NGCNs can be provided using a
number of mechanisms. The simplest mechanism is to configure peer IP addresses
or FQDNs, and appropriate credentials for the security mechanism in use, in
the IP VPN termination. The configuration of this information is outside the
scope of the present document.
There are no configuration requirements for supporting this scenario in the
NGN.
### 6.1.7 Security issues
Security is provided by appropriate security mechanism between the IP VPN
endpoints, e.g. IPsec or TLS. Whether the NGN provides security mechanisms
depends on the service level agreements.
### 6.1.8 Charging issues
Not applicable.
### 6.1.9 Transport control issues
The NGCN site interfaces to the NGN using an IP VPN termination and the CNG
which can both be an integral part of the NGCN equipment.
NASS can be used, e.g. to support the allocation of a IP address to the CNG,
and the authentication of the CNG as an endpoint.
RACS can be used by the NGN to control enforcement of policies within the
transport layer. These policies are pushed to the RACS by the NASS each time
the CNG attaches to the NGN.
NOTE: The RACS could have similar functionality to the above based on receipt
of the policies from the management plane.
## 6.2 Scenario 2: IP VPN tunnel providing a virtual leased line between a
remote terminal and an NGCN sites
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to provide a
IP VPN tunnel providing a virtual leased line between a remote terminal and an
NGCN site. The NGN provides no other functionality.
### 6.2.2 Involved functional entities -- originating
Figure 6.2.1 shows the functional entities involved in the originating
scenario in support of IP VPN interconnection.
Figure 6.2.1: Originating scenario for IP VPN interconnection
### 6.2.3 Involved functional entities - terminating
Figure 6.2.2 shows the functional entities involved in the terminating
scenario in support of IP VPN interconnection.
Figure 6.2.2: Terminating scenario for IP VPN interconnection
### 6.2.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
Subclauses 6.2.2 and 6.2.3 can be used in conjunction with the IP VPN tunnel
providing a virtual leased line to an NGCN to provide interoperability. Thus
subclause 6.1.2 is also intended to interoperate with subclause 6.2.3, and
subclause 6.1.3 to interoperate with subclause 6.2.2.
Interoperability with other business communication scenarios is not possible.
NOTE: Interconnection with other scenarios is not possible, because there is
no IPsec IP VPN termination in the NGN to support interworking the IP VPN
tunnel.
### 6.2.5 Emergency calls
In this scenario, emergency calls have to be supported entirely within the
NGCN, and some other scenario provided for delivery to the NGN if required.
### 6.2.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
The IP level communication between the TE CNG and the NGCN can be provided
using a number of mechanisms. The simplest mechanism is to configure peer IP
addresses or FQDNs, and appropriate credentials for the security mechanism in
use, in the IPsec terminations IP VPN termination. The configuration of this
information is outside the scope of the present document.
There are no configuration requirements for supporting this scenario in the
NGN.
### 6.2.7 Security issues
Security is provided by appropriate security mechanism between the IP VPN
endpoints, e.g. use of IPsec or TLS. The NGN provides no security mechanisms.
### 6.2.8 Charging issues
Not applicable.
### 6.2.9 Transport control issues
The TE CND interfaces to the NGN using an IPsec IP VPN termination and the
CNG.
NASS can be used, e.g. to support the allocation of a IP address to the CNG,
and the authentication of the CNG as an endpoint.
RACS can be used by the NGN to control enforcement of policies within the
transport layer. These policies are pushed to the RACS by the NASS at each
time the CNG attaches to the NGN.
NOTE: The RACS could have similar functionality to the above based on receipt
of the policies from the management plane.
There is no support by functionality in the NASS and RACS.
# 7 Scenarios relating to a level of service of session establishment and
control of communication session
## 7.1 Scenario 3: Session level virtual leased line
### 7.1.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support an
IP multimedia virtual leased service for the NGCN equivalent to a leased-line
scenario but between multiple NGCN sites of a single NGCN. This scenario
involves primarily the routeing capabilities of the IM CN subsystem within the
NGN. The NGCN interfaces to the NGN using SIP as the control protocol. The
same NGCN exists at both the originating side and at the terminating side.\
Break-in and break-out traffic is not applicable with this scenario.
As this scenario is equivalent to the leased line scenario, the routeing is
fixed, i.e. a request at a specific entry point will always be directed to the
same exit point of an NGN, the exit point maybe on the boundary between an
originating and a terminating NGN hosting session level business communication
capabilities or between a terminating NGN and a connected NGCN site. Scenario
6 provides a similar architecture where intelligent capabilities are
supported.
### 7.1.2 Involved functional entities -- originating
NOTE: One or more routeing functions can appear in the originating side for
this scenario.
Figure 7.1.1: Session level virtual leased line scenario originating
functional entities
In this particular scenario the IBCF will route based on information about the
entry point, not based on the destination of a request.
### 7.1.3 Involved functional entities - terminating
NOTE: One or more routeing functions can appear in the terminating side for
this scenario.
Figure 7.1.2: Session level virtual leased line scenario terminating
functional entities
In this scenario the exit point determined by the originating virtual leased
line scenario is the IBCF connecting an NGCN site.
### 7.1.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
The originating side session level virtual leased line scenario can
interoperate with any other terminating scenario where the traffic relates to
dialogs or transactions belonging within the enterprise network, e.g. the
scenarios for hosted enterprise services.
The terminating side session level virtual leased line scenario can
interoperate with any other originating scenario where the traffic relates to
dialogs or transactions belonging within the enterprise network, e.g. the
scenarios for hosted enterprise services.
NOTE: The functionality provided by the routeing function is that of a SIP
proxy, and the functionality provided by the IBCF is that of a session border
controller, so interoperability can be provided with existing solutions not
based on IMS. In this case, the procedures of 3GPP TS 29.162 [6] will apply at
the interworking point. The possible functionalities of a session border
controller are described in IETF RFC 5863 [9]. Such interworking may be
limited by the SIP extensions that are supported across the interface. ETSI ES
282 001 [3] provides for an IWF which may also provide some appropriate
functionality in this respect.
### 7.1.5 Emergency calls
There is no direct support NGN emergency calls within this scenario, although
NGCN emergency calls may be supported. Another scenario has to be used by the
enterprise network provider to support NGN emergency calls to or from the
enterprise network.
### 7.1.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
The IBCF need to be configured to route requests coming in over a specific
entry point to a specific exit point.
### 7.1.7 Security issues
3GPP TS 33.210 [10] shall apply to the interconnection between the NGCN and
the NGN.
### 7.1.8 Charging issues
Inter Operator Identifiers (IOI) shall be exchanged between the NGCN and the
NGN.
NOTE: IOI usage is not fully defined for enterprise communication in this
release.
### 7.1.9 Transport control issues
NOTE: Definition of the transport control issues in this scenario is outside
the scope of this release of the present document.
# 8 Scenarios relating to a level of service of application level
## 8.1 General
For each of the scenarios presented in this clause, it is possible for the NGN
to provide services either at the session establishment and control level or
at the application level, as described in subclause 4.2. Some of the
functional entity diagrams show the involvement of an AS. Where an AS is
shown, this does not necessarily constitute provision of services at the
application level, as described in subclause 4.1. It is possible to deploy an
AS for realizing services at the session establishment and control level.
NOTE: Corporate networks can be connected in different arrangements. One is
connecting them over an interface to a P-CSCF (subscription-based
arrangement), the other is when it is connected over an interface to an IBCF
(peering-based arrangement).
## 8.2 Scenario 4: Hosted Enterprise Services (HES)
### 8.2.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users directly attached to the NGN with services belonging to the
enterprise network. Support of both the private network routeing capabilities
and services delivered to the end enterprise user are provided within the AS
supporting the HES application. In addition to the existing IMS capabilities,
the HSS supports service profiles for SIP URIs with a URI parameter of
user=phone and representing a PNP number.
### 8.2.2 Involved functional entities -- originating
Figure 8.2.1: HES scenario originating functional entities (use of NASS and
RACS)
Figure 8.2.1A: HES scenario originating functional entities (use of PCC)
NOTE 1: Figure 8.2.1 and figure 8.2.1A do not show the intermediate functions
between the P-CSCF and the S-CSCF, or those between the S-CSCF and the
terminating side.
NOTE 2: In addition to the scenarios shown in figure 8.2.1 and figure 8.2.1A,
the HES application can be supported by an enterprise connected using an ISC
gateway function.
See 3GPP TS 24.524 [4] for further information.
### 8.2.3 Involved functional entities - terminating
Figure 8.2.2: HES scenario terminating functional entities (use of NASS and
RACS)
Figure 8.2.2A: HES scenario terminating functional entities (use of PCC)
NOTE 1: Figure 8.2.2 and figure 8.2.2A does not show the intermediate
functions between the P-CSCF and the S-CSCF, or any intermediate functions
before the S-CSCF from the originating side.
NOTE 2: In addition to the scenarios shown in figure 8.2.2 and figure 8.2.2A,
the HES application can be supported by an enterprise connected using an ISC
gateway function.
See 3GPP TS 24.524 [4] for further information.
### 8.2.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
The originating side HES scenario can interoperate with any other terminating
scenario. A break-out function needs to be deployed when traffic leaves the
enterprise environment and becomes public network traffic. This break-out
function can form part of the HES application.
The terminating side HES scenario can interoperate with any other originating
scenario. A break-in function needs to be deployed when public network traffic
enters the enterprise environment. This break-in function can form part of the
HES application.
### 8.2.5 Emergency calls
For a UE supported in the HES environment, citizen to authority calls are
normally treated as if the UE was supported by the NGN in the normal public
subscriber manner, see 3GPP TS 23.167 [1]. 3GPP TS 24.524 [4] for further
information.
NOTE: Some enterprises may require alternative arrangements, whereby emergency
calls are routed to a private PSAP.
### 8.2.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
HES users are configured in the HSS in the same manner as subscribers for the
public NGN capabilities. The service profile and filter criteria relate to the
provision of specialized HES by an application server. See 3GPP TS 24.524 [4]
for further information. In addition to the existing IMS capabilities, the
UPSF supports service profiles for SIP URIs with a URI parameter of user=phone
and representing a PNP number.
The IMS routeing functions (e.g. BGCF, S-CSCF, I-CSCF) will require
appropriate provisioning to route private network traffic, unless all calls
originated from or terminated to the HES are public network traffic.
### 8.2.7 Security issues
3GPP TS 24.524 [4] shall apply to the interconnection between the NGCN UE and
the NGN.
NOTE: The present document references 3GPP TS 33.203 [7].
### 8.2.8 Charging issues
Inter Operator Identifiers (IOI) specific to the NGCN shall be exchanged
between the S-CSCF supporting the hosted enterprise users and the entities
supporting the remote side. See 3GPP TS 24.524 [4] for further information.
NOTE: IOI usage is not fully defined for enterprise communication in this
release.
### 8.2.9 Transport control issues
The NASS, RACS and transport processing functions are used in an identical
fashion to a CND and CNG receiving NGN services. See 3GPP TS 24.524 [4] for
further information.
## 8.3 Scenario 5: Business trunking (subscription based)
### 8.3.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users attached to an NGCN. In this case each site of the NGCN has a
service subscription to the IMS, the private extensions behind the NGCN do not
need their own service subscription, since they are owned and managed by the
NGCN. The NGCN site interfaces to the NGN using SIP as the control protocol.
An AS is used to provide business trunking applications, e.g. those defined in
3GPP TS 22.519 [2], subclause 4.4. If such capabilities are not required, then
the AS is not included in any request processing.
### 8.3.2 Involved functional entities -- originating
Figure 8.3.1 shows the functional entities involved in the originating
scenario in support subscription based business trunking.
Figure 8.3.1: Business trunking scenario originating functional entities
NOTE 1: Figure 8.3.1 does not show the intermediate functions between the
P-CSCF and the S-CSCF, or those between the S-CSCF and the terminating side.
NOTE 2: In addition to the scenarios shown in figure 8.3.1, the business
trunking application can be supported by an enterprise connected using an ISC
gateway function.
See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further information.
### 8.3.3 Involved functional entities - terminating
Figure 8.3.2 shows the functional entities involved in the terminating
scenario in support subscription based business trunking.
Figure 8.3.2: Business trunking scenario terminating functional entities
NOTE 1: Figure 8.3.2 does not show the intermediate functions between the
P-CSCF and the S-CSCF, or any intermediate functions before the S-CSCF from
the originating side.
NOTE 2: In addition to the scenarios shown in figure 8.3.1, the business
trunking application can be supported by an enterprise connected using an ISC
gateway function.
See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further information.
### 8.3.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
The originating side business trunking scenario can interoperate with any
other terminating scenario. A break-out function needs to be deployed when
traffic leaves the enterprise environment and becomes public network traffic.
The terminating side business trunking scenario can interoperate with any
other originating scenario. A break-in function needs to be deployed when
public network traffic enters the enterprise environment.
### 8.3.5 Emergency calls
For an NGCN site that has a subscription to the IMS, emergency calls
ingressing to the NGN are normally treated as if the NGCN was supported by the
NGN in the normal public subscriber manner, see 3GPP TS 23.167 [1]. See 3GPP
TS 24.525 [5] for further information.
NOTE: Some enterprises may require alternative arrangements, whereby emergency
calls are routed to a private PSAP.
### 8.3.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
NGCN sites are configured in the HSS in the same manner as subscribers for the
public NGN capabilities. The service profile and filter criteria relate to the
provision of specialized enterprise services by the business trunking
application; it is these services that are supported on an AS. See 3GPP TS
24.525 [5] for further information.
The IMS routeing functions (e.g. BGCF, S-CSCF, I-CSCF) will require
appropriate provisioning to route private network traffic, unless all calls
originated from or terminated to the business trunking are public network
traffic.
### 8.3.7 Security issues
3GPP TS 24.525 [5] shall apply to the interconnection between the NGCN UE and
the NGN.
NOTE: The present document references 3GPP TS 33.203 [7] which contains the
required provisions.
### 8.3.8 Charging issues
Inter Operator Identifiers (IOI) specific to the enterprise subscription for
the NGCN shall be exchanged between the\ S-CSCF serving the NGCN site and the
entities supporting the remote side. See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further
information.
NOTE: IOI usage is not fully defined for enterprise communication in this
release.
### 8.3.9 Transport control issues
The NGCN site interfaces to the NGN using the CNG which can be an integral
part of the NGCN equipment.
The media requirements identified by the control protocol use the transport
processing functions, and may be supported by functionality in the NASS and
RACS.
Static IP address assignment is valid and does not need NASS. MACF provides
DHCP server dynamic address which is part of NASS. UAF is for authentication.
## 8.4 Scenario 6: Business trunking (peering based)
### 8.4.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users attached to an NGCN. In this case the NGCN operator has a service
level agreement with the IMS operator. Services are provided to the private
extensions behind the NGCN using the NGCN. The NGCN sites interface to the NGN
using SIP as the control protocol.
Intelligent routeing tables at the routeing function are used to provided
business trunking applications, e.g. those defined in 3GPP TS 22.519 [2],
subclause 4.4. One mechanism to support such functionality is to use an AS
attached to a transit function (see 3GPP TS 23.218 [11]) using the ISC
interface. If such capabilities are not required, then the AS is not included
in any request processing.
### 8.4.2 Involved functional entities -- originating
Figure 8.4.1 shows the functional entities involved in the originating
scenario in support of peering-based business trunking.
NOTE: One or more routeing functional entities can appear in the originating
side for this scenario.
Figure 8.4.1: Business trunking scenario originating functional entities
NOTE: For the functionality of the intelligent routeing tables see subclause
6.2.6 of 3GPP TS 24.525 [5]). One mechanism to support such functionality is
to use an AS attached to a transit function (see 3GPP TS 23.218 [11]) using
the ISC interface.
See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further information.
### 8.4.3 Involved functional entities - terminating
Figure 8.4.2 shows the functional entities involved in the terminating
scenario in support of peering-based business trunking.
NOTE: One or more routeing functional entities can appear in the originating
side for this scenario.
Figure 8.4.2: Business trunking scenario terminating functional entities
NOTE: For the functionality of the intelligent routeing tables see subclause
6.2.6 of 3GPP TS 24.525 [5]). One mechanism to support such functionality is
to use an AS attached to a transit function (see 3GPP TS 23.218 [11]) using
the ISC interface.
See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further information.
### 8.4.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
The originating side business trunking scenario can interoperate with any
other terminating scenario. A break-out function needs to be deployed when
traffic leaves the enterprise environment and becomes public network traffic.
The terminating side business trunking scenario can interoperate with any
other originating scenario. A break-in function needs to be deployed when
public network traffic enters the enterprise environment.
NOTE: The functionality provided by the routeing function is that of a SIP
proxy, and the functionality provided by the IBCF is that of a session border
controller, so interoperability can be provided with existing solutions not
based on IMS. In this case, the procedures of 3GPP TS 29.162 [6] will apply at
the interworking point. The possible functionalities of a session border
controller are described in IETF RFC 5863 [9]. Such interworking may be
limited by the SIP extensions that are supported across the interface. ETSI ES
282 001 [3] provides for an IWF which may also provide some appropriate
functionality in this respect.
### 8.4.5 Emergency calls
None of the functional entities in this scenario have any functionality
specific to the recognition of emergency calls or to the substitution of the
Request-URI when such a call exists. Identification of emergency calls is
therefore expected to be performed in the NGCN. However, the routeing tables
are expected to be configured to route private network traffic in a manner
different to public network traffic. Delivering emergency calls is integral to
that routeing configuration.
NOTE: Some enterprises may require alternative arrangements, whereby emergency
calls are routed to a private PSAP.
### 8.4.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
NGCN sites are configured in the same manner as service level agreements with
other public network operators. See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further
information.
The IMS routeing functions will require appropriate provisioning to route
private network traffic, and to provide the business trunking applications,
unless all calls originated from or terminated to the business trunking are
public network traffic.
### 8.4.7 Security issues
3GPP TS 24.525 [5] shall apply to the interconnection between the NGCN UE and
the NGN.
NOTE: The present document references 3GPP TS 33.210 [10].
### 8.4.8 Charging issues
Inter Operator Identifiers (IOI) shall be exchanged between the NGCN and the
NGN.
NOTE: IOI usage is not fully defined for enterprise communication in this
release.
### 8.4.9 Transport control issues
NOTE: Definition of the transport control issues in this scenario is outside
the scope of this release of the present document.
# 9 Scenarios relating to roaming
## 9.1 Scenario 7: NGCN user roaming into NGN public network
### 9.1.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users whose home location is an NGCN roaming into an NGN.
### 9.1.2 Involved functional entities
Figure 9.1.1: NGCN user registering from visited NGN with which NGCN has a
roaming agreement
Figure 9.1.2: NGCN user registering from visited NGN via NGN with which both
visited NGN and NGCN have a roaming agreement
NOTE: Functional entities in NGN with which the NGCN has a roaming agreement
support either\ peering-based or subscription-based approach for business
trunking.
A registration request submitted by an NGCN UE attached to a NGN is routed
into the NGCN, either to the NGCN site directly when there exists a roaming
agreement between the NGN and the NGCN; or indirectly via an NGN that has a
roaming agreement with the NGCN which then transits the traffic to the home
NGCN where the registrar is located. IBCF or equivalent functionality may
exist at the network borders.
Other requests (e.g. for call establishment) are routed similarly to the proxy
in the NGCN home site. Requests to the NGCN UE are sent in the opposite
direction.
See 3GPP TS 24.525 [5] for further information.
### 9.1.3 Void
### 9.1.4 Interoperability with other scenarios
The Roaming NGCN User scenario can interoperate with any originating scenario
and any terminating scenario. Specifically, a roaming NGCN user can:
\- originate a call in which the user\'s home NGCN is the originating side of
the NGCN transit scenario;
\- originate a call in which the user\'s home NGCN is the originating side of
a business trunking scenario (subscription-based or peering-based);
\- terminate a call in which the user\'s home NGCN is the terminating side of
the NGCN transit scenario;
\- terminate a call in which the user\'s home NGCN is the terminating side of
a business trunking scenario (subscription-based or peering-based).
### 9.1.5 Emergency calls
NOTE: Not addressed in this release of the document.
### 9.1.6 Configuration / provisioning issues
NOTE: Not addressed in this release of the document.
### 9.1.7 Security issues
NOTE: Not addressed in this release of the document.
### 9.1.8 Charging issues
NOTE: Not addressed in this release of the document.
### 9.1.9 Transport control issues
NOTE: Definition of the transport control issues in this scenario is outside
the scope of this release of the present document.
## 9.2 Scenario 8: NGCN user roaming into another NGCN site of the same
enterprise
### 9.2.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users whose home location is an NGCN site roaming into another NGCN site
of the same enterprise. This scenario is not supported in the current release.
## 9.3 Scenario 9: HES user roams into NGCN site of the same enterprise
### 9.3.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
HES users whose home location is an NGN roaming into an NGCN site of the same
enterprise. This scenario is not supported in the current release.
## 9.4 Scenario 10: HES user roams into another NGN
### 9.4.1 Introduction
This scenario utilizes existing NGN roaming capabilities.
## 9.5 Scenario 11: NGN public network user roaming into NGCN
### 9.5.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users whose home location is an NGN roaming into an NGCN. This scenario is
not supported in the current release.
## 9.6 Scenario 12: NGCN user roaming into an NGCN of a different enterprise
### 9.6.1 Introduction
This scenario describes the provision of capabilities of the NGN to support
end users whose home location is an NGCN roaming into another NGCN belonging
to a different enterprise. This scenario is not supported in the current
release.
#