# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document defines the requirements of the USIM (Universal Subscriber
Identity Module) and the IC card for 3G (UICC). These are derived from the
service and security requirements defined in TS 22.100 [1] and TS 22.101 [2].
The USIM is a 3G application on an IC card. It inter-operates with a 3G
terminal and provides access to 3G services. This document is intended to
serve as a basis for the detailed specification of the USIM and the UICC, and
the interface to the 3G terminal.
# 2 References
## 2.1 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.100 v3.x.x: \"UMTS phase 1\" (Release 99).
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.101: \"UICC-Terminal Interface; Physical and Logical
Characteristics\".
[4] Void.
[5] ETSI TS 101 220: \"ETSI Numbering System for AIDs\".
[6] 3GPP TS 31.111: \"USIM Application Toolkit (USAT)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G Security: Security Architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 51.011, Rel-4: \"Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module ‑
Mobile Equipment (SIM ‑ ME) interface\".
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] ISO/IEC 7816-3: \"Information technology - Identification cards -
Integrated circuit(s) cards with contacts - Part 3: Electronic signals and
transmission protocols\".
[12] ISO/IEC 7816‑4: \"Identification cards ‑ Integrated circuit cards, Part
4: Organization, security and commands for interchange\".
[13] Void.
## 2.2 Void
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
## 3.2 Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADN Abbreviated Dialling Number
ATR Answer To Reset
DF Dedicated File
EF Elementary File
ICC Integrated Circuit Card
IK Integrity Key
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
ME Mobile Equipment
MF Master File
PIN Personal Identification Number
PPS Protocol and Parameter Selection
SIM Subscriber Identity Module
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
# 4 General requirements
The UICC shall be a removable hardware module. The USIM on a UICC shall
contain an identity which unambiguously identifies a subscriber.
For access to 3G services, a UICC containing a valid USIM shall be present at
all times, other than for emergency calls.
The specifications shall support the security requirements as defined in 3GPP
TS 33.102 [7].
The USIM shall provide storage for subscription and subscriber related
information.
The UICC/USIM may also contain applications which use the features defined in
the USIM Application Toolkit specification 3GPP TS 31.111 [6].
# 5 Security requirements
The USIM shall be used to provide security features. If the UICC is removed
from the 3G terminal, the service shall be terminated immediately. The
functions of the USIM include authenticating itself to the network and vice
versa, authenticating the user and providing additional security functions as
defined in 3GPP TS 33.102 [7].
The USIM shall be unambiguously identified.
Means shall be provided to prevent fraudulent use of stolen UICCs.
It shall not be possible to access data intended for USIM internal use, e.g.
authentication keys.
Further details of the following requirements are given in 3GPP TS 33.102 [7].
## 5.1 File access conditions
Actions, such as READ, UPDATE on UICC data shall be controlled by access
conditions. These shall be satisfied prior to the action being performed.
Since a UICC may contain multiple (3G and non-3G) applications, a flexible
method of controlling file access shall be provided.
## 5.2 User authentication
The USIM shall support means to authenticate the user, to provide, for
example, protection against the use of stolen cards. For the USIM,
authentication shall be performed by the verification of a numeric PIN of four
(4) to eight (8) decimal digits.
A function to disable user authentication may exist which may be inhibited by
the application provider, in which case the user shall always use the PIN.
Otherwise, the user may decide whether or not to make use of the user
authentication function. If disabled, the user authentication function remains
disabled until the user specifically re-enables it.
Following correct PIN presentation, the ME may perform functions and actions
on USIM data, which are protected by the relevant access condition.
If an incorrect PIN is entered, an indication shall be given to the user.
After three (3) consecutive incorrect entries the relevant PIN is blocked,
i.e. functions and actions on data protected by the access condition shall no
longer be possible, even if between attempts the UICC has been removed, the
USIM has been deselected or the ME has been switched off. Once a PIN is
blocked, further PIN verifications shall be denied.
The USIM shall support a mechanism for unblocking a blocked PIN. Unblocking of
a PIN is performed by using the relevant PIN Unblocking Key.
PINs, but not Unblock PINs, shall be changeable by the user following correct
entry of either the current PIN or Unblock PIN.
The Unblock PIN shall consist of eight (8) decimal digits and shall not be
changeable by the user. If an incorrect Unblock PIN is presented, an
indication shall be given to the user. After ten (10) consecutive incorrect
entries, the Unblock PIN shall be blocked, even if between attempts the UICC
has been removed, the USIM has been deselected or the ME has been switched
off. Unblocking of a blocked PIN shall not be possible.
It shall not be possible to read PINs or Unblock PINs.
## 5.3 User data stored in ME
Subject to the exception below, all user related information transferred into
the ME during network operations shall be deleted from the ME after removal of
the UICC, deselection of the USIM, deactivation of the ME, or following an
electrical reset of the UICC. This includes any data that was transferred to
the ME by USIM Application Toolkit commands.
User related security codes such as PIN and Unblock PIN may only be stored by
the ME during the procedures involving such a code and shall be discarded by
the ME immediately after completion of the procedure.
Optionally, an ME may retain some less security-sensitive data at UICC
removal, USIM deselection or ME switch-off. Such data are e.g. SMS, ADN/SSC,
FDN/SSC, LND. These data, when stored in the ME, shall only be
readable/retrievable if the same USIM is reactivated (as determined by the
IMSI). If the IMSI is retained in the ME for this purpose, it shall be stored
securely and shall not be able to be read out.
## 5.4 Authentication
A means shall be specified to mutually authenticate the USIM and the network
by showing knowledge of a secret key K which is shared between and available
only to the USIM and in the user\'s Home Environment. The method is composed
of a challenge/response and key establishment protocol combined with a
sequence number-based one-pass protocol for network authentication.
## 5.5 Data integrity of signalling elements
Some signalling information elements are considered sensitive and must be
integrity protected. An integrity function shall be applied on certain
signalling information elements transmitted between the ME and the network.
The 3GPP Integrity Algorithm (UIA) is used with an Integrity Key (IK) to
compute a message authentication code for a given message. The setting of IK
is triggered by the authentication procedure. IK shall be stored on the USIM.
## 5.6 User identity confidentiality
A mechanism shall be specified to provide user identity confidentiality by
means of a temporary identity.
## 5.7 Length of security parameters
In order to allow for enhancements of the security level in 3G, the following
requirements shall be covered:
\- all security-related parameters for 3G shall be accompanied by a length
indicator;
\- the USIM shall support variable-length security parameters.
If the USIM supports the GSM security mechanisms in addition to 3G security,
fixed length security parameters according to 3GPP TS 51.011 [8] shall be
supported in addition.
# 6 Logical issues
## 6.1 Application selection
In a multiapplication environment, a flexible application selection method is
required. The application identifier defined in ETSI TS 101 220 [5] should be
used for application selection. Direct application selection, including
selection by partial DF name and the EF~DIR~ concept of ISO/IEC 7816-4 [12]
shall be followed. In particular, a mechanism for the ME and the UICC shall be
specified in order to allow the user, when the ME is in idle mode, to select
and activate one application amongst those which are available and supported
by the ME (this will permit the user to choose, for instance, between 2
different USIM applications). At switch on, the last active USIM shall be
automatically selected. The last active USIM shall be stored on the UICC. By
default if there is no last active USIM defined in the UICC, the user shall be
able to select the active USIM amongst those available on the UICC.
## 6.2 Simultaneous access
A mechanism shall be specified for simultaneous access to several files or
applications.
# 7 Service Requirements
## 7.1 Void
## 7.2 Data transfer
A mechanism allowing highly secure transfer of applications and/or associated
data to/from the UICC/USIM shall be specified in line with the requirements in
3GPP TS 22.101 [2]. This requires a secure transfer mechanism.
## 7.3 Application execution environment
An application execution environment may exist on the UICC/USIM which includes
functionality defined in 3GPP TS 31.111 [6].
## 7.4 Profile exchange
A mechanism for the ME, the USIM and the network to exchange service
capabilities shall be specified. The following exchange of service
capabilities may occur:
\- ME services capabilities may be provided to the USIM/UICC;
\- USIM/UICC services capabilities may be provided to the ME (and thus
potentially to the network);
\- network services capabilities may be provided to the USIM/UICC via the ME.
## 7.5 Version identification
A means for identification of the version of the USIM shall be provided.
# 8 Physical Characteristics
The physical characteristics shall be in accordance with the specifications in
3GPP TS 31.101 [3].
## 8.1 Void
## 8.2 Void
# 9 Electrical characteristics and transmission protocols
Electronic signals and transmission protocols shall be in accordance with the
specifications in 3GPP TS 31.101 [3].
The electrical specifications shall at least cover the 1.8V and 3V voltage
ranges as specified in 3GPP TS 31.101 [3]. Lower voltages may be added in the
future. 3G terminals shall not support 5V on the ME-UICC interface. Both ME
and UICC shall support operational class indication as defined in ISO/IEC
7816-3 [11].
Both ME and UICC shall support at least two voltage classes.
Both UICC and ME shall support PPS as defined in ISO/IEC 7816-3 [11] with at
least the values defined in 3GPP TS 31.101 [3].
The ME shall have the capabilities of initiating a warm reset as defined in
ISO/IEC 7816-3 [11]. The UICC shall support warm reset as defined in ISO/IEC
7816-3 [11].
NOTE: The warm reset is used during a session when there is a need to restart
the USIM due to internal modifications of data caused by user actions or
network data downloading.
The UICC may indicate in the ATR to the warm reset that the specific mode is
entered automatically, using the parameters that were used prior to the warm
reset. In case of a cold reset, the UICC shall enter the negotiable mode.
In addition to the T=0 protocol which is mandatory for the UICC and the ME,
the T=1 protocol shall be mandatory for the ME. It is optional for the UICC.
The speed enhancement as specified in 3GPP TS 31.101 [3] shall be supported by
both the ME and the UICC.
## 9.1 Void
# 10 Contents of the Elementary Files
## 10.1 USIM information storage requirements
The USIM shall contain information elements for 3G network operations. The
USIM may contain information elements related to the subscriber, 3G services
and home environment or service provider related information.
The UICC shall provide storage capability for the following:
\- UICC related information:
\- IC card identification: a number uniquely identifying the UICC and the card
issuer;
\- Preferred language(s);
\- Directory of applications.
\- USIM related information:
\- Administrative information: indicates mode of operation of the USIM, e.g.
normal, type approval;
\- USIM service table: indicates which optional services are provided by the
USIM;
\- IMSI;
\- Language indication;
\- Location information;
\- Cipher key (Kc) and cipher key sequence number;
\- Access control class(es);
\- Forbidden PLMNs;
\- Ciphering Key for GPRS;
\- GPRS location information;
\- Cell Broadcast related information;
\- Emergency call codes;
\- Phone numbers (ADN, FDN, SDN);
\- Short messages and related parameters;
\- Capability and Configuration parameters;
\- Higher Priority PLMN search period;
\- list of carrier frequencies to be used for cell selection.
\- Information accessible to the USIM and other applications:
\- ADN.
In addition, the USIM shall manage and provide storage for the following
information in accordance with the security requirements of clause 5:
\- PIN;
\- PIN enabled/disabled indicator;
\- PIN error counter;
\- Unblock PIN;
\- Unblock PIN error counter;
\- Data integrity keys;
\- Subscriber authentication keys.
## 10.2 Phone Book
A Phone Book entry consists of a record in an ADN file and, optionally,
additional records which are placed in different EFs. In the latter case, a
mechanism shall be defined to link all records in the same Phone Book entry.
These features shall be supported by the ME while their support by the UICC is
optional.
### 10.2.1 Support of two name fields per entry
The support of two name fields per entry shall be specified to allow, for
example, for two different representations of the same name (for example, in
Japanese characters and in Latin characters).
### 10.2.2 Support of multiple phone numbers per entry
The support of multiple phone numbers per entry shall be specified, for
example, office, home, fax, mobile or pager. In addition to that, information
for identifying those attributes are needed.
### 10.2.3 Support of email address
The support of email addresses linked to Phone Book entries shall be
specified. In addition to that, information for identifying these addresses is
needed.
### 10.2.4 Support of user definable groupings
The specification shall support the grouping of Phone Book entries into groups
defined by the user, for example, business and private.
### 10.2.5 Support of hidden entries
The specification shall support means of marking Phone Book entries as
\"hidden\".
### 10.2.6 Number of entries
The specification shall support storage of at least 500 entries.
### 10.2.7 Void
## 10.3 Storage of call details
The specification shall support provision of storage for call detail
information. The call detail information consists of the following attributes:
\- mobile terminated calls:
calling party number, date and time, calling party\'s name and status of call
(i.e. answered or missed), duration;
\- mobile originated calls:
called party number, date and time, called party\'s name and duration;
\- accumulated duration of preceding calls, separately for mobile originated
and mobile terminated calls.
Call detail attributes are optional. A value to mark them as \"undefined\"
shall be available.
NOTE 1: The calling/called party\'s name may be available from the Phone Book.
## 10.4 Void
# 11 3G/GSM interworking
## 11.1 Void
## 11.2 3G subscribers in a GSM network
3GPP TS 22.101 [2] requires that UMTS shall provide some mechanisms which
permit UMTS subscribers to roam easily onto pre-UMTS systems and access the
services.
Thus, the specification shall allow the UICC to be used with a dual mode (GSM/
3G) ME and a GSM ME for the provision of GSM service.
# 12 Contact Manager
12.1 General
The Contact Manager provides an interface for the management of contact
information including rich content without any structural limitations.
There shall be a mechanism for the ME to detect that the UICC containing the
Contact Manager has changed. This mechanism may be used by the ME to ask the
user whether synchronization of data between the ME and the UICC Contact
Manager should occur.
This section defines the functional requirements of the Contact Manager. An ME
and a 3GPP application supporting the Contact Manager shall comply with all
these requirements.
12.2 Security requirements
The Contact Manager may contain personal information. It shall be possible to
restrict the access to this information to authorized users or entities (e.g.
by binding the access to the verification of the USIM PIN).
12.4.3 Interworking with the 3G Phone Book
In case both the ME and the 3GPP application support both the 3G Phone Book
(i.e. as defined in section 10.2 of the present document) and the Contact
Manager the Contact Manager shall be used. There shall be a mechanism for the
3GPP application to indicate the support of the Contact Manager.
12.4.4 Content description
12.4.4.1 Number of contacts
The Contact Manager specification shall not unreasonably restrict the number
of contacts.
12.4.4.2 Contact structure
The Contact Manager shall consist of contacts, which are made up of various
fields (e.g. phone number, name, photo). A filtering mechanism according to
OMA DS Field Filtering shall be supported.
It shall be possible to have several instances of a field in a contact when
appropriate (e.g. a contact may have two fax numbers).
An extensible coding scheme shall be defined which allows to describe a
contact including all its fields. An existing scheme (e.g. \"vcard\") shall be
used, if appropriate.
A minimum set of field types recognised by the 3GPP application and the ME
shall be defined (e.g. name, phone number, URL, Email address, address, sound,
pictures, notes).
It shall be possible to store and associate multimedia information (stored on
the 3GPP application) with a contact (e.g. photo, logo, video, ring tone,
voice tag).
It shall be possible to associate an icon or a label to each contact field
type (e.g. associate an icon representing a phone to the number field. \"Home
address\" could be configured as the label of the \"mailing address\" field
type).
It shall be possible to configure the structure and the display order of the
contact fields (e.g. first name then Instant Messaging address then number,
etc) depending on ME capabilities.
12.4.4.3 Group management
It shall be possible to define new groups (e.g. My Tennis Club).
It shall be possible to pre-define groups (e.g. Friend, Work, Family and VIP).
It shall be possible to store and associate multimedia information (stored on
the 3GPP application) with a group (e.g. photo, logo, video, ring tone, icon).
It shall be possible to bind contacts to one or several groups.
12.4.4.4 User Action Management
It shall be possible to configure a list of possible actions that could be
proposed to the user when the contact is selected (e.g. Launch Browser, Send
SMS, Send MMS, Instant messaging, Make a voice over IP call, Make a video
call, Make a conference call, Game player, Send Email).
12.4.5 Interface capabilities description
An external and an internal interface to the Contact Manager shall be defined.
The external interface between the Contact Manager and a UICC external entity,
i.e. the ME, shall rely on a transport protocol layer that is independent of
the physical interface (i.e. the ISO interface and the new high-speed
interface). This is to allow the definition of one solution that can use
either the existing ISO interface or the new high-speed interface. The
external interface definition shall also ease interfacing the PC applications
with the Contact Manager.
Both the ME and the UICC shall be capable of initiating contact information
synchronization based on a configurable policy.The internal interface allows
other UICC resident applications to access the Contact Manager e.g. through a
dedicated API. This enables the creation of additional services utilizing the
Contact Manager data and properties. There shall be a mechanism for the user
to allow or prevent remote access to the Contact Manager.
The external and internal interface shall provide means to:
> \- identify Contact Manager capabilities
>
> \- perform the following operations on a contact or a group: create,
> retrieve, modify, delete, search
In addition the internal interface shall provide mechanisms to:
> \- register/deregister an UICC resident application to the Contact Manager.
>
> \- allow a resident UICC application to access Contact Manager data and
> properties based on user permission.
>
> \- allow the Contact Manager to notify events to registered UICC application
> and to pass event related information when applicable. Events notifying the
> applications shall include:
>
> \- contact information is modified locally
>
> \- contact information is modified remotely
>
> \- change of contact manager configuration
12.4.6 Efficient browsing and searching
The Contact Manager interfaces should allow efficient searching and browsing
of the contacts (i.e. the user experience browsing the Contact Manager should
be acceptable).
12.4.7 Associated services
12.4.7.1 Memory management
It shall be possible to determine the number of stored contacts and the amount
of the available and used Contact Manager memory.
#