# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) Secretariat on behalf of the 3GPP Technical Specification
Groups (TSGs).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is based ISO/IEC Directives. Most clauses of the ISO/IEC
document have been retained, while some clauses have been modified or deleted.
Additional material has been inserted.
Items concerning word-processor specific layout and formatting matters when
using the Microsoft Word for Windows^^ based skeleton documents and templates
are shown with shaded background. Boiler plate text (i.e. text which shall be
directly used in 3GPP specifications) is represented by _italic_ characters.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies rules for the structure and drafting of
documents intended to become a 3GPP Technical Specification or Technical
Report. These rules are intended to ensure that such documents are drafted in
as uniform a manner as is practicable, irrespective of the technical content.
The present document is based on the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 3, but is a
self-contained document that will be maintained as such.
These drafting rules complement the 3GPP Working Procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[4] 3GPP TR 21.801 Release 13: \"Specification drafting rules\"
# 3 Void
# 4 Drafting rules for Release 12
The drafting rules for the present Release of 3GPP Technical Specifications
and Technical Reports are identical to the rules for the next higher Release
of TR 21.801 [4].
#