# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
\"Study on New Radio Access Technology\" SID mandates the WGs to work for
unlicensed band support [2]:
_(4) Study and identify the technical features necessary to enable the new
radio access to meet objective 1 and 2, also including:_
_\- Operation in licensed bands (paired and unpaired), and licensed assisted
operations in unlicensed bands_
_\- Survey on 60GHz regulatory landscape_
_\- [Standalone operation in unlicensed bands is FFS]_
Regulatory requirements on the unlicensed bands of initial interest would need
to be studied. Way Forward on NR & standalone unlicensed was discussed at
RAN#73 [3]. Conclusion was to have RAN reflector email discussion survey on 60
GHz regulatory landscape.
The results and findings of the study are documented in this technical report.
It should be noted that there are studies on frequency-related matters for
International Mobile Telecommunications identification including possible
additional allocations to the mobile services on a primary basis in portion(s)
of the frequency range between 24.25 and 86 GHz for the future development of
International Mobile Telecommunications for 2020 and beyond. In particular,
66-71 GHz is being studied for potential IMT identification.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results and findings from the study item,
"Study on New Radio Access Technology" [2].
This technical report documents the existing regulatory requirements for
unlicensed spectrum deployment in the 60 GHz bands.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TD RP-162469: \"Revision of SI: Study on New Radio Access
Technology\".
[3] 3GPP TD RP-161868: \"Proposed Way Forward on NR & standalone unlicensed\".
[4] CEPT/ERC Recommendation 70-03, \"Relating to the Use of Short Range
Devices (SRD)\".
[5] EN 305 550, \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum Matters
(ERM); Short Range Devices (SRD); Radio equipment to be used in the 40 GHz to
246 GHz frequency range; Part 1: Technical characteristics and test methods\".
[6] EN 302 567, \"Multiple-Gigabit/s radio equipment operating in the 60 GHz
band; Harmonised Standard covering the essential requirements of article 3.2
of Directive 2014/53/EU\".
[7] Regulations for Enforcement of Radio Law, Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications, Japan.
[8] Ordinance Regulating Radio Equipment, Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications, Japan.
[9] Ordinance Concerning Terminal Facilities etc., Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications, Japan
[10] FCC 47CFR 15.255: Code of Federal Regulations Title 47 part 15 - radio
frequency devices (RF exposure requirements: 47CFR 1.1310, 2.1091, 2.1093).
[11] ISED RSS-210 Annex J: Radio Standards Specification RSS-210, Licence-
Exempt Radio Apparatus: Category I Equipment (RF exposure requirements: ISED
Safety Code 6 RSS102).
[12] ANATEL Res. 506, section XVII: regalement sobre equipamentos de
radiocomunicação de radiação restrita (RF exposure requirements: ANATEL
Resolution 303).
[13] NCC, \"Low Power Radio Frequency Specification, 2016 Edition\", National
Communications Commission, Taiwan, revised August 2016.
[14] 2006-082关于60GHz 频段微功率（短距离）无线电技术应用有关问题的通知 2006-082 Notice on wireless
technical applications with very low transmission power (short distance) in
60GHz.
http://www.miit.gov.cn/n1146295/n1146592/n1146754/n1235566/n1235603/n1235609/n1235611/c3176263/part/3176264.pdf
.
[15] 2005-423微功率（短距离）无线电设备的技术要求 2005-043 Technical requiremeng of wireless
devices with very low transmission power (short distance).
http://www.miit.gov.cn/n1146295/n1146592/n1146754/n1235566/n1235603/n1235609/n1235611/c3176241/part/3176242.pdf
.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
B transmission bandwith
G antenna gain
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ECC Electronic Communications Committee
ECO European Communications Office
ERC European Research Council
ISM Industrial, Scientific and Medical
LBT Listen Before Talk
MCOT Maximum Channel Occupancy Time
NR New Radio
OCB OCcupied Bandwidth
OOBE Out-Of--Band Emission
PSD Power Spectral Density
RLAN Radio Local Area Network
SID Study Item Description
SRD Short Range Device
WAS Wireless Access System
# 4 Regulatory requirements
## 4.1 ITU Region 1
### 4.1.1 Europe and CEPT
CEPT/ERC recommendation 70-03 [4] sets out the general position on common
spectrum allocations for Short Range Devices (SRDs) for countries within the
CEPT. It is also intended that it can be used as a reference document by the
CEPT member countries when preparing their national regulations in order to
keep in line with the provisions of article 3.2 of Directive 2014/53/EU.
In using this Recommendation it should be remembered that it represents the
most widely accepted position within the CEPT but it should not be assumed
that all allocations are available in all countries. An indication of where
allocations are not available or where deviations from the CEPT position occur
is to be found in Appendix 3 [4].
It should also be remembered that the pattern of radio use is not static. It
is continuously evolving to reflect the many changes that are taking place in
the radio environment; particularly in the field of technology. Spectrum
allocations must reflect these changes and the position set out in this
Recommendation is therefore subject to continuous review.
Moreover, many administrations have designated additional frequencies or
frequency bands for SRD applications on a national basis that do not conform
to the CEPT position set out in this Recommendation.
CEPT has adopted this Recommendation to deal with Short Range Devices and the
European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) has now developed
harmonised European standards for the majority of these devices. Other
standards or technical specifications will be applicable within the framework
of article 3.2 of Directive 2014/53/EU for placing on the market.
The term "Short Range Device" (SRD) is intended to cover the radio
transmitters which provide either uni-directional or bi-directional
communication which have low capability of causing interference to other radio
equipment. SRDs use either integral, dedicated or external antennas and all
modes of modulation can be permitted subject to relevant standards.
This Recommendation describes the spectrum management requirements for SRDs
relating to allocated frequency bands, maximum power levels, channel spacing
or modulation/maximum occupied bandwidth, and duty cycle in Annex 1 [4]. For
countries having implemented Directive 2014/53/EU further details can be found
on the relevant EC website (http://ec.europa.eu/growth/sectors/electrical-
engineering/rtte-directive_en) [and the ECO web sites
(]{.underline}www.cept.org/ecc).
#### 4.1.1.1 Non-specific Short Range Devices
Annex 1 [4] covers frequency bands and regulatory as well as informative
parameters recommended primarily for Telemetry, Telecommand, Alarms and Data
in general and other similar applications. In table 4.1.1.1-1 below the
parameters for 60 GHz spectrum are shown.
Table 4.1.1.1-1: Regulatory parameters for non-specific SRD
* * *
Frequency band Power/Magnetic Field Spectrum access and mitigation
requirements Modulation / maximum occupied bandwidth ECC/ERC Deliverable Notes  
n1 57 -- 64 GHz 100 mW e.i.r.p, a maximum transmitter output power of 10 mW,
and a power density limited to 13 dBm/MHz e.i.r.p. applies No requirement Not
specified  
n2 61.0 -- 61.5 GHz 100 mW e.i.r.p No requirement Not specified
* * *
Additional Information :
\- Harmonised Standard
\- EN 305 550 [5] for sub-bands n1), n2)
Frequency issues
\- The bands in Annex 1 [4] n1 and n2 are also designated for industrial,
scientific and medical (ISM) applications as defined in ITU Radio Regulations.
Table 4.1.1.1-1 represents the most widely implemented position within the
CEPT countries [4], but it should not be assumed that all designated bands are
available in all countries.
#### 4.1.1.2 Wideband Data Transmission Systems
Annex 3 [4] covers frequency bands and regulatory as well as informative
parameters recommended for Wideband Data Transmission Systems and Wireless
Access Systems including Radio Local Area Networks (WAS/RLANs) within the
bands 2400-2483.5 MHz and for Multiple-Gigabit WAS/RLAN Systems within the
band 57-66 GHz. In table 4.1.1.2-1 below the parameters for 60 GHz spectrum
are shown.
Table 4.1.1.2-1: Regulatory parameters for wideband data transmission systems
* * *
Frequency band Power/Magnetic Field Spectrum access and mitigation
requirements Modulation / maximum occupied bandwidth Notes  
b 57 -- 66 GHz 40 dBm mean e.i.r.p. This refers to the highest power level of
the transmitter power control range during the transmission burst if
transmitter power control is implemented Adequate spectrum sharing mechanism
(e.g. Listen-before-Talk, Detect-And-Avoid) shall be implemented by the
equipment. Not specified Fixed outdoor installations are not allowed. The
maximum mean e.i.r.p density is limited to 13 dBm/MHz. Point-to-point links of
the Fixed Service are regulated by ECC/REC/(05)02 and ECC/REC/(09)01
* * *
Additional Information:
\- Harmonised Standard
\- EN 302 567 [6] for sub-band b).
#### 4.1.1.3 National restrictions
Appendix 3 [4] lists national restrictions. The first section contains general
comments from administrations and these apply to all annexes in the
Recommendation.
The second section of Appendix 3 [4] contains comments from administrations
and these are on specific frequency bands contained within this
Recommendation. These indicate where administrations are not able to implement
frequency allocations or where implementation is incomplete. For consistency,
one of the following four standard positions are used:
\- Implemented: If the Appendix entry is blank then Recommendation 70-03 has
been fully implemented.
\- Limited implementation: A short explanation can be provided. If under study
or planned, then a date should be given.
\- Not implemented: A short explanation can be provided. If under study or
planned, then a date should be given.
\- No information : No information has yet be provided by the administration.
Specific frequency range comments for 60 GHz spectrum are shown in Table
4.1.1.3-1.
Table 4.1.1.3-1: National restrictions for specific frequency ranges
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency band | Country | Implementation | Reason / | | | | | remarks | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Annex 1 Band K | Georgia | Not | | | (Non-specific | | implemented | | | SRDs) 61.0 -- | | | | | 61.5 GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Russian | Not | | | | Federation | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Annex 1 Band | Bosnia & | Not | | | K1 | Herzegovina | implemented | | | | | | | | (Non- Specific | | | | | SRDs) | | | | | | | | | | 57-64 GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Georgia | Not | | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Macedonia | Not | | | | (FYROM) | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Montenegro | Not | | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Russian | Not | | | | Federation | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Serbia | Not | | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Turkey | Not | Under study | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Ukraine | Not | | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Annex 3 Band B | Bosnia & | Limited | | | | Herzegovina | implementation | | | Wideband Data | | | | | Transmission | | | | | systems | | | | | | | | | | 57-66 GHz | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Georgia | Not | | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Russian | Not | | | | Federation | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Serbia | Available in | According to | | | | the range: | the Frequency | | | | 61.0-61.5 GHz | Plan, only | | | | | this part of | | | | | the spectrum | | | | | is aimed for | | | | | the SRD | | | | | applications | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Ukraine | Not | | | | | implemented | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 4.1.2 Israel
### 4.1.3 Russia
### 4.1.4 South Africa
### 4.1.5 Turkey
## 4.2 ITU Region 2
The following sections report some information on regulated (unlicensed)
spectrum around 60GHz, e.g Max Power, PSD, OOBE, Indoor/Outdoor Restrictions
etc., in few Region 2 countries.
### 4.2.1 USA
USA (FCC) regulations for frequency bands around 60GHz can be found in [10],
particularly for the frequency range 57-71 GHz. Few (selected) rules are
provided in the table below.
Table 4.2.1-1: Some spectrum regulations around 60GHz in USA
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Regulated | Max Power | PSD | OOBE | Ind | | Freq. Band | | | | oor/Outdoor | | | | | | R | | | | | | estrictions | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 57-71 GHz | Max Peak | No | Spurious | Ind | | | conducted | requirement | emissions:\ | oor/outdoor | | | power: | | \ | with | | | | | 40-200 | different | | | - if BW | | GHz: ≤ 90 | limits | | | >100MHz, | | pW / cm\^2 | | | | 500mW | | \@3m | | | | | | (-9.9dBm | | | | - If | | EIRP)\ | | | | BW\51dBi; | | | | | | 82-2*(51 | | | | | | -Gant) when | | | | | | Gant≤51dBi | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Further radio restrictions/rules and additional information (e.g. some non
regulated aspects) are listed hereafter.
\- Not allowed in aircraft and satellite. Not allowed for mobile field
disturbance sensors; other requirements apply for fixed field sensors.
\- The peak power shall be measured with an RF detector that has a detection
bandwidth that encompasses the 57-71 GHz band and has a video bandwidth of at
least 10 MHz. The average emission levels shall be measured over the actual
time period during which transmission occurs.
\- Frequency stability: Fundamental emissions shall be contained within the
frequency bands specified in this section during all conditions of operation.
\- No transmitter operating under the provisions of this section may be
equipped with external phase-locking inputs that permit beam-forming arrays to
be realized.
\- No channel occupancy time requirements.
\- No occupied channel bandwidth (OCB) requirements.
\- No LBT requirements.
### 4.2.2 Canada
Canada regulations for frequency bands around 60GHz can be found in [11],
particularly for the frequency range 57-64 GHz. Few (selected) rules are
provided in the table below.
Table 4.2.2-1: Some spectrum regulations around 60GHz in Canada
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Regulated | Max Power | PSD | OOBE | Ind | | Freq. Band | | | | oor/Outdoor | | | | | | R | | | | | | estrictions | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 57-64GHz | Max Peak | No | Spurious | Ind | | | conducted | requirement | emissions:\ | oor/outdoor | | | power: | | \ | with | | | | | 40-200 GHz: | different | | | - If BW | | ≤90 pW / | limits | | | >100MHz, | | cm\^2 \@3m | | | | 500mW | | (-9.9dBm | | | | | | EIRP) | | | | - If | | | | | | BW\51dBi; | | | | | | 82-2*(51 | | | | | | -Gant) when | | | | | | Gant≤51dBi | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Further radio restrictions/rules and additional information (e.g. some non-
regulated aspects) are listed hereafter.
\- Not allowed in aircraft and satellite. Not allowed for mobile field
disturbance sensors; other requirements apply for fixed field sensors.
\- The peak power shall be measured with an RF detector that has a detection
bandwidth that encompasses the 57-64 GHz band and has a video bandwidth of at
least 10 MHz. The average emission levels shall be measured over the actual
time period during which transmission occurs.
\- Frequency stability: Fundamental emissions shall be contained within the
frequency bands specified in this section during all conditions of operation.
\- No transmitter operating under the provisions of this section shall be
equipped with external phase-locking inputs that permit beam-forming arrays to
be realized.
\- No channel occupancy time requirements.
\- No occupied channel bandwidth (OCB) requirements.
\- No LBT requirements.
### 4.2.3 Brazil
Brazilian regulations for frequency bands around 60GHz can be found in [12],
particularly for the frequency range 57-64 GHz. Few (selected) rules are
provided in the table below.
Table 4.2.3-1: Some spectrum regulations around 60GHz in Brazil
* * *
Regulated Freq. Band Max Power PSD OOBE Indoor/Outdoor Restrictions
57-64GHz Total Peak Power at transmitter output ≤ 27dBm (500mW) Max avg. Power
Density: \ Spurious emissions:\ No specific restriction 9 microW/cm\^2 \@3m\ \  
\ 40-200 GHz: ≤90 pW / cm\^2 \@3m (-9.9dBm EIRP)\  
Max peak Power Density: 18 microW/cm\^2 \@3m \  
Spurious emission levels shall not exceed the emission level at the
fundamental radio frequency.
* * *
Further radio restrictions/rules and additional information (e.g. some non-
regulated aspects) are listed hereafter.
\- Not permitted for use in aircraft or satellites, and field disturbance
sensors (including vehicular radar systems).
\- No channel occupancy time requirements.
\- No occupied channel bandwidth (OCB) requirements.
\- No LBT requirements.
### 4.2.4 Mexico
## 4.3 ITU Region 3
### 4.3.1 China
The 59-64 GHz frequency range has been allowed for use by very low
transmission power and short distant unlicensed applications in China since
2006 [14][15].
The key regulatory restrictions include:
\- Carrier frequency tolerance: 500 x 10^-6^
\- Output power of antenna port: ≤ 10 dBm
\- Peak EIRP: ≤ 47 dBm
\- Mean EIRP: ≤ 44 dBm
\- Out of Band Emission (EIRP): -5dBm/MHz
\- Spurious Emission (corresponding to frequency range outside 2.5*carrier
bandwidth ): -20dBm/1MHz
There is no requirement on maximum channel occupancy time (MCOT), no
requirement on occupied channel bandwidth (OCB), as well as no requirement on
listen-before-talk (LBT).
The unlicensed devices operating in 59-64 GHz shall not interfere to the space
research, earth resources exploration, radio astronomy and other legal
wireless applications, and shall not demand radio interference protection.
### 4.3.2 Japan
With regard to the use of 60 GHz spectrum for the Low Power Data Communication
System, the frequency band, 57-66GHz, is available for unlicensed operation.
Table 4.3.2-1 summarizes the overview of technical regulatory requirements in
Japan.
[Table 4.3.2-1: Regulatory requirement for the low power data communication
system in 60GHz band]{.underline}
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | **Items** | **Requirement** | **Reference** | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Frequency | 57-66 GHz | Article 6 [7] | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Frequency error | +/-20 ppm if the | Article 5 [8] | | | output power is | | | | greater than10mW | | | | | | | | +/-500 ppm if the | | | | output power is 10mW | | | | or less | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Occupied bandwidth | 9GHz or less | Article 6 [8] | | | (including the | | | | frequency error | | | | specified above) | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Maximum output power | 250 mW | Article 49.20 [8] | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Maximum output power | +50%/-70% | Article 14 [8] | | accuracy | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Antenna gain | 47dBi or less if the | Article 49.20 [8] | | | output power is | | | | greater than 10mW | | | | | | | | 10dBi or more if the | | | | output power is 10mW | | | | or less | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Maximum e.i.r.p. | 40 dBm if the output | Article 49.20 [8] | | | power is greater | | | | than10mW. | | | | | | | | Not specified if the | | | | output power is 10mW | | | | or less. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Carrier sense | Required if the | Article 49.20 [8] | | | output power is | | | | greater than 10mW | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Unwanted emissions | See Table 4.3.2-2 | Article 7 [8] | | | (Note 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Receiver spurious | See Table 4.3.2-3 | Article 24 [8] | | emissions | (Note 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Chassis | Shall be enclosed in | Article 49.20 [8] | | | one chassis and hard | | | | to open | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Interference control | Shall automatically | Article 9.4 [8] | | | transmit and receive | | | | an identification | Article 6.2 [7] | | | code. | | | | | | | | Or otherwise (only | | | | for the case that | | | | the equipment is not | | | | connected to a | | | | telecommunication | | | | circuit), users | | | | shall be able to | | | | reconfigure its | | | | transmit frequency | | | | or turn off the | | | | transmission easily. | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Identification code | 19 or more bits | Article 9 [9] | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Modulation | Not specified | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | ACS, | Not specified | | | Intermodulation, and | | | | Spurious response | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Location | Not specified | | | (Indoor/Outdoor) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Note 1: Exceptions | | | | are applied until | | | | March 31, 2023, | | | | regarding the | | | | unwanted emissions | | | | and receiver | | | | spurious emissions, | | | | i.e., the previous | | | | regulation (Category | | | | A emission | | | | requirement) can be | | | | used for the legacy | | | | equipment instead of | | | | Table 4.3.2-2 or | | | | Table 4.3.2-3. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
[Table 4.3.2-2: Unwanted emissions]{.underline}
* * *
**Frequency range** Average power f ≤ 55.62 GHz ≤ -30dBm/MHz 55.62 \ 51 dBi | | operation | | | | | field | | | 82-2×(51-G) | | disturbance | | | dBm if antenna | | sensors | | | gain G \ 51 dBi | | | | | | | | | | 85-2×(51-G) | | | | | dBm if antenna | | | | | gain G \< 51 | | | | | dBi | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 43 dBm | Others | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Spurious | See Table | for frequency | Power density | | Emission | 4.3.5-2 | \< 40 GHz | out of the | | | | | band 57-66 GHz | | | | | can only come | | | | | from spurious | | | | | emission | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | power density | for frequency | | | | ≤ 90 pW/cm^2^ | between 40 GHz | | | | | and 200 GHz | | | | (measured at 3 | | | | | meter | | | | | distance) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
[Table 4.3.5-2: Maximum electric field intensity for spurious emission in
Taiwan]{.underline}
+--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | **Frequency (f)** | **Maximum electric |** Measured distance\ | | | field intensity**| (meter)** | | **(MHz)** | | | | | **(μV/m)** | | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 0.009 ≤ f ≤ 0.490 | 2.4 / f | 300 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 0.490 \< f ≤ 1.705 | 24 / f | 30 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.705 \< f \< 30 | 30 | 30 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 30 ≤ f ≤ 88 | 100 | 3 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 88 \< f ≤ 216 | 150 | 3 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 216 \< f ≤ 960 | 200 | 3 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+ | 960 \< f | 500 | 3 | +--------------------+-----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.3.6 Singapore
### 4.3.7 Australia
#