# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
# 1 Scope
This document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of all three options
of the TDD mode of UTRA. The three options are the 3.84 Mcps, 1.28 Mcps and
7.68 Mcps options respectively. The requirements are listed in different
subsections only if the parameters deviate.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[2] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using test
sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[3] IEC 60721-3-3 (1994): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 3: Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[4] IEC 60721-3-4 (1995): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.142: \"Base station conformance testing (TDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.346: \"**Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS) in the Radio Access Network (RAN)** \".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base
Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply.
**Power Spectral Density:** The units of Power Spectral Density (PSD) are
extensively used in this document. PSD is a function of power versus frequency
and when integrated across a given bandwidth, the function represents the mean
power in such a bandwidth. When the mean power is normalised to (divided by)
the chip-rate it represents the mean energy per chip. Some signals are
directly defined in terms of energy per chip, (DPCH_Ec, Ec, and P-CCPCH_Ec)
and others defined in terms of PSD (Io, Ioc, Ior and Îor). There also exist
quantities that are a ratio of energy per chip to PSD (DPCH_Ec/Ior, Ec/Ior
etc.). This is the common practice of relating energy magnitudes in
communication systems.\ It can be seen that if both energy magnitudes in the
ratio are divided by time, the ratio is converted from an energy ratio to a
power ratio, which is more useful from a measurement point of view. It follows
that an energy per chip of X dBm/3.84 MHz (3.84 Mcps TDD option) or X dBm/1.28
MHz (1.28 Mcps TDD option) can be expressed as a mean power per chip of X dBm.
Similarly, a signal PSD of Y dBm/3.84 MHz (3.84 Mcps TDD option) or Y dBm/1.28
MHz (1.28 Mcps TDD option) can be expressed as a signal power of Y dBm.
**Mean power:** When applied to a CDMA modulated signal this is the power
(transmitted or received) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip
rate of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be a transmit
timeslot excluding the guard period unless otherwise stated.
NOTE: The roll-off factor α is defined in section 6.8.1.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power as measured through a root raised
cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth equal to the chip rate of
the radio access mode.
NOTE: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated CDMA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**Code domain power:** That part of the mean power which correlates with a
particular (OVSF) code channel. The sum of all powers in the code domain
equals the mean power in a bandwidth of (1+ α) times the chip rate of the
radio access mode.
**Output power:** The mean power of one carrier of the base station, delivered
to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the
transmitter.
**Maximum output power:** The mean power level per carrier of the base station
measured at the antenna connector in a specified reference condition. The
period of measurement shall be a transmit timeslot excluding the guard period.
**Rated output power:** Rated output power of the base station is the mean
power level per carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
**Total power dynamic range:** The difference between the maximum and the
minimum output power of the base station for a specified reference condition.
**MBSFN-only operation:** Operation of a dedicated carrier solely for the
purposes of MBSFN transmission.
## 3.2 (void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BER Bit Error Rate
BS Base Station
CW Continuous wave (unmodulated signal)
DL Down link (forward link)
DPCH~o~ A mechanism used to simulate an individual intracell interferer in the
cell with one code and a spreading factor of 16
$\frac{\text{DPCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ The ratio of the average transmit
energy per PN chip for the DPCH~o~ to the total transmit power spectral
density of all users in the cell in one timeslot as measured at the BS antenna
connector
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
FDD Frequency Division Duplexing
FER Frame Error Rate
IMB Integrated Mobile Broadcast
I~oc~ The power spectral density (integrated in a noise bandwidth equal to the
chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of a band limited white noise
source (simulating interference from other cells) as measured at the BS
antenna connector.
Î~or~ The received power spectral density (integrated in a bandwidth (1+α)
times the chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of all users in the cell
in one timeslot as measured at the BS antenna connector
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network
PPM Parts Per Million
Pout Output power.
PRAT Rated Output power
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
SIR Signal to Interference ratio
TDD Time Division Duplexing
TPC Transmit Power Control
UE User Equipment
UL Up link (reverse link)
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification 25.142 section 5.9.6 defines
Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements. The measurement results returned by
the Test System are compared -without any modification- against the Test
Requirements as defined by the shared risk principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273 Part 1 sub-part 2 section 6.5.
## 4.2 Base station classes
The requirements in this specification apply to both Wide Area Base Stations
and Local Area Base Stations in co-ordinated network operation, unless
otherwise stated.
Wide Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Macro
Cell and Micro Cell scenarios with BS to UE coupling losses equal to 70 dB and
53 dB. The Wide Area Base Station has the same requirements as the base
station for General Purpose application in Release 99 for 3.84 Mcps option,
and in Release 4 for both 3.84 Mcps and 1.28 Mcps option.
Local Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Pico
Cell scenarios with a BS to UE coupling loss equals to 45 dB.
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements in TS 25.105 may only apply in certain regions. Table 4.1
lists all requirements that may be applied differently in different regions.
Table 4.1: List of regional requirements.
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments
4.2 Base station classes Only requirements for Wide Area Base Stations shall
be applied as regional requirements in Japan.
5.1 General Only 3.84Mcps and 7.68Mcps TDD options are currently applicable in
Japan
5.2 Frequency bands Some bands may be applied regionally.
6.2.1 Base station maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum
requirement for normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside
the range of conditions defined as normal.
6.6.2.1 Spectrum emission mask The mask specified may be mandatory in certain
regions. In other regions this mask may not be applied.
6.6.3.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A) These requirements shall be met in
cases where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [1], are applied.
6.6.3.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) These requirements shall be met in
cases where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [1], are applied.
6.6.3.2.1 Co-existence with GSM900 -Operation in the same geographic area This
requirement may be applied for the protection of GSM 900 MS and GSM 900 BTS in
geographic areas in which both GSM 900 and UTRA are deployed.
6.6.3.2.2 Co-existence with GSM900 -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of GSM 900 BTS receivers when GSM 900 BTS and UTRA BS are co-
located. Co-located base stations
6.6.3.3.1 Co-existence with DCS1800 -Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement may be applied for the protection of DCS 1800 MS and DCS 1800
BTS in geographic areas in which both DCS 1800 and UTRA are deployed.
6.6.3.3.2 Co-existence with DCS1800 -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of DCS 1800 BTS receivers when DCS 1800 BTS and UTRA BS are co-
located. Co-located base stations
6.6.3.4.1 Co-existence with UTRA FDD -\ This requirement may be applied to
geographic areas in which both UTRA-TDD and UTRA-FDD are deployed. Operation
in the same geographic area
6.6.3.4.2 Co-existence with UTRA FDD -\ This requirement may be applied for
the protection of UTRA-FDD BS receivers when UTRA-TDD BS and UTRA FDD BS are
co-located. Co-located base stations
6.6.3.5.1 Co-existence with unsynchronized TDD - Operation in the same
geographic area This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA-TDD
BS receivers in same geographic areas in which unsynchronized TDD is deployed.
6.6.3.5.2 Co-existence with unsynchronized TDD -Co-located base stations This
requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA-TDD BS receivers when
UTRA-TDD BS are unsynchronized co-located.
6.6.3.6 Co-existence with PHS This requirement may be applied for the
protection of PHS in geographic areas in which both PHS and 3.84 Mcps and 7.68
Mcps UTRA TDD are deployed.
7.5 Blocking characteristic The requirement is applied according to what
frequency bands in Clause 5.2 that are supported by the BS.
7.5.1 Blocking characteristic Co-location with GSM900 and/or DCS 1800 This
requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA TDD BS receivers when
UTRA TDD BS and GSM 900/DCS1800 BS are co-located.
* * *
## 4.4 Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
The BS equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class from the
relevant IEC specifications listed below:
IEC 60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [3]
IEC 60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [4]
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 25.142 [5].
## 4.5 MBSFN-only operation
Only relevant sections are applicable to MBSFN-only operation (which also
includes IMB [6]). Furthermore, for the case of IMB, only the 3.84Mcps TDD
option shall apply. In the case of section 6 this contains subclauses with
explicit indication of which requirements are not applicable to MBSFN-only
operation.
# 5 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The information presented in this section is based on the chip rates of 3.84
Mcps, 1.28 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD.
NOTE: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.
## 5.2 Frequency bands
UTRA/TDD is designed to operate in the following bands;
a) 1900 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
2010 - 2025 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
b) 1850 - 1910 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
1930 - 1990 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
c) 1910 - 1930 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
d) 2570 - 2620 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
e) 2300 - 2400 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
f) 1880 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
Note 1: Deployment in existing and other frequency bands is not precluded.
Note 2: In China, Band a only includes 2010 - 2025 MHz for 1.28 Mcps TDD
option.
The co-existence of TDD and FDD in the same bands is still under study in WG4.
## 5.3 TX-RX frequency separation
### 5.3.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
No TX-RX frequency separation is required as Time Division Duplex (TDD) is
employed. Each TDMA frame consists of 15 timeslots where each timeslot can be
allocated to either transmit or receive.
### 5.3.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
No TX-RX frequency separation is required as Time Division Duplex (TDD) is
employed. Each subframe consists of 7 main timeslots where all main timeslots
(at least the first one) before the single switching point are allocated DL
and all main timeslots (at least the last one) after the single switching
point are allocated UL.
### 5.3.3 7.68 Mcps TDD Option
No TX-RX frequency separation is required as Time Division Duplex (TDD) is
employed. Each TDMA frame consists of 15 timeslots where each timeslot can be
allocated to either transmit or receive.
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
### 5.4.1 Channel spacing
#### 5.4.1.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
The nominal channel spacing is 5 MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
#### 5.4.1.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
The channel spacing is 1.6MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
#### 5.4.1.3 7.68 Mcps TDD Option
The nominal channel spacing is 10 MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that the carrier
frequency must be a multiple of 200 kHz.
#### 5.4.2.1 3.84 Mcps TDD Option
In addition a number of additional centre frequencies are specified according
to table 5.1, which means that the centre frequencies for these channels are
shifted 100 kHz relative to the general raster.
#### 5.4.2.2 7.68 Mcps TDD Option
In addition a number of additional centre frequencies are specified according
to table 5.1, which means that the centre frequencies for these channels are
shifted 100 kHz relative to the general raster.
### 5.4.3 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA absolute radio frequency
channel number (UARFCN). The value of the UARFCN in the IMT2000 band is
defined in the general case as follows:
N~t~ = 5 ∗ F 0.0 ≤ F ≤ 3276.6 MHz
where F is the carrier frequency in MHz.
Additional channels applicable to operation in the frequency band defined in
sub-clause 5.2(d) for 3.84 Mcps are defined via the following UARFCN
definition:
N~t~ = 5 * (F - 2150.1 MHz) 2572.5 MHz ≤ F≤ 2617.5 MHz
The 10 additional UARFCN for operations in frequency band defined in sub-
clause 5.2(d) for 3.84 Mcps are hence: 2112, 2137, 2162, 2187, 2212, 2237,
2262, 2287, 2312, 2337.
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of MIMO transmission, the
requirements apply for each transmitter antenna connector.
Unless otherwise stated the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for the
configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus such
as a TX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (port B).
Figure 6.0: Transmitter test ports
## 6.2 Base station output power
The rated output power of the base station is defined in section 3.1.
### 6.2.1 Base station maximum output power
The maximum output power of the base station is defined in section 3.1.
#### 6.2.1.1 Minimum Requirement
In normal conditions, the base station maximum output power shall remain
within +2 dB and -2 dB of the manufacturer's rated output power.
In extreme conditions, the Base station maximum output power shall remain
within +2.5 dB and -2.5 dB of the manufacturer's rated output power.
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the range of conditions defined as normal.
## 6.3 Frequency stability
Frequency stability is ability of the BS to transmit at the assigned carrier
frequency. The BS shall use the same frequency source for both RF frequency
generation and the chip clock.
### 6.3.1 Minimum Requirement
#### 6.3.1.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
The modulated carrier frequencyis observed over a period of one timeslot for
RF frequency generation. The frequency error shall be within the accuracy
range given in Table 6.0.
Table 6.0: Frequency error minimum requirement
* * *
BS class Accuracy Wide Area BS ±0.05 ppm Local Area BS ±0.1 ppm
* * *
#### 6.3.1.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
The modulated carrier frequency isobserved over a period of one timeslot for
RF frequency generation. The frequency error shall be within the accuracy
range given in Table 6.0A.
Table 6.0A: Frequency error minimum requirement
* * *
BS class Accuracy Wide Area BS ±0.05 ppm Local Area BS ±0.1 ppm
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
The modulated carrier frequencyis observed over a period of one timeslot for
RF frequency generation. The frequency error shall be within the accuracy
range given in Table 6.0B.
Table 6.0B: Frequency error minimum requirement
* * *
BS class Accuracy Wide Area BS ±0.05 ppm Local Area BS ±0.1 ppm
* * *
## 6.4 Output power dynamics
For the case of MBSFN-only operation, this subclause shall not be applicable.
Power control is used to limit the interference level. The transmitter uses a
quality-based power control on the downlink.
### 6.4.1 Inner loop power control
Inner loop power control is the ability of the BS transmitter to adjust its
code domain power in response to the UL received signal.
For inner loop correction on the Downlink Channel, the base station adjusts
the code domain power of a power controlled CCTrCH in response to each valid
power control bit received from the UE on the Uplink Traffic Channel based on
the mapping of the TPC bits in uplink CCTrCH to downlink CCTrCH. Inner loop
control is based on SIR measurements at the UE receiver and the corresponding
TPC commands are generated by the UE.
### 6.4.2 Power control steps
The power control step is the step change in the DL code domain power in
response to a TPC message from the UE.
#### 6.4.2.1 Minimum Requirement
Down link (DL) power steps: 1, 2, 3 dB
The tolerance of the code domain power and the greatest average rate of change
in code domain power due to the power control step shall be within the range
shown in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: power control step size tolerance
* * *
Step size Tolerance Range of average rate of change in code domain power per
10 steps  
minimum maximum 1dB +/-0.5dB +/-8dB +/-12dB 2dB +/-0.75dB +/-16dB +/-24dB 3dB
+/-1dB +/-24dB +/-36dB
* * *
### 6.4.3 Power control dynamic range
The power control dynamic range is the difference between the maximum and the
minimum code domain power of one power controlled code channel for a specified
reference condition
#### 6.4.3.1 Minimum Requirement
Down link (DL) power control dynamic range shall be greater or equal to 30 dB
### 6.4.4 Minimum output power
The minimum controlled output power of the BS is when the power is set to a
minimum value.
#### 6.4.4.1 Minimum Requirement
Down link (DL) minimum output power shall be lower than or equal to:
Maximum output power - 30dB
### 6.4.5 Primary CCPCH power
Primary CCPCH power is the code domain power of the primary common control
physical channel averaged over the transmit timeslot. Primary CCPCH power is
signalled over the BCH.
The error between the BCH-broadcast value of the Primary CCPCH power and the
Primary CCPCH power averaged over the timeslot shall not exceed the values in
table 6.2. The error is a function of the output power averaged over the
timeslot, Pout, and the manufacturer's rated output power, PRAT.
Table 6.2: Errors between Primary CCPCH power and the broadcast value
* * *
Output power in slot, dB PCCPCH power tolerance PRAT-3 \ S | | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | crambling | | | | | | | > code | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > basic | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | midamble | | | | | | | > code | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | number* | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | E-PUCH | C(k, Q) | C(1, 4) | C(1, 2) | C(1,2) | C(1,1) | | chann | | | | | | | elization | | | | | | | code* | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | RSN | | {0, 1, 2, | | | | | | | 3} | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | HARQ | | IR | | | | | combining | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | Maximum | | 4 | | | | | number of | | | | | | | HARQ | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsmission | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | Power | | OFF | | | | | control | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | Receiver | | ON | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | diversity | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | Midamble | | Default | | | | | | | midamble | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | Pr | | PA3, PB3, | | | | | opagation | | VA30 | | | | | condition | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+ | *Note: | | | | | | | Refer to | | | | | | | TS 25.223 | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | efinition | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | chann | | | | | | | elization | | | | | | | codes, | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | crambling | | | | | | | code and | | | | | | | basic | | | | | | | midamble | | | | | | | code | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+--------+--------+
Table 8.13 Minimum Requirement for E-DCH (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
#### 8.4.1.3 7.68 Mcps TDD Option
The performance requirement of the E-DCH in multi path fading condition is
determined by the minimum throughput, R. For the test parameters specified in
Table 8.14, the minimum requirements are specified in Table 8.15.
Table 8.14: Test parameters for testing E-DCH (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value  
FRC1 FRC2 FRC3 Max information rate kbps 35.9 1083.1 2085.1 I~oc~ Wide Area BS
dBm/7.68 MHz -89  
Local Area BS dBm/7.68 MHz -74  
E-DCH_E~c~/I~or~ dB 0 0 0 Cell Parameter* 0, 1  
E-DCH channelization code* C(k, Q) C(1, 32) C(1, 4) C(1, 2) RSN {0, 1, 2, 3}  
HARQ combining IR  
Maximum number of HARQ transmission 4  
Power control OFF  
Receiver antenna diversity ON  
Midamble Default midamble  
Physical channels to be turned on E-PUCH  
Propagation condition PA3, PB3, VA30, VA120  
NOTE *: Refer to TS 25.223 for definition of channelization codes and cell
parameter.
* * *
Table 8.15 Minimum Requirement for E-DCH (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
## 8.5 Performance of ACK detection for HS-SICH
## 8.5.1 Minimum requirement
#### 8.5.1.1 3.84 Mcps TDD Option
(void)
#### 8.5.1.2 1.28 Mcps TDD Option
The performance requirement of the HS-SICH type 1is ACK error detection,
P(ACK->NACK). Performance requirements are specified for the reference
measurement channel of HS-SICH type 1 and four propagation conditions: static,
multi-path fading case 1, case2 and case3. The reference measurement channel
for HS-SICH type 1 is defined in Annex A.4. The propagation conditions are
defined in Annex B.2.1.
For the test parameters specified in Table 8.17A, the minimum requirements are
specified in Table 8.18A.
Table 8.17A: Test parameters for testing ACK error detection using HS-SICH
type1 (1.28Mcps TDD Option)
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Parameters | Unit | Test | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Number of DPCH~o~ | | 2 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Spread factor of DPCH~o~ | | 8 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Scrambling code and | | 0 | | basic midamble code | | | | number (note) | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | DPCH~o~ Channelization | C(k,Q) | C(i,8) | | Codes* | | | | | | 2≤ i ≤3 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | $$$\frac{\text{D | dB | -4 | | PCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | $$$\frac{\text{HS-S | dB | -7 | | ICH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | I~oc~ | dBm/1.28 MHz | -91 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Closed loop power | | Off | | control | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Midamble | | Default midamble | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Propagation condition | | Static, case1, case2 and | | | | case3 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE: Refer to TS 25.223 | | | | for definition of | | | | channelizationcodes and | | | | cell parameter. | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
Table 8.18A Minimum Requirement for ACK error detection using HS-SICH type1
(1.28Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Propagation condition $\frac{{\hat{I}}_{\text{or}}}{I_{\text{oc}}}$[dB]
Required error ratio Static -3.1 \NACK). Performance requirements are specified for the reference
measurement channel of HS-SICH type2 and three propagation conditions: static,
multi-path fading case 1, and case2. The reference measurement channel for HS-
SICH type2 is defined in Annex A.4. The propagation conditions are defined in
Annex B.2.1.
For the test parameters specified in Table 8.19A, the minimum requirements are
specified in Table 8.20A.
Table 8.19A: Test parameters for testing ACK error detection using HS-SICH
type2 (1.28Mcps TDD Option)
+--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Parameters | Unit | Test | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Number of DPCH~o~ | | 2 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Spread factor of DPCH~o~ | | 8 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Scrambling code and | | 0 | | basic midamble code | | | | number (note) | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | DPCH~o~ Channelization | C(k,Q) | C(i,8) | | Codes* | | | | | | 2≤ i ≤3 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | $$$\frac{\text{D | dB | -4.8 | | PCH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | $$$\frac{\text{HS-S | dB | -4.8 | | ICH}_{}}{I_{\text{or}}}$ | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | I~oc~ | dBm/1.28 MHz | -91 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Closed loop power | | Off | | control | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Midamble | | Default midamble | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | Propagation condition | | Static, case1, and case2 | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+ | NOTE: Refer to TS 25.223 | | | | for definition of | | | | channelizationcodes and | | | | cell parameter. | | | +--------------------------+--------------+--------------------------+
Table 8.20A Minimum Requirement for ACK error detection using HS-SICH type2
(1.28Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Propagation condition $\frac{{\hat{I}}_{\text{or}}}{I_{\text{oc}}}$[dB]
Required error ratio Static -5.3 \< 10^-2^ Case 1 -1.2 \< 10^-2^ Case 2 -0.7
\< 10^-2^
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): Measurement Channels
# A.1 (void)
# A.2 Reference measurement channel
## A.2.1 UL reference measurement channel (12.2 kbps)
### A.2.1.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.1
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 12.2 kbps RU´s allocated 2 RU Midamble
512 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16 Bit/user Inband
signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate 1/3 : DCH of the DTCH /
DCH of the DCCH 10% / 0%
* * *
Figure A.1
### A.2.1.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.1A
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 12.2 kbps RU\'s allocated 1TS (1*SF8) =
2RU/5ms Midamble 144 Interleaving 20 ms Power control (TPC) 4 Bit/user/10ms
TFCI 16 Bit/user/10ms Synchronisation Shift (SS) 4 Bit/user/10ms Inband
signalling DCCH 2.4 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate 1/3: DCH of the DTCH /
DCH of the DCCH 33% / 33%
* * *
Figure A.1A
### A.2.1.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.1B
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 12.2 kbps RU´s allocated 2 RU Midamble
1024 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16 Bit/user Inband
signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate 1/3 : DCH of the DTCH /
DCH of the DCCH 10% / 0%
* * *
Figure A.1B
## A.2.2 UL reference measurement channel (64 kbps)
### A.2.2.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.2
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 64 kbps RU´s allocated 1 SF4 + 1 SF16 =
5RU Midamble 512 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16
Bit/user Inband signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate : 1/3 DCH
of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 43.8% / 13.3%
* * *
Figure A.2
### A.2.2.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.2A
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 64 kbps RU\'s allocated 1TS (1*SF2) =
8RU/5ms Midamble 144 Interleaving 20 ms Power control (TPC) 4 Bit/user/10ms
TFCI 16 Bit/user/10ms Synchronisation Shift (SS) 4 Bit/user/10ms Inband
signalling DCCH 2.4 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate: 1/3 DCH of the DTCH /
½ DCH of the DCCH 32% / 0
* * *
{width="6.635416666666667in" height="5.878472222222222in"}
Figure A.2A
### A.2.2.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.2B
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 64 kbps RU´s allocated 1 SF8 + 1 SF32 =
5RU Midamble 1024 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16
Bit/user Inband signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate : 1/3 DCH
of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 43.8% / 13.3%
* * *
Figure A.2B
## A.2.3 UL reference measurement channel (144 kbps)
### A.2.3.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.3
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 144 kbps RU´s allocated 1 SF2 + 1 SF16 =
9RU Midamble 256 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16
Bit/user Inband signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate : 1/3 DCH
of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 47.3% / 20%
* * *
Figure A.3
### A.2.3.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.3A
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 144 kbps RU\'s allocated 2TS (1*SF2) =
16RU/5ms Midamble 144 Interleaving 20 ms Power control (TPC) 8 Bit/user/10ms
TFCI 32 Bit/user/10ms Synchronisation Shift (SS) 8 Bit/user/10ms Inband
signalling DCCH 2.4 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate: 1/3 DCH of the DTCH /
½ DCH of the DCCH 38% / 7%
* * *
{width="6.75625in" height="5.9847222222222225in"}
Figure A.3A
### A.2.3.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.3B
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 144 kbps RU´s allocated 1 SF4 + 1 SF32 =
9RU Midamble 512 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16
Bit/user Inband signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate : 1/3 DCH
of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 47.3% / 20%
* * *
Figure A.3B
## A.2.4 UL reference measurement channel (384 kbps)
### A.2.4.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.4
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 384 kbps RU´s allocated 8*3TS = 24RU
Midamble 256 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16
Bit/user Inband signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate : 1/3 DCH
of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 43.4% / 15.3%
* * *
Figure A.4
### A.2.4.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.4A
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 384 kbps RU\'s allocated 4TS (1*SF2 +
1*SF16) = 36RU/5ms Midamble 144 Interleaving 20 ms Power control (TPC) 16
Bit/user/10ms TFCI 64 Bit/user/10ms Synchronisation Shift (SS) 16
Bit/user/10ms Inband signalling DCCH 2.4 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate:
1/3 DCH of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 47% / 12%
* * *
{width="6.677083333333333in" height="5.897222222222222in"}
Figure A.4A
### A.2.4.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.4B
* * *
Parameter Value Information data rate 384 kbps RU´s allocated 8*3TS = 24RU
Midamble 512 chips Interleaving 20 ms Power control 2 Bit/user TFCI 16
Bit/user Inband signalling DCCH 2 kbps Puncturing level at Code rate : 1/3 DCH
of the DTCH / ½ DCH of the DCCH 43.4% / 15.3%
* * *
Figure A.4B
## A.2.5 RACH reference measurement channel
### A.2.5.0 General
#### A.2.5.0.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.5
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Information data rate e.g. 2 TBs (B~RACH~=2): | 46 bits per frame and TB | | | | | **SF16:** | 53 bits per frame and TB | | | | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | 96 bits per frame and TB | | | | | 10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | 109 bits per frame and TB | | | | | **SF8:** | | | | | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | | | | | 10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+ | RU´s allocated | 1 RU | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Midamble | **512** chips | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Power control | 0 bit | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+ | TFCI | 0 bit | +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------+
N~RACH~ = number of bits per TB
B~RACH~ = number of TBs
#### A.2.5.0.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.5A
+---------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +---------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Information data rate: | B~RACH~=1 | | | | | **SF16** (RU's allocated:1): | CRC length = 16 | | | | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | Tail Bits = 8 | | | | | \~10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | 20 bits per frame and TB | | | | | **SF8** (RU's allocated:2): | 24 bits per frame and TB | | | | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | 64 bits per frame and TB | | | | | \~10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | 73 bits per frame and TB | | | | | **SF4** (RU's allocated:4): | 152 bits per frame and TB | | | | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | 170 bits per frame and TB | | | | | \~10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | +---------------------------------+---------------------------+ | TTI | 5msec | +---------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Midamble | 144 chips | +---------------------------------+---------------------------+ | Power control | 0 bit | +---------------------------------+---------------------------+ | TFCI | 0 bit | +---------------------------------+---------------------------+
N~RACH~ = number of bits per TB
B~RACH~ = number of TBs
N~RM~ = puncturing rate
#### A.2.5.0.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.5B
+-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Information data rate e.g. 2 TBs | 46 bits per frame and TB | | (B~RACH~=2): | | | | 53 bits per frame and TB | | **SF32:** | | | | 96 bits per frame and TB | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | | | 109 bits per frame and TB | | 10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | | | | | **SF16:** | | | | | | 0% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | | | | | 10% puncturing rate at CR=1/2 | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | RU´s allocated | 1 RU for SF32, 2 RUs for SF16 | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Midamble | **1024** chips | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Power control | 0 bit | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | TFCI | 0 bit | +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------+
N~RACH~ = number of bits per TB
B~RACH~ = number of TBs
### A.2.5.1 RACH mapped to 1 code SF16
#### A.2.5.1.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Figure A.5
#### A.2.5.1.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Figure A.5A
#### A.2.5.1.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Figure A.5B
### A.2.5.2 RACH mapped to 1 code SF8
#### A.2.5.2.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Figure A.6
#### A.2.5.2.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
Figure A.6A
### A.2.5.3 RACH mapped to 1 code SF4 (1,28 Mcps option only)
Figure A.7A
### A.2.5.4 RACH mapped to 1 code SF32 (7,68 Mcps option only)
Figure A.8B
# A.3 E-DCH Reference measurement channels
## A.3.1 E-DCH Fixed Reference Channels
### A.3.1.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
#### A.3.1.1.1 Fixed Reference Channel 1 (FRC1)
Table A.6: E-DCH Fixed Reference Channel 1 (3.84 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 34.7 Information
Bit Payload () Bits 347 Number Code Blocks Blocks 1 Number of coded bits per
TTI Bits 1200 Coding Rate 0.312 Modulation QPSK Number of E-DCH Timeslots
Slots 6 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor SF 16 Number of
E-UCCH per TTI 4
* * *
Figure A.9: Coding for E-DCH FRC1 (3.84 Mcps TDD Option)
#### A.3.1.1.2 Fixed Reference Channel 2 (FRC2)
Table A.7: E-DCH Fixed Reference Channel 2 (3.84 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 1083.1
Information Bit Payload () Bits 10831 Number Code Blocks Blocks 3 Number of
coded bits per TTI Bits 22272 Coding Rate 0.488 Modulation 16QAM Number of
E-DCH Timeslots Slots 6 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor
SF 2 Number of E-UCCH per TTI 2
* * *
Figure A.10: Coding for E-DCH FRC2 (3.84 Mcps TDD Option)
#### A.3.1.1.3 Fixed Reference Channel 3 (FRC3)
Table A.8: E-DCH Fixed Reference Channel 3 (3.84 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 2073.7
Information Bit Payload () Bits 20737 Number Code Blocks Blocks 5 Number of
coded bits per TTI Bits 28992 Coding Rate 0.716 Modulation 16QAM Number of
E-DCH Timeslots Slots 4 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor
SF 1 Number of E-UCCH per TTI 2
* * *
{width="6.6875in" height="3.6729166666666666in"}
Figure A.11: Coding for E-DCH FRC3 (3.84 Mcps TDD Option)
### A.3.1.2 1.28Mcps TDD Option
#### A3.1.2.1 Fixed reference channel 1 (FRC1)
Table A.9: E-DCH Fixed reference channel 1 (1.28Mcps TDD option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 56.4 Information
Bit Payload () Bits 282 Number Code Blocks Blocks 1 Number of coded bits per
TTI Bits 306 Coding Rate 0.4965 Modulation QPSK Number of E-DCH Timeslots
Slots 2 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor SF 4 Number of
E-UCCH per TTI 4
* * *
Figure A.12: Coding for E-DCH FRC1 (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
#### **_A3.1.2.2_** Fixed reference channel 2(FRC2)
Table A.10: E-DCH Fixed reference channel 2(1.28Mcps TDD option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 227.8 Information
Bit Payload () Bits 1139 Number Code Blocks Blocks 1 Number of coded bits per
TTI Bits 1163 Coding Rate 0.85 Modulation QPSK Number of E-DCH Timeslots Slots
2 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor SF 2 Number of E-UCCH
per TTI 2
* * *
Figure A.13: Coding for E-DCH FRC2 (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
#### **_A3.1.2.3_** Fixed reference channel 3(FRC3)
Table A.11: E-DCH Fixed reference channel 3 (1.28Mcps TDD option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 489 Information
Bit Payload () Bits 2445 Number Code Blocks Blocks 1 Number of coded bits per
TTI Bits 2469 Coding Rate 0.598 Modulation 16QAM Number of E-DCH Timeslots
Slots 3 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor SF 2 Number of
E-UCCH per TTI 2
* * *
Figure A.14: Coding for E-DCH FRC3 (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
#### **_A3.1.2.4_** Fixed reference channel 4(FRC4)
Table A.12: E-DCH Fixed reference channel 4 (1.28Mcps TDD option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 1281.2
Information Bit Payload () Bits 6406 Number Code Blocks Blocks 2 Number of
coded bits per TTI Bits 6430 Coding Rate 0.5757 Modulation 16QAM Number of
E-DCH Timeslots Slots 4 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor
SF 1 Number of E-UCCH per TTI 2
* * *
Figure A.15: Coding for E-DCH FRC4 (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
### A.3.1.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
#### A.3.1.3.1 Fixed Reference Channel 1 (FRC1)
Table A.13: E-DCH Fixed Reference Channel 1 (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 35.9 Information
Bit Payload () Bits 359 Number Code Blocks Blocks 1 Number of coded bits per
TTI Bits 1200 Coding Rate 0.323 Modulation QPSK Number of E-DCH Timeslots
Slots 6 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor SF 32 Number of
E-UCCH per TTI 4
* * *
Figure A.16: Coding for E-DCH FRC1 (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
#### A.3.1.3.2 Fixed Reference Channel 2 (FRC2)
Table A.14: E-DCH Fixed Reference Channel 2 (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 1083.1
Information Bit Payload () Bits 10831 Number Code Blocks Blocks 3 Number of
coded bits per TTI Bits 22272 Coding Rate 0.488 Modulation 16QAM Number of
E-DCH Timeslots Slots 6 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor
SF 4 Number of E-UCCH per TTI 2
* * *
Figure A.17: Coding for E-DCH FRC2 (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
#### A.3.1.3.3 Fixed Reference Channel 3 (FRC3)
Table A.15: E-DCH Fixed Reference Channel 3 (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Maximum information bit throughput kbps 2085.1
Information Bit Payload () Bits 20851 Number Code Blocks Blocks 5 Number of
coded bits per TTI Bits 28992 Coding Rate 0.720 Modulation 16QAM Number of
E-DCH Timeslots Slots 6 Number of E-DCH codes per TS Codes 1 Spreading factor
SF 2 Number of E-UCCH per TTI 2
* * *
Figure A.18: Coding for E-DCH FRC3 (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
# A.4 HS-SICH Reference measurement channels
## A.4.1 3.84 Mcps TDD Option
(void)
## A.4.2 1.28 Mcps TDD Option
Table A.14: HS-SICH type1 Reference Channel 1 (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Information bits bits 8 Encoded bits bits 84 Number of
codes - 1 Number of timeslots - 1 TTI ms 5 Spreading Factor SF 16
* * *
Figure A.14: Coding for HS-SICH type1 channel (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
Table A.15: HS-SICH type2 Reference Channel 1 (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Value Information bits bits 16 Encoded bits bits 168 Number of
codes - 1 Number of timeslots - 1 TTI ms 5 Spreading Factor SF 8
* * *
Figure A.15: Coding for HS-SICH type2 channel (1.28 Mcps TDD Option)
###### ## Annex B (normative): Propagation conditions
# B.1 Static propagation condition
The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading and multi-paths exist for this
propagation model.
# B.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
## B.2.1 3,84 Mcps TDD Option
Table B1 shows propagation conditions that are used for the performance
measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have classical Doppler
spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.7777777777777777in" height="0.25in"} for f ∈ -fd, fd.
Table B.1: Propagation Conditions for Multi path Fading Environments for
operations referenced in 5.2 a), 5.2 b) and 5.2 c)
* * *
Case 1, speed 3km/h Case 2, speed 3 km/h Case 3, 120 km/h  
Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean
Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] 0 0 0 0 0 0 976 -10
976 0 260 -3 12000 0 521 -6 781 -9
* * *
Table B.1A: Propagation Conditions for Multi path Fading Environments for
operations referenced in 5.2 d)
* * *
Case 1, speed 2.3km/h Case 2, speed 2.3 km/h Case 3, 92 km/h  
Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean
Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] 0 0 0 0 0 0 976 -10
976 0 260 -3 12000 0 521 -6 781 -9
* * *
## B.2.2 1,28 Mcps TDD Option
TableB2 shows propagation conditions that are used for the performance
measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have classical Doppler
spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.7777777777777777in" height="0.25in"} for f ∈ -fd, fd.
TableB.2: Propagation Conditions for Multi-Path Fading Environments
* * *
Case 1 Case 2 Case 3  
Speed for operating in band a, b, c, d 3km/h Speed for operating in band a, b,
c, d: 3km/h Speed for operating in band a, b, c, d: 120km/h  
Speed for operating in band d: 2.3km/h Speed for operating in band d: 2.3km/h
Speed for operating in band d: 92km/h  
Speed for operating in band e: 2.6km/h Speed for operating in band e: 2.6km/h
Speed for operating in band e: 102km/h  
Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean
Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] 0 0 0 0 0 0 2928 -10
2928 0 781 -3 12000 0 1563 -6 2344 -9
* * *
Table B.2A: Propagation Conditions for Multipath Fading Environments for E-DCH
Performance Requirements for 1,28 Mcps TDD
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ITU | ITU | ITU | | | | | Pe | Pe | v | | | | | destrian | destrian | ehicular | | | | | A | B | A | | | | | | | | | | | | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | 3km/h | 3km/h | 30km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | (PA3) | (PB3) | (VA30) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | for | for | for | | | | | o | o | o | | | | | perating | perating | perating | | | | | in band | in band | in band | | | | | a, b, c, | a, b, c, | a, b, c, | | | | | d: 3km/h | d 3km/h | d: | | | | | | | 30km/h | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | for | for | for | | | | | o | o | o | | | | | perating | perating | perating | | | | | in band | in band | in band | | | | | d: | d: | d: | | | | | 2.3km/h | 2.3km/h | 23km/h | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | for | for | for | | | | | o | o | o | | | | | perating | perating | perating | | | | | in band | in band | in band | | | | | e: | e: | e: | | | | | 2.6km/h | 2.6km/h | 26km/h | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Relative | Relative | Relative | Relative | Relative | Relative | | Delay | Mean | Delay | Mean | Delay | | | | Power | | Power | | Mean | | [ns] | [ dB] | [ns] | | [ns] | Power | | | | | [ dB] | | | | | | | | | [ dB] | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 110 | -9.7 | 200 | -0.9 | 310 | -1.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 190 | -19.2 | 800 | -4.9 | 710 | -9.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 410 | -22.8 | 1200 | -8.0 | 1090 | -10.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | 2300 | -7.8 | 1730 | -15.0 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 3700 | -23.9 | 2510 | -20.0 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## B.2.3 7,68 Mcps TDD Option
Table B3 shows propagation conditions that are used for the performance
measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have classical Doppler
spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.7777777777777777in" height="0.25in"} for f ∈ -fd, fd.
Table B.3: Propagation Conditions for Multi path Fading Environments for
operations referenced in 5.2 a), 5.2 b) and 5.2 c)
* * *
Case 1, speed 3km/h Case 2, speed 3 km/h Case 3, 120 km/h  
Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean
Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] 0 0 0 0 0 0 976 -10
976 0 260 -3 12000 0 521 -6 781 -9
* * *
Table B.3A: Propagation Conditions for Multi path Fading Environments for
operations referenced in 5.2 d)
* * *
Case 1, speed 2.3km/h Case 2, speed 2.3 km/h Case 3, 92 km/h  
Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean
Power [dB] Relative Delay [ns] Relative Mean Power [dB] 0 0 0 0 0 0 976 -10
976 0 260 -3 12000 0 521 -6 781 -9
* * *
#