# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document..
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum radio frequency performance of
UTRA FDD repeaters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.143: \"UTRA Repeater Conformance Testing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.113: \"Base Station and Repeater Electromagnetic
Compatibility\".
[4] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using test
sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[5] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"RF System Scenarios\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Donor coupling loss:** is the coupling loss between the repeater and the
donor base station.
**Down-link** : Signal path where base station transmits and mobile receives.
**Pass band:** The repeater can have one or several pass bands. The pass band
is the frequency range that the repeater operates in with operational
configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or several
consecutive nominal 5 MHz channels. If they are not consecutive each subset of
channels shall be considered as an individual pass band.
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station)
**Up-link:** Signal path where mobile transmits and base station receives.
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFS For Further Study
IMT2000 International Mobile Telecommunication-2000
ITU International Telecommunication Union
RCDE Relative Code Domain Error
RF Radio Frequency
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
WCDMA Wide band Code Division Multiple Access
# 4 General
This specification applies only to UTRA-FDD repeaters.
Unless otherwise stated, all requirements in this specification apply to both
the up-link and down-link directions.
## 4.1 Relationship between Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The repeater test specification 25.143 section 5 [2]
defines Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for
each test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in
this specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273 Part 1 sub-part 2 section 6.5
[4].
## 4.2 Regional requirements
Some requirements in TS 25.106 may only apply in certain regions. Table 4.1
lists all requirements that may be applied differently in different regions.
Table 4.1: List of regional requirements.
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 5.1 Frequency bands Some bands may be
applied regionally. 5.2 Up-link to down-link frequency separation The
requirement is applied according to which frequency bands in Clause 5.1 that
are supported by the Repeater. 5.3 Channel arrangement The requirement is
applied according to what frequency bands in clause 5.1 that are supported by
the Repeater. 6.1 Maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum
requirement for normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside
the ranges of conditions defined as normal. 9.1.1 Spectrum emission mask The
mask specified may be mandatory in certain regions. In other regions this mask
may not be applied. 9.2.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A) These requirements
shall be met in cases where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [1], are applied. 9.2.1.2 Spurious
emissions (Category B) These requirements shall be met in cases where Category
B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329
[1], are applied. 9.2.2 Protection of the BS receiver in the operating band
This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA FDD BS receivers in
geographic areas in which both UTRA FDD BS and UTRA FDD Repeaters are
deployed. 9.2.3 Co-existence with other systems in the same geographical area
These requirements may apply in geographic areas in which both UTRA FDD
Repeater and GSM900 DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD operating in
another frequency band are deployed. 9.2.4 Co-existence with co-located and
co-sited base stations These requirements may be applied for the protection of
other BS receivers when GSM900 DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or FDD BS
operating in another frequency band are co-located with a UTRA FDD Repeater.
9.2.5 Spurious emissions: Co-existence with PHS This requirement may be
applied for the protection of PHS in geographic areas in which both PHS and
UTRA FDD Repeaters are deployed. 9.2.6.1 Spurious emissions: Co-existence with
UTRA TDD-Operation in the same geographic area This requirement may be applied
for the protection of UTRA UE in geographic areas in which both UTRA TDD BS
and UTRA FDD Repeaters are deployed. 9.2.6.2 Spurious emissions: Co-existence
with UTRA TDD ‑ Co-location This requirement may be applied for the protection
of UTRA TDD BS receivers when UTRA TDD BS and UTRA FDD Repeaters are co-
located. 9.2.7 Co-.existence with services in adjacent frequency bands This
requirement may be applied for the protection in bands adjacent to the
downlink band as defined in clause 5.1 in geographic areas in which both an
adjacent band service and UTRA FDD Repeater are deployed. 9.2.8 Protection of
public safety operations This requirement may be applied for the protection of
public safety systems in geographic areas in which both UTRA FDD Repeater and
public safety systems are deployed. 11.2 Input Intermodulation: Co-location
with other systems The requirement may be applied when GSM900, DCS1800,
PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD BS operating in another frequency band and
UTRA-FDD Repeaters are co-located. 11.3 Input Intermodulation: Co-existence
with other systems These requirements may apply in geographic areas in which
both UTRA FDD Repeater and GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD
operating in another frequency band are deployed.
* * *
# 5 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 Frequency bands
a) A UTRA/FDD Repeater is designed to operate in one or several pass bands
within either of the following paired frequency bands;
Table 5.1: Frequency bands
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL Frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | I | 1920 - 1980 MHz | 2110 -2170 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | II | 1850 -1910 MHz | 1930 -1990 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | III | 1710 - 1785 MHz | 1805 - 1880 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IV | 1710 - 1755 MHz | 2110 - 2155 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | V | 824 - 849MHz | 869 - 894MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VI | 830 - 840 MHz | 875 - 885 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VII | 2500 - 2570 MHz | 2620 - 2690 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VIII | 880 - 915 MHz | 925 - 960 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IX | 1749.9 - 1784.9 MHz | 1844.9 - 1879.9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | X | 1710 - 1770 MHz | 2110 - 2170 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XI | 1427.9 - 1452.9 MHz | 1475.9 - 1500.9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XII | 698 - 716 MHz | 728 - 746 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIII | 777 - 787 MHz | 746 - 756 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIV | 788 - 798 MHz | 758 - 768 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
b) Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded.
## 5.2 TX - RX frequency separation
a) A UTRA/FDD repeaters is designed to operate with the following TX to RX
frequency separation
Table 5.2: TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
Operating Band TX-RX frequency separation I 190 MHz II 80 MHz. III 95 MHz IV
400 MHz V 45 MHz VI 45 MHz VII 120 MHz VIII 45 MHz IX 95 MHz X 400 MHz XI 48
MHz XII 30 MHz XIII 31 MHz XIV 30 MHz
* * *
b) A UTRA/FDD repeater can support both fixed and variable up-link to down-
link frequency separation.
c) The use of other up-link to down-link frequency separations in existing or
other frequency bands shall not be precluded.
## 5.3 Channel arrangement
### 5.3.1 Channel spacing
The nominal channel spacing is 5 MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.3.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that the centre
frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition, a number of
additional centre frequencies are specified according to the table 5.3, which
means that and the centre frequencies for these channels are shifted 100 kHz
relative to the general raster.
### 5.3.3 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN).
For each operating band, the UARFCN values are defined as follows.
Uplink: N~U~ = 5 * (F~UL~ - F~UL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~UL_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤ F~UL_high~
Downlink: N~D~ = 5 * (F~DL~ - F~DL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~DL_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤ F~DL_high~
For each operating Band, F~UL_Offset~, F~UL_low~, F~UL_high~, F~DL_Offset~,,
F~DL_low~ and F~DL_high~ are defined in Table 5.3 for the general UARFCN. For
the additional UARFCN, F~UL_Offset~, F~DL_Offset~ and the specific F~UL~ and
F~DL~ are defined in Table 5.4.
Table 5.3: UARFCN definition (general)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | * | **D | | | | | | *Band** | _UPLINK | OWNLINK | | | | | | | (UL)__| (DL)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | tr | r | | | | | | | ansmit, | eceive, | | | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | | | receive | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | * | ** | * | ** | | | | |_ UARFCN | Carrier | _UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | o | equency | o | equency | | | | | ffset_ _| (F~UL~) | ffset_ _| (F~DL~) | | | | | | range | | range | | | | | * | [ | * | [ | | | | |_ F~UL_ | MHz]**| *F~DL_ | MHz]** | | | | | Offset~ | | Offset~ | | | | | | [ | | [ | | | | | | MHz]**| | MHz]** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | **F~UL\ | * | |** F~DL\ | * | | | | _low~**| *F~UL_ | | _low~** | _F~DL_ | | | | | high~__| | | high~_ * | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | 0 | 1922.4 | 1977.6 | 0 | 2112.4 | 2167.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | II | 0 | 1852.4 | 1907.6 | 0 | 1932.4 | 1987.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | III | 1525 | 1712.4 | 1782.6 | 1575 | 1807.4 | 1877.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | IV | 1450 | 1712.4 | 1752.6 | 1805 | 2112.4 | 2152.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | V | 0 | 826.4 | 846.6 | 0 | 871.4 | 891.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VI | 0 | 832.4 | 837.6 | 0 | 877.4 | 882.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VII | 2100 | 2502.4 | 2567.6 | 2175 | 2622.4 | 2687.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VIII | 340 | 882.4 | 912.6 | 340 | 927.4 | 957.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | IX | 0 | 1752.4 | 1782.4 | 0 | 1847.4 | 1877.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | X | 1135 | 1712.4 | 1767.6 | 1490 | 2112.4 | 2167.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XI | 733 | 1430.4 | 1450.4 | 736 | 1478.4 | 1498.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XII | -22 | 700.4 | 713.6 | -37 | 730.4 | 743.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIII | 21 | 779.4 | 784.6 | -55 | 748.4 | 753.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIV | 12 | 790.4 | 795.6 | -63 | 760.4 | 765.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5.4: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Band | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE transmit, | | | | | | Node B | UE receive, | | | | | receive | Node B | | | | | | transmit | | | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | **UARFCN |** Carrier | **UARFCN |** Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset**| [MHz]** | offset**| [MHz]** | | | | | | | | | **F | (F~UL~) |** F | (F~DL~) | | | ~UL_Offset~ | | ~DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz]**| | [MHz]** | | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | I | - | **-** | **-** | **-** | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | 1850.1 | 1852.5, | 1850.1 | 1932.5, | | | | 1857.5, | | 1937.5, | | | | 1862.5, | | 1942.5, | | | | 1867.5, | | 1947.5, | | | | 1872.5, | | 1952.5, | | | | 1877.5, | | 1957.5, | | | | 1882.5, | | 1962.5, | | | | 1887.5, | | 1967.5, | | | | 1892.5, | | 1972.5, | | | | 1897.5, | | 1977.5, | | | | 1902.5, | | 1982.5, | | | | 1907.5 | | 1987.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | - | - | - | - | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | 1380.1 | 1712.5, | 1735.1 | 2112.5, | | | | 1717.5, | | 2117.5, | | | | 1722.5, | | 2122.5, | | | | 1727.5, | | 2127.5, | | | | 1732.5, | | 2132.5, | | | | 1737.5 | | 2137.5, | | | | 1742.5, | | 2142.5, | | | | 1747.5, | | 2147.5, | | | | 1752.5 | | 2152.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | 670.1 | 826.5, | 670.1 | 871.5, | | | | 827.5, | | 872.5, | | | | 831.5, | | 876.5, | | | | 832.5, | | | | | | 837.5, 842.5 | | 877.5, | | | | | | 882.5, 887.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | 670.1 | 832.5, 837.5 | 670.1 | 877.5, 882.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | 2030.1 | 2502.5, | 2105.1 | 2622.5, | | | | 2507.5, | | 2627.5, | | | | 2512.5, | | 2632.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2517.5, | | 2637.5, | | | | 2522.5, | | 2642.5, | | | | 2527.5, | | 2647.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2532.5, | | 2652.5, | | | | 2537.5, | | 2657.5, | | | | 2542.5, | | 2662.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2547.5, | | 2667.5, | | | | 2552.5, | | 2672.5, | | | | 2557.5, | | 2677.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2562.5, | | 2682.5, | | | | 2567.5 | | 2687.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | - | **-** | **-** | **-** | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | - | - | - | - | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | X | 1075.1 | 1712.5, | 1430.1 | 2112.5, | | | | 1717.5, | | 2117.5, | | | | 1722.5, | | 2122.5, | | | | 1727.5, | | 2127.5, | | | | 1732.5, | | 2132.5, | | | | 1737.5, | | 2137.5, | | | | 1742.5, | | 2142.5, | | | | 1747.5, | | 2147.5, | | | | 1752.5, | | 2152.5, | | | | 1757.5, | | 2157.5, | | | | 1762.5, | | 2162.5, | | | | 1767.5 | | 2167.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XI | - | - | - | - | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XII | -39.9 | 700.5, | -54.9 | 730.5, | | | | 701.5, | | 731.5, | | | | 706.5, | | 736.5, | | | | 707.5, | | 737.5, | | | | 712.5, 713.5 | | 742.5, 743.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIII | 11.1 | 779.5, 784.5 | -64.9 | 748.5, 753.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIV | 2.1 | 790.5, 795.5 | -72.9 | 760.5, 765.5 | +------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
# 6 Output power
Output power, Pout, of the repeater is the mean power of one carrier at
maximum repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal
load impedance of the transmitter.
Rated output power, PRAT, of the repeater is the mean power level per carrier
at maximum repeater gain that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
## 6.1 Maximum output power
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the repeater is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector in specified reference condition.
### 6.1.1 Minimum Requirements
The requirements shall apply at maximum gain, with WCDMA signals in the pass
band of the repeater, at levels that produce the maximum rated output power
per channel.
When the power of all signals is increased by 10 dB, compared to the power
level that produce the maximum rated output power, the requirements shall
still be met.
In normal conditions, the Repeater maximum output power shall remain within
limits specified in Table 6.1 relative to the manufacturer\'s rated output
power.
Table 6.1: Repeater output power; normal conditions
* * *
Rated output power Limit P ≥ 43 dBm +2 dB and -2 dB 39 ≤ P \ UTRA FDD | 1920 - 1980 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band I or | MHz | | | requirement | | > E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 1 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band I. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band I | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 1850 - 1910 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band II | MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 2 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band II. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band II | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1785 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band III | MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 3 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | III. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band III | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1755 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band IV | MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 4 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band IV. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band IV | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 824 - 849 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band V or | MHz | | | requirement | | > E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 5 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band V. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band V | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 815 - 850 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band VI | MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 6 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band VI. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band VI | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 2500 - 2570 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band VII | MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 7 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | VII. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band VII | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 880 - 915 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band VIII | MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 8 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | VIII. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band | | | | | | VIII in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 1749.9 - | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band IX | 1784.9 MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 9 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band IX. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band IX | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1770 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band X or | MHz | | | requirement | | > E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 10 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band X. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band X | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UTRA FDD | 1427.9 - | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | > Band XI | 1452.9 MHz | | | requirement | | > or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | > Band 11 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band XI. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band XI | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 698 - 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XII or | MHz | | | requirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 12 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | XII. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band XII | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 777 - 787 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 13 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | XIII. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band | | | | | | XIII in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 788 - 798 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | requirement | | E‑UTRA | | | | does not | | Band 14 | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | XIV. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band XIV | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E‑UTRA | 704 - 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band 17 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | the up-link | | | | | | of UTRA FDD | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band | | | | | | XII. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | of band XII | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 9.1.3 | | | | | | applies, | | | | | | but | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | 73dB | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss | | | | | | between | | | | | | base | | | | | | station and | | | | | | the | | | | | | repeater UL | | | | | | transmit | | | | | | port. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 9.2.5 Co-existence with PHS
This requirement may be applied for the protection of PHS in geographic areas
in which both PHS and UTRA-FDD Repeaters are deployed. This requirement is
also applicable at specified frequencies falling between 12,5 MHz below the
centre frequency of the first 5 MHz channel or more than 12,5 MHz above the
centre frequency of the last 5 MHz channel in the pass band.
#### 9.2.5.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.13: UTRA Repeater up-link and down-link spurious emissions limits for
in geographic coverage area of PHS
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1884,5 ‑ 1915,7 MHz -41 dBm 300
kHz
* * *
### 9.2.6 Co-existence with UTRA-TDD
#### 9.2.6.1 Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement may be applied to geographic areas in which both UTRA-TDD and
UTRA-FDD Repeaters are deployed.
##### 9.2.6.1.1 Minimum Requirement
In the down-link direction of the Repeater the power of any spurious emission
shall not exceed:
Table 9.14: UTRA Repeater down-link spurious emissions limits in geographic
coverage area of UTRA-TDD
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1900 ‑ 1920 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz  
2010 ‑ 2025 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz  
2570 ‑ 2610 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
In the up-link direction of the Repeater the power of any spurious emission
shall not exceed:
Table 9.14A: UTRA Repeater up-link spurious emissions limits in geographic
coverage area of UTRA-TDD
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1900 ‑ 1920 MHz -53 dBm 100 kHz
This requirement is applied only to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band I or
II. 1900 ‑ 1920 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band I or II. 2010 ‑ 2025 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz  
2570 ‑ 2610 MHz -53 dBm 100 kHz This requirement is applied only to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band VII. 2570 ‑ 2610 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band VII.
* * *
NOTE 1: The requirements of -53dBm/100kHz in Table 9.14A for the up link
direction of the Repeater reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology and are based on a coupling loss of 73 dB between a
Repeater and a UTRA TDD BS receiver.
NOTE 2: The requirements shall be reconsidered when the state of the art
technology progresses.
#### 9.2.6.2 Co-located Repeaters and UTRA-TDD base stations
This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA-TDD BS receivers
when UTRA-TDD BS and UTRA-FDD Repeater are co-located.
##### 9.2.6.2.1 Minimum Requirement
In the down-link direction of the Repeater the power of any spurious emission
shall not exceed:
Table 9.15: UTRA Repeater down-link spurious emissions limits for protection
of co-located UTRA TDD BS receiver
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1900 ‑ 1920 MHz -86 dBm 1 MHz  
2010 ‑ 2025 MHz -86 dBm 1 MHz  
2570 ‑ 2610 MHz -86 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
In the up-link direction of the Repeater the power of any spurious emission
shall not exceed:
Table 9.15A: UTRA Repeater up-link spurious emissions limits for protection of
co-located UTRA TDD BS receiver
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1900 ‑ 1920 MHz -53 dBm 100 kHz
This requirement is applied only to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band I or
II. 1900 ‑ 1920 MHz -86 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band I or II. 2010 ‑ 2025 MHz -83 dBm 100 kHz This
requirement is applied only to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band I. 2010 ‑
2025 MHz -86 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater
operating in band I 2570 ‑ 2610 MHz -53 dBm 100 kHz This requirement is
applied only to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band VII. 2570 ‑ 2610 MHz -86
dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in
band VII.
* * *
NOTE 1: The requirements of -53dBm/100kHz in Table 9.15A for the up link
direction of the Repeater reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology and are based on a coupling loss of 73 dB between a
Repeater and a UTRA TDD BS receiver.
NOTE 2: The requirements of -83dBm/100kHz in Table 9.15A for the up link
direction of the Repeater reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology and are based on a coupling loss of 43 dB between a
Repeater and a UTRA TDD BS receiver.
NOTE 3: The requirements shall be reconsidered when the state of the art
technology progresses.
### 9.2.7 Void
### 9.2.8 Protection of public safety operations
This requirement shall be applied to Repeater operating in Bands XIII and XIV
to ensure that appropriate interference protection is provided to 700 MHz
public safety operations. This requirement is also applicable at specified
frequencies falling between 12.5 MHz below the first carrier frequency used
and 12.5 MHz above the last carrier frequency used.
#### 9.2.8.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.16: Spurious emissions limits for the up-link and down-link of UTRA
Repeater for protection of public safety operations
* * *
Operating Band Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note XIII 763 - 775
MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz  
XIII 793 - 805 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz  
XIV 769 - 775 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz  
XIV 799 - 805 MHz -46 dBm 6.25 kHz
* * *
# 10 Modulation accuracy
## 10.1 Error Vector Magnitude
The modulation accuracy is defined by the Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), which
is a measure of the difference between the theoretical waveform and a modified
version of the measured waveform. This difference is called the error vector.
The measured waveform is modified by first passing it through a matched root
raised cosine filter with bandwidth 3.84 MHz and roll-off α=0.22. The waveform
is then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute phase, absolute
amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the error vector. The EVM
result is defined as root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the
mean reference signal power expressed as a %.
The measurement interval is one power control group (timeslot). The repeater
shall operate with an ideal WCDMA signal in the pass band of the repeater at a
level, which produce the maximum rated output power per channel, as specified
by the manufacturer.
### 10.1.1 Minimum requirement
The Error Vector Magnitude shall not be worse than 12,5 %.
## 10.2 Peak code domain error
The peak code domain error is computed by projecting the power of the error
vector (as defined in subclause 10.1) onto the code domain at a specified
spreading factor. The code domain error for every code in the domain is
defined as the ratio of the mean power of the projection onto that code, to
the mean power of the composite reference waveform. This ratio is expressed in
dB. The peak code domain error is defined as the maximum value for the code
domain error for all codes. The measurement interval is one power control
group (timeslot).
### 10.2.1 Minimum requirement
The peak code domain error shall not exceed -35 dB at spreading factor 256.
## 10.3 Relative Code Domain Error (RCDE) for 64QAM modulation
The Relative Code Domain Error is computed by projecting the error vector (as
defined in 10.1) onto the code domain at a specified spreading factor. Only
the active code channels in the composite reference waveform are considered
for this requirement. The Relative Code Domain Error for every active code is
defined as the ratio of the mean power of the error projection onto that code,
to the mean power of the active code in the composite reference waveform. This
ratio is expressed in dB. The measurement interval is one frame.
The requirement for Relative Code Domain Error is only applicable for Repeater
supporting 64QAM modulated codes.
### 10.3.1 Minimum requirement
The average Relative Code Domain Error for 64QAM modulated codes shall not
exceed -21 dB at spreading factor 16.
# 11 Input Intermodulation
The input intermodulation is a measure of the capability of the repeater to
inhibit the generation of interference in the pass band, in the presence of
interfering signals on frequencies other than the pass band.
## 11.1 General Requirement
The following requirement applies for interfering signals in the frequency
bands defined in sub-clause 5.1, depending on the repeaters pass band. The
requirement shall bet met with the repeater operating at maximum gain.
### 11.1.1 Minimum requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.1, the power in the pass band, shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the 3^rd^ order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre of
the pass band.
Table 11.1 specifies the parameters for two interfering signals, where:
\- f_offset is the separation between the centre frequency of first or last 5
MHz channel in the pass band and one the interfering signals.
Table 11.1: Input intermodulation requirement
* * *
f_offset Interfering Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth 3,5
MHz -40 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
## 11.2 Co-location with BS in other systems
The requirement shall bet met with the repeater operating at maximum gain.
### 11.2.1 Minimum requirements - Co-location with GSM900, DCS 1800, PCS1900,
GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of FDD Repeater input when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, E-UTRA
FDD and/or UTRA FDD BS are co-located with a UTRA FDD Repeater.
For the parameters specified in table 11.2, the power in the pass band shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation products corresponds to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.2: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
other systems
* * *
**Co-located other systems** **Frequency of interfering signals**
**Interfering Signal Levels** **Type of signals** **Measurement bandwidth**
**Note** GSM900 921 ‑ 960 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band VIII, since it is
already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB
coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port. DCS1800
1805 ‑ 1880 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to
UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band III, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base
station and the repeater DL receive port. PCS1900 1930 - 1990 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band II, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1,
but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL
receive port. GSM850 or CDMA850 869 - 894 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band V, since it
is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB
coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port. UTRA-FDD
Band I or E‑UTRA Band 1 2110 - 2170 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band I, since it
is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB
coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port. UTRA-FDD
Band II or E‑UTRA Band 2 1930 - 1990 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band II, since it
is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB
coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port. UTRA-FDD
Band III or E‑UTRA Band 3 1805 - 1880 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band III, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a
86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive port.
UTRA-FDD Band IV or E‑UTRA Band 4 2110 - 2155 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band IV,
since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but
requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive
port. UTRA-FDD Band V or E‑UTRA Band 5 869 - 894 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1
MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band V,
since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but
requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive
port. UTRA-FDD Band VI or E‑UTRA Band 6 875 - 885 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1
MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band VI,
since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but
requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive
port. UTRA-FDD Band VII or E‑UTRA Band 7 2620 - 2690 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers
1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band
VII, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but
requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive
port. UTRA-FDD Band VIII or E‑UTRA Band 8 925 - 960 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers
1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band
VIII, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but
requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL receive
port. UTRA-FDD Band IX or E‑UTRA Band 9 1844.9 - 1879.9 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band IX, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1,
but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL
receive port. UTRA-FDD Band X or E‑UTRA Band 10 2110 - 2170 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band X, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1,
but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the repeater DL
receive port. UTRA-FDD Band XI or E‑UTRA Band 11 1475.9 - 1500.9 MHz +16 dBm 2
CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater
operating in band XI, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the
repeater DL receive port. UTRA-FDD Band XII or E‑UTRA Band 12 728 - 746 MHz
+16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band XII, since it is already covered by the requirement
in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and
the repeater DL receive port. UTRA-FDD Band XIII or E‑UTRA Band 13 746 - 756
MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band XIII, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base
station and the repeater DL receive port. UTRA-FDD Band XIV or E‑UTRA Band 14
758 - 768 MHz +16 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to
UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band XIV, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base
station and the repeater DL receive port. E‑UTRA Band 17 734 - 746 MHz +16 dBm
2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater
operating in band XII, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 11.1, but requires a 86dB coupling loss between base station and the
repeater DL receive port.
* * *
### 11.2.2 Minimum Requirement - Co-location with UTRA-TDD
An additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of FDD BS receivers when UTRA TDD is co-located with a UTRA FDD
Repeater.
The requirements in this chapter assume a 30 dB coupling loss between
transmitter and receiver.
The current state-of-the-art technology does not allow a single generic
solution for co-location with UTRA-TDD on adjacent frequencies for 30dB BS-
Repeater minimum coupling loss.
However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These
techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [5].
Table 11.2A: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
UTRA TDD systems
* * *
Co-located other system Frequency of interfering signals Interfering Signal
Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth UTRA-TDD 2585 - 2620 MHz +16 dBm
2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
## 11.3 Co-existence with other systems
The following requirement may be applied when GSM 900, DCS 1800, PCS1900,
GSM850, E-UTRA FDD and/or UTRA FDD BS operating in another frequency band and
UTRA-FDD Repeaters co-exist. The requirement shall bet met with the repeater
operating at maximum gain.
### 11.3.1 Minimum requirements
For the parameters specified in table 11.3, the power in the pass band shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation products corresponds to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.3: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in
other systems
* * *
Co-existence with other systems Frequency of interfering signals Interfering
Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth Note GSM900 876 - 915 MHz
-15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band VIII, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 11.1. DCS1800 1710 ‑ 1785 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers
1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band
III, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
PCS1900 1850 ‑ 1910 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band II, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. GSM850 or CDMA850 824 ‑ 849 MHz -15 dBm
2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater
operating in band V, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band I or E‑UTRA Band 1 1920 - 1980 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band I, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
UTRA-FDD Band II or E‑UTRA Band 2 1850 - 1910 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band II,
since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD
Band III or E‑UTRA Band 3 1710 - 1785 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band III, since
it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band IV
or E‑UTRA Band 4 1710 - 1755 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement
does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band IV, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band V or E‑UTRA Band
5 824 - 849 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to
UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band V, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band VI or E‑UTRA Band 6 830 - 840
MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD
Repeater operating in band VI, since it is already covered by the requirement
in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band VII or E‑UTRA Band 7 2500 - 2570 MHz -15 dBm
2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater
operating in band VII, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band VIII or E‑UTRA Band 8 880 - 915 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band VIII, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause
11.1. UTRA-FDD Band IX or E‑UTRA Band 9 1749,9 - 1784,9 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band IX, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1.
UTRA-FDD Band X or E‑UTRA Band 10 1710 - 1770 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band X,
since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD
Band XI or E‑UTRA Band 11 1427.9 - 1452.9 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band XI, since it
is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band XII or
E‑UTRA Band 12 698 - 716 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does
not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band XII, since it is already
covered by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band XIII or E‑UTRA
Band 13 777 - 787 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not
apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating in band XIII, since it is already covered
by the requirement in sub-clause 11.1. UTRA-FDD Band XIV or E‑UTRA Band 14 788
- 798 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA
FDD Repeater operating in band XIV, since it is already covered by the
requirement in sub-clause 11.1. E‑UTRA Band 17 704 - 716 MHz -15 dBm 2 CW
carriers 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to UTRA FDD Repeater operating
in band XII, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause
11.1.
* * *
## 12 Output intermodulation
The output intermodulation requirement is a measure of the ability of the
repeater to inhibit the generation of intermodulation products signals created
by the presence of an interfering signal reaching the repeater via the output
port.
The output intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation products
when a WCDMA modulated interference signal is injected into the output port at
a level of 30 dB lower than that of the wanted signal. The frequency of the
interference signal shall be ±5 MHz, ±10 MHz and ±15 MHz offset from the
wanted signal, but within the frequency band allocated for UTRA FDD downlink
as specified in subclause 4.1.
The requirement is applicable for downlink signals.
### 12.1 Minimum requirement
The output intermodulation level shall not exceed the out of band emission or
the spurious emission requirements of section 9.1 and 9.2.
# 13 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
## 13.1 Definitions and applicability
Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR) is the ratio of the RRC weighted gain
per carrier of the repeater in the pass band to the RRC weighted gain of the
repeater on an adjacent channel.
The requirement shall apply to the Uplink and Downlink of Repeater where the
donor link is maintained via antennas (over the air Repeater).
## 13.2 Minimum Requirements
In normal conditions the ACRR shall be higher than the value specified in the
Table 13.1.
Table 13.1: Repeater ACRR
* * *
Repeater maximum output power as in 9.1.1 Channel offset from the centre
frequency of the first or last 5 MHz channel within the pass band. ACRR limit
P ≥ 31 dBm 5 MHz 33dB P ≥ 31 dBm 10 MHz 33dB P \< 31 dBm 5 MHz 20dB P \< 31
dBm 10 MHz 20dB
* * *
#