# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the assessment of base stations, repeaters and
associated ancillary equipment in respect of Electromagnetic Compatibility
(EMC).
The present document specifies the applicable test conditions, performance
assessment and performance criteria for base stations, repeaters and
associated ancillary equipment in one of the following categories:
\- base stations for the FDD mode of UTRA meeting the requirements of TS
25.104 [1], with conformance demonstrated by compliance to TS 25.141 [3].
\- base stations for both options of the TDD mode of UTRA meeting the
requirements of TS 25.105 [2], with conformance demonstrated by compliance to
TS 25.142 [4]. The two options are the 3,84 Mcps and 1,28 Mcps options
respectively. The requirements are listed in different subsections only if the
parameters deviate.
\- repeaters for the FDD mode of UTRA meeting the requirements of TS 25.106
[10], with conformance demonstrated by compliance to TS 25.143 [11].
Technical requirements related to the antenna port of base stations or
repeaters are not included in the present document. These are found in the
relevant product standards [1], [2], [3], [4], [10], [11].
The environment classification used in the present document refers to the
environment classification used in IEC 61000-6-1 [5] and IEC 61000-6-3 [6].
The EMC requirements have been selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus at residential, commercial and light industrial
environments. The levels, however, do not cover extreme cases which may occur
in any location but with low probability of occurrence.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"UTRA (BS) FDD; Radio transmission and reception\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"UTRA (BS) TDD; Radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.141: \"UTRA (BS) FDD; Base station conformance testing (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.142: \"UTRA (BS) TDD; Base station conformance testing (TDD)\".
[5] IEC 61000-6-1: 2005; \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6:
Generic standards - Section 1: Immunity for residential, commercial and light-
industrial environments\".
[6] IEC 61000-6-3: 1996; \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 6:
Generic standards - Section 3: Emission standard for residential, commercial
and light industrial environments\".
[7] IEC 60050(161): \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary - Chapter 161:
Electromagnetic compatibility\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UTRA (UE) FDD; UE Radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UTRA (UE) TDD: UE Radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.106: \"UTRA Repeater; Radio Transmission and Reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.143: \"UTRA Repeater conformance testing\".
[12] ITU-R Rec. SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain\".
[13] CISPR 22: \"Limits and methods of measurement of radio disturbance
characteristics of information technology equipment\".
[14] CISPR 16-1-1: \"Specification for radio disturbance and immunity
measuring apparatus and methods - Measuring apparatus\".
[15] IEC 61000-3-2 (2004): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3:
Limits - Section 2: Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input
current ≤ 16 A)\".
[16] IEC 61000-3-3 (2002): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3:
Limits - Section 3: Limitation of voltage fluctuations and flicker in low-
voltage supply systems for equipment with rated current ≤ 16 A\".
[17] IEC 61000-4-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 2: Electrostatic discharge immunity
test\".
[18] IEC 61000-4-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 3: Radiated, radio-frequency
electromagnetic field immunity test\".
[19] IEC 61000-4-4: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 4: Electrical fast transient/burst
immunity test\".
[20] IEC 61000-4-5: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 5: Surge immunity test\".
[21] IEC 61000-4-6: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 6: Immunity to contacted disturbances,
induced by radio frequency fields\".
[22] IEC 61000-4-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Section 11: Voltage dips, short interruptions and
voltage variations. Immunity tests\".
[23] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1539 (2001): \"Variation of the boundary between
the out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".
[24] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[25] IEC 61000-3-12 (2005): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-12:
Limits- Limits for harmonic current produced by equipment connected to public
low-voltage system with input current >16 A and ≤ 75 A.
[26] IEC 61000-3-11 (2000): \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-11:
Limits --Limitation of voltage fluctuations and flicker in low-voltage supply
systems for equipment with rated current ≤ 75 A and subject to conditional
connections\"3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Ancillary equipment:** Equipment (apparatus), used in connection with a
receiver, transmitter or transceiver is considered as an ancillary equipment
(apparatus) if:
\- the equipment is intended for use in conjunction with a receiver,
transmitter or transceiver to provide additional operational and/or control
features to the radio equipment, (e.g. to extend control to another position
or location); and
\- the equipment cannot be used on a stand alone basis to provide user
functions independently of a receiver, transmitter or transceiver; and
\- the receiver, transmitter or transceiver to which it is connected, is
capable of providing some intended operation such as transmitting and/or
receiving without the ancillary equipment (i.e. it is not a sub‑unit of the
main equipment essential to the main equipment basic functions).
**Base Station equipment:** Radio and/or ancillary equipment intended for
operation at a fixed location and powered directly or indirectly (e.g. via an
AC/DC converter or power supply) by AC mains network, or an extended local DC
mains network.
**BLER** : BLER is block error ratio. The BLER calculation shall be based on
evaluating the CRC on each transport block.
**Continuous phenomena (continuous disturbance):** Electromagnetic
disturbance, the effects of which on a particular device or equipment cannot
be resolved into a succession of distinct effects (IEC 60050-161 [7]).
**Pass band:** The repeater can have one or several pass bands. The pass band
is the frequency range that the repeater operates in with operational
configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or several
consecutive nominal channels. If they are not consecutive each subset of
channels shall be considered as an individual pass band.
**Port:** A particular interface, of the specified equipment (apparatus), with
the electromagnetic environment. For example, any connection point on an
equipment intended for connection of cables to or from that equipment is
considered as a port (see figure 1).
**Radio communications equipment :** Telecommunications equipment which
includes one or more transmitters and/or receivers and/or parts thereof for
use in a fixed, mobile or portable application. It can be operated with
ancillary equipment but if so, is not dependent on it for basic functionality.
**Radio equipment: Equipment which contains Radio digital unit and Radio
unit.**
**Radio digital unit: Equipment which contains base band and functionality for
controlling Radio unit.**
**Radio unit: Equipment which contains transmitter and receiver.**
**Receiver exclusion band: The receiver exclusion band is the band of
frequencies over which no tests of radiated immunity of a receiver are made.
The exclusion band for receivers is expressed relative to the base station
receive band.**
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station).
**Signal and control :** Port which carries information or control signals,
excluding antenna ports.
**Telecommunication port:** Ports which are intended to be connected to
telecommunication networks (e.g. public switched telecommunication networks,
integrated services digital networks), local area networks (e.g. Ethernet,
Token Ring) and similar networks.
**Transient phenomena:** Pertaining to or designating a phenomena or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a time
interval short compared with the time-scale of interest (IEC 60050-161 [7]).
**Transmitter exclusion band: The transmitter exclusion band is the band of
frequencies over which no tests of radiated immunity of a transmitter are
made. The exclusion band for transmitters is expressed relative to the carrier
frequencies used (the carrier frequencies of the base stations activated
transmitter(s).)**
{width="6.001388888888889in" height="1.707638888888889in"}
Figure 1: Examples of ports
Figure 1A: BS with single enclosure solution
Figure 1B: BS with multiple enclosure solution
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[24] and the following apply:
AC Alternating Current
AMN Artificial Mains Network
CDN Coupling/Decoupling Network
DC Direct Current
EMC Electromagnetic Compatibility
ESD Electrostatic discharge
EUT Equipment Under Test
RF Radio frequency
rms root mean square
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 Test conditions
## 4.1 General
The equipment shall be tested in normal test environment defined in base
station conformance testing specification TS 25.141 [3] or TS 25.142 [4] or in
the UTRA Repeater conformance testing specification TS25.143 [11]. The test
conditions shall be recorded in the test report.
For an EUT which contains more than one BS, it is sufficient to perform tests
relating to connectors of each representative type of the BS forming part of
the EUT.
## 4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by setting the
UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (UARFCN) to an appropriate
number.
A communication link shall be set up with a suitable test system capable of
evaluating the required performance criteria (hereafter called \"the test
system\") at the air interface and/or the Iub interface. The test system shall
be located outside of the test environment.
When the EUT is required to be in the transmit/receive mode, the following
conditions shall be met:
\- the EUT shall be commanded to operate at maximum rated transmit power;
\- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted signal
on the measuring equipment;
\- The wanted input signal level shall be set to a level where the performance
is not limited by the receiver noise floor or strong signal effects e.g.15 dB
above the reference sensitivity level as defined in TS 25.141 (for FDD) [3] or
TS 25.142 (for TDD) [4], to provide a stable communication link.
For immunity tests subclause 4.3 shall apply and the conditions shall be as
follows:
### 4.2.1 Multiple enclosure BS solution
For a BS with multiple enclosures, the BS part with Radio digital unit and the
Radio unit may be tested separately. Communication link shall be set up in the
same way as if they are in single BS enclosure. The Radio Digital unit and the
Radio unit shall communicate over an interface enabling establishment of a
communication link.
## 4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
### 4.3.1 FDD and 3,84 Mcps TDD option
Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the immunity
test at discrete frequencies which are narrow band responses (spurious
responses), are identified by the following method:
\- if during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
specified tolerances (clause 6), it is necessary to establish whether the
deviation is due to a narrow band response or to a wide band (EMC) phenomenon.
Therefore, the test shall be repeated with the unwanted signal frequency
increased, and then decreased by 10 MHz;
\- if the deviation disappears in either or both of the above 10 MHz offset
cases, then the response is considered as a narrow band response;
\- if the deviation does not disappear, this may be due to the fact that the
offset has made the frequency of the unwanted signal correspond to the
frequency of another narrow band response. Under these circumstances the
procedure is repeated with the increase and decrease of the frequency of the
unwanted signal set to 12,5 MHz;
\- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
frequency, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC problem
and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
### 4.3.2 1,28 Mcps TDD option
For 1.28Mcps chip rate TDD option, responses on receivers or duplex
transceivers occurring during the test at discrete frequencies which are
narrow band responses (spurious responses), are identified by the following
method:
\- if during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
specified tolerances, it is necessary to establish whether the deviation is
due to a narrow band response or to a wide band (EMC) phenomenon. Therefore,
the test shall be repeated with the unwanted signal frequency increased, and
then decreased by 3.2MHz;
\- if the deviation disappears in either or both of the above 3.2 MHz offset
cases, then the response is considered as a narrow band response;
\- if the deviation does not disappear, this may be due to the fact that the
offset has made the frequency of the unwanted signal correspond to the
frequency of another narrow band response. Under these circumstances the
procedure is repeated with the increase and decrease of the frequency of the
unwanted signal set to 4MHz;
\- if the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
frequency, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC problem
and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
## 4.4 Test condition for Repeater
The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by setting the
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (ARFCN) to an appropriate number
within the pass band of the Repeater.
The Repeater path shall be tested with a suitable test system capable of
measuring RF performance criteria (hereafter called \"the test system\"). The
test system shall be located outside of the test environment.
When the EUT is required to be in the operational mode, the following
conditions shall be met:
\- the EUT shall be commanded to operate at maximum rated gain;
\- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted signal
on the measuring equipment;
For immunity tests conditions subclause 4.3 shall apply.
### 4.4.1 Arrangements for test signals for repeaters
For immunity tests of repeaters, the wanted RF input signal shall be coupled
to one antenna port at a level which will result, when measured, in the
maximum rated RF output power per channel, as declared by the manufacturer.
The test shall either be repeated with a wanted signal coupled to the other
antenna port, or a single test shall be performed with the specified input
signals being simultaneously coupled to both antenna ports.
## 4.5 Exclusion bands
### 4.5.1 Transmitter exclusion band
For the purpose of EMC specifications there shall be a transmitter exclusion
band.
[For UTRA FDD:]{.underline}
Lower carrier frequency used - 12,5 MHz. to upper carrier frequency used \+
12,5 MHz.
[For UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD option:]{.underline}
Lower carrier frequency used - 12,5 MHz. to upper carrier frequency used \+
12,5 MHz.
[For UTRA 1,28 Mcps TDD option:]{.underline}
Lower carrier frequency used - 4 MHz to upper carrier frequency used + 4 MHz.
[For UTRA 7,68 Mcps TDD option:]{.underline}
Lower carrier frequency used - 25 MHz. to upper carrier frequency used + 25
MHz.
### 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion band
The receiver exclusion band for base stations extends from the lower frequency
of the Base Station receive band minus 20 MHz to the upper frequency of the
Base Station receive band plus 20 MHz. The exclusion bands are as set out
below:
[UTRA FDD:]{.underline}
a) 1900 MHz to 2000 MHz (Band I)
b) 1830 MHz to 1930 MHz (Band II)
c) 1690 MHz to 1805 MHz (Band III)
d) 1690 MHz to 1775 MHz (Band IV)
e) 804 MHz to 869 MHz (Band V)
f) 810 MHz to 860 MHz (Band VI)
g) 2480 MHz to 2590 MHz (Band VII)
h) 860 MHz to 935 MHz (Band VIII)
i) 1729.9 MHz to 1804.9 MHz (Band IX)
j) 1690 MHz to 1790 MHz (Band X)
k) 1407.9 MHz to 1467.9 MHz (Band XI)
l) 679-736 MHz (Band XII)
m) 757-807 MHz (Band XIII)
n) 768-818 MHz (Band XIV)
[UTRA 3,84 Mcps TDD option, UTRA 1,28 Mcps TDD option and UTRA 7.68 Mcps TDD
option]{.underline}:
a) 1880 MHz to 1940 MHz\ 1990 MHz to 2045 MHz
b) 1830 MHz to 2010 MHz
c) 1890 MHz to 1950 MHz
d) 2550 MHz to 2640MHz
e) 2280MHz to 2420MHz
f) 1860 MHz to 1940 MHz
# 5 Performance assessment
## 5.1 General
Following information shall be recorded in or annexed to the test report:
\- the primary functions of the radio equipment to be tested during and after
the EMC testing;
\- the intended functions of the radio equipment which shall be in accordance
with the documentation accompanying the equipment;
\- the method to be used to verify that a communications link is established
and maintained
\- the user-control functions and stored data that are required for normal
operation and the method to be used to assess whether these have been lost
after EMC stress;
\- the ancillary equipment to be combined with the radio equipment for testing
(where applicable);
\- the information about ancillary equipment intended to be used with the
radio equipment;
\- an exhaustive list of ports, classified as either power or signal/control.
Power ports shall further be classified as AC or DC power.
Performance assessment of a BS with multiple enclosures may be done separately
for the BS part with the Radio digital unit and the Radio unit respectively,
according to the manufacturer\'s choice.
## 5.2 Assessment of BLER in Downlink
The output of the transmitter shall be connected to an equipment which meet
the requirements for the BLER assessment of TS25.101 [8] in case of FDD and
TS25.102 [9] in case of TDD for the bearer used in the immunity tests. The
level of the signal supplied to the equipment should be within the range for
which the assessment of BLER is not impaired. Power control shall be off
during the immunity testing.
## 5.3 Assessment of BLER in Uplink
The value of the BLER at the output of the receiver shall be monitored at Iub-
interface by using suitable test equipment.
## 5.4 Ancillary equipment
At the manufacturer\'s discretion the test may be performed on the ancillary
equipment separately or a representative configuration of the combination of
radio and ancillary equipment. In each case EUT is tested against all
applicable immunity and emission clauses of the present document and in each
case, compliance enables the ancillary equipment to be used with different
radio equipment.
## 5.5 Repeaters
The parameter used for assessment of performance of a repeater is the gain
within the pass band.
# 6 Performance Criteria
## 6.1 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for BS
The test should, where possible, be performed using a bearer with the
characteristics of data rate and BLER defined in Table 1. If the test is not
performed using one of these bearers (for, example, of none of them are
supported by the BS), the characteristics of the bearer used shall be recorded
in the test report.
The BS Uplink and Downlink paths shall each meet the performance criteria
defined in Table 1 during the test. If the Uplink and Downlink paths are
evaluated as a one loop then the criteria is two times the value shown in
Table 1.After each test case BS shall operate as intended with no loss of user
control function, stored data and the communication link shall be maintained.
Table 1: BS Performance Criteria for continuous phenomena for BS
+------------------------------+----------------------+ | Bearer Information Data Rate | Performance Criteria | +------------------------------+----------------------+ | 12.2 kbps | BLER \ 10^-2^ temporarily, | | | | | | however the communication link shall | | | be maintained | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | 64 kbps | BLER > 10^-2^ temporarily, | | | | | | however the communication link shall | | | be maintained | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | 144 kbps | BLER > 10^-2^ temporarily, however | | | the communication link shall be | | | maintained | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | 384 kbps | BLER > 10^-2^ temporarily, however | | | the communication link shall be | | | maintained | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
NOTE: The performance criteria, BLER > 10^-2^ temporarily / however the
communication link shall be maintained, applies also if a bearer with another
characteristics is used in the test.
## 6.3 (void)
## 6.4 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for Ancillary equipment
The apparatus shall continue to operate as intended during and after the test.
No degradation of performance or loss of function is allowed below the
performance level specified by the manufacturer, when the apparatus is used as
intended. The performance level may be replaced by a permissible performance
loss of performance. If the minimum performance level or the permissible
performance loss is not specified by the manufacture, either of these may be
derived from the product description and documentation and what the user may
reasonably expect from the apparatus if used as intended.
## 6.5 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for Ancillary equipment
The apparatus shall continue to operate as intended after the test. No
degradation of performance or loss of function is allowed below the
performance level specified by the manufacturer, when the apparatus is used as
intended. The performance level may be replaced by a permissible performance
loss of performance. During the test, degradation of performance is however
allowed. If the minimum performance level or the permissible performance loss
is not specified by the manufacture, either of these may be derived from the
product description and documentation and what the user may reasonably expect
from the apparatus if used as intended.
## 6.6 (void)
## 6.7 Performance criteria for continuous phenomena for repeaters
The gain of the EUT shall be measured throughout the period of exposure of the
phenomenon. The gain measured during the test shall not change from the gain
measured before the test by more than ± 1 dB. At the conclusion of the test
the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss of user control functions or
stored data.
## 6.8 Performance criteria for transient phenomena for repeaters
The gain of the EUT shall be measured before the test and after each exposure.
At the conclusion of each exposure the gain of the EUT shall not have changed
by more than ± 1 dB. At the conclusion of the total test comprising the series
of individual exposures, the EUT shall operate as intended with no loss of
user control functions or stored data, as declared by the manufacturer, and
the gain of the EUT shall not have changed by more than ± 1 dB.
## 6.9 (void)
# 7 Applicability overview
## 7.1 Emission
Table 3: Emission applicability
* * *
                                                                  Equipment test requirement   Reference             Reference
Phenomenon Application BS equipment Ancillary equipment Repeater subclause in
the present document Standard
Radiated emission Enclosure applicable applicable 8.3.1 ITU-R SM.329 [12]
Radiated emission Enclosure applicable 8.3.2 CISPR 22 [13]
Conducted emission DC power input/output port applicable applicable applicable
8.4 CISPR 22 [13],\ CISPR 16‑1-1 [14]
Conducted emission AC mains input/output port applicable applicable applicable
8.5 CISPR 22 [13]
Harmonic current emissions AC mains input port applicable applicable
applicable 8.6 IEC 61000-3-2 [15] or\ IEC 61000-3-12 [25]
Voltage fluctuations and flicker AC mains input port applicable applicable
applicable 8.7 IEC 61000-3-3 [16] ] or\ IEC 61000-3-11 [26]
Conducted emission Telecommunica-tion port applicable applicable applicable
8.8 CISPR 22 [13]
* * *
NOTE: Spurious emissions from antenna connector shall be measured according to
TS 25.141 [3] and TS 25.142 [4] and TS 25.143 [11].
## 7.2 Immunity
Table 4: Immunity applicability
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | Eq | Re | Re | | | | | | uipment | ference | ference | | | | | | test | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Phe | Appl | BS | An | R | su | s | | nomenon | ication | eq | cillary | epeater | bclause | tandard | | | | uipment | eq | | in the | | | | | | uipment | | present | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ocument | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | RF | En | app | app | app | 9.3 | IEC 61 | | el | closure | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑3 | | ectro­m | | | | | | [18] | | agnetic | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | (80 - | | | | | | | | 27 | | | | | | | | 00 MHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Electr | En | app | app | app | 9.4 | IEC 61 | | ostatic | closure | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑2 | | di | | | | | | [17] | | scharge | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Fast | Signal, | app | app | app | 9.5 | IEC 61 | | tra | tele | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑4 | | nsients | communi | | | | | [19] | | common | cations | | | | | | | mode | and | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | | | ports, | | | | | | | | DC and | | | | | | | | AC | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | RF | Signal, | app | app | app | 9.6 | IEC 61 | | common | tele | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑6 | | mode | communi | | | | | [21] | | | cations | | | | | | | 0,15 - | and | | | | | | | 80 MHz | control | | | | | | | | ports, | | | | | | | | DC and | | | | | | | | AC | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Voltage | AC | app | app | app | 9.7 | IEC 610 | | dips | mains | licable | licable | licable | | 00‑4‑11 | | and | power | | | | | | | interr | input | | | | | | | uptions | ports | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Surges, | AC | app | app | app | 9.8 | IEC 61 | | common | power | licable | licable | licable | | 000‑4‑5 | | and | input | | | | | [20] | | diffe | ports | | | | | | | rential | and | | | | | | | mode | tele | | | | | | | | communi | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | | port | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 8 Emission
## 8.1 Methods of measurement and limits for EMC emissions
## 8.2 Test configurations
This subclause defines the configurations for emission tests as follows:
\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as specified in
the functional standards;
\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;
\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to ancillary
equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment while connected
to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment necessary to exercise the
ports;
\- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient number
shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to ensure that
all the different types of termination are tested;
\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall be
recorded in the test report;
\- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to an
ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly terminated
to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary equipment, Radio
Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly terminated;
\- ports which are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors etc. shall
not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing. Where cables
have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting cables have to be
extended in length in order to exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to
ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or
extension of these cables;
\- the test arrangements for transmitter and receiver sections of the
transceiver are described separately for the sake of clarity. However, where
possible the test of the transmitter section and receiver section of the EUT
may be carried out simultaneously to reduce test time.
## 8.3 Radiated emission from Base station, Repeater and ancillary equipment
### 8.3.1 Radiated emission, Base stations and Repeater
This test is applicable to Base station and Repeater. This test shall be
performed on a representative configuration of the Base station or Repeater.
#### 8.3.1.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of BS and Repeater to limit unwanted emission
from the enclosure port.
#### 8.3.1.2 Test method
##### 8.3.1.2.1 FDD and 3,84 Mcps TDD option
a) A test site fulfilling the requirements of ITU-R SM. 329 [12] shall be
used. The BS or Repeater shall be placed on a non-conducting support and shall
be operated from a power source via a RF filter to avoid radiation from the
power leads.
Mean power of any spurious components shall be detected by the test antenna
and measuring receiver (e.g. a spectrum analyser). At each frequency at which
a component is detected, the BS or Repeater shall be rotated and the height of
the test antenna adjusted to obtain maximum response, and the effective
radiated power (e.r.p.) of that component determined by a substitution
measurement. The measurement shall be repeated with the test antenna in the
orthogonal polarization plane.
NOTE: Effective radiated power (e.r.p.) refers to the radiation of a half wave
tuned dipole instead of an isotropic antenna. There is a constant difference
of 2,15 dB between e.i.r.p. and e.r.p.
e.r.p. (dBm) = e.i.r.p. (dBm) − 2,15 Ref: ITU-R SM.329 ANNEX 1 [12].
> b) The BS shall transmit with maximum power declared by the manufacturer
> with all transmitters active. Set the base station to transmit a signal as
> stated for measurement of spurious emission for FDD in the TS25.141 [3] and
> for 3.84 Mcps TDD option in the TS25.142 [4].
In case of a Repeater the gain and the output power shall be set to the
maximum value as declared by the manufacturer.
c) The received power shall be measured over the frequency range 30 MHz to
12.75 GHz, excluding 12.5MHz below the first carrier frequency to 12.5 MHz
above the last carrier frequency used. The measurement bandwidth shall be 100
kHz between 30 MHz and 1 GHz and 1 MHz above 1 GHz as given in ITU-R SM.329
[12]. The video bandwidth shall be approximately three times the resolution
bandwidth. If this video bandwidth is not available on the measuring receiver,
it shall be the maximum available and at least 1 MHz. Unless otherwise stated,
all measurements are done as mean power (RMS).
##### 8.3.1.2.2 1,28 Mcps TDD option
a) A test site fulfilling the requirements of ITU-R SM. 329 [12] shall be
used. The BS shall be placed on a non-conducting support and shall be operated
from a power source via a RF filter to avoid radiation from the power leads.
Mean power of any spurious components shall be detected by the test antenna
and measuring receiver (e.g. a spectrum analyser). At each frequency at which
a component is detected, the BS shall be rotated and the height of the test
antenna adjusted to obtain maximum response, and the effective radiated power
(e.r.p.) of that component determined by a substitution measurement. The
measurement shall be repeated with the test antenna in the orthogonal
polarisation plane.
NOTE: Effective radiated power (e.r.p.) refers to the radiation of a half wave
tuned dipole instead of an isotropic antenna. There is a constant difference
of 2,15 dB between e.i.r.p. and e.r.p.
e.r.p. (dBm) = e.i.r.p. (dBm) − 2,15 Ref: ITU-R SM.329 ANNEX 1 [12].
b) The BS shall transmit with maximum power declared by the manufacturer with
all transmitters active. Set the base station to transmit a signal as stated
for measurement of spurious emission for 1.28 Mcps TDD in the TS25.142 [4].
c) The received power shall be measured over the frequency range 30 MHz to
12.75 GHz, excluding 4MHz below the first carrier frequency to 4 MHz above the
last carrier frequency used. The measurement bandwidth shall be 100 kHz
between 30 MHz and 1 GHz and 1 MHz above 1 GHz as given in ITU-R SM.329 [12].
The video bandwidth shall be approximately three times the resolution
bandwidth. If this video bandwidth is not available on the measuring receiver,
it shall be the maximum available and at least 1 MHz. Unless otherwise stated,
all measurements are done as mean power (RMS).
#### 8.3.1.3 Limits
The frequency boundary and reference bandwidths for the detailed transitions
of the limits between the requirements for out of band emissions and spurious
emissions are based on ITU-R Recommendations SM.329 [12] and SM.1539 [23].
##### 8.3.1.3.1 FDD and 3,84 Mcps TDD option
The BS or the Repeater shall meet the limits below:
Table 5: Limits for radiated emissions from BS and repeater
* * *
Frequency range Minimum requirement (e.r.p.)/Reference Bandwidth 30 MHz≤ f
\1
m Effective radiated RF power between 30 MHz to 180 MHz ±6 dB ±6 dB Effective
radiated RF power between 180 MHz to 4 GHz ±4 dB ±6 dB Effective radiated RF
power between 4 GHz to 12,75 GHz ±6 dB ±9* dB *Note: This value may be reduced
to ±6 dB when further information on the potential radiation characteristic of
the EUT is available.
* * *
> NOTE: If the Test System for a test is known to have a measurement
> uncertainty greater than that specified in table 5B, this equipment can
> still be used, provided that an adjustment is made follows:
>
> Any additional uncertainty in the Test System over and above that specified
> in table 5B is used to tighten the Test Requirements - making the test
> harder to pass. This procedure will ensure that a Test System not compliant
> with table 5B does not increase the probability of passing an EUT that would
> otherwise have failed a test if a Test System compliant with table 5B had
> been used.
### 8.3.2 Radiated emission, Ancillary equipment
This test is applicable to ancillary equipment. This test shall be performed
on a representative configuration of the ancillary equipment.
#### 8.3.2.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of ancillary equipment to limit unwanted
emission from the enclosure port.
#### 8.3.2.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [13]
#### 8.3.2.3 Limits
The ancillary equipment shall meet the limits according to CISPR 22 [13] shown
in table 6 and table 6A.
Table 6: Limits for radiated emissions from ancillary equipment, measured on a
stand alone basis (10 m measuring distance)
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak 30 MHz‑230 MHz 30 dBµV/m 230 MHz‑1000 MHz 37 dBµV/m
* * *
Table 6A: Limits for radiated emissions from ancillary equipment, measured on
a stand-alone basis\ (3 m measuring distance)
+---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | Frequency range | Average limit | Peak limit | | | | | | GHz | dBµV/m | dBµV/m | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | 1 to 3 | 50 | 70 | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | 3 to 6 | 54 | 74 | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+ | Note: The lower limit applies at the | | | | transition frequency. | | | +---------------------------------------+---------------+------------+
## 8.4 Conducted emission DC power input/output port
This test is applicable to equipment which may have DC cables longer than 3 m.
If the DC power cable of the radio equipment is intended to be less than 3 m
in length, and intended only for direct connection to a dedicated AC to DC
power supply, then the measurement shall be performed only on the AC power
input of that power supply as specified in subclause 8.5.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 8.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit internal noise from the DC power input/output ports.
### 8.4.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [13] and the Artificial
Mains Network (AMN) shall be connected to a DC power source.
In the case of DC output ports, the ports shall be connected via a AMN to a
load drawing the rated current of the source.
A measuring receiver shall be connected to each AMN measurement port in turn
and the conducted emission recorded.
The equipment shall be installed with a ground plane as defined in CISPR 22
[13]. The reference earth point of the AMNs shall be connected to the
reference ground plane with a conductor as short as possible.
The measurement receiver shall be in accordance with the requirements of
section one of CISPR 16‑1 [14].
### 8.4.3 Limits
The equipment shall meet the limits below (including the average limit and the
quasi‑peak limit) when using, respectively, an average detector receiver and a
quasi‑peak detector receiver and measured in accordance with the method
described in subclause 8.4.2 above. If the average limit is met when using a
quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits and
measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.
The equipment shall meet the limits given in table 7.
Table 7: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average >0,15‑0,5MHz 79dBµV 66dBµV >0,5‑30 MHz
73dBµV 60dBµV
* * *
## 8.5 Conducted emissions, AC mains power input/output port
This test is applicable to equipment powered by the AC mains.
This test is not applicable to AC output ports which are connected directly
(or via a circuit breaker) to the AC power port of the EUT.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 8.5.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
limit internal noise from the AC mains power input/output ports.
### 8.5.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPSR 22 [13].
Mains connected ancillary equipment which is not part of the EUT shall be
connected to the mains via a separate AMN. According to CISPR 16‑1 [14], the
Protective Earth (PE) conductor shall also be terminated by a 50 Ω/50 μH
common mode RF impedance.
### 8.5.3 Limits
The equipment shall meet the limits below (including the average limit and the
quasi‑peak limit) when using, respectively, an average detector receiver and a
quasi‑peak detector receiver and measured in accordance with the method
described in subclause 8.5.2 above. If the average limit is met when using a
quasi‑peak detector, the equipment shall be deemed to meet both limits and
measurement with the average detector receiver is not necessary.
Table 8: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average > 0,15‑0,5 MHz 66 - 56 dBµV 56 - 46 dBµV >
0.5- 5 MHz 56 dBµV 46 dBµV > 5‑30 MHz 60 dBµV 50 dBµV NOTE: The limit
decreases linearly with the logarithm of the frequency in the range 0,15 MHz
to 0,50 MHz.
* * *
Alternatively, for equipment intended to be used in telecommunication centres
the limits given in table 9 shall be used.
Table 9: Limits for conducted emissions
* * *
Frequency range Quasi-peak Average >0,15‑0,5MHz 79dBµV 66dBµV >0,5‑30 MHz
73dBµV 60dBµV
* * *
## 8.6 Harmonic Current emissions (AC mains input port)
The requirements of IEC 61000‑3‑2 [15] for harmonic current emission apply for
equipment covered by the scope of the present document. For equipment with an
input current of greater than 16 A per phase, IEC 61000-3-12 [25] applies.
## 8.7 Voltage fluctuations and flicker (AC mains input port)
The requirements of IEC 61000‑3‑3 [16] for voltage fluctuations and flicker
apply for equipment covered by the scope of the present document. For
equipment with an input current of greater than 16 A per phase, IEC 61000-3-12
[26] applies.
## 8.8 Telecommunication ports
This test is applicable for radio equipment and/or ancillary equipment for
fixed use which have telecommunication ports.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or a representative
configuration of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 8.8.1 Definition
This test assesses the EUT unwanted emission present at the telecommunication
ports.
### 8.8.2 Test method
The test method shall be in accordance with CISPR 22 [13]
The measurement frequency range extends from 150 kHz to 30 MHz. When the EUT
is a transmitter operating at frequencies below 30 MHz, then the exclusion
band for transmitters applies (see subclause 4.5) for measurements in the
transmit mode of operation.
### 8.8.3 Limits
The telecommunication ports shall meet the limits according to CISPR 22 [13]
shown in table 10.
Table 10: Limits for conducted emissions from telecommunication ports
+--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | Frequency | Voltage | Current | | | | range | limits\ | limits\ | | | | | dB (µV) | dB (µA) | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | MHz | Quasi-peak | Average | Quasi-peak | Average | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,15 to 0,5 | 84 to 74 | 74 to 64 | 40 to 30 | 30 to 20 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,5 to 30 | 74 | 64 | 30 | 20 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | limits | | | | | | decrease | | | | | | linearly | | | | | | with the | | | | | | logarithm of | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency in | | | | | | the range | | | | | | 0,15 MHz to | | | | | | 0,5 MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | current and | | | | | | voltage | | | | | | disturbance | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | derived for | | | | | | use with an | | | | | | impedance | | | | | | s | | | | | | tabilization | | | | | | network | | | | | | (ISN) which | | | | | | presents a | | | | | | common mode | | | | | | (asymmetric | | | | | | mode) | | | | | | impedance of | | | | | | 150 Ω to the | | | | | | telec | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | port under | | | | | | test | | | | | | (conversion | | | | | | factor is 20 | | | | | | log10 150/I | | | | | | = 44 dB). | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+
Alternatively, for equipment intended to be used in telecommunication centres
only, the limits given in table 11 may be used.
Table 11: Limits for conducted emissions from telecommunication ports of
equipment intended for use in telecommunication centres only
+--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | Frequency | Voltage | Current | | | | range | limits\ | limits\ | | | | | dB (µV) | dB (µA) | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | MHz | Quasi-peak | Average | Quasi-peak | Average | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,15 to 0,5 | 97 to 87 | 84 to 74 | 53 to 43 | 40 to 30 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | 0,5 to 30 | 87 | 74 | 43 | 30 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | limits | | | | | | decrease | | | | | | linearly | | | | | | with the | | | | | | logarithm of | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency in | | | | | | the range | | | | | | 0,15 MHz to | | | | | | 0,5 MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | current and | | | | | | voltage | | | | | | disturbance | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | derived for | | | | | | use with an | | | | | | impedance | | | | | | s | | | | | | tabilization | | | | | | network | | | | | | (ISN), which | | | | | | presents a | | | | | | common mode | | | | | | (asymmetric | | | | | | mode) | | | | | | impedance of | | | | | | 150 Ω to the | | | | | | telec | | | | | | ommunication | | | | | | port under | | | | | | test | | | | | | (conversion | | | | | | factor is 20 | | | | | | log10 150/I | | | | | | = 44 dB). | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+------------+----------+
# 9 Immunity
## 9.1 Test methods and levels for immunity tests
## 9.2 Test configurations
This subclause defines the configurations for immunity tests as follows:
\- the equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions as specified in
the functional standards;
\- the test configuration shall be as close to normal intended use as
possible;
\- if the equipment is part of a system, or can be connected to ancillary
equipment, then it shall be acceptable to test the equipment while connected
to the minimum configuration of ancillary equipment necessary to exercise the
ports;
\- if the equipment has a large number of ports, then a sufficient number
shall be selected to simulate actual operation conditions and to ensure that
all the different types of termination are tested;
\- the test conditions, test configuration and mode of operation shall be
recorded in the test report;
\- ports which in normal operation are connected shall be connected to an
ancillary equipment or to a representative piece of cable correctly terminated
to simulate the input/output characteristics of the ancillary equipment, Radio
Frequency (RF) input/output ports shall be correctly terminated;
\- ports which are not connected to cables during normal operation, e.g.
service connectors, programming connectors, temporary connectors etc. shall
not be connected to any cables for the purpose of EMC testing. Where cables
have to be connected to these ports, or interconnecting cables have to be
extended in length in order to exercise the EUT, precautions shall be taken to
ensure that the evaluation of the EUT is not affected by the addition or
extension of these cables;
\- Immunity tests on the entire base station shall be performed by
establishing communication links at the air-interface (e.g. with the mobile
simulator) and the Iub-interface (e.g. with an RNC simulator) and evaluating
the BLER (see figure 2);
> \- Immunity tests shall be performed on both the Uplink and Downlink paths.
> The tests shall also include both the air-interface and Iub-interface. BLER
> evaluation may be carried out at either interface, where appropriate, and
> the measurements for the Uplink and Downlink paths may be carried out as a
> single path looped at either the air-interface or Iub-interface. In case of
> looping is used care have to be taken that the BLER information doesn\'t
> change due to looping. The BLER evaluation shall be based on the number of
> transmitted blocks i.e including possible deleted blocks.
{width="5.996527777777778in" height="1.5097222222222222in"}
Figure 2: Communication link set up for BS immunity measurement
## 9.3 RF electromagnetic field (80 MHz - 1000 MHz, 1400 MHz to 2700 MHz)
The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.3.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic field
disturbance at the enclosure.
### 9.3.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑3 [18]:
\- for transmitters, receivers and transceivers the following requirements
shall apply:
\- the test level shall be 3 V/m amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
\- the stepped frequency increments shall be 1 % of the momentary frequency;
\- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 80 MHz - 1 000 MHz and
1400 MHz - 2700 MHz;
\- responses in stand alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see subclause 4.3;
\- the frequencies selected during the test shall be recorded in the test
report.
### 9.3.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.1 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.4 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.7 shall apply.
## 9.4 Electrostatic discharge
The test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the radio
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of an electrostatic discharge.
### 9.4.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑2 [17]:
\- for contact discharge, the equipment shall pass at ±2 kV and ±4 kV;
\- for air discharge shall pass at ±2 kV, ±4 kV and ±8 kV;
\- electrostatic discharge shall be applied to all exposed surfaces of the EUT
except where the user documentation specially indicates a requirement for
appropriate protective measures.
NOTE: Ensure that the EUT is fully discharged between each ESD exposure.
### 9.4.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.5 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.8 shall apply.
## 9.5 Fast transients common mode
The test shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
This test shall be performed on signal ports, telecommunication ports, control
ports and DC power input/output ports if the cables may be longer than 3 m.
Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because the
manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer
than 3 m, a list of ports which were not tested for this reason shall be
included in the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.5.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of fast transients present on one of the
input/output ports.
### 9.5.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19]:
\- the test level for signal ports, telecommunication ports and control ports
shall be 0,5 kV open circuit voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19];
\- the test level for DC power input/output ports shall be 0.5 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19];
\- the test level for AC mains power input ports shall be 1 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [19].
For AC and DC power input ports the transients shall be applied (in parallel)
to all the conductors in the cable with reference to the cabinet reference
earth (true common mode) and the source impedance shall be 50 Ω.
### 9.5.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.5 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.8 shall apply.
## 9.6 RF common mode (0,15 MHz - 80 MHz)
The test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output ports.
This test shall be performed on signal ports, telecommunication ports, control
and DC power input/output ports, which may have cables longer than 3 m.
Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because the
manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer
than stated above, a list of ports which were not tested shall be included in
the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
NOTE: This test can also be performed using the intrusive method, where
appropriate, see IEC 61000‑4‑6 [21].
### 9.6.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic
disturbance.
### 9.6.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑6 [21]:
\- the test signal shall be amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
\- the stepped frequency increments shall be 50 kHz in the frequency range 150
kHz to 5 MHz and 1%frequency increment of the momentary frequency in the
frequency range 5 MHz to 80 MHz.
\- the test level shall be severity level 2 as given in IEC 61000‑4‑6 [21]
corresponding to 3 V rms, at a transfer impedance of 150 Ω;
\- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 150 kHz - 80 MHz;
> \- the injection method to be used shall be selected according to the basic
> standard IEC 61000-4-6 [21];
\- responses of stand alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see subclause 4.3;
\- the frequencies of the immunity test signal selected and used during the
test shall be recorded in the test report.
### 9.6.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.1 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.4 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.7 shall apply.
## 9.7 Voltage dips and interruptions
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.7.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of voltage dips and interruptions present on
the AC mains power input ports.
### 9.7.2 Test method and level
The following requirements shall apply.
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑11 [22].
The test levels shall be:
\- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 30 %
for 10 ms;
\- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 60 %
for 100 ms;
\- a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage
of > 95 % for 5 000 ms.
### 9.7.3 Performance criteria
For a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 30 %
for 10 ms the performance criteria for transient phenomena shall be applied:
\- Criteria 6.2 for base station
\- Criteria 6.5 for ancillary equipment
\- Criteria 6.8 for repeater
For a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 60 %
for 100 ms and/or a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the
supply voltage of > 95 % for 5 000 ms, the following applies:
1\. In the case where the equipment is fitted with or connected to a battery
back-up, the following performance criteria shall be applied:
\- Criteria 6.2 for base station
\- Criteria 6.5 for ancillary equipment
\- Criteria 6.8 for repeater
2\. In the case where the equipment is powered solely from the AC mains supply
(without the use of a parallel battery back-up) volatile user data may have
been lost and if applicable the communication link need not to be maintained
and lost functions should be recoverable by user or operator:
\- No unintentional responses shall occur at the end of the test
\- In the event of loss of communications link or in the event of loss of user
data, this fact shall be recorded in the test report
## 9.8 Surges, common and differential mode
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
This test shall be additionally performed on telecommunication ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment, the associated ancillary equipment, or representative configuration
of the combination of radio and ancillary equipment.
### 9.8.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of radio equipment and ancillary equipment to
operate as intended in the event of surges being present at the AC mains power
input ports and telecommunication ports.
### 9.8.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000-4-5 [20].
The requirements and evaluation of test results given in clause 9.8.2.1
(telecommunication ports, outdoor cables), clause 9.8.2.2 (telecommunication
ports, indoor cables) and clause 9.8.2.3 (AC power ports) shall apply, but no
test shall be required where normal functioning cannot be achieved, because of
the impact of the CDN on the EUT.
#### 9.8.2.1 Test method for telecommunication ports directly connected to
outdoor cables
The test level for telecommunications ports, intended to be directly connected
to the telecommunications network via outdoor cables, shall be 1 kV line to
ground as given in IEC 61000-4-5 [20], however, in telecommunications centres
0,5 kV line to ground shall be used. In this case the total output impedance
of the surge generator shall be in accordance with the basic standard IEC
61000-4-5 [20].
The test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 [20]
#### 9.8.2.2 Test method for telecommunication ports connected to indoor
cables
The test level for telecommunication ports, intended to be connected to indoor
cables (longer than 10 m) shall be 0,5 kV line to ground. In this case the
total output impedance of the surge generator shall be in accordance with the
basic standard IEC 61000-4-5 [20]
The test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 [20].
#### 9.8.2.3 Test method for AC power ports
The test level for AC power input ports shall be 2 kV line to ground, and 1 kV
line to line, with the output impedance of the surge generator as given in IEC
61000-4-5 [20].
In telecom centres 1 kV line to ground and 0,5 kV line to line shall be used.
The test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 μs pulse as defined in IEC
61000-4-5 [20].
### 9.8.3 Performance criteria
**Base station:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.2 shall apply.
**Ancillary equipment:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.5 shall apply.
**Repeater:**
The performance criteria of subclause 6.8 shall apply.
#