# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the description and definition of the
measurements for FDD done at the UE and network in order to support operation
in idle mode and connected mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer - Measurements (FDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services provided by the Physical layer\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"UE functions and interlayer procedures in connected
mode\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE procedures in idle mode\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"RRC Protocol Specification\".
[15] 3GPP TR 25.922: \"Radio Resource Management Strategies\".
[16] 3GPP TR 25.923: \"Report on Location Services (LCS)\".
[17] 3GPP TR 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio transmission and Reception (FDD)\".
> [19] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"UTRA (BS) FDD; Radio transmission and Reception\".
[20] 3GPP TS 25.133: \" Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(FDD)\"
[21] 3GPP TS 25.225: \" Physical layer -- Measurements (TDD)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\"
[23] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"E-UTRA; Physical Channels and Modulation\"
[24] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer -- Measurements\"
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**cell portion** : A geographical part of a cell for which a Node B
measurement can be reported to the RNC. A cell portion is semi-static, and
identical for both the UL and the DL. Within a cell, a cell portion is
uniquely identified by a cell portion ID.
Note 1: a cell portion is not necessarily analogous to actual beams used for
transmission and/or reception of e.g. a DPCH at the Node B.
Note 2: RNC may associate physical channels with cell portions.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BER Bit Error Rate
BLER Block Error Rate
Ec/No Received energy per chip divided by the power density in the band
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
F-DPCH Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel
GANSS Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
ISCP Interference Signal Code Power
RL Radio Link
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
SIR Signal to Interference Ratio
# 4 Control of UE/UTRAN measurements
In this chapter the general measurement control concept of the higher layers
is briefly described to provide an understanding on how L1 measurements are
initiated and controlled by higher layers.
L1 provides with the measurement specifications a toolbox of measurement
abilities for the UE and the UTRAN. These measurements can be differentiated
in different reported measurement types: intra-frequency, inter-frequency,
inter-system, traffic volume, quality and UE internal measurements (see [14]).
In the L1 measurement specifications the measurements, see chapter 5, are
distinguished between measurements in the UE (the messages will be described
in the RRC Protocol or MAC Protocol [22]) and measurements in the UTRAN (the
messages will be described in the NBAP and the Frame Protocol).
To initiate a specific measurement the UTRAN transmits a \'measurement control
message\' to the UE including a measurement ID and type, a command (setup,
modify, release), the measurement objects and quantity, the reporting
quantities, criteria (periodical/event-triggered) and mode
(acknowledged/unacknowledged), see [14].
When the reporting criteria is fulfilled the UE shall answer with a
\'measurement report message\' to the UTRAN including the measurement ID and
the results.
In idle mode the measurement control message is broadcast in a System
Information.
Intra-frequency reporting events, traffic volume reporting events and UE
internal measurement reporting events described in [14] define events which
trigger the UE to send a report to the UTRAN. This defines a toolbox from
which the UTRAN can choose the needed reporting events.
# 5 Measurement abilities for UTRA FDD
In this chapter the physical layer measurements reported to higher layers are
defined. The GSM measurements are required only from the GSM capable
terminals. The TDD measurements are required only from the terminals that are
capable to operate in TDD mode.
## 5.1 UE measurement abilities
The structure of the table defining a UE measurement quantity is shown below.
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Column field** | Comment | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Contains the definition of the measurement. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | States in which RRC state according to [14] | | | a measurement shall be possible to perform. | | | For RRC connected mode states information is | | | also given on the possibility to perform the | | | measurement on intra-frequency and/or | | | inter-frequency. | | | | | | The following terms are used in the tables: | | | | | | Idle = Shall be possible to perform in idle | | | mode; | | | | | | URA_PCH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | URA_PCH; | | | | | | CELL_PCH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | CELL_PCH; | | | | | | CELL_FACH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | CELL_FACH; | | | | | | CELL_DCH = Shall be possible to perform in | | | CELL_DCH; | | | | | | For all RRC connected mode states i.e. | | | URA_PCH, CELL_PCH, CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH | | | | | | Intra appended to the RRC state = Shall be | | | possible to perform in the corresponding RRC | | | state on an intra-frequency cell; | | | | | | Inter appended to the RRC state = Shall be | | | possible to perform in the corresponding RRC | | | state on an inter-frequency cell. | | | | | | Inter-RAT appended to the RRC state = Shall be | | | possible to perform in the corresponding RRC | | | state on an inter-RAT cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
The term \"antenna connector of the UE\" used in this sub-clause to define the
reference point for the UE measurements is defined in [18]. Performance and
reporting requirements for the UE measurements are defined in [20].
### 5.1.1 CPICH RSCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Code Power, the received power | | | on one code measured on the Primary CPICH. The | | | reference point for the RSCP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. If Tx diversity | | | is applied on the Primary CPICH the received | | | code power from each antenna shall be | | | separately measured and summed together in | | | [W] to a total received code power on the | | | Primary CPICH. If receiver diversity is in use | | | by the UE, the measured CPICH RSCP value shall | | | not be lower than the corresponding CPICH RSCP | | | of any of the individual receive antenna | | | branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH intra, URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH intra, CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH intra, CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.2 PCCPCH RSCP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Code Power, the received power | | | on one code measured on the PCCPCH from a TDD | | | cell. The reference point for the RSCP shall | | | be the antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | See [21] for further details on this | | | measurement. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.3 UTRA carrier RSSI
* * *
**Definition** _The received wide band power, including thermal noise and
noise generated in the receiver, within the bandwidth defined by the receiver
pulse shaping filter. The reference point for the measurement shall be the
antenna connector of the UE_. If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the
measured UTRA carrier RSSI value shall not be lower than the corresponding
UTRA carrier RSSI of any of the individual receive antenna branches.
**Applicable for** CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter
* * *
### 5.1.4 GSM carrier RSSI
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Received Signal Strength Indicator, the | | | wide-band received power within the relevant | | | channel bandwidth. Measurement shall be | | | performed on a GSM BCCH carrier. The reference | | | point for the RSSI shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_FACH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.5 CPICH Ec/No
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The received energy per chip divided by the | | | power density in the band. If receiver | | | diversity is not in use by the UE, the _CPICH | | | Ec/No is identical to CPICH RSCP/UTRA Carrier | | | RSSI_. Measurement shall be performed on the | | | Primary CPICH. The reference point for the | | | CPICH Ec/No shall be the antenna connector of | | | the UE. If Tx diversity is applied on the | | | Primary CPICH the received energy per chip | | | (Ec) from each antenna shall be separately | | | measured and summed together in [Ws] to a | | | total received chip energy per chip on the | | | Primary CPICH, before calculating the Ec/No. | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE the | | | measured CPICH Ec/No value shall not be lower | | | than the corresponding CPICH RSCP _~i~_ /UTRA | | | Carrier RSSI _~i~_ of receive antenna branch i. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH intra, URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH intra, CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH intra, CELL_FACH inter, | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.6 Transport channel BLER
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Estimation of the transport channel block | | | error rate (BLER). The BLER estimation shall | | | be based on evaluating the CRC of each | | | transport block associated with the measured | | | transport channel after RL combination. The | | | BLER shall be computed over the measurement | | | period as the ratio between the number of | | | received transport blocks resulting in a CRC | | | error and the number of received transport | | | blocks. | | | | | | When either TFCI or guided detection is used, | | | the measurement "Transport channel BLER" may | | | only be requested for a transport channel when | | | the associated CRC size is non zero and at | | | least one transport format in the associated | | | transport format set includes at least one | | | transport block. | | | | | | When neither TFCI nor guided detection is | | | used, the measurement "Transport channel BLER" | | | may only be requested for a transport channel | | | when the associated CRC size is non zero and | | | all transport formats in the associated | | | transport format set include at least one | | | transport block. | | | | | | The measurement "Transport channel BLER" does | | | not apply to transport channels mapped on a | | | P-CCPCH and a S-CCPCH. The UE shall be able to | | | perform the measurement "Transport channel | | | BLER" on any transport channel configured such | | | that the measurement "Transport channel BLER" | | | can be requested as defined in this section. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.7 UE transmitted power
* * *
**Definition** The total UE transmitted power on one carrier. The reference
point for the UE transmitted power shall be the antenna connector of the UE.
**Applicable for** CELL_FACH intra, CELL_DCH intra
* * *
### 5.1.8 SFN-CFN observed time difference
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The SFN-CFN observed time difference to cell | | | is defined as: OFF×38400+ T~m~, where: | | | | | | T~m~= (T~UETx~-T~0~) - T~RxSFN~, given in chip | | | units with the range [0, 1, ..., 38399] | | | chips | | | | | | T~UETx~ is the time when the UE transmits an | | | uplink DPCCH frame. | | | | | | T~0~ is defined in [1]. | | | | | | T~RxSFN~ is the time at the beginning of the | | | neighbouring P-CCPCH frame received most | | | recent in time before the time instant | | | T~UETx~-T~0~in the UE. If the beginning of the | | | neighbouring P-CCPCH frame is received exactly | | | at T~UETx~-T~0~ then T~RxSFN~=T~UETx~-T~0~ | | | (which leads to T~m~=0)~.~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | OFF=(SFN-CFN~Tx~) mod 256, given in number of | | | frames with the range [0, 1, ..., 255] | | | frames | | | | | | CFN~Tx~ is the connection frame number for the | | | UE transmission of an uplink DPCCH frame at | | | the time T~UETx~. | | | | | | SFN is the system frame number for the | | | neighbouring P-CCPCH frame received in the UE | | | at the time T~RxSFN~. | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-CFN observed | | | time difference shall be the antenna connector | | | of the UE. | | | | | | In case the inter-frequency measurement is | | | done with compressed mode, the UE is not | | | required to read the cell SFN of the target | | | inter-frequency neighbour cell and the value | | | for the parameter OFF is always reported to be | | | 0. | | | | | | In case that the SFN measurement indicator | | | indicates that the UE does not need to read | | | cell SFN of the target neighbour cell, the | | | value of the parameter OFF is always be set to | | | 0. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.9 SFN-SFN observed time difference
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | **[Type 1:]{.underline}** | | | | | | The SFN-SFN observed time difference to cell | | | is defined as: OFF×38400+ T~m~, where: | | | | | | T~m~= T~RxSFNj~ - T~RxSFNi~, given in chip | | | units with the range [0, 1, ..., 38399] | | | chips | | | | | | T~RxSFNj~ is the time at the beginning of a | | | received neighbouring P-CCPCH frame from cell | | | j. | | | | | | T~RxSFNi~ is the time at the beginning of the | | | P-CCPCH frame from serving cell i of most | | | recent in time before the time instant | | | T~RxSFNj~ in the UE. If the next neighbouring | | | P-CCPCH frame is exactly at T~RxSFNj~ then | | | T~RxSFNj~= T~RxSFNi~ (which leads to | | | T~m~=0)~.~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | OFF=(SFN~i~- SFN~j~) mod 256, given in number | | | of frames with the range [0, 1, ..., 255] | | | frames | | | | | | SFN~j~ is the system frame number for downlink | | | P-CCPCH frame from cell j in the UE at the | | | time T~RxSFNj~. | | | | | | SFN~i~ is the system frame number for the | | | P-CCPCH frame from serving cell i in the UE at | | | the time T~RxSFNi~. | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-SFN observed | | | time difference type 1 shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | | | | | | **[Type 2:]{.underline}** | | | | | | The relative timing difference between cell j | | | and cell i, defined as T~CPICHRxj~ - | | | T~CPICHRxi~, where: | | | | | | T~CPICHRxj~ is the time when the UE receives | | | one Primary CPICH slot from cell j | | | | | | T~CPICHRxi~ is the time when the UE receives | | | the Primary CPICH slot from cell i that is | | | closest in time to the Primary CPICH slot | | | received from cell j. | | | | | | The reference point for the SFN-SFN observed | | | time difference type 2 shall be the antenna | | | connector of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | **[Type 1:]{.underline}** Idle, URA_PCH | | | intra, CELL_PCH intra, CELL_FACH intra | | | | | | **[Type 2:]{.underline}** | | | | | | URA_PCH intra, URA_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_PCH intra, CELL_PCH inter, | | | | | | CELL_FACH intra, CELL_FACH inter | | | | | | CELL_DCH intra, CELL_DCH inter | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.10 UE Rx-Tx time difference
* * *
**Definition** The difference in time between the UE uplink DPCCH frame
transmission and the first detected path (in time), of the downlink DPCH or
F-DPCH frame from the measured radio link. Type 1 and Type 2 are defined. For
Type 1, the reference Rx path shall be the first detected path (in time)
amongst the paths (from the measured radio link) used in the demodulation
process. For Type 2, the reference Rx path shall be the first detected path
(in time) amongst all paths (from the measured radio link) detected by the UE.
The reference path used for the measurement may therefore be different for
Type 1 and Type 2. The reference point for the UE Rx-Tx time difference shall
be the antenna connector of the UE. Measurement shall be made for each cell
included in the active set. **Applicable for** CELL_DCH intra
* * *
### 5.1.11 Void
### 5.1.12 UE GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
**Definition** The timing between cell j and GPS Time Of Week. T~UE-GPSj~ is
defined as the time of occurrence of a specified UTRAN event according to GPS
time. The specified UTRAN event is the beginning of a particular frame
(identified through its SFN) in the first detected path (in time) of the cell
j CPICH, where cell j is a cell chosen by the UE. The reference point for
T~UE-GPSj~ shall be the antenna connector of the UE. **Applicable for**
CELL_FACH intra, CELL_DCH intra
* * *
### 5.1.13 UE GPS code phase
* * *
**Definition** The whole and fractional phase of the spreading code of the
i^th^ GPS satellite signal. The reference point for the GPS code phase shall
be the antenna connector of the UE. **Applicable for** Void (this measurement
is not related to UTRAN/GSM signals; its applicability is therefore
independent of the UE RRC state)
* * *
### 5.1.14 UE transmission power headroom
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | UE transmission power headroom (UPH) is the | | | ratio of the maximum UE transmission power and | | | the corresponding DPCCH code power, and shall | | | be calculated as following: | | | | | | where: | | | | | | _P~max,tx~_ = min {_Maximum allowed UL TX | | | Power_ , _P~max~_} is the UE maximum | | | transmission power; | | | | | | _Maximum allowed UL TX Power_ is set by UTRAN | | | and defined in [14]; | | | | | | _P~max~_ is the UE nominal maximum output | | | power according to the UE power class and | | | specified in [18] table 6.1; | | | | | | _P~DPCCH~_ is the transmitted code power on | | | DPCCH. | | | | | | The reference point for the UE transmission | | | power headroom shall be the antenna connector | | | of the UE. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_FACH intra, CELL_DCH intra | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
### 5.1.15 UE GANSS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
**Definition** The timing between cell j and GANSS Time Of Day for a given
GANSS system. T~UE-GANSS~ is defined as the time of occurrence of a specified
UTRAN event according to GANSS time for a given GANSS Id. The specified UTRAN
event is the beginning of a particular frame (identified through its SFN) in
the first detected path (in time) of the cell j CPICH, where cell j is a cell
chosen by the UE. The reference point for T~UE-GANSSj~ shall be the antenna
connector of the UE. **Applicable for** CELL_FACH intra, CELL_DCH intra
* * *
### 5.1.16 UE GANSS code measurements
* * *
**Definition** The GANSS code phase and GANSS Integer code phase of the
spreading code of the i^th^ GANSS satellite signal. The reference point for
the GANSS code phase shall be the antenna connector of the UE. **Applicable
for** Void (this measurement is not related to UTRAN/GSM signals; its
applicability is therefore independent of the UE RRC state)
* * *
### 5.1.17 E-UTRA RSRP
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Reference signal received power (RSRP), is | | | defined as the linear average over the power | | | contributions (in [W]) of the resource | | | elements that carry cell-specific reference | | | signals within the considered measurement | | | frequency bandwidth. | | | | | | For RSRP determination the cell-specific | | | reference signals R~0~ according to TS 36.211 | | | [23] shall be used. If the UE can reliably | | | detect that R~1~ is available it may use R~1~ | | | in addition to R~0~ to determine RSRP. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSRP shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding RSRP of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | Idle, | | | | | | URA_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_PCH inter-RAT | | | | | | CELL_DCH inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
NOTE 1: The number of resource elements within the considered measurement
frequency bandwidth and within the measurement period that are used by the UE
to determine RSRP is left up to the UE implementation with the limitation that
corresponding measurement accuracy requirements have to be fulfilled.
NOTE 2: The power per resource element is determined from the energy received
during the useful part of the symbol, excluding the CP.
### 5.1.18 Void
### 5.1.19 E-UTRA RSRQ
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ) is | | | defined as the ratio _N_ ×RSRP/(E-UTRA carrier | | | RSSI), where _N_ is the number of resource | | | blocks of the E-UTRA carrier RSSI measurement | | | bandwidth. The measurements in the numerator | | | and denominator shall be made over the same | | | set of resource blocks. | | | | | | E-UTRA Carrier Received Signal Strength | | | Indicator (RSSI), comprises the linear average | | | of the total received power (in [W]) | | | observed only in OFDM symbols containing | | | reference symbols for antenna port 0, in the | | | measurement bandwidth, over _N_ number of | | | resource blocks by the UE from all sources, | | | including co-channel serving and non-serving | | | cells, adjacent channel interference, thermal | | | noise etc. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSRQ shall be the | | | antenna connector of the UE. | | | | | | If receiver diversity is in use by the UE, the | | | reported value shall not be lower than the | | | corresponding RSRQ of any of the individual | | | diversity branches. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Applicable for** | CELL_DCH inter-RAT | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
## 5.2 UTRAN measurement abilities
The structure of the table defining a UTRAN measurement quantity is shown
below.
* * *
**Column field** Comment **Definition** Contains the definition of the
measurement.
* * *
The term \"antenna connector\" used in this sub-clause to define the reference
point for the UTRAN measurements refers to the \"BS antenna connector\" test
port A and test port B as described in [19]. The term \"antenna connector\"
refers to Rx or Tx antenna connector as described in the respective
measurement definitions.
### 5.2.1 Received total wide band power
* * *
**Definition** The received wide band power, including noise generated in the
receiver, within the bandwidth defined by the receiver pulse shaping filter.
The reference point for the measurement shall be the Rx antenna connector. In
case of receiver diversity the reported value shall be linear average of the
power in the diversity branches. When cell portions are defined in the cell,
the total received wideband power shall be measured for each cell portion.
* * *
### 5.2.2 SIR
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Type 1: | | | | | | Signal to Interference Ratio, is defined as: | | | (RSCP/ISCP)×SF. The measurement shall be performed | | | on the DPCCH of a Radio Link Set. In compressed | | | mode the SIR shall not be measured in the | | | transmission gap. The reference point for the SIR | | | measurements shall be the Rx antenna connector. If | | | the radio link set contains more than one radio | | | link, the reported value shall be the linear | | | summation of the SIR from each radio link of the | | | radio link set. If Rx diversity is used in the | | | Node B for a cell, the SIR for a radio link shall | | | be the linear summation of the SIR from each Rx | | | antenna for that radio link. When cell portions | | | are defined in the cell, the SIR measurement shall | | | be possible in each cell portion. | | | | | | where: | | | | | | RSCP = Received Signal Code Power, unbiased | | | measurement of the received power on one code. | | | | | | ISCP = Interference Signal Code Power, the | | | interference on the received signal. | | | | | | SF=The spreading factor used on the DPCCH. | | | | | | [Type 2:]{.underline} | | | | | | Signal to Interference Ratio, is defined as: | | | (RSCP/ISCP)×SF. The measurement shall be performed | | | on the PRACH control part. The reference point for | | | the SIR measurements shall be the Rx antenna | | | connector. When cell portions are defined in the | | | cell, the SIR measurement shall be possible in | | | each cell portion. | | | | | | where: | | | | | | RSCP = Received Signal Code Power, unbiased | | | measurement of the received power on the code. | | | | | | ISCP = Interference Signal Code Power, the | | | interference on the received signal. | | | | | | SF=The spreading factor used on the control part | | | of the PRACH. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.3 SIR~error~
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | SIR~error~ = SIR -- SIR~target_ave~, where: | | | | | | SIR = the SIR measured by UTRAN, defined in | | | section 5.2, given in dB. | | | | | | SIR~target_ave~ = the SIR~target~ averaged over | | | the same time period as the SIR used in the | | | SIR~error~ calculation. In compressed mode | | | SIR~target~=SIR~cm_target~ shall be used when | | | calculating SIR~target_ave~. In compressed mode | | | the SIR~target_ave~ shall not be calculated over | | | the transmission gap. The averaging of SIR~target~ | | | shall be made in a linear scale and | | | SIR~target_ave~ shall be given in dB. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.4 Transmitted carrier power
* * *
**Definition** Transmitted carrier power, is the ratio between the total
transmitted power on one DL carrier from one UTRAN access point, and the
maximum transmission power possible to use on that DL carrier at this moment
of time. Total transmission power is the mean power [W] on one carrier from
one UTRAN access point. Maximum transmission power is the mean power [W] on
one carrier from one UTRAN access point when transmitting at the configured
maximum power for the cell. Measurement shall be possible on any carrier
transmitted from the UTRAN access point. The reference point for the
transmitted carrier power measurement shall be the Tx antenna connector. In
case of Tx diversity the transmitted carrier power is the ratio between the
sum of the total transmitted powers of all branches and the maximum
transmission power. When cell portions are defined in the cell, the
transmitted carrier power for each cell portion shall be measured and reported
to higher layers.
* * *
### 5.2.5 Transmitted code power
* * *
**Definition** Transmitted code power, is the transmitted power on one
channelisation code on one given scrambling code on one given carrier. For
DPCH, measurement shall be possible on the DPCCH-field of any dedicated radio
link transmitted from the UTRAN access point and shall reflect the power on
the pilot bits of the DPCCH-field. For F-DPCH, measurement shall be possible
on the TPC-field and shall reflect the power on the TPC bits. When measuring
the transmitted code power in compressed mode all slots shall be included in
the measurement, e.g. also the slots in the transmission gap shall be included
in the measurement. The reference point for the transmitted code power
measurement shall be the Tx antenna connector. In case of Tx diversity the
transmitted code power for each branch shall be measured and summed together
in [W].
* * *
### 5.2.6 Transport channel BER
* * *
**Definition** The transport channel BER is an estimation of the average bit
error rate (BER) of the DPDCH data of a Radio Link Set. The transport channel
(TrCH) BER is measured from the data considering only non-punctured bits at
the input of the channel decoder in Node B. It shall be possible to report an
estimate of the transport channel BER for a TrCH after the end of each TTI of
the TrCH. The reported TrCH BER shall be an estimate of the BER during the
latest TTI for that TrCH.
* * *
### 5.2.7 Physical channel BER
* * *
**Definition** The Physical channel BER is an estimation of the average bit
error rate (BER) on the DPCCH of a Radio Link Set. An estimate of the Physical
channel BER shall be possible to be reported after the end of each TTI of any
of the transferred TrCHs. The reported physical channel BER shall be an
estimate of the BER averaged over the latest TTI of the respective TrCH.
* * *
### 5.2.8 Round trip time
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Round trip time (RTT), is defined as | | | | | | RTT = T~RX~ -- T~TX~, where | | | | | | T~TX~ = The time of transmission of the beginning | | | of a downlink DPCH or F-DPCH frame to a UE. The | | | reference point for T~TX~ shall be the Tx antenna | | | connector. | | | | | | T~RX~ = The time of reception of the beginning | | | (the first detected path, in time) of the | | | corresponding uplink DPCCH frame from the UE. The | | | reference point for T~RX~ shall be the Rx antenna | | | connector. | | | | | | Measurement shall be possible on DPCH or F-DPCH | | | for each RL transmitted from an UTRAN access point | | | and DPDCH for each RL received in the same UTRAN | | | access point. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.9 UTRAN GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
**Definition** T~UTRAN-GPS~ is defined as the time of the occurrence of a
specified UTRAN event according to GPS Time Of Week. The specified UTRAN event
is the beginning of the transmission of a particular frame in the cell. The
reference point for T~UTRAN-GPS~ shall be the Tx antenna connector.
* * *
### 5.2.10 PRACH Propagation delay
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | Propagation delay is defined as one-way | | | propagation delay as measured during PRACH access: | | | | | | [PRACH :]{.underline} | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | Propagation delay = (T~RX~ -- T~TX~ -- 2560)/2, | | | where: | | | | | | T~TX~ = The transmission time of AICH access slot | | | (n-2-AICH transmission timing), where 0≤(n-2-AICH | | | Transmission Timing)≤14 and | | | AICH_Transmission_Timing can have values 0 or 1. | | | The reference point for T~TX~ shall be the Tx | | | antenna connector. | | | | | | T~RX~ = The time of reception of the beginning | | | (the first detected path, in time) of the PRACH | | | message from the UE at PRACH access slot n. The | | | reference point for T~RX~ shall be the Rx antenna | | | connector. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.11 Acknowledged PRACH preambles
* * *
**Definition** The Acknowledged PRACH preambles measurement is defined as the
total number of acknowledged PRACH preambles per access frame per PRACH. This
is equivalent to the number of positive acquisition indicators transmitted per
access frame per AICH.
* * *
### 5.2.12 Void
### 5.2.13 Void
### 5.2.14 SFN-SFN observed time difference
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The relative timing difference between cell j and | | | cell i, defined as T~CPICHRxj~ - T~CPICHRxi~, | | | where: | | | | | | T~CPICHRxj~ is the time when the LMU receives the | | | beginning of one Primary CPICH frame from cell j | | | and | | | | | | T~CPICHRxi~ is the time when the LMU receives the | | | beginning of the Primary CPICH frame from cell i | | | that is closest in time to the beginning of | | | Primary CPICH frame received from cell j. | | | | | | The reference point for the measurements shall be | | | the Rx antenna connector. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.15 Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-
SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH transmission
* * *
**Definition** Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH,
HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH transmission is the ratio between the total
transmitted power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH
or E-HICH transmission on one DL carrier from one UTRAN access point, and the
maximum transmission power possible to use on that DL carrier at this moment
of time. Total transmission power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH,
E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH transmission is the mean power [W] of all codes not
used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH transmission on one
carrier from one UTRAN access point. Maximum transmission power is the mean
power [W] on one carrier from one UTRAN access point when transmitting at the
configured maximum power for the cell. The measurement shall be possible on
any carrier transmitted from the UTRAN access point. The reference point for
the measurement shall be the Tx antenna connector. In case of Tx diversity the
measurement is the ratio between the sum of the total transmitted powers of
all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH
transmission of all branches and the maximum transmission power. When cell
portions are defined in the cell, the measurement shall be performed and
reported to higher layers for each cell portion.
* * *
### 5.2.16 DL Transmission Branch Load
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The \'DL transmission branch load\' is the maximum | | | of the transmission branch loads calculated for | | | each branch. | | | | | | A \'transmission branch load\' is the ratio | | | between the total transmitted power [W] on the | | | considered branch and the \'maximum DL branch | | | capability\' on this branch. | | | | | | The \'maximum DL branch capability\' defines the | | | maximum transmission power possible to use on that | | | branch. | | | | | | The reference point for the transmission branch | | | load measurement shall be the TX antenna | | | connector. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.17 Received scheduled E-DCH power share (RSEPS)
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | **Definition** | The \'Received scheduled E-DCH power share\' is | | | defined as a report of 2 values for a considered | | | cell: | | | | | | 1. RSEPS: defined as a quotient: | | | | | | sum of all scheduled E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH power | | | contributions determined in the RSEPS measurement | | | period T=t2-t1>0 for all UEs for which this cell | | | is the serving E-DCH cell\ | | | divided by\ | | | the corresponding received total wideband power | | | value determined for this cell during T. | | | | | | 2. RTWP*: This is the received total wideband | | | power (RTWP) measured for this cell as defined in | | | section 5.2.1 but determined for the same time | | | period T starting at t1 and ending at t2 during | | | which RSEPS is determined. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSEPS and RTWP* | | | measurements shall be the Rx antenna connector. | | | | | | When cell portions are defined in the cell, RSEPS | | | (and RTWP*) shall be measured for each cell | | | portion. | | | | | | The sum in the numerator of RSEPS is determined | | | under the following conditions: | | | | | | - The contributions are summed up TTI wise and | | | only TTIs which are ending between the time | | | instants t1 and t2 are considered. | | | | | | - In case a UE has not only a radio link to the | | | considered cell but also other radio links to the | | | same Node B (\'softer handover\'): It is allowed | | | to take into account the power value combined for | | | these radio links of the same Node B and divided | | | by the number of combined radio links. | | | | | | Note: For improved measurement performance it is | | | possible to consider only the power contribution | | | determined for the considered cell. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
### 5.2.18 UTRAN GANSS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
**Definition** T~UTRAN-GANSS~ is defined as the time of the occurrence of a
specified UTRAN event according to GANSS Time Of Day. The specified UTRAN
event is the beginning of the transmission of a particular frame in the cell.
The reference point for T~UTRAN-GANSS~ shall be the Tx antenna connector.
* * *
# 6 Measurements for UTRA FDD
## 6.1 UE measurements
### 6.1.1 Compressed mode
#### 6.1.1.1 Use of compressed mode for monitoring
On command from the UTRAN, a UE shall monitor cells on other FDD frequencies
and on other modes and radio access technologies that are supported by the UE
(i.e. TDD, GSM, E-UTRA). To allow the UE to perform measurements, UTRAN shall
command that the UE enters in compressed mode, depending on the UE
capabilities.
The UE capabilities define whether a UE requires compressed mode in order to
monitor cells on other FDD frequencies and on other modes and radio access
technologies. UE capabilities indicate the need for compressed mode separately
for the uplink and downlink and for each mode, radio access technology and
frequency band.
A UE shall support compressed mode for all cases for which the UE indicates
that compressed mode is required.
A UE does not need to support compressed mode for cases for which the UE
indicates that compressed mode is not required. For these cases, the UE shall
support an alternative means of making the measurements.
The UE shall support one single measurement purpose for one transmission gap
pattern sequence. The measurement purpose of the transmission gap pattern
sequence is signalled by higher layers.
The following subclause provides rules to parameterise the compressed mode.
#### 6.1.1.2 Parameterisation of the compressed mode
In response to a request from higher layers, the UTRAN shall signal to the UE
the compressed mode parameters.
A transmission gap pattern sequence consists of consecutive occurrences of
transmission gap pattern 1, where transmission gap pattern 1 consists of one
or two transmission gaps. See figure 1.
The following parameters characterise a transmission gap pattern:
\- TGSN (Transmission Gap Starting Slot Number): A transmission gap pattern
begins in a radio frame, henceforward called first radio frame of the
transmission gap pattern, containing at least one transmission gap slot. TGSN
is the slot number of the first transmission gap slot within the first radio
frame of the transmission gap pattern;
\- TGL1 (Transmission Gap Length 1): This is the duration of the first
transmission gap within the transmission gap pattern, expressed in number of
slots;
\- TGL2 (Transmission Gap Length 2): This is the duration of the second
transmission gap within the transmission gap pattern, expressed in number of
slots. If this parameter is not explicitly set by higher layers, then TGL2 =
TGL1;
\- TGD (Transmission Gap start Distance): This is the duration between the
starting slots of two consecutive transmission gaps within a transmission gap
pattern, expressed in number of slots. The resulting position of the second
transmission gap within its radio frame(s) shall comply with the limitations
of [2]. If this parameter is not set by higher layers, then there is only one
transmission gap in the transmission gap pattern;
\- TGPL1 (Transmission Gap Pattern Length): This is the duration of
transmission gap pattern 1, expressed in number of frames;
The following parameters control the transmission gap pattern sequence start
and repetition:
\- TGPRC (Transmission Gap Pattern Repetition Count): This is the number of
transmission gap patterns within the transmission gap pattern sequence;
\- TGCFN (Transmission Gap Connection Frame Number): This is the CFN of the
first radio frame of the first pattern 1 within the transmission gap pattern
sequence.
In addition to the parameters defining the positions of transmission gaps,
each transmission gap pattern sequence is characterised by:
\- UL/DL compressed mode selection: This parameter specifies whether
compressed mode is used in UL only, DL only or both UL and DL;
\- UL compressed mode method: The methods for generating the uplink compressed
mode gap are spreading factor division by two or higher layer scheduling and
are described in [2];
\- DL compressed mode method: The methods for generating the downlink
compressed mode gap are spreading factor division by two or higher layer
scheduling and are described in [2];
\- downlink frame type: This parameter defines if frame structure type \'A\'
or \'B\' shall be used in downlink compressed mode. The frame structures are
defined in [2];
\- scrambling code change: This parameter indicates whether the alternative
scrambling code is used for compressed mode method \'SF/2\'. Alternative
scrambling codes are described in [3];
\- RPP: Recovery Period Power control mode specifies the uplink power control
algorithm applied during recovery period after each transmission gap in
compressed mode. RPP can take 2 values (0 or 1). The different power control
modes are described in [4];
\- ITP: Initial Transmit Power mode selects the uplink power control method to
calculate the initial transmit power after the gap. ITP can take two values (0
or 1) and is described in [4].
The UE shall support simultaneous compressed mode pattern sequences which can
be used for different measurements. The following measurement purposes can be
signalled from higher layers:
> \- FDD
>
> \- TDD
>
> \- GSM carrier RSSI measurement
>
> \- Initial BSIC identification
>
> \- BSIC re-confirmation
>
> \- E-UTRA.
The UE shall support one compressed mode pattern sequence for each measurement
purpose while operating in FDD mode, assuming the UE needs compressed mode to
perform the respective measurement. In case the UE supports several of the
measurement purposes, it shall support in parallel one compressed mode pattern
sequence for each supported measurement purpose where the UE needs compressed
mode to perform the measurement. The capability of the UE to operate in
compressed mode in uplink and downlink is given from the UE capabilities.
The GSM measurements Initial BSIC identification and BSIC re-confirmation are
defined in [20].
Higher layers will ensure that the compressed mode gaps do not overlap and are
not scheduled to overlap the same frame. The behaviour when an overlap occurs
is described in [11]. UE is not required to support two compressed mode gaps
in a frame.
In all cases, higher layers have control of individual UE parameters. Any
pattern sequence can be stopped on higher layers\' command.
The parameters TGSN, TGL1, TGL2, TGD, TGPL1, TGPRC and TGCFN shall all be
integers.
Figure 1: Illustration of compressed mode pattern parameters
#