# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document provides a high level description of the mobility procedures
applicable to Home NodeB support in Release 8. Where appropriate, the reasons
behind the agreements are provided. Throughout this document, unless otherwise
stated, the UE is assumed to be a Release 8 UE that supports the Closed
Subscriber Group (CSG) feature, whether it is actually a member of a CSG or
not. A Release 8 UE that does not support the CSG feature is not required to
support any of the procedures stated in this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 25.304: "UE procedures in idle mode and procedures for cell
> reselection in connected mode"
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 25.331: "Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification"
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Service accessibility\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as specified
[2]. A UE can always attempt emergency calls on an acceptable cell.
**Allowed CSG Cell:** A CSG cell on which a UE may normally camp if its
Allowed CSG List contains the cell's CSG Identity.
**Allowed CSG List:** A list stored in the USIM containing all the CSG
Identities of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
**Available PLMN:** A PLMN for which the UE has found at least one cell and
read its PLMN identity.
**Barred Cell** : A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.
**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection process
and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and (in most cases)
paging information.
**Camped on any cell** : UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG)** : A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**CSG Cell** : A cell, part of the PLMN, broadcasting a CSG Indicator that is
set to TRUE and a specific CSG identity. A CSG cell is accessible by the
members of the closed subscriber group for that CSG identity.
**CSG Identity (CSG ID)** : An identifier broadcast by a CSG cell or cells and
used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the associated
Closed Subscriber Group.
**DRX cycle:** Individual time interval between monitoring Paging Occasion for
a specific UE.
**Equivalent PLMN list:** List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE for
cell selection, cell reselection , MBSFN Cluster selection MBSFN Cluster
reselection and handover according to the information provided by the NAS.
**Home NodeB (HNB)** : A HNB is a customer-premises equipment that connects a
3GPP UE over UTRAN wireless air interface to a mobile operator's network using
broadband IP backhaul.
**HNB Name** : The Home NodeB Name is a broadcast string in free text format
that provides a human readable name for the Home NodeB CSG identity.
**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network
Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC of the IMSI.
**Non-CSG Cell** : A cell that is not a CSG cell, e.g. a macro cell.
**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by a RRC procedure or an Idle
Mode procedure.
**Radio Access Mode:** Radio access mode of the cell, FDD or TDD.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance UTRA or GSM.
**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred.
**Registration Area:** (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE may
roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Reserved Cell** : A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.
**Restricted Cell** : A cell on which camping is allowed, but access attempts
are disallowed for UEs whose access classes are indicated as barred.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.
**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular carrier that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure [14] [15]. As the
details of the layer 1 cell search are implementation dependent, the precise
definition of \'strongest cell\' is also implementation dependent.
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AS Access Stratum
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
CM Connection Management
CN Core Network
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DRX Discontinuous Reception
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HCS Hierarchical Cell Structure
HNB Home NodeB
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MCC Mobile Country Code
MM Mobility Management
MNC Mobile Network Code
NAS Non-Access Stratum
PCH Paging Channel
PI Page Indicator
PICH Page Indication Channel
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
TDD Time Division Duplex
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Overview
In Release 8, a Home NodeB may provide restricted access to only UEs belonging
to a Closed Subscriber Group (CSG). One or more of such cells, known as CSG
cells, are identified by a unique numeric identifier called CSG Identity. To
facilitate access control, a UE with CSG subscription would have an Allowed
CSG List, which contains one or more CSG Identities associated with the CSG
cells on which the UE is allowed access. The UE uses the Allowed CSG List
along with the CSG Identity broadcast by the CSG Cells in CSG cell selection
and reselection.
In addition, manual selection of CSG Identity is introduced, which enables the
human user to manually select a CSG Identity for the UE to camp on.
This document provides high level descriptions and procedures of the mobility
features to support CSG deployment in Release 8. The following areas will be
covered in the subsequent chapters:
  * Identifiers associated with the CSG framework
  * Manual selection of CSG Identity
  * Measurement rules for CSG Cells
  * Cell reselection to a CSG cell, from a CSG cell, and between CSG cells
  * Handover to a CSG cell, from a CSG cell, and between allowed CSG cells, where applicable.
# 5 CSG Identification
One or more Closed Subscriber Group (CSG) cells are identified by a unique
numeric identifier called CSG Identity or CSG ID. A UE belonging to a CSG has
the corresponding CSG ID in its Allowed CSG List. The Allowed CSG List is
maintained and provided by NAS. The CSG ID is broadcast in system information
by the CSG cell, and used by the UE for cell (re)selection purposes.
A cell may optionally broadcast the CSG Indicator, whose presence and value of
TRUE indicates the cell is a CSG cell.
A CSG cell may broadcast the HNB Name, a textual identifier, in system
information. The HNB Name can be used to aid the human user in manual
selection of a CSG ID.
At the physical layer, a CSG cell is identified by its carrier frequency
(UARFCN) and Primary Scrambling Code (PSC). A set of PSC could be reserved for
CSG deployment and this reserved PSC range may be signalled in system
information. The PSC of a CSG cell belongs to the reseverd PSC range if
broadcasted.
On the mixed carrier frequency shared by both non-CSG cells (UMTS macro cells)
and CSG cells, CSG cells broadcast in system information the PSC range
reserved by the network for CSG cells. The non-CSG cells may also broadcast
the reserved PSC range. The reserved PSC range is only applicable to the
UARFCN within the PLMN where the UE received this information. The UE
considers the last received reserved PSC range to be valid within the entire
PLMN for the duration of 24 hours. The UE may use the reserved PSC information
for CSG cell search and (re)selection purposes, according to UE's
implementation.
Macro cells and CSG cells may broadcast indications of one or more carrier
frequencies used for dedicated CSG deployment. This information may be used by
a UE to avoid unnecessary measurements on that frequency even when cell
measurement rules would require measurements of this carrier frequency.
Indications of which carrier frequencies are dedicated to CSG-only deployment
may be signalled in system information and are applicable only in the cell
where this information is broadcasted.
# 6 CSG Selection
## 6.1 Manual CSG ID Selection
Manual CSG ID selection enables a human user to select a CSG ID. In manual CSG
ID selection the UE may scan all frequencies in the supported frequency bands
and display a list of found CSG IDs or the corresponding HNB Names if
broadcast by the CSG cells belonging to the registered PLMN, and indications
as to whether the found CSG IDs are contained in the UE's Allowed CSG List.
When the user selects an entry in the list, the UE selects any CSG cell among
the ones with same CSG ID. The UE may normally camp on the chosen cell if it
is an allowed CSG cell.
During manual CSG ID selection a UE is allowed to perform Location
Registration procedure on a CSG cell which CSD ID is not in the Allowed CSG
List.
Based on the outcome of a Location Registration procedure initiated on a CSG
cell the UE's Allowed CSG List is updated.
The UE is allowed to _not_ support manual CSG selection in connected mode.
# 7 CSG Cell Reselection
## 7.1 Measurement Rules for CSG Cells
To measure allowed CSG cell(s), a UE applies an autonomous search function,
per UE implementation, regardless of which RAT the UE is camping on. The
autonomous search function determines when and where to search for the allowed
CSG cells.
On a mixed carrier, a UE may avoid measurements of any CSG cells that are
known by the UE to be not allowed.
A UE may avoid measurements of any CSG cells that are known by the UE to be
not allowed on the carrier frequency dedicated to CSG deployment.
## 7.2 Reselection to CSG Cell
The cell reselection criteria described in this section is applicable when the
UE is in the following call states: Idle Mode, Cell_PCH and URA_PCH states,
but not Cell_FACH, unless otherwise stated.
### 7.2.1 Criteria for Intra-frequency Cell Reselection
For intra-frequency reselection from a non-CSG cell to an allowed CSG cell,
the UE follows the same cell ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case
in [2]. The UE may ignore not allowed CSG cells in the ranking. The UE applies
reselection parameters broadcast by the serving cell. A UE may normally camp
on an allowed CSG cell.
### 7.2.2 Criteria for Inter-frequency Cell Reselection
For inter-frequency cell reselection, the UE considers the frequency where its
allowed CSG cell is on to have the highest priority value, irrespective of
network configured frequency priorities, as long as the CSG cell remains
allowed and best ranked on that frequency.
### 7.2.3 Criteria for Inter-RAT Cell Reselection
Inter-RAT reselection to an allowed CSG cell is supported when the UE is
camped on another RAT. The UE requirements are defined in the specifications
of the concerned RAT.
## 7.3 Reselection from CSG Cell
### 7.3.1 Criteria for Intra-frequency Cell Reselection
For intra-frequency reselection from an allowed CSG cell to a non-CSG cell,
the UE follows the same cell ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case
defined in [2].
### 7.3.2 Criteria for Inter-frequency Cell Reselection
For inter-frequency reselection from an allowed CSG cell to a non-CSG cell,
the UE follows the same cell ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case
defined in [2].
### 7.3.3 Criteria for Inter-RAT Cell Reselection
For reselection from a CSG cell to a GSM or E-UTRA cell, the UE follows the
respective procedures defined in [2].
## 7.4 Reselection from CSG Cell to CSG Cell
For reselection between allowed CSG cells, the UE follows the same cell
ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case in [2].
## 7.5 Parameters for CSG Cell Reselection
No new parameters are defined for CSG cell ranking. The same cell reselection
parameters defined for the UTRA case in [2] are used for CSG cell ranking
purposes, if configured. The operator may configure the cell reselection
parameters, such as Qoffset and Qhyst, to bias the reselection of CSG cells.
# 8 CSG Cell Handover
## 8.1 Handover to CSG Cell
In Cell_DCH state, handover from a non-CSG cell to an allowed CSG cell is not
within the scope of Release 8.
## 8.2 Handover from CSG Cell
In Cell_DCH state, the handover procedure from an allowed CSG cell to a non-
CSG cell is expected to be the same as the procedure specified in [3].
## 8.3 Handover from CSG Cell to CSG Cell
In Cell_DCH state, handover between allowed CSG cells with the same CSG ID is
expected to be the same as the procedure specified in [3].
In Cell_DCH state, handover between allowed CSG cells with different CSG IDs
is expected to be the same as the procedure specified in [3].
#