# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for user data transport protocols
and related signalling protocols to establish user plane transport bearers
over the UTRAN Iu interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (11/95): \"B-ISDN ATM layer specification\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.2 (11/00): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation layer
specification: Type 2 AAL\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5 (8/96): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation layer
specification: Type 5 AAL\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 (6/98): \"Segmentation and Reassembly Service
Specific Convergence Sublayer for the AAL type 2\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation E.164 (5/97): \"The international public
telecommunication numbering plan\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2110 (7/94): \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer \-
Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2140 (2/95): \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer \-
Service Specific Coordination Function for Support of Signalling at the
Network Node Interface (SSCF-NNI)\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2150.1 (12/99): \"AAL type 2 signalling transport
converter on broadband MTP\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2210 (7/96): \"Message transfer part level 3
functions and messages using the services of ITU-T Recommendation Q.2140\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 (12/99): \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 1)\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation X.213 (11/95): \"Information technology - Open
systems interconnection - Network Service Definitions\".
[12] IETF RFC 768 (Auguest 1980): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[13] IETF RFC 791 (September 1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[14] IETF RFC 2684 (September 1999): \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM
Adaptation Layer 5\".
[15] IETF RFC 2225 (April 1998): \"Classical IP and ARP over ATM\".
[16] IETF RFC 2460 (December 1998): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface \".
[18] IETF RFC 793 (September 1981): \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[19] IETF RFC 2474 (December 1998): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the Ipv4 and Ipv6 Headers\".
[20] ITU-T Implementor\'s guide (12/99) for recommendation Q.2210 (07/96).
[21] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 (12/00): \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 2)\".
[22] IETF RFC 1889 (January 1996): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real Time
Applications\".
[23] IETF RFC 1890 (January 1996): \"RTP Profile for Audio and Video
Conferences with Minimal Control\".
[24] 3GPP TS 25.415: \"UTRAN Iu Interface User Plane Protocols\"
[25] IETF RFC 1661 (July 1994): \"The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)\".
[26] IETF RFC 1662 (July 1994): \"PPP in HDLC-like Framing\".
[27] IETF RFC 2507 (February 1999): \"IP header compression\".
[28] IETF RFC 1990 (August 1996): \"The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)\".
[29] IETF RFC 2686 (September 1996): \"The Multi-Class Extension to Multi-Link
PPP\".
[30] IETF RFC 2509 (February 1999): \"IP Header Compression over PPP\".
[31] Void[32] IETF RFC 3153 (August 2001): \"PPP Multiplexing\".
[33] IETF RFC 2364 (July 1998): \"PPP over AAL5\".
[34] IETF RFC 3031 (January 2001): \"Multiprotocol Label Switching
Architecture\".
[35] ITU-T Recommendation E.191 (03/00): \"B-ISDN addressing\".
[36] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN overall description\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Access Link Control Application Part (ALCAP):** generic name for the
transport signalling protocols used to set-up and teardown transport bearers
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL ATM Adaptation Layer
AESA ATM End System Address
ALCAP Access Link Control Application Part
ARP Address Resolution Protocol
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CN Core Network
GTP GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
HDLC High-level Data Link Control
IP Internet Protocol
LC Link Characteristics
LIS Logical IP Subnet
MTP3b Message Transfer Part level 3 for Q.2140
NSAP Network Service Access Point
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
RFC Request For Comment
RNC Radio Network Controller
RTCP Real-time Transport Control Protocol
RTP Real-time Transport Protocol
SA Service Area
SABP Service Area Broadcast Protocol
SABS Service Area Broadcast Service
SAR Segmentation and Reassembly
SCSF-NNI Service Specific Coordination Function-Network Node Interface
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSCS Service Specific Convergence Sublayer
SSRC Synchronisation Source
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TEID Tunnel Endpoint Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
VC Virtual Circuit
# 4 Data Link Layer
## 4.1 ATM Transport Option
ATM shall be used in the transport network user plane and the transport
network control plane according to ITU-T Recommendation I.361 [1]. The
structure of the cell header used in the UTRAN Iu interface is the cell header
format and encoding at NNI (see figure 3/I.361).
## 4.2 IP Transport Option
An RNC/CN-node supporting IP transport option on the Iu interface shall
support PPP protocol with HDLC framing [25], [26].
NOTE: This does not preclude the single implementation and use of any other
protocols (e.g. PPPMux/AAL5/ATM, PPP/AAL2/ATM, Ethernet, MPLS/ATM, etc.)
fulfilling the UTRAN requirements toward the upper layers.
An RNC/CN-node supporting IP transport option on the Iu interface and having
interfaces connected via low bandwidth PPP links like E1/T1/J1 shall also
support IP Header Compression [27] and the PPP extensions ML/MC-PPP [28],
[29]. In this case the negotiation of header compression [27] over PPP shall
be performed via [30].
# 5 Circuit switched domain
## 5.1 Transport network user plane
### 5.1.1 General
There are two options for the transport layer for data streams over Iu-CS:
1) ATM based Transport (ATM transport option)
2) IP based Transport (IP transport option)
The following figure shows the protocol stacks of the two options.
Figure 1. Transport network layer for data streams over Iu-CS.
### 5.1.2 ATM Transport Option
#### 5.1.2.1 ATM Adaptation Layer 2
##### 5.1.2.1.1 AAL2-Segmentation and Reassembly Service Specific Convergence
Sublayer (I.366.1)
Service Specific Segmentation and Reassembly (SSSAR) sublayer of ITU-T
Recommendation I.366.1 [4] is used for the segmentation and reassembly of AAL2
SDUs (i.e., only SSSAR is used from ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1).
##### 5.1.2.1.2 AAL2-specification (I.363.2)
AAL2 shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation I.363.2 [2].
### 5.1.3 IP Transport Option
#### 5.1.3.1 General
In the IP transport option RTP over UDP over IP shall be supported as the
transport for data streams on the Iu-CS interface. The data link layer is as
specified in subclause 4.2.
The transport bearer is identified by the UDP port number and the IP address
(source UDP port number, destination UDP port number, source IP address,
destination IP address).
The source IP address and destination IP address exchanged via RANAP on the
Iu-CS interface shall use the NSAP structure. See sub clause 6.1.8.2 in [36].
#### 5.1.3.2 UDP/IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP [12].
An IP RNC/CN-node shall support IPv6. The support of IPv4 is optional.
NOTE: This does not preclude single implementation and use of IPv4.
IP dual stack support is recommended for the potential transition period from
IPv4 to IPv6 in the transport network.
There may be one or several IP addresses in the RNC and in the CN. The packet
processing function in the CN shall send downstream packets of a given RAB to
the RNC IP address / UDP port (received in RANAP) associated to that
particular RAB. The packet processing function in the RNC shall send upstream
packets of a given RAB to the CN IP address / UDP port (received in RANAP)
associated to that particular RAB. If there is no RNC IP address / UDP port
yet associated to the packet processing function in the CN for a RAB not yet
finally set-up, the packet processing function in the CN for that RAB shall
extract the source IP address / UDP port from the first received IP packet to
identify the peer IP/UDP entity. The packet processing function in the RNC
shall use the same source IP address / UDP port as is sent to CN in RANAP.
The RNC/CN-node shall use two consecutive port numbers for the RTP bearer and
for the optional RTCP connection that transport a single Iu UP connection. Two
such consecutive port numbers are termed "port number block" in what follows.
The first port number shall be even and shall be assigned to the RTP protocol.
The next port number shall be assigned to the RTCP protocol. This port shall
be reserved even if the optional RTCP protocol is not used.
Each RNC/CN-node shall administer the port numbers it intends to use for
RTP/RTCP port number blocks.
#### 5.1.3.3 RTP
RTP [22] shall be applied.
##### 5.1.3.3.1 RTP Header
The RTP Header Fields shall be used as described in the following subclauses:
##### 5.1.3.3.1.1 Version {#version .H6}
RTP Version 2 shall be used.
##### 5.1.3.3.1.2 Padding {#padding .H6}
Padding shall not be used.
##### 5.1.3.3.1.3 Extension {#extension .H6}
The RTP Header shall not have an extension.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.4 Contributing Source (CSRC) count
There are zero CSRCs.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.5 Marker Bit
The marker bit is ignored.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.6 Payload Type
A dynamic Payload Type [23] shall be used. Values in the Range between 96 and
127 shall be used. The value shall be ignored in the receiving entity.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.7 Sequence Number
The sequence number shall be supplied by the source of an RTP PDU. The sink of
an RTP PDU may ignore the sequence number or it may use it to obtain
statistics about the link quality and / or to correct out-of-sequence
delivery, e.g. by dropping out-of-sequence packets.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.8 Timestamp
The timestamp shall be supplied by the source of an RTP PDU. A clock frequency
of 16000 Hz shall be used. The sink of an RTP PDU may ignore the timestamp or
it may use it to obtain statistics about the link quality and / or to correct
jitter.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.9 Synchronisation Source (SSRC)
The source of an RTP PDU shall supply a SSRC. The sink of an RTP PDU may
ignore the SSRC if it does not use RTCP.
###### 5.1.3.3.1.10 CSRC list
This list is empty.
##### 5.1.3.3.2 RTP Payload
A single Iu UP PDU, as described in [24], shall be transported as RTP payload.
#### 5.1.3.4 RTCP
RTCP [22] may be applied. RTCP over UDP [12] over IPv6 [16] shall be used
(IPv4 [13] may be used optionally). The use of the RTCP protocol is optional.
The receiving entity may ignore incoming RTCP PDUs.
Figure 1a shows the protocol stack for the transport of RTCP. The above
Sections about IP and UDP shall also apply for the transport of RTCP.
+---------------------------+ | RTCP _(RFC 1889)_ | +---------------------------+ | UDP _(RFC 768)_ | +---------------------------+ | _IPv6 (RFC2460)_ | | | | _IPv4 optional (RFC 791)_ | +---------------------------+
Figure 1a. RTCP Protocol stack for data stream transport on Iu-CS.
#### 5.1.3.5 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking [19] shall be supported. The
mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points shall be
configurable by O&M for each traffic category. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
## 5.2 Transport network control plane
### 5.2.1 General
The following figure shows the protocol stack for transport signalling over
Iu-CS in ATM based transport (ATM transport option). An ALCAP protocol is not
required when both UTRAN and CN nodes are using the IP based transport (IP
transport option).
The protocol stack for IP-ALCAP in IP to ATM interworking case is defined in
chapter 5.3.3 of this Technical Specification.
Figure 2. Signalling bearer for ALCAP on Iu-CS interface.
### 5.2.2 Transport Signalling for the ATM Transport Option
#### 5.2.2.1 Signalling protocol (ALCAP)
##### 5.2.2.1.1 AAL2 Signalling Protocol (Q.2630.2)
In the ATM transport option ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 [21] shall be used
for establishing AAL2 connections towards the circuit switched domain. ITU-T
Recommendation Q.2630.2 [21] adds new optional capabilities to ITU-T
Recommendation Q.2630.1 [10].
The AAL2 transport layer uses the embedded E.164 or other AESA variants of the
NSAP addressing formats [11, 35]. Native E.164 addressing [5] shall not be
used.
Binding ID provided by the radio network layer shall be copied in SUGR
parameter of ESTABLISH request primitive of ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2
[21].
The Link Characteristics parameter (LC) shall be included in the Establish
Request message and in the Modification Request message of AAL2 signalling
protocol.
#### 5.2.2.2 Signalling transport converter
##### 5.2.2.2.1 AAL2 MTP3B Signalling Transport Converter (Q.2150.1)
The AAL2 MTP3b Signalling Transport Converter shall be used according to ITU-T
Recommendation Q.2150.1 [8].
#### 5.2.2.3 MTP3b (Q.2210)
MTP3b shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation Q.2210 [9 and 20].
#### 5.2.2.4 SSCF-NNI (Q.2140)
SSCF-NNI shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation Q.2140 [7].
#### 5.2.2.5 SSCOP (Q.2110)
SSCOP shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation Q.2110 [6].
#### 5.2.2.6 ATM Adaptation Layer Type 5 (I.363.5)
AAL5 shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5 [3].
## 5.3 Interworking between ATM and IP Transport Options
### 5.3.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the interworking between IP and ATM transport options.
An RNC/CN-node supporting IP transport option shall provide interworking to a
CN-node/RNC supporting only ATM transport option.
### 5.3.2 Interworking Alternatives
For interworking with a CN-node/RNC supporting only ATM transport option, the
RNC/CN-node supporting IP transport option shall additionally support at least
one of the following interworking mechanisms:
1) ATM&IP dual stack. An IP-ALCAP protocol is not required in this
interworking solution.
Annex A of this technical specification shows an example of protocols for the
case the ATM&IP RNC/CN-node has no ATM connectivity.
2) An Interworking Function (IWF), either internal or external to the RNC/CN
node.
Annex A of this technical specification shows an example of a protocol stack
for the case when the IWF is an external unit to the RNC/CN node. Other
protocol stacks for this case are not precluded.
# 6 Packet switched domain
## 6.1 Transport network user plane
### 6.1.1 General
There are two options for the transport layer for data streams over Iu-PS:
1) ATM based Transport (ATM transport option)
2) IP based Transport (IP transport option)
The following figure shows the protocol stacks of the two options.
Figure 3. Transport network layer for data streams over Iu-PS.
### 6.1.2 ATM Transport Option
#### 6.1.2.1 General
In the ATM transport option, the protocol architecture for the User Plane of
the Iu interface towards the packet switched domain shall be GTP-U [17] over
UDP over IP over AAL5 over ATM. One or several AAL5/ATM permanent VC\'s may be
used as the common layer 2 resources between the UTRAN and the packet switched
domain of the CN.
One switched VC may be used per user flow. The standardisation of the
procedures and protocols for use of Switched VC is outside the scope of 3GPP.
Congestion control shall be performed over the Iu user plane toward the packet
switched domain using buffer management and no flow control.
#### 6.1.2.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U [17] protocol shall be used over the Iu interface toward the packet
switched domain.
#### 6.1.2.3 UDP /IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP [12], which is specified in RFC 768.
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in [17].
IPv4 [13] (RFC 791) shall be supported; IPv6 [16] (RFC 2460) support is
optional.
There may be one or several IP addresses in the RNC and in the CN. The packet
processing function in the CN shall send downstream packets of a given RAB to
the RNC IP address (received in RANAP) associated to that particular RAB. The
packet processing function in the RNC shall send upstream packets of a given
RAB to the CN IP address (received in RANAP) associated to that particular
RAB.
There is one RNC IP address per RNC in the CN associated with one MBMS RAB.
This address is received in RANAP at the establishment of the MBMS RAB. The
packet processing function in the CN shall send the downstream packets of the
MBMS RAB to this associated RNC IP address.
#### 6.1.2.4 ATM Adaptation Layer Type 5 (I.363.5)
AAL5 shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5 [3].
AAL5 virtual circuits shall be used to transport the IP packets across the Iu
interface toward the packet switched domain. Multiple VCs may be used over the
interface. An association shall be made between a VC and the IP addresses that
are related to this VC in the peer node side. This association shall be made
using O&M or using \"ATM Inverse ARP\" when PVCs are used.
When PVCs are used, quality of service differentiation shall only be performed
at the IP layer using differentiated services [19].
#### 6.1.2.5 IP/ATM
When the association mentioned in 6.1.2.4 is made using 0&M, the \"LLC
encapsulation\" option of \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over AAL5\" shall be
used to carry the IP packets over the ATM transport network when PVCs are
used.
When the association mentioned in 6.1.2.4 is made using \"ATM Inverse ARP\",
\"Classical IP and ARP\" over ATM protocols and the \"LLC encapsulation\"
option of \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over AAL5\" shall be used to carry the
IP packets over the ATM transport network when PVCs are used. \"Classical IP
and ARP over ATM\" is specified in RFC 2225 [15]. \"Multiprotocol
Encapsulation over AAL5\" is specified in RFC 2684 [14].
\"Classical IP and ARP over ATM\" allows routers to be members of one or more
LISs. The CN side of the Iu interface shall provide IP routing
functionalities. The RNC side of the Iu interface may provide routing
functionalities. If the RNC side of the Iu interface does not provide routing
functionalities, the RNC routing tables shall include default route entries.
### 6.1.3 IP Transport Option
#### 6.1.3.1 General
In the IP transport option GTP-U [17] over UDP over IP shall be supported as
the transport for data streams on the Iu-PS interface. The data link layer is
as specified in subclause 4.2.
The transport bearer is identified by the GTP-U TEID [17] and the IP address
(source TEID, destination TEID, source IP address, destination IP address).
#### 6.1.3.2 GTP-U
The GTP-U [17] protocol shall be used over the Iu interface toward the packet
switched domain.
#### 6.1.3.3 UDP /IP
The path protocol used shall be UDP [12].
The UDP port number for GTP-U shall be as defined in [17].
An IP RNC/CN-node shall support IPv6. The support of IPv4 is optional.
NOTE: This does not preclude single implementation and use of IPv4.
IP dual stack support is recommended for the potential transition period from
IPv4 to IPv6 in the transport network.
RNC shall support fragmentation and assembly of GTP packets at the IP layer.
There may be one or several IP addresses in the RNC and in the CN. The packet
processing function in the CN shall send downstream packets of a given RAB to
the RNC IP address (received in RANAP) associated to that particular RAB. The
packet processing function in the RNC shall send upstream packets of a given
RAB to the CN IP address (received in RANAP) associated to that particular
RAB.
There is one RNC IP address per RNC in the CN associated with one MBMS RAB.
This address is received in RANAP at the establishment of the MBMS RAB. The
packet processing function in the CN shall send the downstream packets of the
MBMS RAB to this associated RNC IP address.
#### 6.1.3.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking [19] shall be supported. The
mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points shall be
configurable by O&M for each traffic category. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
## 6.2 Transport network control plane
ALCAP is not required over the Iu interface towards the packet switched
domain.
# 7 Broadcast Domain
## 7.1 Transport network user plane
### 7.1.1 General
There are two options for the transport layer for data streams over Iu-BC:
1) ATM based Transport (ATM transport option)
2) IP based Transport (IP transport option)
The following figure shows the protocol stacks of the two options.
Figure 4. Transport network layer for data streams over Iu-BC.
### 7.1.2 ATM Transport Option
#### 7.1.2.1 General
In the ATM transport option, the protocol architecture for the Service Area
Broadcast Plane of the Iu interface shall be TCP over IP over AAL5 over ATM.
#### 7.1.2.2 TCP/IP
The path protocol used shall be TCP, which is specified in RFC793 [18]. IPv4
[13] (RFC 791) shall be supported, IPv6 [16] (RFC 2460) support is optional.
The TCP Destination Port number for SABP messages is 3452. It is the
registered port number for SABP.
The 3452 destination port number shall be used by both entities (RNC or CN)
whenever it sets up a new TCP connection. When it sends SABP messages on an
existing TCP connection, the sending entity (RNC or CN) shall use as TCP
destination port number either 3452 if it was the initiator of this TCP
connection, or the TCP source port number that was received from the peer
entity that had initiated this existing TCP connection.
#### 7.1.2.3 ATM Adaptation Layer Type 5 (I.363.5)
AAL5 shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5.
AAL5 virtual circuits shall be used to transport the IP packets across the Iu
interface toward the broadcast domain. Multiple VCs may be used over the
interface. An association shall be made between a VC and the IP addresses that
are related to this VC in the peer node side. This association shall be made
using O&M or using ATM Inverse ARP according to Classical IP over ATM when
PVCs are used.
#### 7.1.2.4 IP/ATM
When the association mentioned in 7.1.2.3 is made using O&M, the \"LLC
encapsulation\" option of \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over AAL5\" shall be
used to carry the IP packets over the ATM transport network when PVCs are
used.
When the association mentioned in 7.1.2.3 is made using \"ATM Inverse ARP\",
\"Classical IP and ARP over ATM\" protocols and the \"LLC encapsulation\"
option of \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over AAL5\" shall be used to carry the
IP packets over the ATM transport network when PVCs are used. \"Classical IP
and ARP over ATM\" is specified in RFC 2225 [15]. \"Multiprotocol
Encapsulation over AAL5\" is specified in RFC 2684 [14].
### 7.1.3 IP Transport Option
#### 7.1.3.1 General
In the IP transport option TCP over IP shall be supported as the transport for
data streams on the Iu-BC interface. The data link layer is as specified in
subclause 4.2.
The transport bearer is identified by the TCP port number and the IP address
(source TCP port number, destination TCP port number, source IP address,
destination IP address).
#### 7.1.3.3 TCP /IP
The path protocol used shall be TCP, which is specified in RFC 793 [18].
The TCP Destination Port number for SABP messages is 3452. It is the
registered port number for SABP.
The 3452 destination port number shall be used by both entities (RNC or CN)
whenever it sets up a new TCP connection. When it sends SABP messages on an
existing TCP connection, the sending entity (RNC or CN) shall use as TCP
destination port number either 3452 if it was the initiator of this TCP
connection, or the TCP source port number that was received from the peer
entity that had initiated this existing TCP connection.
An IP RNC/CN-node shall support IPv6. The support of IPv4 is optional.
NOTE: This does not preclude single implementation and use of IPv4.
IP dual stack support is recommended for the potential transition period from
IPv4 to IPv6 in the transport network.
#### 7.1.3.4 Diffserv code point marking
IP Differentiated Services code point marking [19] shall be supported. The
mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points shall be
configurable by O&M for each traffic category. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
## 7.2 Transport network control plane
ALCAP is not required over the Iu interface towards the broadcast domain.
###### ## Annex A (informative): IP-ATM Interworking
# A.1 Application of IP tunnelling in IP-ATM interworking alternative 1 in
case of no direct ATM connectivity at the IP&ATM dual stack RNC/CN-node
One possibility of enabling ATM connectivity to the IP&ATM dual stack RNC/CN-
node in the IP-ATM interworking alternative 1 scenario specified in chapter
5.3.2 is to use any ATM emulation over IP protocol from the IETF standards
e.g. via tunnelling techniques.
# A.2 Application of IP-ALCAP in IP-ATM interworking alternative 2
One example scenario of IP-ATM interworking alternative 2 of section 5.3.2 is
to use IP-ALCAP as specified in ITU-T Recommendation Q.2631.1 (10/2003) as the
bearer control protocol between the RNC/CN Node and its external IWF. The
following figure shows the corresponding protocol stack.
{width="1.1409722222222223in" height="1.8333333333333333in"}
Figure A.1. Protocol stack for IP-ALCAP in IP-ATM interworking alternative 2
###### ## Annex B (informative): Change history