# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the TSG RAN TS 25.42x series of
UMTS Technical Specifications that define the Iur Interface. It is a logical
interface for the interconnection of two Radio Network Controller (RNC)
components of the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN) for the UMTS
system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.427: \"UTRAN Iub/Iur Interface User Plane Protocol for DCH Data
Streams\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.425: \"UTRAN Iur Interface: User Plane Protocols for Common
Transport Channel Data Streams\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.421: \"UTRAN Iur Interface: Layer 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.422: \"UTRAN Iur Interface: Signalling Transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.423: \"UTRAN Iur Interface: RNSAP Signalling \".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.424: \"UTRAN Iur Interface: Data Transport & Transport
Signalling \".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.426: \"UTRAN Iur & Iub Interface: Data Transport & Transport
Signalling for DCH Data Streams\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (7/96): \"Functional description of the
signalling connection control part\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712 (7/96): \"Definition and function of
signalling connection control part messages\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 (7/96): \"Signalling connection control part
formats and codes\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714 (7/96): \"Signalling connection control part
procedures\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 (12/99): \"AAL type 2 Signalling Protocol
(Capability Set 1)\".
[15] Void
[16] Void
[17] 3GPP TR 43.930: \"Iur-g interface; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.346: \"Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast Multicast
Service\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.319: \"Enhanced Uplink; Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
None.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL2 ATM Adaptation Layer type 2
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
ALCAP Access Link Control Application Part
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BSS Base Station Subsystem
CRNC Controlling RNC
CTP Common Transport Protocol
DCH Dedicated Transport Channel
DL Downlink
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
DRNC Drift Radio Network Controller
DRNS Drift Radio Network Subsystem
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
FACH Forward Access Channel
F-DPCH Fractional DPCH
FFS For Further Study
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
GT Global Title
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
IP Internet Protocol
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MRNC MBMS Master RNC
MTP3-B Message Transfer Part level 3 (for Q.2140)
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PTM Point To Multipoint
PTP Point To Point
QoS Quality of Service
RACH Random Access Channel
RF Radio Frequency
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNS Radio Network Subsystem
RNSAP Radio Network Subsystem Application Part
RRC Radio Resource Control
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SPC Signalling Point Code
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SRNS Serving Radio Network Subsystem
SS7 Signalling System N^o^ 7
SSCF-NNI Service Specific Co-ordination Function -- Network Node Interface
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSN Sub-System Number
STC Signalling Transport Converter
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UL Up-link
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
URA UTRAN Registration Area
USCH Uplink Shared Channel
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
## Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
> [FDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
> \"[FDD]\" applies only to FDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the
> heading preceding the tag \"[FDD]\" and the section following the heading
> applies only to FDD.
>
> [TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
> \"[TDD]\" applies only to TDD, including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and
> 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the heading preceding
> the tag \"[TDD]\" and the section following the heading applies only to TDD,
> including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps TDD.
>
> [3.84Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD.
>
> [1.28Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD.
>
> [7.68Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD.
>
> [FDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the
> \"[FDD - \" applies only to FDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying
> only to FDD are enclosed separately to enable insertion of TDD specific (or
> common) paragraphs between the FDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the
> \"[TDD - \" applies only to TDD including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and
> 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to TDD are
> enclosed separately to enable insertion of FDD specific (or common)
> paragraphs between the TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [3.84Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[3.84Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 3.84Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 3.84Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [1.28Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[1.28Mcps TDD -- \" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 1.28Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [7.68Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[7.68Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 7.68Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 7.68Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> Procedure When referring to a procedure in the specification, the Procedure
> Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters
> followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. RNSAP Basic Mobility Procedures.
>
> Message When referring to a message in the specification, the MESSAGE NAME
> is written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
> \"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
>
> Frame When referring to a control or data frame in the specification, the
> CONTROL/DATA FRAME NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters
> followed by the words \"control/data frame\", e.g. DCH data frame.
# 4 General Aspects
## 4.1 Introduction
The logical connection that exists between any two RNCs within the UTRAN is
referred to as the Iur interface.
## 4.2 Iur Interface General Principles
The general principles for the specification of the Iur interface are as
follows:
\- The Iur interface should be open;
\- The Iur interface shall support the exchange of signalling information
between two RNCs, in addition the interface may need to support one or more
Iur data streams;
\- From a logical standpoint, the Iur is a point-to-point interface between
two RNCs within the UTRAN. A point-to-point logical interface should be
feasible even in the absence of a physical direct connection between the two
RNCs.
## 4.3 Iur Interface Specification Objectives
### 4.3.1 General
The I~ur~ interface specifications shall facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of RNCs supplied by different manufacturers;
\- support of continuation between RNSs of the UTRAN services offered via the
Iu interface;
\- separation of I~ur~ interface Radio Network functionality and Transport
Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
### 4.3.2 Addressing of RNSs over the Iur Interface
\- For an RRC connection using a dedicated channel or for a UE using F-DPCH in
the downlink, the Iur standard shall allow the addition / deletion of radio
links supported by cells belonging to any RNS within the PLMN.
\- The specification of the Iur interface shall allow an RNC to address any
other RNC within the PLMN for establishing a signalling bearer over Iur.
\- The specification of the Iur interface shall allow an RNC to address any
other RNC within the PLMN for establishing user data bearers for Iur data
streams.
RNSAP shall allow different kinds of addressing schemes to be used for the
signalling bearer.
## 4.4 Iur Interface Capabilities
### 4.4.1 Radio application related signalling
The Iur interface provides capability to support radio interface mobility
between RNSs, of UEs having a connection with UTRAN. This capability includes
the support of handover, radio resource handling, MBMS handling and
synchronisation between RNSs.
### 4.4.2 Iub/Iur DCH data streams
The Iur interface provides the means for transport of uplink and downlink
Iub/Iur DCH frames carrying user data and control information between SRNC and
Node B (DRNS), via the DRNC.
In the UTRAN, one DCH data stream always corresponds to a bi-directional
transport channel. Although the TFS is configured separately for each DCH
direction and a DCH could be configured with e.g. only a zero-bit transport
format in one direction, the DCH is always treated as a bi-directional
transport channel in the UTRAN. As a result, two uni-directional Uu DCH
transport channels with opposite directions can be mapped to either one or two
DCH transport channels in the UTRAN.
### 4.4.3 Iur RACH data streams
The Iur interface provides the means for transport of uplink RACH transport
frames between DRNC and SRNC.
### 4.4.4 Iur DSCH data streams [TDD]
An Iur DSCH data stream corresponds to the data carried on one DSCH transport
channel for one UE. A UE may have multiple Iur DSCH data streams.
The Iur interface provides a means of transporting down link MAC-c/sh SDUs. In
addition, the interface provides a means to the SRNC for queue reporting and a
means for the DRNC to allocate capacity to the SRNC.
### 4.4.5 Iur USCH data streams [TDD]
An Iur USCH data stream corresponds to the data carried on one USCH transport
channel for one UE. A UE may have multiple Iur USCH data streams.
### 4.4.6 Iur FACH data streams
The Iur interface provides the means for transport of downlink FACH transport
frames between SRNC and DRNC.
### 4.4.7 Iur HS-DSCH data streams
An Iur HS-DSCH data stream corresponds to the data carried on one MAC-d flow
for one UE. A UE may have multiple Iur HS-DSCH data streams.
The Iur interface provides a means of transporting down link MAC-d PDUs. In
addition, the interface provides a means to the SRNC for queue reporting and a
means for the DRNC to allocate capacity to the SRNC.
### 4.4.8 Iub/Iur E-DCH data streams
The Iur interface provides the means for transport of Iub/Iur E-DCH frames
carrying user data between NodeB (DRNS) and SRNC, via the DRNC.
An Iur E-DCH data stream corresponds to the data carried on one MAC-d flow for
one UE. A UE may have multiple E-DCH data streams. In addition, the interface
provides the following:
\- A means for the Node B to indicate the number of HARQ retransmissions to
the SRNC [11];
\- A means to indicate to the SRNC, for the purposes of re-ordering, the CFN
and Subframe Number that have been added by the Node B in the DRNS[1].
## 4.5 Iur Interface Characteristics
### 4.5.1 Uses of SCCP
#### 4.5.1.1 General
The SCCP is used to support signalling messages between two RNCs. One user
function of the SCCP, called Radio Network Subsystem Application Part (RNSAP),
is defined. The RNSAP uses one signalling connection per DRNC and UE where a
UE is having one or more active radio links for the transfer of layer 3
messages. RNSAP also uses one signalling connection per RNC providing common
measurements and information to a particular RNC (i.e. if measurements and
information are transferred in both directions between a pair of RNCs, then
two SCCP connections are used).
Both connectionless and connection-oriented procedures are used to support the
RNSAP. TS 25.423 explain whether connection oriented or connectionless
services should be used for a layer 3 procedure.
The following subclauses describe the use of SCCP connections for RNSAP
transactions. Subclause 4.5.1.2 describes the connection establishment
procedures. Subclause 4.5.1.3 describes the connection establishment
procedures initiated from SRNC. Subclause 4.5.1.4 describes the connection
release procedures. Subclause 4.5.1.5 describes abnormal conditions.
#### 4.5.1.2 SCCP connection establishment
A new SCCP connection is established when information related to the
communication between a UE and the network has to be exchanged between two
RNCs, and no SCCP connection exists between the two RNCs involved, for the
concerned UE.
In this case, the SCCP connection is established by the SRNC.
A new SCCP connection is established when a request for common measurements or
information is made towards a particular RNC and no SCCP connection for common
measurements and information transfer has been established from the RNC
requesting the measurements or information towards the one providing the
measurements or the information.
In this case, the SCCP connection is established by the RNC requesting the
measurements or the information.
#### 4.5.1.3 Establishment procedure initiated from the SRNC
The SCCP signalling connection establishment is initiated, by the SRNC, when
the SRNC needs to request dedicated resources, i.e. a DCH, from a DRNC.
**Initiation**
\- The SRNC sends the SCCP: CR message to the DRNC. The RADIO LINK SETUP
REQUEST message or the ENHANCED RELOCATION REQUEST may be included in the user
data field of an SCCP Connection Request message.
**Termination**
1\. Successful outcome:
\- The SCCP Connection Confirm message, which may optionally contain a
connection oriented RNSAP message in the user data field, is returned to the
SRNC.
2\. Unsuccessful outcome:
\- If the SCCP signalling connection establishment fails, an SCCP Connection
Refusal message will be sent back to the SRNC. This message may optionally
contain a connection oriented RNSAP message.
For more information on how the RNSAP procedures Radio Link Setup and Enhanced
Relocation are handled, please see the procedures Radio Link Setup and
Enhanced Relocation in TS 25.423 [5].
Figure 1: Setting-up of SCCP Signalling Connection
#### 4.5.1.3A Establishment procedure initiated from an RNC requesting common
measurements or information
The SCCP signalling connection establishment is initiated, by an RNC, when the
RNC needs to request common measurements or provision of information from
another RNC and there is no signalling bearer existing for this purpose. For
the description below, the RNC requesting the measurements or the information
is called RNC1 and the RNC being requested to provide the measurements or the
information is called RNC2.
**Initiation**
\- The RNC1 sends the SCCP: CR message to the RNC2. The COMMON MEASUREMENT
INITIATION REQUEST or the INFORMATION EXCHANGE INITIATION REQUEST message
shall be included in the user data field of the SCCP Connection Request
message.
**Termination**
1\. Successful outcome:
\- The SCCP Connection Confirm message, which may optionally contain a
connection oriented RNSAP message in the user data field, is returned to the
RNC1.
2\. Unsuccessful outcome:
\- If the SCCP signalling connection establishment fails, an SCCP Connection
Refusal message will be sent back to the RNC1. This message may optionally
contain a connection oriented RNSAP message.
RNSAP Common Measurement Initiation and Information Exchange Initiation
procedures are described in [5].
Figure 1a: Setting-up of SCCP Signalling Connection
#### 4.5.1.4 SCCP connection release
An SCCP connection related to a specific UE is released in all normal release
cases when the RNC which established the SCCP connection realises that a given
signalling connection is no longer required.
The RNC which established SCCP connection sends an SCCP Released message.
The procedure may be initiated at the SRNC side and the DRNC side in any
abnormal release case.
An SCCP connection used for common measurements and information exchanges is
released in all normal release cases when the RNC1 (see 4.5.1.3A) determines
that a given signalling connection is no longer required. The RNC1 sends an
SCCP Released message.
In case an SCCP Release message is received after the successful completion of
an SRNC Relocation procedure while dedicated resources are still allocated the
new SRNC shall only release the SCCP connection and the Iur related dedicated
resource.
The procedure may be initiated at the RNC 1 side and the RNC 2 side in any
abnormal release case.
#### 4.5.1.5 General SCCP Abnormal Conditions
##### 4.5.1.5.1 SCCP bearer failure
If a user-out-of-service information or signalling-point-inaccessible
information is received by the RNSAP, no new attempt to establish SCCP
connections or to send SCCP Connectionless messages towards the affected
signalling point (indicated by the affected signalling point code) will be
started until the corresponding user-in-service information or signalling-
point-accessible information is received.
When a user-out-of-service information or signalling-point-inaccessible is
received by an RNC, an optional timer may be started. When the timer expires,
the RNC shall take actions as described in [5] Annex D.1.1. When the user-in-
service or signalling-point-accessible is received, the timer is stopped.
##### 4.5.1.5.2 SCCP connection failure
If for any reason an SCCP connection is released, the optional timer expires
or a connection refusal is received while any of the RNSAP procedures are
being performed or while a dedicated resource is still allocated, this shall
be handled by the RNC as described in [5] Annex D.1.2.
### 4.5.2 SCCP Addressing Scheme
#### 4.5.2.1 General
RNSAP may use SSN, SPC and/or GT and any combination of them as addressing
schemes for the SCCP. Which of the available addressing schemes to use for the
SCCP is an operator matter.
When GT addressing is utilised, the following settings shall be used:
\- SSN Indicator = 1 (RNSAP SSN as defined in [13] shall always be included);
\- Global Title Indicator = 0100 (GT includes translation type, numbering
plan, encoding scheme and nature of address indicator);
\- Translation Type = 0000 0000 (not used);
\- Numbering Plan = 0001 (E.163/4);
\- Nature of Address Indicator = 000 0100 (International Significant Number);
\- Encoding Scheme = 0001 or 0010 (BCD, odd or even);
\- Routing indicator = 0 or 1 (route on GT or PC/SSN).
When used, the GT shall be the E.164 address of the relevant node.
# 5 Functions of the I~ur~ Interface Protocols
## 5.1 Functional List
The list of functions on the Iur interface is the following:
1\. Transport Network Management.
2\. Traffic management of Common Transport Channels:
\- Preparation of Common Transport Channel resources;
\- Paging.
3\. Traffic Management of Dedicated Transport Channels:
\- Radio Link Setup/ Addition/ Deletion;
\- Measurement Reporting.
> 4\. [TDD - Traffic Management of Downlink Shared Transport Channels and
> Uplink Shared Transport Channels]:
\- Radio Link Setup/ Addition/ Deletion;
\- Capacity Allocation.
5\. Measurement reporting for common and dedicated measurement objects.
6\. Information exchange of UTRAN, GERAN and MBMS bearer service information.
7\. Tracing of various events related to a UE.
> 8\. MBMS related functions
>
> \- MBMS UE Linking/De-linking
>
> \- MBMS URA linking/De-linking
\- MBMS Channel type Indication
\- MBSFN MCCH Information Control
## 5.2 Functional Split over Iur
### 5.2.1 Combining/Splitting
DRNS may perform combining/splitting of data streams communicated via its
cells. SRNS performs combining/splitting of Iur data streams received
from/sent to DRNS(s), and data streams communicated via its own cells.
The UL combining of information streams may be performed using any suitable
algorithm, for example:
\- [FDD - based on maximum ratio algorithm (maximum ratio combining)];
\- [FDD - based on quality information associated to each TBS (selection-
combining)];
\- [TDD - based on the presence/absence of the signal (selection)].
The internal DRNS handling of combining (respectively splitting) of Iub
(respectively Iur) DCH frames is controlled by the DRNS.
### 5.2.2 Control of Combining/Splitting Topology
When requesting the addition of a new cell for a UE-UTRAN connection for DCH,
the RNC of the SRNS (i.e. the SRNC) can explicitly request to the RNC of the
DRNS (i.e. the DRNC) a new Iur data stream, in which case the combining and
splitting function within the DRNS is not used for that cell. The SRNC can
also explicitly request from the DRNC the use of the combining and splitting
function inside the DRNS for that cell. Otherwise, the DRNS takes the decision
whether combining and splitting function is used inside the DRNS for that cell
i.e. whether a new Iur data stream shall be added or not.
For E-DCH combining at the DRNC is not allowed. However, combining in NodeB of
the DRNS is mandatory where applicable as described in [19].
### 5.2.3 Handling of DRNS Hardware Resources
Allocation and control of DRNS hardware resources, used for Iur data streams
and radio interface transmission/reception in DRNS is performed by DRNS.
### 5.2.4 Allocation of Physical Channels
Allocation of physical channels in cells belonging to DRNS is performed in
DRNS.
### 5.2.5 UpLink Power Control
This group of functions controls the level of the uplink transmitted power in
order to minimise uplink interference and keep the quality of the connections.
If the connection involves both a SRNS and a DRNS the function UL Outer Loop
Power Control (located in the SRNC) sets the target quality for the UL Inner
Loop Power Control function (located in Node B for DCH [FDD]). For E-DCH, the
DRNS (NodeB) reports the number of HARQ retransmissions to SRNC as an input to
the Outer Loop Power Control function.
### 5.2.6 Down-Link Power Control
This group of functions controls the level of the downlink transmitted power.
In FDD it is also used to correct the downlink power drifting between several
radio links. SRNC regularly (or under some algorithms) sends the target down
link power reference based on the measurement report from UE.
### 5.2.7 Admission Control
Admission control in a DRNC is implicitly invoked during radio link
setup/modify.
Information on UL interference and DL power on cells controlled by the DRNC
should be available across Iur.
Additional information exchanges between admission control functions located
in different RNCs are for further study.
### 5.2.8 Radio Protocol Functional Split
Iur supports the radio protocol functional split between SRNC and DRNC.
### 5.2.9 MBMS Bearer Type Control
MBMS Bearer type control is split between SRNC and DRNC. The CRNC is in
control of an MBMS Bearer of PTM type. The MBMS bearer services activated by
the UE are transferred over Iur from SRNC to DRNC. In case the CRNC is a DRNC
for one or several UEs, it indicates the selected bearer type to SRNC but it
is SRNC decision to set up or release MBMS bearers of PTP type for a given UE
as described in [18].
### 5.2.10 MBSFN MCCH Information Control
In case MRNC is used, MBSFN MCCH Information Control function is split between
MRNC and CRNC. The MRNC controls the logical resources of the RNSs that are
used for MBSFN operation within the MBSFN cluster(s). The MRNC informs the
CRNC of the MCCH configuration and schedule information to be used. The CRNC
performs the MCCH configuration and sends the MCCH information accordingly.
# 6 I~ur~ Interface Protocols
## 6.1 General
There shall exist a clear separation between the Radio Network Layer and the
Transport Layer. Therefore, the radio network signalling and Iur data streams
are separated from the data transport resource and traffic handling as shown
in Figure 2. Data transport resource and traffic handling is controlled by
Transport Signalling. The Transport Signalling is carried by a Signalling
Bearer over the Iur interface.
Figure 2: Separation of Radio Network Protocols and transport over Iur
## 6.2 Radio Signalling Protocols
### 6.2.1 RNSAP Protocol
The protocol responsible for providing signalling information across the Iur
interface is called the Radio Network Subsystem Application Part (RNSAP). A
subset of RNSAP is used over the Iur-g interface.
The RNSAP is terminated by the two RNCs inter-connected via the Iur interface
RNSAP Procedure Modules. In addition, the RNSAP is terminated by a RNC and a
BSS supporting Iu mode inter-connected via the Iur-g interface.
RNSAP procedures are divided into four modules as follows:
1\. RNSAP Basic Mobility Procedures;
2\. RNSAP Dedicated Procedures;
3\. RNSAP Common Transport Channel Procedures;
4\. RNSAP Global Procedures;
5\. RNSAP MBMS Procedures.
The Basic Mobility Procedures module contains procedures used to handle the
mobility within UTRAN as well as to handle mobility in case of UTRAN/GERAN
interworking.
The Dedicated Procedures module contains procedures that are used to handle
DCHs, [FDD -- F-DPCH,] E-DCH, [TDD -- DSCH, USCHs] and HS-DSCH between two
RNSs. If procedures from this module are not used in a specific Iur, then the
usage of DCH, [FDD -- F-DPCH,] E-DCH, [TDD \-- DSCH, USCH] and HS-DSCH traffic
between corresponding RNSs is not possible.
The Common Transport Channel Procedures module contains procedures that are
used to control common transport channel data streams (excluding the DSCH, HS-
DSCH, E-DCH and USCH) over Iur interface.
The Global Procedures module contains procedures that are not related to a
specific UE. The procedures in this module are in contrast to the above
modules involving two peer CRNCs. The procedures in this module are also used
in cases involving one RNC and one BSS.
The MBMS Procedures module contains procedures that are specific to MBMS and
used for cases that cannot be handled by other modules.
## 6.3 User Plane Frame Protocols
### 6.3.1 Iub/Iur DCH Frame Protocol
There are two types of Iub/Iur DCH FP frames:
\- DCH data frame;
\- DCH control frame.
The contents of the Iub/Iur DCH data frame include:
\- Transport Block Sets;
\- Quality estimate.
The contents of the Iur DCH control frame include:
\- Measurement reports;
\- Power control information;
\- Synchronisation information.
For a more detailed description of the Iur/Iub DCH frame protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur & Iub Interface User Plane Protocol for DCH Data Streams\' [1].
### 6.3.2 Iur DSCH Frame Protocol [TDD]
There are two types of Iur DSCH FP frames:
\- DSCH data frame;
\- DSCH control frames.
The contents of the Iur DSCH data frame include:
\- MAC-c/sh SDUs;
\- User Buffer Status.
The contents of the Iur DSCH control frame include:
\- Flow control Information (UL);
\- Capacity Request Information (DL).
For a more detailed description of the Iur DSCH frame protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur Interface User Plane protocols for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams\' [2].
### 6.3.3 Iur USCH Frame Protocol [TDD]
There is one type of Iur USCH FP frames:
\- USCH data frame.
The contents of the Iur USCH data frame include:
\- MAC-c/sh SDUs.
For a more detailed description of the Iur USCH frame protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur Interface User Plane protocols for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams\' [2].
### 6.3.4 Iur RACH Frame Protocol
For a more detailed description of the Iur RACH framing protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur Interface User Plane protocols for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams\' [2].
### 6.3.5 Iur FACH Frame Protocol
For a more detailed description of the Iur FACH framing protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur Interface User Plane protocols for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams\' [2].
### 6.3.6 Iur HS-DSCH Frame Protocol
There are two types of Iur HS-DSCH FP frames:
\- HS-DSCH data frame;
\- HS-DSCH control frames.
The contents of the Iur HS-DSCH data frame include:
> \- MAC-d PDUs;
>
> \- User Buffer Status.
The contents of the Iur HS-DSCH control frame include:
> \- Flow control Information (UL);
>
> \- Capacity Request Information (DL).
For a more detailed description of the Iur HS-DSCH frame protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur Interface User Plane protocols for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams\' [2].
### 6.3.7 Iur E-DCH Frame Protocol
There is one type of Iur E-DCH FP frames:
\- E-DCH data frame;
The contents of the Iur E-DCH data frame include:
> \- Mac-es PDUs (multiplexed);
>
> \- Number of HARQ retransmissions;
>
> \- CFN and Sub frame number.
For a more detailed description of the Iur E-DCH frame protocol refer to
\'UTRAN Iur Interface User Plane Protocols for DCH Data Streams\' [1].
## 6.4 Mapping of Frame Protocols onto transport bearers
> DCH One Iur DCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer except in the
> case of co-ordinated DCHs in which case a set of co-ordinated DCHs are
> multiplexed onto the same transport bearer.
>
> [TDD - DSCH One Iur DSCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer.]
>
> HS-DSCH One Iur HS-DSCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer.
>
> E-DCH One Iur E-DCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer. For each
> E-DCH data stream, a transport bearer must be established over the Iur
> interface.
>
> [TDD - USCH One Iur USCH data stream is carried on one transport bearer.]
>
> RACH Multiple RACH data streams may be carried on one transport bearer.
>
> FACH Multiple FACH data streams may be carried on one transport bearer.
RACH and FACH data streams for one UE are carried on same transport bearer.
# 7 DRNS logical Model over I~ur~
## 7.1 Overview
The model in Figure 3 shows the Drift Radio Network System as seen from the
SRNC. It is modelled as a «black box» with a set of Radio Links on the Uu side
of the box and another set of User Plane access ports on the Iur side of the
box. The Radio Links are connected to the Iur user ports via the internal
transport mechanisms of the DRNS. Operations for controlling the connections
between ports are sent from the SRNC to the DRNC via an Iur Control Plane
port.
Figure 3: Drift RNS Logical Model
## 7.2 Logical Model Elements
### 7.2.1 Radio Link
A Radio Link represents a User Plane access point on the UTRAN side of the Uu
interface between the User Equipment and the UTRAN.
The semantics of a Radio Link include the following:
\- It is created, destroyed, and added by SRNC.
\- It can be attached to one or more Iur Data Ports at any given time.
\- Its resources are allocated and controlled by the DRNS.
### 7.2.2 Cell
It is defined by:
\- A Cell identifier.
The semantics of a Cell include the following:
\- It is created and destroyed by administrative procedures.
### 7.2.3 Iur DCH Data Port
One Iur DCH Data port represents one user plane transport bearer. One user
plane transport bearer will carry only one DCH data stream except in the case
of co-ordinated DCHs, in which case the data streams of all co-ordinated DCHs
shall be multiplexed on one and the same user plane transport bearer.
The semantics of an Iur DCH Data Port include the following:
\- It is created and destroyed by administrative procedures when transport
facilities are added to, or deleted from, the Iur interface between the SRNS
and DRNS. It can also be created and destroyed dynamically using dynamically
setup transport bearers to add or remove transport facilities.
\- It is assigned and released by the SRNC in reaction to requests for bearer
services from the UE.
\- It may be attached to one or more Radio Links. When attached to Radio Links
in the downlink direction, it acts as a point-to-multipoint connection for
diversity transmission. When attached to multiple Radio Links in the uplink
direction, it acts as a multipoint-to-point connection for diversity reception
[FDD].
\- The transmit and receive combining/splitting resources required to
implement the point-to-multipoint and multipoint-to-point connections are
controlled by the DRNS [FDD].
\- The Iur DCH Data Stream emanating from the Iur DCH Data Port terminates in
the SRNS connected to DRNS.
### 7.2.4 Iur DSCH Data Port [TDD]
One Iur DSCH Data port represents one bi-directional Iur user plane transport
bearer. One Iur user plane transport bearer will carry only one DSCH data
stream.
### 7.2.5 Iur USCH Data Port [TDD]
One Iur USCH Data port represents one Iur user plane transport bearer. One Iur
user plane transport bearer will carry only one USCH data stream.
### 7.2.6 Iur RACH/FACH Data Port
The Iur RACH/FACH data port represents a transport bearer and is identified
with a transport bearer identity.
### 7.2.7 Iur Control Port
An Iur Control Port represents the Control Plane access point on the Iur
interface between the SRNS and the DRNS. It is defined by:
\- A transport bearer channel identifier.
The semantics of an Iur Control Port include the following:
\- It is created via administrative procedures when the Iur interface is
created.
### 7.2.8 Iur HS-DSCH Data Port
One Iur HS-DSCH Data port represents one bi-directional Iur user plane
transport bearer. One Iur user plane transport bearer will carry only one HS-
DSCH data stream.
### 7.2.9 Iur E-DCH Data Port
One Iur E-DCH Data port represents one bi-directional Iur user plane transport
bearer. One Iur user plane transport bearer will carry only one E-DCH data
stream. It is assigned and released by the SRNC in reaction to requests for
bearer services from the UE. [FDD - It may be attached to one or more Radio
Links. When attached to multiple Radio Links in the uplink direction, the
receive combining resources required to implement the multipoint-to-point
connections is in the NodeB of the DRNS.]
# 8 I~ur~ Interface Protocol Structure
The Iur interface protocol architecture consists of two functional layers:
\- Radio Network Layer, defines the procedures related to the interaction of
two RNCs within a PLMN. The radio network layer consists of a Radio Network
Control Plane and a Radio Network User Plane.
\- Transport layer, defines procedures for establishing physical connections
between two RNCs within a PLMN.
Figure 4: Iur Interface Protocol Structure
# 9 Other I~ur~ Interface Specifications
## 9.1 UTRAN Iur Interface: Layer 1 (TS 25.421)
3GPP TS 25.421 specifies the range of physical layer technologies that may be
used to support the Iur interface and the Iur-g interface.
## 9.2 UTRAN Iur Interface: Signalling Transport (TS 25.422)
3GPP TS 25.422 specifies the signalling bearers for the RNSAP for Iur
Interface and for Iur-g interface.
## 9.3 UTRAN Iur Interface: RNSAP Specification (TS 25.423)
3GPP TS 25.423 specifies the RNSAP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the Iur interface and over the Iur-g interface.
## 9.4 UTRAN Iur Interface: Data Transport and Transport Signalling for Common
Transport Channel Data Streams (TS 25.424)
3GPP TS 25.424 specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of the Iur
interface. It also specifies the ALCAP protocol used to control these
transport bearers.
## 9.5 UTRAN Iur Interface: User Plane Protocols for Common Transport Channel
Data Streams (TS 25.425)
3GPP TS 25.425 specifies the user plane frame handling protocol for the common
channels on Iur interface.
## 9.6 UTRAN Iur & Iub Interface: Data Transport and Transport Signalling for
DCH Data Streams (TS 25.426)
3GPP TS 25.426 specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of the
Iub/Iur interface. It also specifies the ALCAP protocol used to control these
transport bearers.
## 9.7 UTRAN Iur & Iub Interface: User Plane Protocols for DCH Data Streams
(TS 25.427)
3GPP TS 25.427 specifies the user plane frame handling protocol for the
dedicated channels on Iub/Iur interface.
## 9.8 Summary of UTRAN Iur Interface Technical Specifications
The relationship between the technical specifications that define the UTRAN
Iur interface is shown in Figure 5.
Figure 5: Iur Interface Technical Specifications
#