# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the signalling transport related to PCAP
signalling to be used across the Iupc interface. The Iupc interface is a
logical interface for the interconnection of Stand-Alone SMLC (SAS) and Radio
Network Controller (RNC) components of the Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
Network (UTRAN) for the UMTS system. The radio network control signalling
between these nodes is based upon the Position Calculation Application Part
(PCAP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.422: \"UTRAN Iur Interface Signalling Transport\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (1996): \"Functional description of the
signalling connection control part\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712 (1996): \"Definition and function of Signalling
connection control part messages\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 (1996): \"Signalling connection control part
formats and codes\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714 (1996): \"Signalling connection control part
procedures\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation Q.715 (1996): \"Signalling connection control part
user guide\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Q.716 (1993): \"Signalling Connection Control Part
(SCCP) performance\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.305: \"Stage 2 functional specification of UE positioning in
UTRAN\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definition applies:
**Stand-Alone SMLC (SAS):** As defined in [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
A-GPS Assisted GPS
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CRNC Controlling Radio Network Controller
GPS Global Positioning System
GT Global Title
IP Internet Protocol
M3UA SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation Layer
MTP Message Transfer Part
PCAP Position Calculation Application Part
RNC Radio Network Controller
SAP Service Access Point
SAS Stand-Alone SMLC
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Centre
SPC Signalling Point Code
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SS7 Signalling System N^o^ 7
SSCF-NNI Service Specific Co-ordination Function -- Network Node Interface
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSN Sub-System Number
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 PCAP Signalling Bearer
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the Signalling Bearer protocol stack that supports the
PCAP signalling protocol.
The following requirements on the Signalling Bearer can be stated:
\- provide reliable transfer of control plane signalling messages in both
connectionless mode and connection-oriented mode;
\- provide separate independent connections for distinguishing individual
transactions;
\- provide networking and routing functions;
\- provide redundancy in the signalling network;
\- provide load sharing.
## 4.2 Signalling Bearer
The Iupc signalling bearer shall comply with the requirements of clause 5.2 in
[1].
## 4.3 Services Provided by the Signalling Bearer
When considering the requirements that the upper layers, i.e. PCAP, have on
the Signalling Bearer, there are a number of services it has to provide and a
number of functions to perform. These numbers of services that the signalling
bearer shall provide, to the upper layers, are stated in references [2] to
[7].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change history