# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the TSG RAN TS 25.45z series of
UMTS Technical Specifications that define the Iupc Interface. The Iupc
interface is a logical interface for the interconnection of Stand-Alone SMLC
(SAS) and Radio Network Controller (RNC) components of the Universal
Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN) for the UMTS system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.451: \"UTRAN Iupc Interface: Layer 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.452: \"UTRAN Iupc Interface: Signalling Transport\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.453: \"UTRAN Iupc Interface PCAP Signalling\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (7/96): \"Functional description of the
signalling connection control part\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712 (7/96): \"Definition and function of signalling
connection control part messages\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 (7/96): \"Signalling connection control part
formats and codes\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714 (7/96): \"Signalling connection control part
procedures\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.110: \"UMTS Access Stratum Services and Functions\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.305: \"Stage 2 functional specification of UE positioning in
UTRAN\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Stand-Alone SMLC (SAS):** As defined in [11].
**RNC Centric:** In this mode of operation (defined in [11]), the RNC is
responsible for position method selection and initiation of the selected
positioning method. Once a position method is selected, the RNC may interact
with the SAS to exchange data as well as for execution of the selected
positioning method.
**SAS Centric:** In this mode of operation (defined in [11]), the SAS is
responsible for position method selection and initiation of the selected
positioning method. Once a position method is selected, the SAS may interact
with the RNC to exchange data to enable it to execute the selected positioning
method.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
A-GPS Assisted GPS
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CRNC Controlling Radio Network Controller
> GANSS Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems
>
> GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
GT Global Title
IP Internet Protocol
M3UA SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation Layer
MTP Message Transfer Part
PCAP Position Calculation Application Part
RNC Radio Network Controller
SAS Stand-Alone SMLC
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Centre
SPC Signalling Point Code
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SS7 Signalling System N^o^ 7
SSCF-NNI Service Specific Co-ordination Function - Network Node Interface
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSN Sub-System Number
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 3.3 Specification Notations {#specification-notations
.Überschrift-2.Head2A.2}
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
> [FDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
> \"[FDD]\" applies only to FDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the
> heading preceding the tag \"[FDD]\" and the section following the heading
> applies only to FDD.
>
> [TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
> \"[TDD]\" applies only to TDD, including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and
> 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the heading preceding
> the tag \"[TDD]\" and the section following the heading applies only to TDD,
> including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps TDD.
>
> [7.68Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD.
>
> [3.84Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag "[3.84Mcps TDD]" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
> indicates that the heading preceding the tag "[3.84Mcps TDD]" and the
> section following the heading applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD.
>
> [1.28Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
> tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a
> heading indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" and
> the section following the heading applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD.
>
> [FDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the
> \"[FDD - \" applies only to FDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying
> only to FDD are enclosed separately to enable insertion of TDD specific (or
> common) paragraphs between the FDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the
> \"[TDD - \" applies only to TDD including 7.68 Mcps TDD, 3.84Mcps TDD and
> 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to TDD are
> enclosed separately to enable insertion of FDD specific (or common)
> paragraphs between the TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [7.68Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[7.68Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 7.68Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 7.68Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [3.84Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[3.84Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 3.84Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 3.84Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> [1.28Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
> the \"[1.28Mcps TDD -- \" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
> paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
> insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the
> 1.28Mcps TDD specific paragraphs.
>
> Procedure When referring to a procedure in the specification, the Procedure
> Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters
> followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. RNSAP Basic Mobility Procedures.
Message When referring to a message in the specification, the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
Frame When referring to a control or data frame in the specification, the
CONTROL/DATA FRAME NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters
followed by the words \"control/data frame\", e.g. DCH data frame.
# 4 General Aspects
## 4.1 Introduction
The logical interface between a RNC and a SAS within the UTRAN is referred to
the Iupc interface.
## 4.2 Iupc Interface General Principles
The general principles for the specification of the Iupc interface are as
follows:
\- the Iupc interface should be open;
\- complex functionality shall as far as possible be avoided over Iupc.
Advanced optimisation solutions may be added in later versions of the
standard;
\- from a logical standpoint, the Iupc is a point-to-point signalling
interface between an RNC and SAS within the UTRAN, even though there may not
be a direct physical connection between these two nodes;
\- one RNC may connect to one SAS. One SAS may provide services to one RNC;
\- neither the physical structure nor any internal protocols of the RNC or SAS
shall be visible over Iupc and are thus not limiting factors, e.g., when
introducing future technology.
## 4.3 Iupc Interface Specification Objectives
The Iupc interface specifications shall facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of RNCs and SASs from different manufacturers;
\- separation of Iupc interface Application functionality and Transport
Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
## 4.4 Iupc Interface Capabilities
### 4.4.1 General
The Iupc interface connects a RNC and a SAS.
### 4.4.2 Position Calculation Services
The Iupc interface enables an SRNC and a SAS to exchange information that is
related to the positioning of a single UE. These exchanges involve the
transfer of UE Positioning measurement data or UE position estimate data.
### 4.4.3 Information Exchange Services
The Iupc interface enables an RNC to request specific GNSS (GPS or GANSS)
related data from an SAS on demand, on modification, or at regular intervals.
### 4.4.4 SAS Centric Position Services
The Iupc interface enables an RNC and a SAS to exchange information that is
related to the positioning of a single UE, using SAS Centric mode of
operation.
## 4.5 Iupc Interface Characteristics
### 4.5.1 Uses of SCCP
#### 4.5.1.1 General
The SCCP, [5], [6], [7] and [8], is used to transport messages between the RNC
and SAS. One user function of the SCCP, called Positioning Calculation
Application Part (PCAP), is defined [4].
Both connectionless and connection-oriented procedures are used to support
PCAP. TS 25.453 explain whether connection oriented or connectionless services
should be used for a layer 3 procedure.
#### 4.5.1.2 SCCP Addressing
The inclusion of caller party address in SCCP message is mandatory. PCAP may
use SSN, SPC and/or GT and any combination of them as addressing schemes for
the SCCP. When GT addressing is utilised, the following settings shall be
used:
\- SSN Indicator = 1 (PCAP SSN as defined in [9]).
\- Global Title Indicator = 0100 (GT includes translation type, numbering
plan, encoding scheme and nature of address indicator).
\- Translation Type = 0000 0000 (not used).
\- Numbering Plan = 0001 (E.163/4).
\- Nature of Address Indicator = 000 0100 (International Significant Number).
\- Encoding Scheme = 0001 or 0010 (BCD, odd or even).
\- Routing indicator = 0 or 1 (route on GT or PC/SSN).
When used, the GT shall be the E.164 address of the relevant node.
#### 4.5.1.3 SCCP connection establishment
**Information Exchange services**
A new SCCP connection is established when the RNC initiates a class-1
elementary procedure for Information Exchange services and there is no
signalling bearer existing for this purpose.
An SCCP connection is always established by the RNC.
**SAS Centric Position services**
A new SCCP connection is established when the RNC initiates a class-1
elementary procedure, with respect to each new positioning request, for SAS
Centric Position services.
An SCCP connection is always established by the RNC.
**Initiation**
The RNC sends SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message to the SAS. A PCAP message is
included in the user data field of the SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST
message.**Termination**
\- **successful outcome:**
\- The SCCP CONNECTION CONFIRM message, which may optionally contain a PCAP
message in the user data field, is returned to the RNC.
\- **unsuccessful outcome:**
\- If the SCCP signalling connection establishment fails, an SCCP CONNECTION
REFUSAL message will be sent back to the RNC. This message may contain a PCAP
message.
RNC SAS\ \ CR {SSN=SAS, a1=x, PCAP message}\
\------------------------------------------->\ \ \ CC {a1=y,a2=x, PCAP message
or no user data}\ \<\------------------------------------------\ \ or\
CREF{a2=x, PCAP message or no user data}\
\<\------------------------------------------\ \ a1 = source local reference,\
a2 = destination local reference,
x = SCCP connection reference at the RNC,
y = SCCP connection reference at the SAS.
Figure 1: Setting-up of RNC Initiated SCCP Signalling Connection with SAS
#### 4.5.1.4 SCCP connection release
This procedure is always initiated by the RNC. An SCCP connection is released
when the RNC realises that a given signalling connection is no longer
required. This is accomplished by the RNC sending a SCCP RELEASED message.
#### 4.5.1.5 General SCCP Abnormal Conditions
If a user-out-of-service information or signalling-point-inaccessible
information is received by the RNC, no new attempt to establish SCCP
connections towards the affected point code will be started until the
corresponding user-in-service information or signalling-point-accessible
information is received.
When a user-out-of-service information or signalling-point-inaccessible is
received by the RNC, an optional timer may be started. When the timer expires,
all the SCCP connections towards the affected point code will be released.
When the user-in-service or signalling-point-accessible is received, the timer
is stopped.
If for any reason an SCCP connection is released, the optional timer expires
or a connection refusal is received while any of the SAS procedures are being
performed or while a dedicated resource is still allocated, the procedures
associated to that SCCP connection shall be terminated (at both the RNC side
and the SAS side).
# 5 Functions of the Iupc Interface Protocols
## 5.1 List of Functions
The list of functions on the Iupc interface is the following:
1\. Management of GPS Related Data;
2\. Management of Position Calculation Functions;
3\. Management of SAS Centric Position Functions;
4\. Management of GANSS Related Data,
## 5.2 Management of GPS Related Data
An RNC may request GPS related data from an SAS in order to provide GPS
assistance data to a single UE. Alternatively, an RNC may request GPS related
data from an SAS in order to support the broadcast of GPS assistance data to
multiple UEs in a particular area via system information messages. Each type
of GPS related data may be requested on demand, on modification, or at regular
intervals.
## 5.3 Management of Position Calculation Functions
To support a _UE-assisted_ positioning attempt involving a single UE, an RNC
provides an SAS with one or more sets of
\- GPS or GANSS measurement data,
\- ODTOA measurement data,
\- Cell ID measurement data.
Subsequently, the SAS calculates the position estimate of the specific UE and
returns this result to the RNC.
## 5.4 Management of SAS Centric Position Functions
In the SAS Centric mode of operation, the RNC may initiate a positioning
event, the SAS may activate a positioning method requesting the RNC for
relevant data, and on completion of the position determination process the SAS
may return the final response to the RNC. In addition, during an ongoing
positioning event, the RNC may send the SAS a modified set of positioning
parameters, or the RNC may even instruct the SAS to abort the positioning
process itself.
## 5.5 Management of GANSS Related Data
This management of the GANSS Related Data is the same as the management of the
GPS Related Data described in section 5.2, except that it is applicable to
Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems instead of GPS.
# 6 Other Iupc Interface Specifications
## 6.1 UTRAN Iupc Interface: Layer 1 (TSG RAN 25.451)
TS 25.451 [2] specifies the standards allowed for implementation of Layer 1
(physical layer) on the Iupc interface.
## 6.2 UTRAN Iupc Interface: Signalling Transport (TSG RAN 25.452)
TS 25.452 [3] specifies the signalling transport related to PCAP signalling to
be used across the Iupc interface.
## 6.3 PCAP Specification (TSG RAN 25.453)
TS 25.453 [4] specifies the standards for PCAP specification to be used over
the Iupc interface.
## 6.4 Summary of UTRAN Iupc Interface Technical Specifications
The relationship between the technical specifications that define the UTRAN
Iupc interface is shown in figure 2.
Figure 2: Iupc Interface Technical Specifications.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change history