# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB (HNB).
It covers specification of the functions for UEs not supporting Closed
Subscriber Groups (CSG) and UEs supporting CSGs. It also covers HNB specific
requirements for O&M.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.468: \"UTRAN Iuh Interface RUA signalling\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.469: \" UTRAN Iuh Interface HNBAP signalling \".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN overall description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.410: \"UTRAN Iu Interface: general aspects and principles\".
[6] IETF RFC 4960 (September 2007): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[7] Broadband Forum TR-069 Amendment 2, _CPE WAN Management Protocol_ ,
Broadband Forum Technical Report, 2007.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Home NodeB, 3G Home NodeB:** These terms, their derivations and
abbreviations are used synonymously throughout this document.
**CSG HNB** : A HNB that is a CSG Cell broadcasting a CSG Indicator and a
specific CSG identity.
**Non CSG HNB** : A HNB that does not broadcast either a CSG Indicator or a
CSG Identity.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DSL Digital Subcriber Line
DSL-GW DSL GateWayGNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
HMS Home NodeB Management System
HNB 3G Home NodeB
HNB-GW 3G HNB Gateway
HW Hard Ware
IP Internet Protocol
LAC Local Area Code
RAC Routing Area Code
RGW Residential GateWay
SAC Service Area Code
SeGW Security GateWay
SW SoftWare
# 4 Overall architecture
## 4.1 General
The overall UMTS architecture and UTRAN architectures are described in 25.401
and 25.410. For clarity and ease of understanding, at appropriate places
references to TR-069 and associated methods are described briefly although
they are beyond the scope of this specification.
The reference model shown in Figure 4.1-1 below contains the network elements
that make up the HNB access network. There is one-to-many relationship between
HNB-GW and HNB(s).
Figure 4.1-1. Iuh reference model.
The HNB GW serves the purpose of a RNC presenting itself to the CN as a
concentrator of HNB connections. The Iu interface between the CN and the HNB-
GW serves the same purpose as the interface between the CN and a RNC. One HNB
serves only one cell.
NOTE: The Security gateway is a logically separated entity and may be
implemented either as a separate physical element or integrated into, for
example, a HNB-GW.
The HNB access network includes the functional entities as shown in Figure
4.1-1 and detailed below.
### 4.1.1 HNB Management System (HMS)
\- Based on TR-069 family of standards [7]
\- Facilitates HNB-GW discovery
\- Provisions configuration data to the HNB
\- Performs Location verification of HNB and assigns appropriate serving
elements (HMS, Security Gateway and HNB-GW).
### 4.1.2 Security Gateway (SeGW)
\- Terminates Secure tunnelling for TR-069 [7] as well as Iuh
\- Authentication of HNB
\- Provides the HNB with access to the HMS and HNB-GW
### 4.1.3 HNB Gateway (HNB-GW)
\- Terminates Iuh from HNB. Appears as an RNC to the existing Core network
using existing Iu interface.
\- Supports HNB registration and UE registration over Iuh.
### 4.1.4 HNB
\- Customer Premise Equipment that offers the Uu Interface to the UE
\- Provides RAN connectivity using the Iuh interface
\- Supports RNC like functions, the details of which are captured in table
4.2-1 below
\- Supports HNB registration and UE registration over Iuh.
## 4.2 Functional split
The UTRAN functions in the HNB are supported by RANAP, whereas the HNB
specific functions are supported by the Home NodeB Application Protocol
(HNBAP) between the HNB and the HNB GW. The HNB GW provides a concentration
function for the control plane and may provide a concentration function for
the user plane.
This sub-clause defines the functional split between the core network and the
UMTS radio access network. The functional split is shown in table 4.2-1 and
4.2-2
Table 4.2-1. Functional split for UTRAN function in the HNB access.
* * *
Function HNB HNB GW CN RAB management functions:  
RAB establishment, modification and release X X RAB characteristics mapping
I~u~ transmission bearers X X  
RAB characteristics mapping U~u~ bearers X  
RAB queuing, pre-emption and priority X X Radio Resource Management functions:  
Radio Resource admission control X  
Broadcast Information X X Iu link Management functions:  
Iu signalling link management X X X ATM VC management X X AAL2 establish and
release X X AAL5 management X X GTP-U Tunnels management X X X TCP Management
X Buffer Management X X  
Iu U-plane (RNL) Management:  
Iu U-plane frame protocol management X Iu U-plane frame protocol
initialization X  
Mobility management functions:  
Location information reporting X X Handover and Relocation  
Inter RNC hard HO, Iur not used or not available X ^Note\ 1^ X Serving RNS
Relocation (intra/inter MSC) X ^Note\ 1^ X Inter system hard HO (UMTS-GSM) X
^Note\ 1^ X Inter system Change (UMTS-GSM) X ^Note\ 1^ X Paging Triggering X X
Paging Optimization X  
GERAN System Information Retrieval X X Security Functions:  
Data confidentiality  
Radio interface ciphering X  
Ciphering key management X User identity confidentiality X X Data integrity  
Integrity checking X  
Integrity key management X Service and Network Access functions:  
CN Signalling data X X Data Volume Reporting X  
UE Tracing X X Location reporting X X Iu Co-ordination functions:  
Paging co-ordination X X NAS Node Selection Function X  
MOCN Rerouting Function X X Note 1: Only support for relocation from the HNB
to the macro network.
* * *
Table 4.2-2. Functional split for HNB function in the HNB access.
* * *
Function HNB HNB GW HNB Registration ^Note\ 1^  
HNB Registration Function X X HNB-GW Discovery Function X  
HNB de-registration Function X X
UE Registration for HNB ^Note\ 1^  
UE Registration Function for HNB X X UE de-registration Function for HNB X X
Iuh user-plane Management functions  
Iuh User plane transport bearer handling X X Note 1: Protocol support for this
group of functions is provided by the HNB Application Protocol.
* * *
# 5 UTRAN functions for HNB access
## 5.1 UE Registration
### 5.1.1 General
**The UE Registration Function for HNB provides means for the HNB to convey UE
identification data to the HNB-GW in order to perform access control for the
UE in the HNB GW. The UE Registration also informs the HNB-GW of the specific
HNB where the UE is located.**
The following sections illustrate the case when the HNB registers a specific
UE with the HNB-GW. The registration is triggered when the UE attempts to
access the HNB via an initial NAS message (e.g.., Location Updating Request)
and there is no context in the HNB allocated for that UE.
### 5.1.2 UE Registration: case of non CSG UEs or non CSG HNBs
Figure 5.1.2-1. UE Registration for non CSG UEs or non CSG HNBs.
1\. Upon camping on the HNB, the UE initiates an initial NAS procedure (e.g.
LU Procedure) by establishing an RRC connection with the HNB. UE identity, UE
capabilities and Establishment Cause are reported to the HNB as part of the
RRC Connection establishment procedure.
2\. The UE then transmits a RRC Initial Direct Transfer message carrying the
initial NAS message (e.g. Location Updating Request message) with some form of
UE identity.
3\. The HNB checks the UE capabilities provided in step 1, and if these
indicate that CSG is not supported, or the HNB itself does not support CSG,
and if the identity of the UE (provided during RRC Connection Establishment)
is unknown at the HNB being accessed, i.e. no Context id exists for the UE,
the HNB initiates UE registration towards the HNB-GW (step 5-7). Before
starting the UE Registration procedure, the HNB triggers the Identification
procedure (step 3) asking the UE for its IMSI, unless that identity has been
provided during the RRC Connection Establishment or unless it is an emergency
call. If the HNB has a context id for the UE, the UE registration procedure is
not performed nor is the Identification procedure.
4\. The HNB may optionally perform access control based on the provided IMSI
and the provided Allowed IMSI list.
5\. The HNB attempts to register the UE on the HNB-GW by transmitting the UE
REGISTER REQUEST. The message contains at a minimum:
**\- UE Identity** : a unique identity for the UE provided in step 1 or 3.
\- **UE Capabilities** : derived from that provided in step 1.
  * **Registration Cause** : the indication about a UE registration for an emergency call.
NOTE: The UE Identity provided in the HNBAP UE REGISTER REQUEST message is
unauthenticated.
6\. The HNB-GW checks the UE capabilities and the Registration Cause. If these
indicate that CSG is not supported and that it is not an Emergency Call, or if
the HNB does not support CSG, the HNB-GW shall perform access control (step 6)
for the particular UE attempting to utilize the specific HNB.
7\. If the HNB-GW accepts the UE registration attempt it shall allocate a
context-id for the UE and respond with an HNBAP UE REGISTER ACCEPT message,
including the context-id, to the HNB. If the HNB-GW chooses not to accept the
incoming UE registration request then the HNB-GW shall respond with an HNBAP
UE REGISTER REJECT message.8. The HNB then sends an RUA CONNECT message
containing the RANAP Initial UE message.
9\. The reception of the RUA CONNECT message at the HNB-GW triggers the setup
of an SCCP connection by the HNB-GW towards the CN. The HNB-GW then forwards
the RANAP Initial UE Message to the CN.
10\. The CN responds with an SCCP Connection Confirm message.
11\. The UE continues with the NAS procedure (e.g. Location Updating
procedure) towards the CN, via the HNB and the HNB-GW.
NOTE: The HNB-GW may additionally utilize a CN assisted method (e.g. using
IMSI provided in the COMMON ID message) to alleviate the security risks
associated with spoofing of IMSI by the UE and can subsequently trigger a UE
deregistration upon detection of such an event.
### 5.1.3 UE Registration: case of CSG UEs and CSG HNBs
This call flow assumes that the Core Network is able to perform access control
on the basis of Closed Subscriber Groups.
Figure 5.1.3-1. UE Registration for CSG UEs and CSG HNBs.
1\. Upon camping on the HNB, the UE initiates an initial NAS procedure (e.g.
LU Procedure) by establishing an RRC connection with the HNB. UE identity and
UE capabilities are reported to the HNB as part of the RRC Connection
establishment procedure.
2\. The UE then transmits a RRC Initial Direct Transfer message carrying the
initial NAS message (e.g. Location Updating Request message) with some form of
identity (e.g. IMSI or TMSI, ..).
3\. The HNB checks the UE capabilities provided in step 1, and if these
indicate that CSG is supported and if the identity of the UE (provided during
RRC Connection Establishment) is unknown at the HNB being accessed, i.e. no
Context id exist for the UE, the HNB initiates UE registration towards the
HNB-GW (steps 4-6). If the HNB has a context id for the UE, UE registration
procedure is not performed. No Identification procedure is triggered,
independent of the identity reported by the UE during the RRC Connection
Establishment.
4\. The HNB attempts to register the UE on the HNB-GW by transmitting the UE
REGISTER REQUEST. The message contains:
**\- UE Identity** : a unique identifier for the UE and provided in step 1.
\- UE capabilities: derived from that provided in step 1.
  * **Registration Cause** : the indication about a UE registration for an emergency call.
NOTE: The UE IMSI/TMSI provided in the UE REGISTER message is unauthenticated.
5\. The HNB-GW checks UE capabilities and if these indicate that CSG is
supported and if the HNB supports CSG, the HNB-GW shall accept the UE
registration and allocate a context-id for the UE.
6\. The HNB-GW responds with a UE REGISTER ACCEPT message back to the HNB
including a context-id allocated to the UE
7\. The HNB then sends a RUA CONNECT message containing the RANAP Initial UE
message.
8\. The reception of the RUACONNECT message at the HNB-GW triggers the setup
of an SCCP connection by the HNB-GW towards the CN. The HNB-GW then forwards
the Initial UE Message including the CSG id of the HNB.
9\. The CN responds with an SCCP Connection Confirm message.
10\. The CN may optionally perform Mobility Management procedures, e.g.
Authentication procedure.
11\. The CN performs access control of the UE.
12\. After being granted access the UE then continues with the NAS procedure
(e.g. Location Updating procedure) towards the CN, via the HNB and the HNB-GW.
## 5.2 HNB Registration
### 5.2.1 General
The following section illustrates the case when the HNB registers with the
HNB-GW. The HNB registration procedure serves the following purposes:
\- It informs the HNB-GW that a HNB is now available at a particular IP
address.
### 5.2.2 HNB Registration procedure
Figure 5.2.2-1. HNB Registration procedure.
1\. HNB initialization is performed to obtain HNB configuration from the HNB
Management System (HMS). Similarly, HNB-GW discovery is performed to obtain
the initial serving HNB-GW information.
**2\. The HNB establishes a secure tunnel to the SeGW of the serving HNB-GW.**
**NOTE:** This step may be omitted if the secure tunnel happens to be the same
tunnel that is already established to contact the HMS.
3\. The HNB sets up an SCTP transport session to a well-defined port on the
serving HNB-GW.
4\. The HNB then attempts to register with the serving HNB-GW using an HNB
REGISTER REQUEST message. The message contains:
a. **HNB Location Information** : The HNB provides location information via
use of one or more of the following mechanisms:
i. detected macro-cell coverage information (e.g. GERAN and/or UTRAN cell
information)
ii. geographical co-ordinates (e.g. via use of GPS, etc)
iii. Internet connectivity information (e.g. IP address), provided, the
resulting location information is at least as accurate as location
determination based on macro-cell coverage information, whether or not there
is macro cell-coverage available at the location of the HNB (e.g. as
determined by point i above).
b. **HNB Identity** : the HNB has a globally unique and permanent identity.
c. **HNB Operating Parameters** : Such as the selected LAC, RAC, SAC, PLMN Id,
Cell Id, etc.
5a. The HNB-GW may use the information from the HNB REGISTER REQUEST message
to perform access control of the HNB (e.g. whether a particular HNB is allowed
to operate in a given location, etc). If the HNB-GW accepts the registration
attempt it shall respond with an HNB REGISTER ACCEPT message.
5b. Alternatively, the HNB-GW may reject the registration request (e.g. due to
network congestion, blacklisted HNB, unauthorized HNB location, etc). In this
case, the HNB-GW shall respond with an HNB REGISTER REJECT indicating the
reject cause.
NOTE: The HNB shall start broadcasting only after successful registration with
the HNB-GW.
## 5.3 HNB-GW Discovery Function
### 5.3.1 General
The HNB-GW Discovery Function provides the means to determine the address of
the Serving HNB-GW for a particular HNB. The HNB will use the Serving HNB GW
address to register with the Serving HNB-GW.
## 5.4 HNB de-registration Function
### 5.4.1 General
The HNB de-registration Function provides the means to terminate the HNB
operation. The HNB de-registration can be initiated by either the HNB or the
HNB-GW.
## 5.5 Iuh Disconnect
### 5.5.1 General
The following section illustrates the scenario where an UE-associated
signaling connection is released across the Iuh. In this scenario the HNB is
responsible for initiating the release of the UE-associated signaling
connection via the RUA disconnect message. The HNB-GW is then responsible for
co-ordinating the release of the UE-associated signaling connection with the
corresponding Iu connection, which will be triggered by the CN.
### 5.5.2 Iuh Disconnect procedure
1\. Establish connection between UE and network. Procedure in Section 5.1.
2\. CN sends a RANAP Release Iu connection command message to the HNB-GW
3\. HNB-GW forwards this message to the relevant HNB
4\. HNB triggers the release of the RRC connection to the UE. In this case a
single Iu connection had been established for the UE
5\. HNB sends a Disconnect message to the HNB-GW to indicate that this is the
end of this particular UE-associated signaling connection and includes the
RANAP Release Iu Connection Complete message.
6\. HNB-GW forwards the RANAP message onto the CN.
7\. CN triggers the release of the associated SCCP connection
8\. HNB-GW confirms that the SCCP connection is released
9\. Optionally the HNB can de-register the UE context from the HNB-GW.
## 5.6 Paging Optimization Function
### 5.6.1 General
The paging optimization function provides the means to decrease the impact of
a paging load over Iuh (for example, via the use of knowledge about the UE
Registration or its Allowed CSG List).
# 6 Requirements for O&M
## 6.1 O&M for HNB
### 6.1.1 Provisioning Procedure for HNB
Figure 6.1.1-1. Provisioning procedure for HNB.
1\. A secure tunnel is established from the HNB to the Security gateway.
2\. Location verification shall be performed by the HMS based on information
sent by the HNB (e.g. macro neighbour cell scans, global navigational
satellite system type of information etc.). HMS determines the serving
elements and provides the HNB GW, HMS and Security Gateway to the HNB. The HMS
also provisions configuration parameters to the HNB only after successful
location verification in the HMS.
NOTE: Steps 3 & 4 are shown only for completeness. Security Gateway and HMS
are shown to highlight the general architecture.
NOTE: In the event information required for verifying location are not
available (for example, no macro neighbour cells, no GNSS, no DSL line ID etc.
available), HNB GW discovery may be based on specific operator and/or
regulatory policies.
### 6.1.2 Location Verification
#### 6.1.2.1 General
During location verification, the HNB reports its location information to the
HMS. The HMS in turn examines the provided information and verifies the HNB's
location. There are 3 possible types of information for this purpose:
1\. Macrocell Information
2\. GNSS location information
3\. Broadband connection information, provided that the resulting location
information is at least as accurate as location determination based on macro-
cell coverage information, whether or not there is macro-cell coverage
available at the location of the HNB (e.g. as determined by point 1. above).
NOTE: Not all of this information is mandatory. In fact, the type of reported
information is based on factors such as the physical environment in which the
HNB is installed and/or possible variations in the HNB's HW and SW
implementation.
#### 6.1.2.2 Macro-cell Information
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
The HNB is expected to have a radio environment measurement capability. This
includes capturing the following type of information from the surrounding
environment.
a) UTRAN cell information
\- RF level information
\- Broadcast information
b) GSM cell information
\- RF level information
\- Broadcast information
##### 6.1.2.2.2 UTRAN Cell Information
The information in the following table is reported by the HNB to the HMS for
each UTRAN cell detected.
Table 6.1.2.2.2.-1. UTRAN Cell Information.
* * *
Information Description / Note Presence 3GPP Reference  
RF information UARFCNDL UARFCN (DL) M 25.104, sec.5.4 32.642 sec. 6.3.11
CPICHRSCP RSCP of CPICH M  
PSC Primary Scrambling Code M 32.642 sec. 6.3.11 Broadcast information PLMN
Type « GSM-MAP » or « ANSI-41 » M 25.331, sec.10.3.1.12 MCC Mobile Country
Code M 24.008 32.642 sec. 6.3.10 MNC Mobile Network Code M 24.008 32.642 sec.
6.3.10 LAC Location Area Code M 24.008, sec.10.5.1.3 32.642 sec. 6.3.10 RAC
Routing Area Code M 24.008, sec.10.5.1.12.3 25.413, sec.9.2.3.7 32.642 sec.
6.3.10 CellID Cell ID M 25.331, sec.10.3.2.2 CSG Cell Info \ O Applicable to Rel.8 compliant cell only.
* * *
##### 6.1.2.2.3 GSM Cell Information
The information in the following table is reported by the HNB to the HMS for
each GSM cell detected.
Table 6.1.2.2.3. GSM Cell Information.
* * *
Information Description / Note Presence 3GPP Reference  
RF information ARFCN Channel number M 32.652 sec. 6.3.5 BCCHRSSI RSSI of the
BCCH carrier. M 32.652 sec. 6.3.5 BSIC Base Station ID Code M 32.652 sec.
6.3.5 Broadcast Information MCC Mobile Country Code M 32.652 sec. 6.3.5 MNC
Mobile Network Code M 32.652 sec. 6.3.5 LAC Location Area Code M 32.652 sec.
6.3.5 RAC Routing Area Code M 32.652 sec. 6.3.5 CellID Cell ID M 32.652 sec.
6.3.5
* * *
#### 6.1.2.3 GNSS Location Information
This information consists of, at minimum, latitude and longitude detected by
the GNSS receiver (e.g. GPS receiver), if the HNB implementation includes this
functionality.
#### 6.1.2.4 Broadband Connection Information
This information consists of the information associated with the broadband
connection (e.g. DSL) the HNB is connected with: 1) public IP address assigned
to the RGW (e.g. DSL-GW/router), and 2) line identifier to which the RGW is
connected with (e.g. DSL line ID) as seen on the broadband service provider.
These are applicable only when this information is available to the HNB, and
only when the resulting location information is at least as accurate as
location determination based on macro-cell coverage information, whether or
not there is macro-cell coverage available at the location of the HNB (e.g. as
determined by clause 6.1.2.2 above).
### 6.1.3 HNB-GW Discovery
During the HNB-GW Discovery procedure, the HMS provides the HNB with 3
identities as shown in the following table. The information may be either IP
address or FQDN to be resolved by DNS.
Table 6.1.3. HNB-GW Discovery Information.
* * *
Parameter Description / Note Presence 3GPP Reference Serving HMS ID One or
more IDs may be provided M  
Serving SeGW ID One or more IDs may be provided M  
Serving HNB-GW ID One or more IDs may be provided M
* * *
### 6.1.4 HNB Provisioning
#### 6.1.4.1 General
During the HNB Provisioning procedure, the HMS transfers the HNB configuration
information to the HNB. This includes 3 types of parameters:
1\. CN level parameters
2\. RAN level parameters
3\. RF level parameters
NOTE: The HNB may have auto-configuration capabilities, such that the HMS
sends a list/range of values to the HNB, which selects (and returns to HMS) a
single value, also based on the information collected measuring the radio
environment. The HMS may also provide control parameters of the auto-
configuration process.
#### 6.1.4.2 CN Level Parameters
Table 6.1.4.2. CN Level Parameters.
+-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Description / | Presence | 3GPP Reference | | | Note | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | PLMN Type | "GSM-MAP" or | M | 25.331, | | | "ANSI-41" | | sec.10.3.1.12 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | MCC | Mobile Country | M | 24.008\ | | | Code | | 32.642 sec. | | | | | 6.3.8 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | MNC | Mobile Network | M | 24.008\ | | | Code | | 32.642 sec. | | | | | 6.3.8 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | LAC | Location Area | M (Note 1) | 24.008, | | | Code (one or | | sec.10.5.1.3\ | | | more LACs may | | 32.642 sec. | | | be provided) | | 6.3.9 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | SAC | Service Area | M | 25.413, | | | Code | | sec.9.2.3.9\ | | | | | 32.642 sec. | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | T3212 | Periodic LAU | M | 24.008, | | | timer (CS | | sec.10.5.1.12.2 | | | domain) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | ATT | Attach-detach | M | 24.008, | | | allowed (CS | | sec.10.5.1.12.2 | | | domain) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | RAC | Routing area | M (Note 1) | 24.008, | | | code (PS | | s | | | domain) (one or | | ec.10.5.1.12.3\ | | | more RACs may | | 25.413, | | | be provided) | | sec.9.2.3.7\ | | | | | 32.642 sec. | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | NMO | Network Mode of | M | 24.008, | | | Operation (Gs | | sec.10.5.1.12.3 | | | i/f) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Equivalent PLMN | List of one or | O (Note 2) | 24.008, | | ID | more equivalent | | sec.10.5.1.13 | | | PLMN ID (MCC + | | | | | MNC) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Allowed IMSI | For access | O (Note 3) | 24.008, | | list | control | | sec.10.5.1.4 | | | purpose. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | CSG Cell Info | CSG Capability | M | Applicable to | | | Indication, | | Rel.8 compliant | | | | | cell only. | | | CSG Id, in case | | | | | the Cell is CSG | | | | | capable | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | HNB Location | Location | O | 25.413, | | Information | information | | sec.9.2.3.11 | | | (Geographical | | | | | coordinates, | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | code) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: May be | | | | | a list/range of | | | | | values in case | | | | | the HNB has | | | | | aut | | | | | o-configuration | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This | | | | | information is | | | | | ope | | | | | rator-dependent | | | | | based on its | | | | | circumstance. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: ACL is | | | | | an optional | | | | | function at | | | | | HNB. This | | | | | information is | | | | | provided if | | | | | this function | | | | | is enabled in | | | | | the HNB. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+
#### 6.1.4.3 RAN Level Parameters
Table 6.1.4.3-1. RAN Level Parameters.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Description | Presence | 3GPP | | | | | | Reference | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RNCID for | RNC ID used | M | 32.642 sec. | | | HNB | by HNB | | 6.3.8 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cell ID | 28-bit | M | 25.331, | | | | "Cell ID" | | s | | | | in SIB3 | | ec.10.3.2.2 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HSPA | HSflag | Whether | O | 32.642-820\ | | related | | HSDPA/HSUPA | | 32.642 sec. | | | | is used or | | 6.3.9 | | | | not | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HCS related | UseOfHCS | | M | 25.331, | | | | | | sec | | | HCSPrio | | | .10.3.7.47, | | | | | | 10.3.7.12 | | | QHCS | | | | | | | | | 32.642 sec. | | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cell | Quality | CPICH Ec/N0 | O (Note*1) | 25.331, | | selection / | measure | or RSCP | | se | | reselection | | | | c.10.3.2.3, | | related | QqualMin | if Ec/N0 is | | 10.3.2.4 | | | | used | | | | | Qqua | | | 32.642 sec. | | | lMin-offset | if RSCP is | | 6.3.9 | | | | used | | | | | QrxlevMin | | | 25.304 | | | | | | | | | Qrxle | | | | | | vMin-offset | | | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | intrasearch | | | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | intersearch | | | | | | | | | | | | SsearchRAT | | | | | | | | | | | | SsearchHCS | | | | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | eselections | | | | | | | | | | | | UET | | | | | | xPwrMaxRACH | | | | | | | | | | | | QHyst1 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Intra Freq | Filter | Filter | O (Note*1) | 25.331 | | Measurement | coefficient | coefficient | | sec | | Related | | | | .10.3.7.38, | | | Measurement | CPICH | | 10.3.7.39 | | | quantity | Ec/No, | | | | | for freq | CPICH RSCP, | | | | | quality | or pathloss | | | | | estimate | | | | | | | "x" in 1x | | | | | Hysteresis | includes | | | | | for event | applicable | | | | | 1x | events from | | | | | | 1A to 1J | | | | | Threshold | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 1x | | | | | | | | | | | | Ti | | | | | | metoTrigger | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 1x | | | | | | | | | | | | Weighting | | | | | | factor for | | | | | | event 1x | | | | | | | | | | | | Reporting | | | | | | Range | | | | | | | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | Condition | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Inter-Freq | Filter | Filter | O (Note*1) | 25.331 | | Measurement | coefficient | coefficient | | sec | | Related | | | | .10.3.7.18, | | | Measurement | CPICH | | 10.3.7.19 | | | quantity | Ec/No, | | | | | for freq | CPICH RSCP | | | | | quality | | | | | | estimate | "x" in 2x | | | | | | includes | | | | | Hysteresis | applicable | | | | | for event | events from | | | | | 2x | 2A to 2F | | | | | | | | | | | Threshold | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 2x | | | | | | | | | | | | Ti | | | | | | metoTrigger | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 2x | | | | | | | | | | | | Weighting | | | | | | factor for | | | | | | event 2x | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Inter-RAT | Filter | Filter | O (Note*1) | 25.331 | | Measurement | coefficient | coefficient | | sec | | Related | | | | .10.3.7.29, | | | BSIC | "required" | | 10.3.7.30 | | | v | / "not | | | | | erification | required" | | | | | required | | | | | | | "x" in 3x | | | | | Hysteresis | includes | | | | | for event | applicable | | | | | 3x | events from | | | | | | 3A to 3D | | | | | Threshold | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 3x | | | | | | | | | | | | Ti | | | | | | metoTrigger | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 3x | | | | | | | | | | | | Weighting | | | | | | factor for | | | | | | event 3x | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RRC related | N30x, N31x | RRC | O (Note*1) | 25.331, | | | | constants | | sec | | | T30x, T31x, | | | .10.3.3.43, | | | T320 | RRC timers | | 10.3.3.44 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Neighbour | RNCID | Defined for | O (Note*2) | 32.642 sec. | | list (UTRA | | each | | 6.3.10 | | Intra-Freq | C-Id | intra-freq | | | | cell info | | cells | | 25.401 sec. | | list) | LAC | | | 6.1 | | | | C-Id is | | | | | RAC | either 12 | | 25.413 sec. | | | | or 16 bits | | 9.2.1.28 | | | PSC | depending | | | | | | on RNCID | | | | | | length. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Neighbour | RNCID | Defined for | O (Note*2) | 32.642 sec. | | list (UTRA | | each | | 6.3.10 | | Inter-Freq | C-Id | inter-freq | | | | cell info | | cells | | 25.401 sec. | | list) | LAC | | | 6.1 | | | | C-Id is | | | | | RAC | either 12 | | 25.413 sec. | | | | or 16 bits | | 9.2.1.28 | | | UARFCN (DL) | depending | | | | | | on RNCID | | | | | PSC | length | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Neighbour | CelID | Defined for | O (Note*2) | 32.652 sec. | | list (GERAN | | each | | 6.3.5 | | cell info | BSIC | inter-RAT | | | | list) | | cells | | | | | Ba | (assume GSM | | | | | ndIndicator | cell only). | | | | | | | | | | | BCCHARFCN | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note (*1): | | | | | | Marked as | | | | | | optional | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | operator | | | | | | preference | | | | | | on the | | | | | | extent of | | | | | | p | | | | | | rovisioning | | | | | | that the | | | | | | HMS | | | | | | performs to | | | | | | the HNB vs. | | | | | | the level | | | | | | of autonomy | | | | | | that HNB | | | | | | has for | | | | | | auto-con | | | | | | figuration. | | | | | | In case | | | | | | this IE is | | | | | | absent, | | | | | | default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | (additional | | | | | | implication | | | | | | is that HNB | | | | | | has a set | | | | | | of default | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | values). | | | | | | | | | | | | Note (*2): | | | | | | Marked as | | | | | | optional | | | | | | due to | | | | | | several | | | | | | im | | | | | | plications: | | | | | | 1) there | | | | | | may be no | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cell | | | | | | available | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the RF | | | | | | scanning | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | described | | | | | | earlier, 2) | | | | | | based on | | | | | | operator | | | | | | deployment | | | | | | policy | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | RF channel | | | | | | for HNB | | | | | | layer vs. | | | | | | macro | | | | | | layer), and | | | | | | 3) operator | | | | | | preference | | | | | | on the | | | | | | extent of | | | | | | p | | | | | | rovisioning | | | | | | that the | | | | | | HMS | | | | | | performs to | | | | | | the HNB vs. | | | | | | the level | | | | | | of autonomy | | | | | | that HNB | | | | | | has for | | | | | | auto-con | | | | | | figuration. | | | | | | Regarding | | | | | | 3) above, | | | | | | this may | | | | | | include | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | such as the | | | | | | HMS to add | | | | | | or remove | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cells | | | | | | initially | | | | | | detected by | | | | | | the HNB | | | | | | during the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | environment | | | | | | scanning | | | | | | process, | | | | | | and the HNB | | | | | | to extend | | | | | | the | | | | | | received | | | | | | Neighbour | | | | | | list based | | | | | | on | | | | | | auto-co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.4.4 RF Level Parameters
Table 6.1.4.4. RF Level Parameters.
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Parameter | Description / | Presence | 3GPP Reference | | | Note | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | UARFCN (DL) | Frequency | O\ | 25.101, sec.5.4, | | | channel number | (note 1) | | | | (one or more | | 25.104, sec.5.4, | | | UARFCNs may be | | | | | provided) | | 32.642, | | | | | sec.6.3.11 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PSC | Primary | O\ | 32.642, | | | scrambling code | (note 1) | sec.6.3.11 | | | (one or more | | | | | PSCs may be | | | | | provided) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | MaxHNBTxPower | Maximum allowed | O\ | 25.104, sec.6.2, | | | Tx power of the | (note 1) | | | | HNB. | | 32.642, | | | | | sec.6.3.9 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | MaxULTxPower | The parameter | O\ | 25.101, sec.6.2, | | | defines the | (note 1) | | | | maximum | | 32.642, | | | transmission | | sec.6.3.9 | | | power level a UE | | | | | can use on | | | | | PRACH. | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | P-CPICHPower | Transmission | O\ | 32.642, | | | power of Primary | (note 1) | sec.6.3.11 | | | CPICH (DL | | | | | config). This | | | | | may be either a | | | | | specific value | | | | | or a range (min | | | | | / max) of | | | | | values. | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | P-SCHPower | Primary SCH | O\ | 32.642, | | | power offset (DL | (note 1) | sec.6.3.11 | | | config) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | S-SCHPower | Secondary SCH | O\ | 32.642, | | | power offset (DL | (note 1) | sec.6.3.11 | | | config) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | BCHPower | BCH power offset | O\ | 32.642, | | | (DL config) | (note 1) | sec.6.3.11 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | AICHPower | AICH power | O\ | 25.331, | | | offset (DL | (note 1) | sec.10.3.6.3, | | | config, BCCH | | | | | info) | | 32.642, | | | | | sec.6.3.11 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PICHPower | PICH power | O\ | 25.331, | | | offset (DL | (note 1) | sec.10.3.6.50, | | | config, BCCH | | | | | info) | | 32.642, | | | | | sec.6.3.9 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PCHPower | PCH power offset | O\ | 32.642, | | | (DL config, BCCH | (note 1) | sec.6.3.9 | | | info) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | FACHPower | FACH power | O\ | 32.642, | | | offset (DL | (note 1) | sec.6.3.9 | | | config, BCCH | | | | | info) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | NOTE 1: Marked | | | | | as optional | | | | | based on the | | | | | operator | | | | | preference on | | | | | the extent of | | | | | provisioning | | | | | that the HMS | | | | | performs to the | | | | | HNB vs. the | | | | | level of | | | | | autonomy that | | | | | HNB has for | | | | | aut | | | | | o-configuration. | | | | | In case this IE | | | | | is absent, it is | | | | | assumed that the | | | | | HNB will derive | | | | | the suitable | | | | | value based on | | | | | its | | | | | au | | | | | to-configuration | | | | | capability. In | | | | | case this IE is | | | | | a list/range of | | | | | values, the HNB | | | | | will choose a | | | | | single value | | | | | based on its | | | | | au | | | | | to-configuration | | | | | capability. | | | | | UARFCN UL may be | | | | | automatically | | | | | determined by | | | | | the HNB upon | | | | | UARFCN DL | | | | | (basing on | | | | | standard duplex | | | | | configuration | | | | | and | | | | | country-specific | | | | | spectrum | | | | | allocation). | | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
## 6.2 O&M for HNB GW
No requirements have been identified.
# 7 Iuh interface protocol structure
## 7.1 General
Figure 7.2-1 shows the Control Plane and the User Plane protocol structures
over the Iuh interface. For the control plane, the HNBAP protocol provides the
signalling service between the HNB and the HNB-GW required to fulfil the
functions described in 25.469 [3].
RUA provides the signalling service between the HNB and the HNB-GW that is
required to fulfil the functions described in 25.468 [2].
The payload protocol identifier (PPI) field in SCTP [6] is set to the value 19
assigned by IANA for use with the RUA protocol. In addition, the value 20 is
assigned for the PPI for HNBAP.
The destination port number field in SCTP [6] is set to the value 29169
assigned by IANA for setup of the common SCTP association in HNBAP and RUA.
## 7.2 Iuh
Figure 7.2-1 shows the protocol structure for Iuh, following the structure
described in [5].
Figure 7.2-1. I~uh~--Interface Protocol Stack.
#