# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the Release 8 Study Item
"Synchronised E-DCH" (see [1]).
This document is intended to gather all information in order to compare gains
vs. complexity, and draw a conclusion on way forward. The document will
describe likely impacts to the UTRA FDD specifications and system operation,
estimate any changes to the UTRA FDD uplink data or control channel structure
(including downlink control channels relating to the uplink and uplink control
channels relating to the downlink) and evaluate potential performance gains
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-070678, Nokia, Nokia Siemens Networks, Qualcomm, T-Mobile, Ericsson
"Proposed New Study Item: Synchronised E-DCH", RAN #37, September 2007;
[2] 3GPP TR 25.854 v.5.0.0: "Uplink Synchronous Transmission Scheme".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.212 "Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)"
[4] 3GPP TS 25.213 "Spreading and modulation (FDD)"
[5] 3GPP TS 25.215 "Physical Layer -- Measurements (FDD)"
[6] R1-080910, \"PAPR for Synchronized E-DCH\", Ericsson
[7] R1-080428 "Impact of Imperfect synchronization on Sync-EDCH Link
Performance", Qualcomm, RAN1#51bis, Seville
[8] R1-080394 "Impact of desynchronisation on S-EDCH performance", Nokia
Siemens Networks, Nokia, RAN1#51bis, Seville
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel
DPDCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated (Transport) Channel
E-DPCCH Enhanced Dedicated Physical Control Channel
E-DPDCH Enhanced Dedicated Physical Data Channel
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HS-DPCCH High Speed Dedicated Physical Control Channel
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
OVSF Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor
SHO Soft Handover
TFC Transport Format Combination
UTRA FDD UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access, Frequency Division Duplex mode
# 4 Introduction
At 3GPP TSG RAN#37, a Study Item on "Synchronised E-DCH" was approved.
The aim of the study item was to examine the use of synchronisation & OVSF
codes for improving the orthogonality of the UTRA FDD uplink. Synchronised
E-DCH users would implement timing advance sufficient to ensure that the
reception timings of the main receive paths are synchronised at chip and TTI
level. Furthermore, synchronised E-DCH users may share a common scrambling
code and be separated using OVSF codes that are allocated on a dynamic basis
by a modified HSUPA scheduler. Thus, orthogonality between users can be
improved in the code domain or achieved by time domain separation. The
Synchronised E-DCH physical and transport channel design should aim to
maintain commonality with Release 7 HSUPA. HARQ should be supported.
The study is similar to the Release 5 "Uplink Synchronous Transmission Scheme"
[2]. However since Release 5, new features such as basestation scheduling and
shorter TTI have been introduced and can act as enablers for OVSF domain
scheduling.
The study item examined the impacts to the specification, the required
signalling and the performance of the synchronised E-DCH in the context of
HSDPA & HSUPA.
Three main proposals were studied:
  * CDM based Synchronised E-DCH, in which time and OVSF multiplexing was assumed
  * TDM based Synchronised E-DCH, in which pure TDM between users was assumed
  * Interference cancellation algorithms, acting on the existing Release 7 HSUPA and also on the CDM and TDM proposals
In the TR, these proposals are referred to as the "CDM proposal", "TDM
proposal" and "Interference Cancellation proposal"
# 5 Overview of issues relating to the synchronised E-DCH proposals
## 5.1 CDM Proposal
### 5.1.1 Scheduling & required control channels
#### 5.1.1.1 Background: HSUPA scheduling
In Release 6 HSUPA, the Node B sets a maximum limit on the E-DPDCH/DPCCH power
ratio that the UE is allowed to use, termed here as the maximum traffic to
pilot power ratio (MT2PR). Given this MT2PR restriction, the UE TFC selection
selects an appropriate transport format and a Hybrid ARQ offset, ∆~HARQ~,
which impacts the number of HARQ retransmissions. Associated with the
transport format is an E-DPDCH/DPCCH ratio, that is further modified by
∆~HARQ~; the TFC selection ensures that the composite power ratio with the
selected TFC does not exceed the MT2PR. The selected E-TFC is indicated to the
basestation using the UL E-DPCCH signalling channel.
From the indicated TFC, the receiving basestation is able to calculate the
spreading factor used by the terminal by means of a well defined rate matching
calculation [3]. Furthermore, when making an MT2PR assignment or updating the
MT2PR, the basestation is able to predict the minimum spreading factor that
might be selected by the terminal by assuming the smallest ∆~HARQ~ value and
calculating the maximum selectable TFC that would not lead to the MT2PR being
exceeded.
The MT2PR is signalled to the UE using one of two physical channels. The
"Absolute Grant Channel" (E-AGCH) indicates in absolute terms an allowed
MT2PR. The so-called "Relative Grant Channel" (E-RGCH) is a 1 bit indicator
that shifts the MT2PR up or down from its previous value. Grants may be sent
to individual UEs or groups of UEs.
When the 2msec TTI is configured, the E-AGCH may be used to activate or
deactivate specific HARQ processes completely. Furthermore, the UE responds to
2 IDs on E-AGCH; the "primary" and "secondary" IDs with a preference order.
{width="5.997222222222222in" height="3.4097222222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.1.1-1 Basic HSUPA scheduling model
When the UE has not been allocated a scheduling grant, it may be necessary for
the UE to inform the Node B scheduler that it has data to transmit. This is
achieved through transmission of a MAC-e header of 18 bits. The MAC-e header
may be transmitted by the UE without receiving a scheduling grant from the
Node B.
So called "non scheduled" traffic is transmitted by the UE on an autonomous
basis. The UE may be allowed to make autonomous transmissions up to a certain
maximum MT2PR on some or all of the HARQ processes
#### 5.1.1.2 Scheduling for synchronised E-DCH
For synchronised E-DCH using OVSF separation, it is necessary for the serving
basestation to be able to control the portion of the code tree that is used by
each UE. The portion of the code tree can be subdivided into 2 components;
base code and spreading factor. The base code is an OVSF index assuming the
highest allowable spreading factor to be used by the UE. When the base code is
known, codes of a lower spreading factor can be calculated by selecting the
portions of the code tree that contain the base code. In the example of figure
5.1.1.2-1, when the UE is assigned base code 7 at SF16, then it would use code
4 at SF8, code 2 at SF4 etc.
Figure 5.1.1.2-1 Example of the relationship between base code and used
spreading codes
As indicated in section 5.1.1.1, the basestation can predict the minimum used
SF from the MT2PR it has set for the terminal, and calculate the actually used
SF from the TFCI.
Thus, assuming that a terminal is assigned (and possibly occasionally re-
assigned) a base code, CDM based synchronised E-DCH scheduling can in
principle be operated using the same basic mechanism for scheduled traffic as
in Release 6. Means of indicating a base code to the terminal are discussed in
section 5.1.1.4
#### 5.1.1.3 Scheduling requests and unscheduled traffic
Scheduling requests and unscheduled traffic are handled using autonomous
transmissions in Release 6 HSUPA. For a CDM synchronised E-DCH, a shared code
space is employed and thus a method for handling scheduling requests and
unscheduled traffic must be considered. Possible methods for doing this
include:
  * Polling of UEs for unscheduled traffic by the Node B. Such an approach would only be capable of managing a small number of UEs without incurring substantial overhead
  * Contention based autonomous transmissions. The Node B could assign certain codes & TTIs for autonomous transmissions, for which UEs would contend. Such an approach would handle a larger number of UEs than polling, but would require additional collision detection functionality in the MAC and incur additional latency.
  * Autonomous transmissions using an E-DPDCH under a user specific scrambling code. With this approach, the UE would make autonomous transmissions, but place the E-DPDCH under a user specific scrambling code. The power offset for the transmission would need to take into account the non orthogonality of the unscheduled traffic to the scheduled traffic. Such an approach would introduce non OVSF interference, but would allow a flexible tradeoff between the number of users supported in the system and the overhead for non scheduled transmissions.
Figure 5.1.1.3-1 Example of setting the power offset when the E-DPDCH is under
a user specific SC
#### 5.1.1.4 Control channels required for scheduling
In HSUPA, 3 downlink control channels (E-AGCH, E-RGCH, E-HICH) and one uplink
channel (E-DPCCH) were defined. These channels can also be used for CDM
synchronised E-DCH scheduling and their use is discussed below. In addition,
there is a need to signal the base code to the UE as described in section
5.1.1.2. Means of signalling the base code include:
  * Use of L3 signalling to set the base code; this would then not involve new L1 signalling, although the flexibility of the scheduler would be somewhat more limited as a price (The scheduler would still be able to set the SF via the MT2PR and hence the amount of code tree used, but not the section of the code tree)
  * Design of a new control channel with 4-5 bits for signalling the base code
  * Use of a special E-AGCH identity for indicating the base code
  * Use of a modified E-AGCH, in which the base code is quantised jointly with a (more limited range of) MT2PR
The impact to the existing channels and their operation may be as follows:
E-AGCH:
If a special E-AGCH method is used for indicating base code (e.g. special
E-AGCH ID or jointly quantised base code & MT2PR), then a re-interpretation of
the E-AGCH at least some of the time may be necessary. Scheduler flexibility
to allocate and de-allocate could be increased by either increasing the number
of E-AGCHs that a UE is required to receive (in order to allow flexibility to
allocate and deallocate simultaneously between UEs) or by increasing the
latency between reception of E-AGCH when a UE has no allocation and
implementation of the grant
E-RGCH:
The interpretation of E-RGCH can remain unchanged. If E-RGCH is used for
influencing the spreading factor, then the reliability requirement on E-RGCH
may need to be examined. However an E-RGCH false detection or mis-detection
will only cause a collision if (i) A "down" command is missed or "Up" is
falsely detected and (ii) The step in MT2PR causes the selected TFC to move
over an SF boundary. For a 5% missed/false detection probability, the
probability of (i) and (ii) being correct is around 0.5% assuming equal
probability of up/down commands and a 1 in 6 probability of an MT2PR step
equating to an SF step.
E-HICH:
E-HICH interpretation and reliability requirements should remain unchanged.
E-DPCCH:
E-DPCCH interpretation and reliability requirements should remain unchanged.
### 5.1.2 Impact to L1 channel structure
#### 5.1.2.1 Downlink channel structure
The Release 7 downlink channel structure contains the following physical
channels and signals:
Control channels:
SCH, AICH, P-CPICH, S-CPICH, P-CCPCH, S-CCPCH, FACH, DPCCH, HS-SCCH, MICH,
F-DPCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH, E-HICH
Data Channels:
DPDCH, HS-PDSCH
With the exception of the SCH, all of the above channels are spread using OVSF
codes, scrambled and modulated using QPSK, 16 or 64QAM modulation.
It is not expected that introduction of an uplink synchronised E-DCH would
require any change to this downlink channel structure with the possible
exception of any introduction of a new channel for signalling base codes (see
section 5.1.1).
#### 5.1.2.2 Uplink channel structure
The HSUPA Uplink channel structure consists of the parallel OVSF transmission
of the control channels DPCCH, E-DPCCH, HS-DPCCH of spreading factor 256 and
the data channels DPDCH & E-DPDCH of variable spreading factor. DPCCH is
always required when the UE is transmitting whereas the other channels are
optional. E-DPCCH & E-DPDCH are never transmitted independently. Rules
specifying the OVSF code and I/Q branch assignment to each of these code
channels are fixed in the standard [4]. A UE specific scrambling code is
applied to the combination of transmitted channels.
For CDM synchronised E-DCH, the same set of uplink channels is envisaged.
However due to the OVSF multiplexing of users, fixed rules on OVSF assignment
are not possible. Furthermore, care must be taken that the uplink system does
not become code limited. Possibilities for the uplink channel structure are as
follows:
[]{.underline}
[Common scrambling code for all users and channels]{.underline}
The most obvious channel structure is one in which a cell common scrambling
code is defined and applied to all users. Each user is assigned a UE specific
set of OVSF codes for the control channels. The DPCCH requires an SF256 code
and cannot be I/Q multiplexed; the SF256 E-DPCCH & HS-DPCCH may be I/Q
multiplexed.
The control channels are assigned within a specific region of the code space.
The remainder of the code space is then used for E-DPDCH. Preferably, BPSK is
used for E-DPDCH, however if the system becomes code limited then QPSK should
be used in preference as it is preferable not to I/Q multiplex users on the
same code.
The amount of code space available for the E-DPDCH will depend on the amount
used for the control channels. Table 1 shows some estimates on the supportable
peak rates and throughputs in dependence of the number of supportable users.
Operated with a reasonable number of retransmissions support for a significant
number of users is feasible without becoming code limited.
Assuming this uplink structure, if the system were to become code limited then
a secondary scrambling code would be required, which would obviously have a
detrimental effect on capacity.
Table 5.1.2.3-1 Supportable peak rates and number of users
* * *
**Equivalent no of SF16 codes reserved for control** **Number of supportable
users** **Maximum supportable peak data rate on E-DPDCH (Mbps)** **Maximum
possible cell throughput (Mbps)** **Supportable throughput CR 0.5, QPSK, 1.5TX
(Mbps)** **Number of code combinations for E-DPDCH for a particular user if
max SF16** **Maximum number of simultaneous users in a TTI** 2 16 11.52 13.44
2.24 26 14 3 24 11.52 12.48 2.08 24 13 4 32 11.52 11.52 1.92 23 12 5 40 7.68
10.56 1.76 19 11 6 48 7.68 9.60 1.60 18 10 7 56 7.68 8.64 1.44 16 9
* * *
[]{.underline}
[User specific scrambling code for control]{.underline}
An alternative structure might be one in which the control channels are placed
under a user specific scrambling code, whilst E-DPDCH is placed under a cell
specific scrambling code. The number of supported users would then impact
capacity but would not influence the supply of OVSF codes.
Since the channel estimation would be based on DPCCH, the power offsets for
E-DPDCH would need to take into account the SIR difference between symbols
received on the two scrambling codes. Variance in this SIR difference could
lead to an increased need for updating the power offsets.
With such a structure, the possibility of becoming code limited on E-DPDCH
would still exist.
### 5.1.3 PAPR impacts
This section outlines the impact of the OVSF code allocation to the PA
linearity requirements.
PAPR and Cubic Metric were calculated on the transmitter side. For each code
combination, the transmitter was run multiple times with randomly generated
input data vectors. The signal level was logged every slot, in order to
calculate the 99^th^ percentile PAPR and CM.
In order to make a comparison of PAPR performance, a baseline from the
existing specifications [4] was simulated. The baseline considered the cases
of a single code and multicode UE.
Table 5.2.3.1-1 Baseline simulation assumptions
* * *
Simulation condition Channels present Code usage Single code UE DPCCH,
E-DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E‑DPDCH (SF16, BPSK) As per 25.213 [4] Single code UE
DPCCH, E-DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E‑DPDCH (2*SF16, I/Q-BPSK) As per 25.213 [4]
Multicode UE DPCCH, E-DPCCH, HS-DPCCH, E‑DPDCH (2*SF2+2*SF4) As per 25.213 [4]
* * *
The Synchronised E-DCH simulations captured the worst case for Synchronised
E-DCH PAPR. In principle, this required searching over all possible
combinations of control channels and E-DPDCH codes. Assuming each user uses a
SF256 code on I/Q branch for DPCCH and two codes for HS-DPCCH & E-DPCCH, then
there are more than 8 million possible combinations of control channels alone.
Considering DPCCH, HS-DPCCH & E-DPCCH and one SF16 code, the number increases
to more than 200 million combinations.
Clearly, it was not possible to exhaustively test every possible combination
of control channels, data channel and spreading factor. Therefore an estimate
of the PAPR/CM variation for Synchronised E-DCH was computed using Monte-Carlo
approach. Multiple simulations were performed with random choices of DPCCH
code, E-DPCCH code, HS-DPCCH code and E-DPDCH SF and code (assuming I/Q-BPSK
for E-DPDCH).
During simulation codes combination was changed randomly every 3000 slots
(2sec.). Invalid code selections were disallowed. For each simulation, 99^th^
percentile PAPR/CM was calculated for each code combination.
The following channel configuration for Synchronised E-DCH simulations was
assumed:
  * Q: DPCCH (SF256) , HS-DPCCH (SF256),
  * I: E-DPCCH (SF256) B~ec~/B~c~ = B~hs~/B~c~ = 0 dB,
  * I/Q: E-DPDCH (SF16) B~ed~/B~c~ = 3 dB; 6dB; 9 dB (per code).
PAPR and Cubic Metric 99th percentiles from 5000 code combinations are
presented on PDF and CDF curves.Table 5.1.3-1 presents median value of the
PAPR distribution for the baseline scenarios and for Synchronised E-DCH as
well. Table 5.1.3-2 depicts the measured median of cubic metric distribution
for all of the considered cases.
The results show that Synchronised E-DCH does not degrade PAPR and Cubic
Metric characteristics for uplink signal. In all of the considered scenarios
Cubic Metric was in the acceptable range (below 3.5) regardless of beta factor
used.
Table 5.1.3-1 PAPR simulation results
* * *
**Baseline HSUPA simulation** **PAPR value [dB]**  
**B~ed~/B~c~ = 3 dB** **B~ed~/B~c~ = 6 dB** **B~ed~/B~c~ = 9 dB** BPSK --- ---
4.5 I/Q-BPSK 6.3 5.9 5.4 Multicodes 6.9 6.7 6.5 **Synchronous E-DCH** **PAPR
value [dB]**  
I/Q-BPSK 6.9 6.5 6
* * *
Table 5.1.3-2 Cubic Metric simulation results
* * *
**Baseline HSUPA simulation** **CM value**  
**B~ed~/B~c~ = 3 dB** **B~ed~/B~c~ = 6 dB** **B~ed~/B~c~ = 9 dB** BPSK --- ---
1.1 I/Q-BPSK 2.2 1.8 1.23 Multicodes 2.7 2.4 2.2 **Synchronous E-DCH** **CM
value**  
I/Q-BPSK 2.5 2 1.4
* * *
{width="5.657638888888889in" height="4.441666666666666in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1 PDF of the PAPR based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 3
dB
{width="5.6409722222222225in" height="4.352083333333334in"}
Figure 5.1.3-2 CDF of the PAPR based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 3
dB
{width="5.811805555555556in" height="4.397222222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.3-3 PDF of the CM based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 3
dB
{width="6.017361111111111in" height="4.6194444444444445in"}
Figure 5.1.3-4 CDF of the CM based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 3
dB
{width="5.808333333333334in" height="4.410416666666666in"}
Figure 5.1.3-5 PDF of the PAPR based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 6
dB
{width="6.0125in" height="4.593055555555556in"}
Figure 5.1.3-6 CDF of the PAPR based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 6
dB
{width="5.815972222222222in" height="4.384722222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.3-7 PDF of the CM based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 6
dB
{width="6.0152777777777775in" height="4.61875in"}
Figure 5.1.3-8 CDF of the CM based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 6
dB
{width="5.863888888888889in" height="4.379861111111111in"}
Figure 5.1.3-9 PDF of the PAPR based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 9
dB
{width="5.9375in" height="4.516666666666667in"}
Figure 5.1.3-10 CDF of the PAPR based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ =
9 dB
{width="5.861111111111111in" height="4.396527777777778in"}
Figure 5.1.3-11 PDF of the CM based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 9
dB
{width="5.9375in" height="4.584027777777778in"}
Figure 5.1.3-12 CDF of the CM based on 5000 codes combination, B~ed~/B~c~ = 9
dB
It may, however be possible to do better than random code selection.
Investigations were carried out into the impact of choosing "PAPR efficient"
combinations of codes, with results as follows [6]:
  * The difference between random and PAPR efficient selection of control channel codes is about 0.4dB PAPR. Efficient combinations of control codes are ones in which the DPCCH and the E-DPCCH/HS-DPCCH are in different blocks of 32 codes and the highest power channel of E-DPCCH & HS-DPCCH is placed on the opposite branch to the DPCCH
  * For SF4, the difference between choosing E-DPDCH codes to be spreading factor efficient and to be PAPR efficient is about 1dB PAPR; PAPR efficient selection could lead to no increase in PAPR compared to HSUPA
  * For SF16, the difference between non PAPR efficient and PAPR efficient code selection is about 1.5dB PAPR
  * Of course, scheduler restrictions may prevent PAPR optimal codes from always being selected
Also, it was shown that if control channels & the E-DPDCH are placed on
different scrambling codes, then there is no possibility for optimising PAPR.
### 5.1.4 Impact to L1 procedures
Introduction of the Synchronised E-DCH is not expected to influence existing
Layer 1 procedures. However, an Synchronised E-DCH specific functionality will
require some extension of the existing algorithms. Following factors should be
considered:
[Random Access procedure]{.underline}
It is not expected, that the Synchronised E-DCH will impact the existing
Random Access Procedure. However, adapting the RACH procedure to allow for
Synchronised E-DCH specific synchronization could enable quicker
synchronization or even synchronized transmission of the RACH message parts
from the different users.
[Synchronisation]{.underline}
In order to enable chip level synchronisation, a new timing alignment
procedure would be required
[Power Control Procedure]{.underline}
In order to maintain the synchronisation obtained in the initial
synchronisation process, some Timing Alignment Bits will be required. As
proposed during the USTS SI, those bits could be sent in place on the PC bits
every 20ms. For this purpose the existing PC procedure will have to be updated
and will have to include the description of the new interpretation of some PC
commands for the Synchronised E-DCH users. This will not influence the
procedure for the legacy UEs.
[Macrodiversity]{.underline}
The reasons for soft handover are twofold; firstly a capacity benefit arising
from selective combining at the RNC and secondly an ability for basestations
to quickly mitigate rising interference from a UE crossing the cell boundary
by issuing power control commands.
Several alternatives to operating full SHO for synchronised E-DCH exist. These
may include:
  * Configure users within the SHO area to use Release 7 HSUPA. In this > case, SHO would operate in the same manner as Release 7. The size > of the SHO area could be reduced to the point at which the SHO > gain for the user as a WCDMA user would outweigh the gain in the > serving cell if the user is an Synchronised E-DCH user. Non OVSF > interference would be introduced into the cell by the SHO/HSUPA > users; if this were a problem it could be mitigated to some extent > by further reducing the SHO area; i.e. trading off SHO gain and > losses due to the introduction of non OVSF interference
  * Operate SHO only on the DPCCH. Thus, non serving cells would decode > the DPCCH and issue power control commands, but would not decode > E-DPDCH. The selective combining gain would be lost, but > surrounding cells would still have the chance to affect power > control for an SHO UE. The SIR targets in surrounding cells would > need to be increased compared to the WCDMA case in order to > minimise the risk of the call being dropped in the serving cell. > Nonetheless, call drop due to a non serving and non decoding cell > reducing the UE TX power would still be a risk.
Synchronised E-DCH soft handover requires either restriction of the base code
used by the scheduler in the Node B or additional uplink signalling.
In order for a non serving Node B to be able to decode synchronised E-DCH, it
must know the codes that are used for the DPCCH/E-DPCCH and E-DPCDH, and it
must update its receiver timing when the synchronised E-DCH UE timing is
updated.
  * Timing updates are expected to be infrequent and small, and hence > not to cause a major problem;
  * The DPCCH & E-DPCCH codes are expected to be semi-statically > assigned and thus can be indicated to the non serving Node B over > Iub
  * The E-DPDCH base code and spreading factor would be dynamically > managed by the serving Node B. The spreading factor can be > calculated by a non serving Node B based on the TFCI indicated on > E-DPCCH and the rate matching rule;
  * The portion of the code tree used by a UE would not necessarily be > known. Depending on the solution chosen for indicating the base > code to the non-serving Node B (either L1 signalling or RRC > controlled) the impact on the Layer 1 procedure will differ.
In the serving cell, intracell interference could be OVSF separated and hence
the link would benefit from synchronised E-DCH gains. In non serving cells,
the link would not be orthogonal to intracell interference and most intercell
interference, and the OVSF separation from other UEs residing in the UEs own
cell would be limited as timing alignment would not be preserved.
It may be assumed that different cells belonging to the same Node B can all be
made aware of the base code that the UE has been allocated, thus softer
handover for Synchronised E-DCH can inherently be supported. Assuming the
cells are co-located, then the UEs of neighbour cells of the same site will
remain synchronised in each cell. Thus, UEs from a neighbour cell will remain
OVSF separated from one another although not from the intra-cell UEs.
The performance impacts of the different SHO options have not been evaluated.
### 5.1.5 Impact to L2 & L3 procedures
The following types of functional changes in the L2-L3 procedures are expected
due to introduction of the Synchronised E-DCH:
[Configuration Setting of Synchronised E-DCH (L3)]{.underline}
New and modified configuration parameters have to be provided to the UE.
Therefore all configurations and reconfiguration procedures have to be
extended to carry this information. UE and UTRAN actions when receiving
synchronised E-DCH configurations have to be introduced in the RRC protocol in
addition to the existing UE and UTRAN actions.
[Serving cell change (L3)]{.underline}
Change of serving cell might require updating Synchronised E-DCH configuration
and a new timing alignment to the target cell, which would need to be taken
into account in the serving cell change procedures.
[Macrodiversity (L3)]{.underline}
The requirements for Macrodiversity (Soft HO) will be covered with the changes
for all reconfiguration procedures
[UE capability (L3)]{.underline}
UTRAN has to be notified about the UE support of Synchronised E-DCH. Relevant
RRC messages providing this information have to be extended.
[Dynamic base code allocation (L2)]{.underline}
The E-DCH scheduler function in MAC has to be extended to provide dynamically
to the UE not only the MT2PR, but in addition a based code and an appropriate
channelization code tree portion. Rules for base code allocations have to be
introduced, depending on the signalling mechanism chosen to provide this
information to the UE via the physical layer.
### 5.1.6 Synchronisation
In order to obtain a reduction in inter user interference by means of OVSF
code separation accurate alignment of the receive timing of at least the
strongest received paths for each of the users needs to be performed.
#### 5.1.6.1 Synchronisation requirements
To establish and maintain UL time synchronisation the following aspects need
to be dealt with:
  * initial propagation delay,
  * synchronisation maintenance, and
  * reacting to changes in the propagation environment.
**Initial propagation delay**
Initial propagation delay can be easy obtained from the PRACH Propagation
Delay measured as described in [5]. The required timing corrections may be
sent to the UE via higher layer signalling. The accuracy of the initial delay
alignment will depend on the resolution for the PRACH propagation delay
reporting.
**Synchronisation maintenance**
To consider the effect of the motion of the UE on synchronization, it is
helpful to consider an example. At a speed of 100 km/h, the mobile is moving
about 27.7 meters per second. During an interval of, say, 200 milliseconds,
the change in timing due to the motion of the mobile is about 18 nanoseconds.
This is obviously much smaller than the chip duration. Hence, adjusting the
mobile timing in steps of 1/8th chip at a signaling interval of 200
milliseconds will obviously track timing changes due to motion of the mobile
even at much higher speeds (see [2]). During the Synchronised E-DCH study
item, the impact to Synchronised E-DCH performance of 1/8 and ¼ chip
synchronization was investigated and found to be negligible [7], [8].
**Changes in the propagation environment**
In the mobile environment, the multi-path components may change both due to
the motion of the mobile and over time due to motion of elements of the
environment. These changes must also be tracked by the synchronous control
signaling process. It may be expected that when there is a change of the
strongest receive path, the timing difference between the old and new paths
will be less than 16us and typically less than 1.5 us [2]. The synchronous
signaling control process must thus be able to command step changes in
transmission timing every few seconds of typically 1.5 us, but possibly up to
16 us, in this environment. For a typical timing change of 1.5 us, an example
1/8th chip tracking process with a 200 millisecond signaling rate would
require many small step time alignment commands to be sent before the
multipath component can be time aligned (synchronised). An extended signaling
process that would re-align the timing of the strongest receive path when the
propagation environment changes is thus likely to be necessary.
### 5.1.6.2 USTS Synchronisation
A two-step procedure for the synchronisation adjustments was considered during
the USTS SI. The first step is "Initial synchronization" and the second is
"Tracking process".
  * Initial synchronisation compensates the initial propagation delay by adjusting the UE transmission time according to the initial timing corrections given by higher layer signalling;
  * Tracking process (Closed Loop Timing Control) compensates the synchronisation variations caused by the UE movement by adjusting the UE transmission time according to the so-called Time Alignment Bit (TAB).
**Initial synchronisation**
First, UTRAN obtains the round trip propagation delay (RTPD) by doubling the
value of PRACH Propagation Delay measured in TS 25.215 and sets the amount of
adjustment for initial synchronisation ($T_{\text{INIT}_{\text{SYNC}}}$) to
compensate the difference between the RTPD and the reference time
($T_{\text{ref}}$). UE adjusts its transmission time according to
$T_{\text{INIT}_{\text{SYNC}}}$ delivered from UTRAN through FACH. Since
$T_{0}$ is a constant (1024 chips) and $T_{\text{ref}}$ is a given value and
the same for all UEs in a cell, after initial synchronisation, the arrival in
the Node B can be controlled to occur within $\lbrack\tau_{\text{DPCH},n} +
T_{0} + T_{\text{ref}} - 1\text{.}5\text{chips},$$\tau_{\text{DPCH},n} + T_{0}
+ T_{\text{ref}} + 1\text{.}5\text{chips}\rbrack$ due to 3 chip resolution for
reporting PRACH Propagation delay. Of course, changes to the signalling
procedure could be used to increase the initial timing accuracy.
**Tracking process**
For the Tracking process, which compensates the synchronisation variations
caused by the UE movement, it was proposed to replace the TPC bits by Time
Alignment Bits (TABs) every two frames (20 msec timing control interval) as
shown on figure 5.1.6.2-1.
{width="4.801388888888889in" height="2.2604166666666665in"}
**Figure 5.1.6.2-1:** stealing PC bits for the purpose of timing alignment
maintenance
The procedure proposed during the USTS SI was as follows:
  * Node B compares the received arrival time with the desired arrival time from UE every 200 msec;
  * When the received arrival time is earlier than the desired arrival time at a Node B, Time Alignment Bit (TAB) is set to \"0\". When this is later than the desired arrival time, TAB = \"1\".
  * TAB replaces the TPC bit in slot #14 in frames with CFN mod 2 = 0.
  * At the UE, a number of Time Alignment Bits are combined over a 200 ms interval, which increases the reliability of the time alignment process. When the combined time alignment command is judged as \"0\", the transmission time shall be delayed by δT, whereas if it is judged as \"1\", the transmission time shall be advanced by δT, where δT is the timing control step size, whose minimum value depends on the oversampling rate.
As an extension to the tracking process described above also an adaptive
tracking scheme (with the TA step adaptively changed within the given range)
was proposed.
The adaptive tracking scheme after initial synchronisation changes the TAB
command period and timing control step size to reduce the impact of coarse
initial synchronisation due to 3 chip resolution at initial synchronisation
phase. In other words, when a UE enters USTS mode it can adjusts its uplink
transmission time with the timing control step bigger in size than that of the
normal tracking process and the TAB command period shorter than that of the
normal tracking process during initial several frames.
The adaptive tracking process may also be use to accommodate bigger variations
in the UL synchronisation caused by the propagation environment.
### 5.1.6.3 Issues to consider
**Synchronisation & CPC**
If a scheme similar to that discussed during USTS as described in section
5.1.6.2 were to be adopted, CPC bits used as TAB must be clearly recognisable
i.e. must be send according to the fixed pattern. The alignment with the CPC
gating pattern must be assured. TA bits must not fall in the CPC gap; however,
the TP bits also have to be sent after the CPC gap and therefore some
extension of the gating pattern may be needed.
Alternatively, if operation of Synchronised E-DCH is considered together with
a low number of active users, the issue of interaction between Synchronised
E-DCH and CPC could be avoided.
**Obtaining initial synchronisation during the RACH procedure**
{width="5.804166666666666in" height="2.7041666666666666in"}
Figure 5.1.6.3-1: message sequence for the initial synchronisation
As depicted in figure 5.1.6.3-1, the timing synchronisation procedure may
increase the call setup time for Synchronised E-DCH.
Adapting the RACH procedure to allow for Synchronised E-DCH specific
synchronization could enable quicker synchronization or even synchronized
transmission of the RACH message parts from the different users.
### 5.1.7 Backward compatibility
As detailed in section 5.2.2, the synchronised E-DCH channel structure is the
same as the Release 6 HSUPA structure, with the exception that the mappings
between physical channels and OVSF codes differ. Synchronised E-DCH users are
placed under a common scrambling code, whilst terminals from previous releases
will use a user specific scrambling code. Thus, at the receiver synchronised
E-DCH users will appear noise like when performing decoding of legacy users.
WCDMA is sensitive to interference levels and thus it is important that
interference from synchronised E-DCH users and RoT are managed accurately.
Since Synchronised E-DCH will continue to use the Release 99 power control
mechanism and, as described in section 5.1 the scheduler management of RoT
will function in the same manner as Release 6 HSUPA, it is not expected that
Synchronised E-DCH interference will disturb the operation of legacy users.
No special receiver algorithm is required in the Node B for Synchronised E-DCH
reception; in principle the same type of receiver algorithm can be used for
Synchronised E-DCH and legacy users.
Thus it is not expected that the presence of synchronised E-DCH users in a
cell will impact reception from legacy UEs and will not impact the throughput
and performance of legacy UEs. However the user throughput for legacy UEs will
not benefit from the presence of Synchronised E-DCH users and Synchronised
E-DCH gains will be impacted by the presence of legacy terminals.
## 5.2 TDM Proposal
### 5.2.1 Scheduling & required control channels
In order to avoid overlapping transmission instances for high data rate users,
at least a relatively coarse time alignment on a TTI level is necessary. This
can be done by setting the value of τ~F-DPCH~ for a high rate UE such that the
TTIs of high rate users are aligned. The NodeB can track deviations in uplink
timing in a similar way as with USTS, and the NodeB can ask the RNC to control
the F-DPCH slot format and the value of τ~F-DPCH~ in steps of 256 chips, which
then results in an adjustment of the corresponding uplink timing for E-DCH. In
addition, the NodeB could adjust the E-DCH transmission timing on a chip
level. For further details on the synchronization, see section 5.2.5.
As a result, it is possible for the NodeB scheduler of the serving cell to
time multiplex high data rate users, which is especially attractive for
several reasons. First, scheduling users one at a time allows for higher
system throughput, as the sum of the user rates can be larger when users are
orthogonal. Second, TDM scheduling facilitates advanced NodeB receiver
structures with the possibility for interference cancellation of the high data
rate users for the medium and low data rate users. This would improve e.g. the
VoIP capacity in the presence of high data rate E-DCH users in a cell.
Once the users have been time aligned, HARQ process specific grants (available
for the 2 ms E-DCH TTI since Rel-6) can be used to obtain the desired TDM
operation by ensuring that the different users transmit in different HARQ
processes.
Although not seen as absolutely necessary for supporting TDM operation, some
enhancements related to the scheduling grant signaling may be beneficial, e.g.
more efficient reassignment of a HARQ process specific grant or other grant
from one user to another, HARQ process specific grants for 10 ms E-DCH TTI, or
other forms of periodic grants (which could also be useful for VoIP traffic).
The impact on HARQ retransmissions and non-serving RGs should be considered
if/when changes to the grant signaling are introduced.
### 5.2.2 Impact to L1 channel structure
The TDM approach has no impact on the L1 channel structure.
### 5.2.3 Impact to L1 procedures
When the UE receives an HS-SCCH order for UL timing adjustment, it should
adjust its UL timing accordingly.
### 5.2.4 Impact to L2 & L3 procedures
The TDM approach has no impact on the L2 & L3 procedures.
### 5.2.5 Synchronisation
The adjustments of the DL timing described in section 5.2.1 can serve as a
coarse initial UL timing adjustment. Note that this coarse adjustment can also
be made for legacy UEs, which is welcome since already Rel-6 and Rel-7
introduces high rates in uplink.
> ⇒ Use new Iub/Iur signaling of the desired DL timing adjustment from serving
> NodeB to SRNC to achieve a coarse UL timing adjustment for Rel-6 UEs and
> later. The SRNC can then modify the DL timing accordingly using existing
> Iub/Iur and RRC signaling.
For Rel-8 UEs, even finer NodeB-controlled UL timing adjustments should be
possible, e.g. through UL timing adjustment commands via a new type of HS-SCCH
orders.
> ⇒ Use a new HS-SCCH order type for UL timing adjustment commands to achieve
> a fine UL timing adjustment for Rel-8 UEs and later in addition to the
> coarse adjustment.
Since the required accuracy is quite low -- in the order of several chips
rather than sub-chip accuracy -- the additional control signaling overhead
from these UL timing adjustments can be considered moderate.
### 5.2.6 Backward compatibility
Channel structure, channel coding, modulation mapping, spreading, and
procedures are the same for TDM based Synchronised E-DCH as for the Release
6/7 HSUPA structure.
The only difference will be the addition of an HS-SCCH order type for UL
timing adjustment (similar to the CPC-related HS-SCCH order type already
existing in Release 7).
TDM based Synchronised E-DCH (as opposed to the CDM based approach) supports
HSPA channels as well as DCH.
In principle, legacy UEs will not be affected by TDM based Synchronised E-DCH,
although rapid variation of inter-cell interference caused if high rate users
are TDM scheduled could impact inner and outer loop power control to legacy
users unless this interference is suppressed or otherwise taken into account
by the network.
Note that if desired, the Iub/Iur signaling proposed in section 5.2.5 can be
used to achieve a coarse TDM operation even for Release 6/7 UEs.
# 6 Performance Evaluation
## 6.1 Link level simulation analysis
### 6.1.1 Link level simulation assumptions
This section describes simulation assumptions valid for link level analysis.
All of the parameters have been captured in 6.1.1-1
Table 6.1.1-1 Link level simulation assumptions
* * *
**Parameter** **Value** E-DPDCH TTI 2msec Power control error rate 0% E-DPCCH
detection error rate 0% Maximum number of transmissions 4 Spreading Factor 16,
8, 4, 2/4 Transport block size 292, 612, 1252, 2532 DPCCH SIR Various, to
achieve a range of HARQ throughput levels Outer loop power control None Power
control delay 3 slot Receiver LMMSE Modulation for E-DPDCH 2*BPSK Scrambling
code type Long Number of receive antennas 2 Channel estimation Realistic
Number of users Variable Channel Delay Profile PA, TU6, "Mixed" Speed 3 kmph
Synchronisation between UEs Perfect for main path
* * *
The "mixed" channel profile is designed to test link level performance in
environments where users do not have exactly aligned multipaths (although the
main paths are always synchronised) and is defined as follows:
Table 6.1.1-2 "Mixed" channel profiles
* * *
**User** **Channel** 1 PEDA, 3km/h 2 PEDB, 3km/h 3 modTU6^*^, 3km/h 4 VEHA,
3km/h 5 modTU6^*^, 3km/h main path not delayed; other paths delayed by
0.52usec 6 PEDB, 3km/h main path not delayed; other paths delayed by 0.52usec
7 PEDA, 3km/h main path not delayed; other paths delayed by 0.52usec 8 VEHA,
3km/h main path not delayed; other paths delayed by 0.52usec
* * *
^*^modTU6 is defined as follows:
Table 6.1.1-3 Modified TU6 channel profile
* * *
**Tap** **Relative time (usec)** **Average relative power (dB)** 1 0,0 0,0 2
0,26 -3,0 3 0,5 ‑2,0 4 1,6 ‑6,0 5 2,3 ‑8,0 6 5,0 ‑10,0
* * *
### 6.1.2 Link level simulation results (CDM Proposal)
This section presents the link level simulation results, The simulations have
been performed on the basis of assumptions listed in section 6.1.1. The
performance of CDM Synchronised E-DCH users have been compared with regular
E-DCH users and the simulation results are shown in sections 6.1.2.1-6.1.2.4.
The figures plot Ec/user against No, where No consists of noise only and not
interference between users.
For each simulation case, 2 sets of simulations have been performed
independently, labelled "Set 1" and "Set 2".
The link level gain from CDM Synchronised E-DCH is dependent on the HARQ
operating point. Where the HARQ operating point corresponds to 10-30% initial
transmit BLER, Synchronised E-DCH gains are in the range 1-2dB for 8 SF16
users, 6 SF8 users, 3 SF4 users and 2 SF2&4users respectively in the
Pedestrian A channel and 0.75-1dB for the same combinations in the TU6 and
mixed channels. For smaller numbers of users, the gain decreases. Where the
HARQ operating point is 1% after 4 transmissions, the gain is generally less
then 0.5dB in PedA and 0.25dB in the TU and mixed channels.
#### 6.1.2.1 Spreading factor 16 Simulations
{width="5.8125in" height="4.677083333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-1 Throughput curves -- TBS 292 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF16, pedestrianA, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="5.679166666666666in" height="4.052777777777778in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-2 Throughput curves -- TBS 292 bits, HSUPA BPSK SF8, S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF16, pedestrianA, 3km/h, 8 (Set 2) users
{width="5.764583333333333in" height="4.729861111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-3 Throughput curves -- TBS 292 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF16, TU6, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="5.679166666666666in" height="4.058333333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-4 Throughput curves -- TBS 292 bits, HSUPA BPSK SF8, S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF16, TU6, 3km/h, 8 users (Set 2)
{width="5.763888888888889in" height="4.639583333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-5 Throughput curves -- TBS 292 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF16, Mixed, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="5.678472222222222in" height="4.079166666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-6 Throughput curves -- TBS 292 bits, HSUPA BPSK SF8, S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF16, Mixed, 3km/h, 8 users (Set 2)
#### 6.1.2.2 Spreading factor 8 simulations
{width="5.7652777777777775in" height="4.632638888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-1 Throughput curves -- TBS 612 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF8, pedestrianA, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.179166666666666in" height="3.923611111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-2 Throughput curves -- TBS 612 bits, HSUPA BPSK SF4, S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF8, PA3, 3km/h, 6 users (Set 2)
{width="5.7659722222222225in" height="4.651388888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-3 Throughput curves -- TBS 612 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF8, TU6, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.182638888888889in" height="3.908333333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-4 Throughput curves -- TBS 612 bits, HSUPA BPSK SF4, S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF8, TU6, 3km/h, 6 users (Set 2)
{width="5.6875in" height="4.641666666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-5 Throughput curves -- TBS 612 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF8, mixed, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.041666666666667in" height="4.301388888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-6 Throughput curves -- TBS 612 bits, HSUPA BPSK SF4, S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF8, Mixed, 3km/h, 6 users (Set 2)
#### 6.1.2.3 Spreading factor 4 simulations
{width="5.695138888888889in" height="4.571527777777778in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-1 Throughput curves -- TBS 1252 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF4, pedestrianA, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.05625in" height="4.405555555555556in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-2 Throughput curves -- TBS 1252 bits, HSUPA 2*BPSK SF4, S-EDCH
2*BPSK SF4, PA3, 3km/h, 3 users (Set 2)
{width="5.475in" height="4.385416666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-3 Throughput curves -- TBS 1252 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF4, TU6, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.041666666666667in" height="4.410416666666666in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-4 Throughput curves -- TBS 1252 bits, HSUPA 2*BPSK SF4, S-EDCH
2*BPSK SF4, TU6, 3km/h, 3 users (Set 2)
{width="5.554861111111111in" height="4.502083333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-5 Throughput curves -- TBS 1252 bits, both HSUPA and S-EDCH
2*BPSK, SF4, mixed, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.05625in" height="4.405555555555556in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3-6 Throughput curves -- TBS 1252 bits, HSUPA 2*BPSK SF4, S-EDCH
2*BPSK SF4, Mixed, 3km/h, 3 users (Set 2)
#### 6.1.2.4 Spreading factor 2/4 simulations
{width="5.620138888888889in" height="4.49375in"}
Figure 6.1.2.4-1 Throughput curves -- TBS 2532/1252 bits, both HSUPA and
S-EDCH 2*BPSK, SF2/4, pedestrianA, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.178472222222222in" height="4.3277777777777775in"}
Figure 6.1.2.4-2 Throughput curves -- TBS 2532/1252 bits, both HSUPA and
S-EDCH, 2*BPSK SF2/4, PA3, 3km/h, 2 users (TBS 2532 user) (Set 2)
{width="6.178472222222222in" height="4.3381944444444445in"}
Figure 6.1.2.4-3 Throughput curves -- TBS 2532/1252 bits, both HSUPA and
S-EDCH, 2*BPSK SF2/4, PA3, 3km/h, 2 users (TBS 1252 user) (Set 2)
{width="5.383333333333334in" height="4.254861111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.2.4-4 Throughput curves -- TBS 2532/1252 bits, both HSUPA and
S-EDCH 2*BPSK, SF2/4, TU6, 3km/h (Set 1)
{width="6.029861111111111in" height="4.254861111111111in"}
Figure 6.1.2.4-5 Throughput curves -- TBS 2532/1252 bits, both HSUPA and
S-EDCH, 2*BPSK SF2/4, TU6, 3km/h, 2 users (TBS 2532 user) (Set 2)
{width="6.052083333333333in" height="4.25in"}
Figure 6.1.2.4-6 Throughput curves -- TBS 2532/1252 bits, both HSUPA and
S-EDCH, 2*BPSK SF2/4, TU6, 3km/h, 2 users (TBS 1252 user) (Set 2)
### 6.1.3 Link Level Simulation results (Interference Cancellation)
It is possible to apply interference cancellation in addition to Relsase 7
HSUPA or to Synchronised E-DCH. The figures below show a comparison of link
level performance of rawbit based Parallel Interference Cancellation (PIC)
with and without OVSF separation, considering 6 users and SF8 and up to 3
iterations of both interference cancellation, applied to both WCDMA and CDM
based Synchronised E-DCH.
"Iterations" refers to the number of times that the RAKE receiver is operated.
Hence 1 iteration is a single user RAKE receiver; 2 iterations refers to a
RAKE receiver, a PIC cancellation stage and then a further RAKE receiver and
so on.
The following can be observed:
  * For the TU6 Channel:
    * PIC brings additive gains to Synchronised E-DCH
    * HSUPA with 1 stage PIC offers similar performance to Synchronised E-DCH
    * With an equivalent number of stages, Synchronised E-DCH combined with PIC offers superior performance to HSUPA combined with PIC
    * For both HSUPA and Synchronised E-DCH, most of the gain from PIC is obtained after 2 stages
  * For the PA3 channel
    * PIC does not bring a significant advantage to Synchronised E-DCH
    * Synchronised E-DCH performance is always better than HSUPA & PIC
  * PIC gains are observable at a HARQ operating point of 10-30% and reduce at lower HARQ operating points
{width="4.700694444444444in" height="3.9854166666666666in"}
Figure 6.1.3-1 HSUPA & S-EDCH PIC performance (TU6 channel)
{width="4.720138888888889in" height="3.9027777777777777in"}
Figure 6.1.3-2 HSUPA & S-EDCH PIC performance (PA3 channel)
## 6.2 System level simulation analysis
### 6.2.1 System level simulation assumptions
This section describes simulation assumptions relevant for system level
studies. Table 6.2.1-1 captures general system level parameters. Assumptions
for reference system deployment are given in the following section.
Table 6.2.1-1 System level simulation assumptions
* * *
**Parameter** **Value** Traffic model Full Buffer Load Control RoT based Power
control ON HARQ ON Maximum number of transmissions 4 Spreading Factor 16, 8,
4, 2 Code Rate \~0.33-0.4 Scrambling code type Long Channel estimation Ideal
Number of users Variable Channel Delay Profile PA, TU6, "mixed" (see section
6.1.1) Speed 3 kmph
* * *
#### 6.2.1.1 Reference system deployments
The system simulation baseline parameters for the Macro-cell deployment model
are given in table 6.2.1.1-2 and table 6.2.1.1-3. The simulation cases are
given in table 6.2.2-1 along with additional assumptions related to carrier
frequency (CF), Inter-site distance (ISD), operating bandwidth (BW),
penetration loss (PLoss) and UE speed. Note that 100% of the users for a given
simulation case are assigned the same 'PLoss' and speed.
Table 6.2.1.1-1 - Simulation cases
* * *
**Simulation** **CF** **Scenario** **ISD** **PLoss** **Cases** **(GHz)**
**(meters)** **(dB)** 1 2.0 Macro 500 20 2 2.0 Micro Outdoor / Outdoor 130 -
* * *
Table 6.2.1.1-2 Macro-cell system simulation baseline parameters
+------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | **Parameter** | **Assumption** | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Cellular Layout | Hexagonal grid, 19 cell | | | | sites, 3 sectors per site | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Inter-site distance | See Table 6.2.1.1-1 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Distance-dependent path loss | L=128.1 + 37.6log~10~(.R), R | | | | in kilometers | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Lognormal Shadowing | Similar to UMTS 30.03, B | | | | 1.4.1.4 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 8 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Correlation distance of | 50 m (See D,4 in UMTS 30.03) | | | Shadowing | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing correlation | Between cells | 0.5 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | | Between sectors | 1.0 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Penetration Loss | See Table 6.2.1.1-1 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna pattern [4] | $\theta_{3\text{dB}}$ = 70 | | | (horizontal) | degrees, _A~m~_ = 20 dB | | | | | | | (For 3-sector cell sites | | | | with fixed antenna patterns) | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE power class | 21dBm (125mW) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna Bore-sight points | | | | toward flat side of cell | | | | (for 3-sector sites with | | | | fixed antenna patterns) | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Users dropped uniformly in | | | | entire cell | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Minimum distance between UE | >= 35 meters | | | and cell | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+
Table 6.1.2.1-3 Micro-cell system simulation baseline parameters
+------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | **Parameter** | **Assumption** | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Cellular Layout | Hexagonal grid, 19 cell | | | | sites, 1 sectors per site | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Inter-site distance | See Table 6.2.1.1-1 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Distance-dependent path loss | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Lognormal Shadowing | Similar to UMTS 30.03, B | | | | 1.41.4 | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 10dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Correlation distance of | 25 m | | | Shadowing | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing correlation | Between cells | 0.0 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | | Between sectors | na | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Antenna pattern (horizontal) | | | | | | | | (For omni cell sites with | | | | fixed antenna patterns) | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE power class | 21dBm (125mW) | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BS position in the middle of | | | | the hexagon | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Users dropped uniformly in | | | | entire cell | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Minimum distance between UE | >= 10m (and minimum | | | and cell | coupling loss of -53dB) | | | | | | | | The distance dependent | | | | pathloss + shadow fading is | | | | lower limited to free-space | | | | distance dependent pathloss | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+
### 6.2.2 System level simulation results (CDM Proposal)
Figures 6.2.2-1 to 6.2.2-6 present sector throughput results with regard to
the measured noise rise level, for an increasing number of users (4, 6 and 8
users). Figures 6.2.2-1 to 6.2.2-3 correspond to a Pedestrian A channel,
whereas Figures 6.2.2-4 to 6.2.2-6 to a TU 6 channel. The synchronised E-DCH
concept and the release 7 E-DCH, (refer to as WCDMA) are compared in the two
deployment scenarios defined in Section 6.2.1, Case 1 and Microcell Outdoor-
Outdoor.
The results show that for Pedestrian A, throughput gains of around 30% in Case
1 and up 50% in the microcell scenario are observed, although the microcell
case becomes code limited at RoT > \~3.5 dB. For the TU6 link level channel,
throughput gains of about 8-15% in Case 1 and \~12% in the microcell scenario
are observed.
{width="6.679861111111111in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1. Sector throughput when 4 users, experiencing a pedestrian A
channel model, are placed in each sector.
{width="6.679861111111111in" height="3.0104166666666665in"}
Figure 6.2.2-2. Sector throughput when 6 users, experiencing a pedestrian A
channel model, are placed in each sector.
{width="6.679166666666666in" height="3.0208333333333335in"}
Figure 6.2.2-3. Sector throughput when 8 users, experiencing a pedestrian A
channel model, are placed in each sector.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="3.276388888888889in"}
Figure 6.2.2-4. Sector throughput when 4 users, experiencing a TU 6 channel
model, are placed in each sector.
{width="6.684027777777778in" height="3.2694444444444444in"}
Figure 6.2.2-5. Sector throughput when 6 users, experiencing a TU 6 channel
model, are placed in each sector.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="3.2666666666666666in"}
Figure 6.2.2-6. Sector throughput when 8 users, experiencing a TU 6 channel
model, are placed in each sector.
### 6.2.3 System level simulation results (TDM Proposal)
The simulation parameters are listed in Table 6.2.3-1. These settings
correspond approximately to the Macro simulation case described in section
6.2.1.
Table 6.2.3-1: System simulation parameters for TDM based Synchronised E-DCH.
* * *
Network layout 7 NodeB with 3 cells each, i.e. 21 cells in total UE max TX
power 21 dBm Site-to-site distance 500 m Antenna pattern 3D antenna model with
10 degrees down tilt Penetration loss 20 dB Number of simultaneous users per
cell 4 (round robin scheduled in the TDM case) Service EUL only EUL traffic
model Full buffer 16QAM Enabled Receiver Ideal dual antenna LMMSE (no IC)
Channel Delay Profile Pedestrian A / Typical Urban Speed 3 km/h
* * *
Other simulation assumptions for TDM based Synchronised E-DCH:
  * "Ideal TDM" is modeled as only one EUL user in each cell.
  * "Real TDM" is modeled as only one EUL user can be scheduled to transmit data while there are several EUL users in the same cell, and the users are scheduled in a Round Robin way. Scheduling interval is 2ms.
Other simulation assumptions for CDM based Synchronised E-DCH:
  * One uplink scrambling code is used in each cell.
  * The UE is synchronized in the serving cell and non-synchronized in any other cells in the active set.
  * A static factor expresses how much of the received power can be regarded as effective interference.
  * Code limitation is considered, the peak rate is limited to one fourth of the HS-DSCH UE cat 7 peak rate, corresponding to 2.86 Mbps. However, the reduced performance due to increased coding rate has not been considered here.
  * "Ideal CDM" is modeled as perfect orthogonality between UEs in the same cell.
The simulation results are shown in Figures 6.2.3-1 and 6.2.3-2. The "ortho
factor" is a non-orthogonality factor expressing how much of the received
power that can be regarded as effective interference. Ideal synchronization
and flat channel is modeled when "ortho factor" is zero. The chosen non-zero
values for "ortho factor" correspond to approximately 1/8-chip and 1/4-chip
desynchronization, respectively. These "ortho factors" assume maximum (i.e.
1/8-chip or 1/4-chip) synchronization error between all users and so may be
somewhat pessimistic.
The simulation results show that TDM and CDM can achieve similar gains
compared to Rel7 under both ideal and more realistic assumptions in this
scenario with low dispersion (PedA channel). The difference between "ideal
TDM" and "ideal CDM" is due to the difference in peak rate. In a scenario with
high dispersion (TU channel), the CDM performance degrades more than the
performance for TDM, while in a scenario with high degree of UE transmit power
limitation, the opposite may be true.
{width="6.527777777777778in" height="4.895833333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.3-1: System simulation results for TDM based Synchronised E-DCH in
PedA channel.
{width="6.527777777777778in" height="4.895833333333333in"}
Figure 6.2.3-2: System simulation results for TDM based Synchronised E-DCH in
TU channel.
### 6.2.4 System level simulation results (Interference Cancellation)
System performance of both intracell and intercell interference cancellation
has been considered as part of the study. Intracell interference cancellation
was considered by means of a model assuming a specific amount of cancelled
interference without reference to specific algorithms, and by means of
modeling an "Iterative parallel group cancellation" algorithm. Intercell
interference cancellation was modeled by means of assuming a percentage of
cancelled interference, without referring to a specific algorithm.
#### 6.2.4.1 Intracell interference cancellation modeled using a percentage
interference reduction
This section contains an approximate system comparison of CDM based
synchronized E-DCH and interference cancellation based on a simplified model
in which the interference cancellation algorithm is modeled as a percentage
reduction in interference.
It is assumed that there are _A_ users in a cell, each with power _P_ , and
that the own cell interference is $I_{\text{own}} = \left( A - 1 \right) \cdot
P$. Other cell interference is modeled as a fixed ratio of the own cell
interference as$I_{\text{other}} = \frac{1}{F} \cdot \left( A \cdot P
\right)$.
The received SINR for a user is then
where $\gamma_{\text{IC}}$ is the interference cancellation efficiency factor
for own cell interference and indicates the amount of interference that the IC
receiver can cancel. Suppression of other cell interference is modeled simply
as a reduction of the other cell interference power and λ depends on the
interference scenario and on the receiver ($\lambda = 1$, if no IC of other
cell interference.)
Table 6.2.4.1-1 gives the throughput for CDM based synchronized E-DCH with and
without own cell interference cancellation, and Rel7 with and without own cell
interference cancellation. The assumptions for both CDM based synchronized
E-DCH and Rel7 are the same as in section 6.2.1, with CDM based synchronized
E-DCH operating at a higher coding rate (0.75) than Rel7 (0.33). The different
coding rate is justified by the fact that in the Rel7 case the system is
likely to assign a lower SF especially for large transport block sizes, while
for CDM based synchronized E-DCH it is assumed SF=16. However a system
approach in which a secondary scrambling code is introduced rather than a
higher coding rate might show an improved performance for CDM based
synchronized E-DCH, but this has not been investigated.
Note that under the conservative assumption that the IC efficiency for own
cell interference is 70%, Rel7+IC throughput is higher than CDM based
synchronized E-DCH with perfect synchronization, but with higher code rate.
Table 6.2.4.1-1: Throughput for CDM based synchronized E-DCH and Rel7 with and
without own cell interference cancellation.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.0597222222222222in"}
#### 6.2.4.2 System modeling of a specific algorithm
This section contains simulation results based on a specific serial/parallel
algorithm described in more detail in [R1-081067].
Specific assumptions are listed below
Table 6.2.4.1-1: Simulation Assumptions
* * *
**Parameter** **Value** Traffic Interference Cancellation ON Pilot
Interference Cancellation ON Overhead Interference Cancellation ON Inter-cell
Interference Cancellation OFF Algorithm for Interference Cancellation Group
Iteration (GICIter) Number of Group Iterations 2 Algorithm for Mobile Ordering
for IC Order by Re-Transmission Number Number of users/cell 10
* * *
The results of the simulations are summarized in Tables 6.4.2.5-1, 6.4.2.5-2
and 6.4.2.5-3.
Table 6.4.2.5-1: Macro Cell: Throughput @ 6 dB Effective ROT; 10 users
* * *
**Channel Type** **IC Scheme** **Throughput (kbps)** **% Gain over MF**
**PA3** **MF (No IC) - Baseline** **1730** **0** **GICIter (2 Iter)** **2665**
**54** **TU6** **MF (No IC) - Baseline** **1725** **0** **GICIter (2 Iter)**
**2582** **50**
* * *
Table 6.4.2.5-2: Micro Cell: Throughput @ 6 dB Effective ROT; 10 users
* * *
**Channel Type** **IC Scheme** **Throughput (kbps)** **% Gain over MF**
**PA3** **MF (No IC) - Baseline** **2651** **0** **GICIter (2 Iter)** **4290**
**62** **TU6** **MF (No IC) - Baseline** **2440** **0** **GICIter (2 Iter)**
**3773** **55**
* * *
Table 6.4.2.5-3: Macro Cell: Throughput @ 6 dB Effective ROT; 10 users
* * *
**Channel Type** **% Gain over MF at 10 percentile point**  
**Macro Cell** **PA3** **40** **TU6** **38** **Micro Cell** **PA3** **67**
**TU6** **77**
* * *
The following section indicates the system results in full. From the figures
and above table, the following was observed with regards to system performance
for Interference Cancellation:
  * There are significant gains (50% to 62%) for the Iterative Parallel Group Cancellation scheme in both PA3 and TU6 channels and for both the Macro and Micro simulation scenarios.
  * The performance trend shows that the gains improve as the RoT increases.
  * Fairness for the IC simulations is identical to that of the MF (No-IC) case.
  * The increase in user throughput is seen for all users including the ones at the cell edge. In particular, at the 10 percentile point, we observe the following gains in user throughput over the matched filter case:
    * \~ 40% gain in macro cell
    * 67% to 77% gain in micro cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.2-1: Average Sector Thrpt (kbps) vs Effective RoT (dB); 10 users;
PA3; Macro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-2: User Throughput (kbps); 10 users; PA3; Macro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-3: Fairness; 10 users; PA3; Macro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-4: Average Sector Thrpt (kbps) vs Effective RoT (dB); 10 users;
TU6; Macro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-5: User Throughput (kbps); 10 users; TU6; Macro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-6: Fairness; 10 users; TU6; Macro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-7: Average Sector Thrpt (kbps) vs Effective RoT (dB); 10 users;
PA3; Micro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-8: User Throughput (kbps); 10 users; PA3; Micro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-9: Fairness; 10 users; PA3; Micro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-10: Average Sector Thrpt (kbps) vs Effective RoT (dB); 10
users; TU6; Micro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-11: User Throughput (kbps); 10 users; TU6; Micro Cell
{width="5.127777777777778in" height="3.85in"}
Figure 6.2.4.1-12: Fairness; 10 users; TU6; Micro Cell
#### 6.2.4.3 Inter cell interference cancellation
TDM in particular has a good potential for intercell interference cancellation
as the number of interferers is likely to be small. An estimate has been made
as to the capacity improvements that might be obtained if an intercell IC
algorithm were to be implemented, using the model described in section
6.2.4.1.
Table 6.2.4.3-1 shows throughputs for TDM with own and other cell interference
suppression for two cases: F'=2.83 and F'=4.25, where F'=F/λ (F'=F when no
other cell interference suppression is considered). These two cases model the
scenarios that 40% and 60% of other cell interference is suppressed,
respectively.
Table 6.2.4.3-1: Throughput for TDM with own cell interference cancellation
and other cell interference suppression.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.05in"}
## 6.3 Complexity considerations
_This section should evaluate the degree of additional complexity that
implementation of synchronised E-DCH is estimated to bring to the terminal and
network_
### 6.3.1 CDM Proposal
#### 6.3.1.1 Terminal complexity
In order to operate a synchronised E-DCH, the terminal implementation would
need to take into account the following:
  * Update of UL timing advance
  * Allocation of physical channels different OVSF codes
    * The allocation of the control channels would be likely to be semi-static. The update of the data channel base code would be likely to be fairly slow (at least in the order of several TTIs)
  * Reception of potentially new DL channel for indicating base code
In addition, the CM of an Synchronised E-DCH signal would be somewhat
increased as described in section 5.1.3
#### 6.3.1.2 Network complexity
The Node B receiver could use the same technology as is currently used for
HSUPA (Rake, LMMSE etc.) and an increase in receiver complexity is not
required. The following would be required in the Node B:
  * Measurements for and operation of the timing control loops
    * Measurement of timing offset would likely be obtained as part of channel estimation
  * Allocation of different OVSF codes for the received physical channels
    * The allocation of the control channels would be likely to be semi-static. The update of the data channel base code would be likely to be fairly slow (at least in the order of several TTIs)
  * Potentially new DL channel for indicating base code
  * Base code allocation aware Node B scheduler
### 6.3.2 TDM Proposal.
#### 6.3.2.1 Terminal complexity
In order to operate a synchronised E-DCH, the terminal implementation would
need to take into account the following:
  * Update of UL timing advance
  * Any modifications or additions to the scheduling procedures to improve TDM resource utilisation
#### 6.3.2.2 Network complexity
The Node B receiver could use the same technology as is currently used for
HSUPA (Rake, LMMSE etc.) and an increase in receiver complexity is not
required. The following would be required in the Node B:
  * Measurements for and operation of the timing control loops
    * Measurement of timing offset would likely be obtained as part of path delay search or channel estimation
  * Possibly an update to the scheduler to improve TDM resource utilisation
# 7 Impact of synchronised E-DCH to the specifications
_This section should describe the estimated impact of the E-DCH proposal to
the 3GPP specifications_
## 7.1 CDM Proposal
This section outlines an estimation of the areas where work would be required
on the standards in order to introduce a synchronised E-DCH. The estimation is
based on the RAN1 discussions of channel structure and scheduling outlined
elsewhere in this report and a USTS like synchronisation procedure.
### 7.1.1 WG1
The following changes may be required in the WG RAN1 UTRA FDD specifications:
TS 25.211 REL-7:
  * Design of a new control channel with 4-5 bits for signalling the base code (an OVSF index assuming the highest allowable spreading factor to be used by the UE) in the case that a new control channel is selected as a solution indicating base code;
  * description of the special (F)-DPCH format, needed for the time tracking process, which compensates the synchronisation variations, caused by the UE movement. The new format may consist of the Time Alignment Bits (TABs), which replace the PC bits every x-ms -- as described during the USTS study;
  * description of the Synchronised E-DCH timing relation to other physical channels.
TS 25.212 REL-7:
  * If a special E-AGCH method is used for indicating base code (e.g. special E-AGCH ID or jointly quantised base code & MT2PR), then a re-interpretation of the E-AGCH at least some of the time may be necessary;
  * coding and modulation description for the new (F-)DPCCH format including the TABs bits should be included;
TS 25.213 REL-7:
  * Description of the Synchronised E-DCH specific UL code generation and allocation should be added.
TS 25.214 REL-7:
  * New Synchronised E-DCH specific synchronisation procedure to be added;
  * changes needed to the power control procedure, where some PC bits will be replaced by the TA bits (algorithm for processing TPC and TAB commands);
  * details of the Synchronised E-DCH specific operation to be included.
### 7.1.2 WG2
TS 25.319 REL-7:.
  * Stage 2 description of the Synchronised E-DCH operation needed
TS 25.321 REL-7:
  * HARQ synchronisation to be checked;
  * E-DCH scheduler function in MAC to be updated;
  * new E-TFB size tables may need an update;
  * if the base code signalled over a new physical channel then a new L2 channel is to be introduce (MAC-e);
TS 25.331 REL-7:
  * All relevant Synchronised E-DCH specific parameters to be introduced, described and signalled;
  * Messages containing physical layer & MAC configuration to be extended/updated;
  * UE capability to be indicated either in RRC CONNECTION REQUEST or RRC CONNECTION SETUP message;
  * new (F)-DPCH slot format to be indicated due to the corresponding change in the L1.
### 7.1.3 WG3
TS 25.423 REL-7:
  * Procedure text to be added to Radio Link Setup/Reconfiguration/Addition
  * Synchronised E-DCH parameters (e.g. info about the cell specific UL scrambling code) to be added to the Radio Link procedures;
  * Synchronised E-DCH Support Indicator to be added to the Cell Capability Container FDD;
  * update of the Information Elements for Synchronised E-DCH;
TS 25.433 REL-7:
  * Procedure text to be added to Radio Link Setup/Reconfiguration/Addition
  * Synchronised E-DCH parameters (e.g. info about the cell specific UL scrambling code) to be added to the Radio Link procedures;
  * update of the Information Elements for Synchronised E-DCH;
### 7.1.4 WG4
TS 25.101 REL-7: It is very probable that changes to this specification will
be needed.
  * areas to be checked:
    * UL/DL power control;
    * demodulation requirements on Synchronised E-DCH
    * Timing accuracy requirements for the UE timing advance procedure
TS 25.104 Rel-7:
  * Possibly demodulation requirements
TS 25.133 REL-7: Whether this specification is affected is ffs.
  * changes in the scheduling principles for UL may impact the "Transport Format Selection in UE";
Additionally, functional tests on UE synchronisation performance may be
required.
## 7.2 TDM Proposal
### 7.2.1 WG1
TS 25.211 REL-7:
  * No change foreseen
TS 25.212 REL-7:
  * Information mapping for HS-SCCH order type for UL timing adjustment
TS 25.213 REL-7:
  * No change foreseen
TS 25.214 REL-7:
  * UL timing adjustment procedure
If there are changes to the scheduling grant signaling for improved TDM
support, this will have some impact on the specifications.
### 7.2.2 WG2
TS 25.319 REL-7:
  * Stage 2 description of the Synchronised E-DCH operation
TS 25.321 REL-7:
  * No impact foreseen
TS 25.331 REL-7:
  * UE capability to be indicated either in RRC CONNECTION REQUEST or RRC CONNECTION SETUP message
If there are changes to the scheduling grant signaling for improved TDM
support, this will have some impact on the specifications.
### 7.2.3 WG3
TS 25.423 REL-7:
  * Synchronised E-DCH Support Indicator to be added to the Cell Capability Container FDD
TS 25.433 REL-7:
  * Request for DL timing adjustment from NodeB to SRNC
### 7.2.4 WG4
TS 25.101 REL-7:
  * Areas to be checked:
    * Timing accuracy requirements for the UE timing advance procedure
TS 25.104 Rel-7:
  * No change foreseen
TS 25.133 REL-7:
  * If there are changes to the scheduling principles for UL this may impact the "Transport Format Selection in UE"
Additionally, functional tests on UE synchronisation performance may be
required.
## 7.3 Interference cancellation
### 7.3.1 WG1
Uplink intra-cell interference cancellation has zero impact on the WG1
specifications.
### 7.3.2 WG2
Uplink intra-cell interference cancellation has zero impact on the WG2
specifications.
### 7.3.3 WG3
Uplink intra-cell interference cancellation has zero impact on the WG3
specifications.
If uplink inter-cell interference cancellation feature is implemented in the
NodeB, then changes are required on the Iub/Iur interface (NBAP/RNSAP
protocols) to support this feature.
### 7.3.4 WG4
As such, uplink interference cancellation has no impact on WG4 specifications.
However, if it is desired to introduce a test requirement for an enhanced
NodeB receiver type that performs uplink interference cancellation then it may
be necessary to introduce a demodulation performance requirement for the NodeB
receiver in 25.104 and 25.141.
# 8 Conclusion
The Synchronised E-DCH study item has investigated methods for increasing the
capacity of the WCDMA uplink, including CDM based Synchronised E-DCH, TDM
based Synchronised E-DCH and interference cancellation.
Performance evaluation has been carried out at link and system level,
comparing Synchronised E-DCH against Release 7 HSUPA. At 80-90% HARQ
throughput, the CDM based Synchronised E-DCH showed link level gains of
0.75-1dB in a multipath rich channel and 1-2dB in low dispersion channel,
while 3 stage parallel IC on HSUPA showed link level gains of 2dB in both
kinds of channel. Parallel IC on CDM based Synchronised E-DCH showed
additional gains of 1.8dB in TU6 and \\~2Mbps, higher
coding rates or higher order modulation compared to asynchronous HSUPA would
be needed if pure CDM or TDM operation is to be maintained.
Interference cancellation may be applied to CDM based or TDM based
Synchronised E-DCH or to HSUPA. Simulations indicated that application of IC
to CDM based Synchronised E-DCH could reduce the number of interference
cancellation stages required in a parallel interference canceller by 1
compared with an application to HSUPA. TDM based Synchronised E-DCH could
benefit from the fact that the inter-cell interference is dominated by a low
number of users in order to further boost capacity, e.g. by being able to
operate at a higher RoT level by cancelling or suppressing these dominant
interferers.
In terms of complexity, CDM based Synchronised E-DCH increases CM and PAPR at
the UE transmitter and requires code scheduling and synchronisation at the
Node B. TDM synchronisation requirements are looser, and scheduling may be
more straightforward. Interference cancellation implies additional Node B
baseband processing complexity.
Impact to the standards is greatest for CDM based Synchronised E-DCH,
significantly lower for TDM and zero for interference cancellation on Release
7 HSUPA.
#