# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is a technical report of the UMTS1500 work items. The purpose of
these work items is to provide UMTS specification support for UTRA FDD in the
1500 MHz in Japan. In addition to the schedule and status of the work items,
the report includes a description of the motivation, requirements, study
results and specification recommendations.
This document is a 'living' document, periodically updated and presented at
all TSG-RAN meetings until all related CRs are agreed and approved.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-070078 \"Work Item proposal for **1500 MHz band in Japan** \", RAN#35
[2] \"Report of technical conditions concerning effective use of 1.5 GHz
band\" (In Japanese, Dec. 21, 2006)
http://www.soumu.go.jp/joho_tsusin/policyreports/joho_tsusin/pdf/061221_2.pdf
[3] R4-070024 \"Technical conditions applied for UMTS1500 in Japan\", RAN4#42
[4] R4-070514 \"Work plan proposal of the WI \"UMTS1500\"\", RAN4#43
[5] R4-030489: Defining UE performance requirements for different frequency
variants, Nokia
_[6] R4-030740:_ **Defining BS and UE demodulation performance requirements
for UMTS 850** _,_ **Lucent Technologies**
_[7]_ ITU-R recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial componet of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
_[8]_ 3GPP TS 34.121: \"Terminal conformance specification; Radio transmission
and reception (FDD)\".
_[9]_ 3GPP TS 25.141: \"**Base Station (BS) conformance testing (FDD)** \".
[10] R4-071408 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS25.101), RAN4#44
[11] R4-071409 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS25.104), RAN4#44
[12] R4-071205 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS25.141), RAN4#44
[13] R4-071207 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS25.133), RAN4#44
[14] R4-071206 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS25.113), RAN4#44
[15] R4-071208 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS34.124), RAN4#44
[16] R2-073672-073677 \"Introduction of Band XI\" (TS25.307 R99-Rel-8),
RAN2#59
[17] R2-073678 \"Introduction of Band XI\" (TS25.331), RAN2#59
[18] R3-071349 \"Introduction of UMTS1500\" (TS25.461), RAN3#57
[19] R3-071350 \"Introduction of UMTS1500 requirements\" (TS25.466), RAN3#57
[20] R5-072273 \"Introduction of FDD Mode Test frequencies for Operating Band
XI (UMTS1500)\" (TS34.108), RAN5#36
[21] R5-072274-072276, R5-072398 \"Introduction of UMTS1500(Band XI)
requirements\" (TS34.121), RAN5#36
[22] R5-072458, R5-072465 \"Introduction of FDD Mode Test frequencies for
Operating Band XI (UMTS1500)\" (TS34.123), RAN5#36
## 3.1 Definitions
(void)
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
and the following apply:
W-CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, often used synonymously with
WCDMA
UE User Equipment
BS Base station
UL Uplink, the RF path from UE to BS
DL Downlink, the RF path from BS to UE
TX Transmitter
RX Receiver
# 4 Introduction
A working group has been established under the Information and Communications
Council of Japan to consider the technical condition of the frequency re-
arrangement in 1500 MHz band in order to enhance frequency efficiency.
Therefore, the proponents of this work item believe that there is high
possibility that IMT-2000 would be introduced in Japan in the band near
future.
It is suggested that the consideration of the evolution and migration to
introduce DS-CDMA in the 1500 MHz band being studied in the working group
under the Information and Communications Council of Japan could be used as the
basis for this work, which would reduce the effort required within 3GPP.
## 4.1 Task Description
The purpose of this work item is to study of UMTS1500 for a potential
deployment in Japan. The study includes co-existing studies with the following
technologies: PDC system (ARIB standard RCR STD-27), DIGITAL MCA system (ARIB
standard RCR STD-32), Radio astronomy systems, and Mobile satellite
communication service, taking the frequency reframing plan in Japan into
account.
The Work Item description for UMTS1500 was approved at RAN#35 [1].
## 4.2 Rationale for UMTS1500
This WI enables the introduction of W-CDMA radio interface to the 1427.9 \-
1452.9 MHz (UL) and 1475.9 - 1500.9 MHz (DL) band.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Co-existence with other technologies
As a result of the co-existing studies with the following technologies: PDC
system (ARIB standard RCR STD-27), DIGITAL MCA system (ARIB standard RCR
STD-32), Radio astronomy systems, and Mobile satellite communication service,
technical condition of the required guard bands between each system was lead
in Information and Communications Council of Japan as provided in [2].
## 5.2 Deployment Scenarios
Based on the required guard bands with other technologies, a new frequency
arrangement discussed in Information and Communications Council of Japan is
provided in [3].
## 5.3 National band
The frequency band of UMTS1500 (1427.9 - 1452.9 MHz (UL) and 1475.9 - 1500.9
MHz (DL)) is not included in IMT-2000 plan bands. [Therefore, a note such that
this band is a national band, may be required in frequency bands of UE and BS
specifications. ]
[Editor's note] RAN4#43 concluded that the note above might not be needed.
## 5.4 Technical conditions for UMTS1500
The technical conditions for UMTS1500 were derived based on the requirements
for 800MHz band (UMTS Band VI), 1.7GHz band (UMTS Band IX) and 2GHz (Band I).
Necessary changes such as the frequency arrangement in the 1.5GHz band or
spurious emission requirements were made. Those changes and its rationale are
summarized in the following sub sections. Revised parts compared with
requirements for Band IX are colored yellow and underlined.
It should be noted that technical conditions in the following sections include
test tolerances and the conditions are correspoinding to \"test requirements\"
specified in [8] or [9]. The way specified in the following sections is in
line with what are recomeended in [7] as \"shared risk principle where the
test limit is the core specification value that includes measurement
uncertainty\".
**5.4.1 Mandatory regulatory requirements:**
##### Frequency arrangement: {#frequency-arrangement .H6}
The frequency band for UMTS1500 in Japan is as follows:
UL: 1427.9MHz - 1452.9MHz
DL: 1475.9MHz - 1500.9MHz.
Tx-Rx frequency separation: [48MHz]{.underline}
NOTE: The band is a national band.
{width="5.9875in" height="1.05625in"}
Figure 5.4.1.1: Frequency band for UMTS1500
(a) Frequency error:
Frequency error requirements for UMTS1500 are specified same as other Bands
shown following;
BS: The modulated carrier frequency of the BS shall be accurate to within the
accuracy range given in Table 5.4.1.1 observed over a period of one timeslot.
Table 5.4.1.1: Frequency error minimum requirement
+-------------------------+-----------------+-------------------+ | BS maximum output power | BS class | Accuracy | +-------------------------+-----------------+-------------------+ | > +38dBm | Wide Area BS | ± (0.05 ppm+12Hz) | +-------------------------+-----------------+-------------------+ | \ | | | ncies | ncies | separ | band | band |  | d | | | UE | UE | | | | | Bm/3. | | | tran | rec | | | | d | 84MHz | | | smit, | eive, | | | | Bm/3. | | | | Node | Node | | | | 84MHz | | | | B | B | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | I | 1920 | 2110 | 190 | 60 | 130 | -117 | - | | | - | -2170 | MHz | MHz | MHz | | 106.7 | | | 1980 | MHz | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | II | 1850 | 1930 | 80 | 60 | 20 | -115 | - | | | -1910 | -1990 | MHz. | MHz | MHz | | 104.7 | | | MHz | MHz | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | III | 1710 | 1805 | 95 | 75 | 20 | -114 | - | | | -1785 | -1880 | MHz. | MHz | MHz | | 103.7 | | | MHz | MHz | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | IX | 1 | 184 | 95 | 35 | 60 | -116 | - | | | 749.9 | 4.9-1 | MHz | MHz | MHz | | 105.7 | | | -1 | 879.9 | | | | | | | | 784.9 | MHz | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | \ | 1 | 1 | 48 | 25 | 23 | -115 | - | | [XI] | 427.9 | 475.9 | MHz | MHz | MHz | | 104.7 | | | -1452 | -1500 | | | | | | | | .9MHz | .9MHz | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Figure 5.4.2.1: UTRA FDD frequency bands
b) Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
i) BS
With the conditions described in Table 5.4.2.3, the BER shall not exceed 0.1%.
Table 5.4.2.3: Test conditions for Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
Parameter BS maximum output power Unit  
 +38dBm  +38dBm  +24dBm  
Propagation condition Static -  
Data rate 12.2 12.2 12.2 kbps Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal mean power -52 -42 -38 dBm Few offset (Modulated) 5 5 5 MHz
* * *
ii) UE
With the conditions described in Table 5.4.2.4, the BER shall not exceed 0.1%.
Table 5.4.2.4: Test conditions for Adjacent Channel Selectivity
* * *
Parameter Unit Parameters Propagation condition - Static condition Data rate
kbps 12.2 DPCH_Ec dBm/3.84 MHz \ \+ 14 dB Î~or~ dBm/3.84 MHz
\ \+ 14 dB I~oac~ mean power (modulated) dBm -52 F~uw~ (offset) MHz
+5 or -5
* * *
c) Intermodulation characteristics
i) BS
With the conditions described in Table 5.4.2.5, the BER shall not exceed 0.1%.
Table 5.4.2.5: Test conditions for Intermodulation characteristics
* * *
Parameter Parameters Unit  
Propagation condition Static -  
Data rate 12.2 kbps  
Wanted signal mean power \+6 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Mean power -48 dBm Fuw offset (CW) 10 MHz Interfering
signal 2 Mean power -48 dBm Fuw offset (Modulated) 20 MHz
* * *
ii) UE
With the conditions described in Table 5.4.2.6, the BER shall not exceed 0.1%.
Table 5.4.2.6: Test conditions for Intermodulation characteristics
* * *
Parameter Parameters Unit  
Propagation condition Static -  
Data rate 12.2 kbps  
Wanted signal mean power \+3 dBm  
Interfering signal 1 Mean power -46 dBm Fuw offset (CW) 10 MHz Interfering
signal 2 Mean power -46 dBm Fuw offset (Modulated) 20 MHz
* * *
d) Spurious response
i) BS
With the conditions described in Table 5.4.2.7, the BER shall not exceed 0.1%.
Table 5.4.2.7: Test conditions for spurious response
* * *
Parameter Unit Parameters Remarks Propagation condition - Static condition  
Data rate kbps 12.2  
Wanted signal mean power dBm/3.84 MHz \ \+ 6 dB  
Interfering signal mean power (CW) dBm -40 Maximum output power> +38dBm -35
Maximum output power +38dBm -30 Maximum output power +24dBm
* * *
ii) UE
With the conditions described in Table 5.4.2.8, the BER shall not exceed 0.1%.
Table 5.4.2.8: Test conditions for spurious response
* * *
Parameter Unit Parameters Remarks Propagation condition - Static condition  
Data rate kbps 12.2  
Wanted signal mean power dBm/3.84 MHz \ \+ 3 dB  
Interfering signal mean power (CW) dBm -44
* * *
### **5.4.3** Propagation conditions for UMTS1500
#### 5.4.3.1 Propagation Conditions for performance requirements
As discussed in [5] and [6], performance requirements for BS can be kept equal
for different frequency bands by adjusting the UE velocity to set the channel
conditions same effectively. Table 5.4.3.1 shows the adjustment of the UE
velocity taking into account the carrier frequency ration between band I and
band [XI]. Those adjusted UE speed can be used to define propagation
conditions for receiver performance of UMTS1500.
Table 5.4.3.1: Effective UE speed of Propagation Conditions for band [XI]
* * *
Operating Band Frequency Speed for the propagation condition [km/h] Remark  
I (a) 2 GHz 3 30 120 250 Wave length ratio (a/b) = 1.38 [XI] (b) 1.45 GHz 4.1
41 166 345
* * *
### **5.4.4** Channel arrangement for UMTS1500
#### 5.4.4.1 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN). For Band XI, the UARFCN values are defined as
follows:
Uplink: N~U~ = 5 * (F~UL~ - F~UL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~UL_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤ F~UL_high~
Downlink: N~D~ = 5 * (F~DL~ - F~DL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~DL_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤ F~DL_high~
For Band XI, F~UL_Offset~, F~UL_low~, F~UL_high~, F~DL_Offset~,, F~DL_low~
and F~DL_high~ are defined in Table 5.4.4.1 for the general UARFCN.
Table 5.4.4.1: UARFCN definition (general)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | * | **D | | | | | | *Band** | _UPLINK | OWNLINK | | | | | | | (UL)__| (DL)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | tr | r | | | | | | | ansmit, | eceive, | | | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | | | receive | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | * | ** | * | ** | | | | |_ UARFCN | Carrier | _UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | o | equency | o | equency | | | | | ffset_ _| (F~UL~) | ffset_ _| (F~DL~) | | | | | | range | | range | | | | | * | [ | * | [ | | | | |_ F~UL_ | MHz]**| *F~DL_ | MHz]** | | | | | Offset~ | | Offset~ | | | | | | [ | | [ | | | | | | MHz]**| | MHz]** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | **F~UL\ | * | |** F~DL\ | * | | | | _low~**| *F~UL_ | | _low~** | _F~DL_ | | | | | high~__| | | high~_ * | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XI | 733 | 1430.4 | 1450.4 | 736 | 1478.4 | 1498.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
The following UARFCN range shall be supported for Band XI:
Table 5.4.4.2: UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
+------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Band | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit | +------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | | General | General | +------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XI | 3487 to 3587 | 3712 to 3812 | +------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
#### 5.4.4.2 List of UARFCN used for UTRA FDD
The UARFCN numbering scheme detailed the specification is summarized for
information in Table 5.4.4.3. The table shows the UARFCN assigned to all UTRA
FDD operating bands, starting with the lowest UARFCN and continuing up to the
highest one assigned.
Each band may have two table entries, one for the \"general\" numbers and one
for the \"additional\" ones. The entries in Table 5.4.4.3 are explained as
follows:
**Band range:** The size of the frequency range for the UTRA FDD band
specified.
**Range res.:** The size of the frequency range corresponding to the UARFCN
range that has been \"reserved\" in 3GPP for possible future extensions of the
band.
**Formula offset:** The offset parameter (F~UL_Offset~ or F~DL_Offset~) in the
formula, used to calculate the UARFCN.
**Assigned/reserved:** Indicates the significance of the UARFCN and
corresponding frequencies listed as follows:
**Start res**. Start of the UARFCN range reserved for the band.
**Min.** The lowest UARFCN assigned to the band.
**Max.** The highest UARFCN assigned to the band.
**End res.** End of the UARFCN range reserved for the band.
**N~U~, N~D~:** Uplink and downlink UARFCN.
**F~UL~, F~DL~:** Corresponding uplink and downlink frequencies.
**(Add.):** Refers to the additional UARFCN (on the 100 kHz raster).
Note that bands V and VI are shown with common entries in Table 5.4.4.3, since
their UARFCN ranges are completely overlapping.
Table 5.4.4.3: UARFCN used for the UTRA FDD bands
**UTRA FDD Band** | **Band range [MHz]** | **Range res. [MHz]** | Uplink UARFCN | Downlink UARFCN |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | **F UL_Offset** **[MHz]** | **Assigned/Reserved** | **N U** | **F UL [MHz]** | **F DL_Offset** **[MHz]** | **Assigned/Reserved** | **N D** | **F DL [MHz]**  
**II** **(Add.)** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1850.1 | Start res. | 0 | 1850.1 | 1850.1 | Start res. | 400 | 1930.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **12** | **1852.5** |  | **Min.** | **412** | **1932.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **287** | **1907.5** |  | **Max.** | **687** | **1987.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 299 | 1909.9 |  | End res. | 699 | 1989.9  
**V  
and  
VI** **(Add.)** | 2x25 (V) 2x10 (VI) | 2x45 | 670.1 | Start res. | 700 | 810.1 | 670.1 | Start res. | 925 | 855.1  
|  |  |  | **Min. (V)** | **782** | **826.5** |  | **Min. (V)** | **1007** | **871.5**  
|  |  |  | **Min. (VI)** | **812** | **832.5** |  | **Min. (VI)** | **1037** | **877.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (VI)** | **837** | **837.5** |  | **Max. (VI)** | **1062** | **882.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (V)** | **862** | **842.5** |  | **Max. (V)** | **1087** | **887.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 924 | 854.9 |  | End res. | 1149 | 899.9  
**III** | 2x75 | 2x75 | 1525 | Start res. | 925 | 1710.0 | 1575 | Start res. | 1150 | 1805.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **937** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **1162** | **1807.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1288** | **1782.6** |  | **Max.** | **1513** | **1877.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1299 | 1784.8 |  | End res. | 1524 | 1879.8  
**IV** | 2x45 | 2x70 | 1450 | Start res. | 1300 | 1710.0 | 1805 | Start res. | 1525 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **1312** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **1537** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1513** | **1752.6** |  | **Max.** | **1738** | **2152.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1649 | 1779.8 |  | End res. | 1874 | 2179.8  
**IV  
(Add.)** | 2x45 | 2x70 | 1380.1 | Start res. | 1650 | 1710.1 | 1735.1 | Start res. | 1875 | 2110.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **1662** | **1712.5** |  | **Min.** | **1887** | **2112.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **1862** | **1752.5** |  | **Max.** | **2087** | **2152.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 1999 | 1779.9 |  | End res. | 2224 | 2179.9  
**VII** | 2x70 | 2x70 | 2100 | Start res. | 2000 | 2500.0 | 2175 | Start res. | 2225 | 2620.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2012** | **2502.4** |  | **Min.** | **2237** | **2622.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2338** | **2567.6** |  | **Max.** | **2563** | **2687.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2349 | 2569.8 |  | End res. | 2574 | 2689.8  
**VII  
(Add.)** | 2x70 | 2x70 | 2030.1 | Start res. | 2350 | 2500.1 | 2105.1 | Start res. | 2575 | 2620.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2362** | **2502.5** |  | **Min.** | **2587** | **2622.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2687** | **2567.5** |  | **Max.** | **2912** | **2687.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2699 | 2569.9 |  | End res. | 2924 | 2689.9  
**VIII** | 2x35 | 2x35 | 340 | Start res. | 2700 | 880.0 | 340 | Start res. | 2925 | 925.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2712** | **882.4** |  | **Min.** | **2937** | **927.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **2863** | **912.6** |  | **Max.** | **3088** | **957.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 2874 | 914.8 |  | End res. | 3099 | 959.8  
**X** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1135 | Start res. | 2875 | 1710.0 | 1490 | Start res. | 3100 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **2887** | **1712.4** |  | **Min.** | **3112** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3163** | **1767.6** |  | **Max.** | **3388** | **2167.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3174 | 1769.8 |  | End res. | 3399 | 2169.8  
**X  
(Add.)** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 1075.1 | Start res. | 3175 | 1710.1 | 1430.1 | Start res. | 3400 | 2110.1  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3187** | **1712.5** |  | **Min.** | **3412** | **2112.5**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3462** | **1767.5** |  | **Max.** | **3687** | **2167.5**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3474 | 1769.9 |  | End res. | 3699 | 2169.9  
**XI** | 2x25 | 2x25 | 733 | Start res. | 3475 | 1428.0 | **736** | Start res. | 3700 | 1476.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **3487** | **1430.4** |  | **Min.** | **3712** | **1478.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **3587** | **1450.4** |  | **Max.** | **3812** | **1498.4**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 3599 | 1452.8 |  | End res. | 3824 | 1500.8  
**V  
and  
VI** | 2x25 (V) 2x10 (VI) | 2x45 | 0 | Start res. | 4050 | 810.0 | 0 | Start res. | 4275 | 855.0  
|  |  |  | **Min. (V)** | **4132** | **826.4** |  | **Min. (V)** | **4357** | **871.4**  
|  |  |  | **Min. (VI)** | **4162** | **832.4** |  | **Min. (VI)** | **4387** | **877.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (VI)** | **4188** | **837.6** |  | **Max. (VI)** | **4413** | **882.6**  
|  |  |  | **Max. (V)** | **4233** | **846.6** |  | **Max. (V)** | **4458** | **891.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 4274 | 854.8 |  | End res. | 4499 | 899.8  
**IX** | 2x45 | 2x75 | 0 | Start res. | 8550 | 1710.0 | 0 | Start res. | 9025 | 1805.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **8762** | **1752.4** |  | **Min.** | **9237** | **1847.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **8912** | **1782.4** |  | **Max.** | **9387** | **1877.4**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 8924 | 1784.8 |  | End res. | 9399 | 1879.8  
**II** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 0 | Start res. | 9250 | 1850.0 | 0 | Start res. | 9650 | 1930.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **9262** | **1852.4** |  | **Min.** | **9662** | **1932.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **9538** | **1907.6** |  | **Max.** | **9938** | **1987.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 9549 | 1909.8 |  | End res. | 9949 | 1989.8  
**I** | 2x60 | 2x60 | 0 | Start res. | 9600 | 1920.0 | 0 | Start res. | 10550 | 2110.0  
|  |  |  | **Min.** | **9612** | **1922.4** |  | **Min.** | **10562** | **2112.4**  
|  |  |  | **Max.** | **9888** | **1977.6** |  | **Max.** | **10838** | **2167.6**  
|  |  |  | End res. | 9899 | 1979.8 |  | End res. | 10849 | 2169.8  
# 6 Methodology used in this technical report
\- ARIB provided the following technical conditions and RAN4 checked them
\- Requirements for co-existence with other technologies in Japan
> \- **Mandatory regulatory requirements**
>
> \- Frequency arrangement
>
> \- Tx and Rx Spurious emission requirements
>
> \- **Other technical conditions referred in Japan's regulations**
>
> \- UE reference sensitivity level
\- Necessary changes for the relevant specifications based on the information
above
\- Study and check necessary changes for the relevant specifications and
collect appropriate information into a TR
\- Generate CRs to update the appropriate specifications and other documents
\- Study any signalling issues related to UMTS1500
\- Study conformance test specification for FDD UE
# 7 Study Areas
Technical conditions of spurious emissions requirements and UE reference
sensitivity level discussed in Information and Communications Council of Japan
is provided in [3].
# 8 Summary of prior contributions to set requirements for change requests
## 8.1 UMTS1500 UE
Table 8.1.1 summarises changes required for TS25.101 [10].
Table 8.1.1: Summary of Changes required for TS25.101 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 3 Definitions No change is
proposed.  
5.2 Frequency band Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add a new
row for Band XI. 5.3 TX-RX frequency separation Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567
in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add a new row for Band XI. 5.4.2 Channel raster No change
is proposed.  
5.4.3 Channel number Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408.
Additional channel numbers are not defined. 5.4.4 UARFCN Proposed at RAN4#44
as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add channel numbering for Band XI. 6.2.1 Maximum
Power Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add requirement for
Band XI which is same for Band I. 6.6.2.1.1 Spectrum emission Mask No change
is proposed.  
6.6.3.1 Tx Spurious Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add
requirement for Band XI. 7.3 Reference sensitivity Proposed at RAN4#44 as
CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add requirement for Band XI. 7.6.1 In band blocking
Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add requirement for Band XI.
7.6.2 Out of band blocking Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408.
Add requirement for Band XI. 7.6.3 Narrow band blocking No change is proposed.  
7.7 Spurious response No change is proposed.  
7.8.1 Intermodulation No change is proposed.  
7.8.2 Narrowband intermodulation No change is proposed.  
7.9 Rx spurious emission Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add
requirement for Band XI. B.2 Propagation conditions Proposed at RAN4#44 as
CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add requirement for Band XI. E.2 List of UARFCN used
for UTRA FDD bands Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0567 in Tdoc.R4-071408. Add
channel numbering for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.1.2 summarises changes required for TS34.121 [21].
Table 8.1.2: Summary of Changes required for TS34.121-1, TS34.121-2, and their
status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 3 Definitions No change is
proposed.  
4.2 Frequency band Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add a new
row for Band XI. 4.3 TX-RX frequency separation Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in
Tdoc.R5-072274. Add a new row for Band XI. 4.4.2 Channel raster No change is
proposed.  
4.4.3 Channel number Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Additional
channel numbers are not defined. 4.4.4 UARFCN Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in
Tdoc.R5-072274. Add channel numbering for Band XI. 5.2 Maximum Power Proposed
at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add requirement for Band XI which is
same for Band I. 5.4 Output Power Dynamics in the Uplink Proposed at RAN5#36
as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add test parameters for Band XI. 5.5 Transmit
ON/OFF Power Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add test
parameters for Band XI. 5.9 Spectrum emission Mask No change is proposed.  
5.9A Spectrum emission Mask with HS-DPCCH No change is proposed.  
5.11.2 Tx Spurious Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add
requirements for Band XI. 6.2 Reference sensitivity Proposed at RAN5#36 as a
CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add requirement for Band XI. 6.5.2.1 In band blocking
Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add requirement for Band XI.
6.5.2.2 Out of band blocking Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274.
Add requirement for Band XI. 6.5.2.3 Narrow band blocking No change is
proposed.  
6.6 Spurious response No change is proposed.  
6.7 Intermodulation No change is proposed.  
Narrowband intermodulation No change is proposed.  
6.8 Rx spurious emission Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072274. Add
requirement for Band XI. 8.7 Measurement Performance for UE Proposed at
RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072275. Add requirement for Band XI. D.2.2
Propagation conditions Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072276. Add
conditions for Band XI. F.4.4 Requirements for support of RRM Proposed at
RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072276. Add requirement for Band XI. Table A.6 FDD
(DS) RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in
Tdoc.R5-072398. Add requirement for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.1.3 summarises changes required for TS34.108 [20].
Table 8.1.3: Summary of Changes required for TS34.108 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 5.1.1 FDD Mode Test
frequencies Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-052273. Add test
frequencies for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.1.4 summarises changes required for TS34.123 [22].
Table 8.1.4: Summary of Changes required for TS34.123-1, TS34.123-2, and their
status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change Table 6.3 FDD Test
frequencies Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-072458. Add test
frequencies for Band XI. A.4.3.2 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
Proposed at RAN5#36 as a CR in Tdoc.R5-052465. Add a new line for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.1.5 summarises changes required for TS34.124 [15].
Table 8.1.5: Summary of Changes required for TS34.124 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 4.4 Receiver exclusion band
Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0027 in Tdoc.R4-071208. Add a new line for Band XI.
* * *
## 8.2 UMTS1500 BS
Table 8.2.1 summarises changes required for TS25.104 [11].
Table 8.2.1: Summary of Changes required for TS25.104 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 5.2 Frequency band Proposed
at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409. Add a new row for Band XI. 5.3 TX-RX
frequency separation Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409. Add a
new row for Band XI. 5.4.2 Channel raster No change is proposed.  
5.4.3 Channel number Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409.
Additional channel numbers are not defined. 6.6.2.1 Emission mask No change is
proposed.  
6.6.2.2 ACLR Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409. Add a note for
Band XI 6.6.3.1 Tx Spurious emissions No change is proposed.  
6.6.3.2 Protection of BS receiver Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in
Tdoc.R4-071409. Add requirement for Band XI which is same for Band I.
6.6.3.3-6.6.3.7 Co-existence requirements Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in
Tdoc.R4-071409. Add requirement for Band XI. 7.5 Blocking Proposed at RAN4#44
as CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409. Add requirement for Band XI which is same for
Band I. 7.6 Intermodulation characteristics No change is proposed.  
7.7 Rx spurious emission Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409. Add
requirement for Band XI. Annex B Propagation conditions Proposed at RAN4#44 as
CR0296 in Tdoc.R4-071409. Add requirement for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.2.2 summarises changes required for TS25.141 [12].
Table 8.2.2: Summary of Changes required for TS25.141 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 3.4.1 Frequency band
Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461 in Tdoc.R4-071205. Add a new row for Band XI.
3.4.2 TX-RX frequency separation Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461 in
Tdoc.R4-071205. Add a new row for Band XI. 3.5.2 Channel raster No change is
proposed.  
3.5.3 Channel number Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461 in Tdoc.R4-071205.
Additional channel numbers are not defined. 6.5.2.1 Emission mask No change is
proposed.  
6.5.2.2 ACLR Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461 in Tdoc.R4-071205. Add a note for
Band XI 6.5.3.7.1-6.5.3.7.2 Tx Spurious emissions No change is proposed.  
6.5.3.7.3 Protection of BS receiver Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461 in
Tdoc.R4-071205. Add requirement for Band XI which is same for Band I.
6.5.3.7.4 - 6.5.3.7.8 Co-existence requirements Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461
in Tdoc.R4-071205. Add requirement for Band XI. 7.5 Blocking Proposed at
RAN4#44 as CR0461 in Tdoc.R4-071205. Add requirement for Band XI which is same
for Band I. 7.6 Intermodulation characteristics No change is proposed.  
7.7 Rx spurious emission Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0461 in Tdoc.R4-071205. Add
requirement for Band XI. Annex D Propagation conditions Proposed at RAN4#44 as
CR0461 in Tdoc.R4-071205. Add requirement for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.2.3 summarises changes required for TS25.113 [14].
Table 8.2.3: Summary of Changes required for TS25.113 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 4.5.2 Receiver exclusion
band Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0036 in Tdoc.R4-071206. Add a new line for Band
XI.
* * *
## 8.3 Radio Resource Management
Table 8.3.1 summarises changes required for TS25.133 [13].
Table 8.3.1: Summary of Changes required for TS25.133 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 9.1 Measurement Performance
for UE Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0916 in Tdoc.R4-071207. Add requirement for
Band XI. A9.1 Measurement Performance for UE (Normative Annex for Test cases)
Proposed at RAN4#44 as CR0916 in Tdoc.R4-071207. Add requirement for Band XI.
* * *
## 8.4 Requirements on UEs supporting a release-independent frequency band
Table 8.4.1 summarises changes required for TS25.307 [16].
Table 8.4.1: Summary of Changes required for TS25.307 (Rel.99/4/5/6/7/8) and
their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change X.1.1 RF requirements
Proposed at RAN2#59 as CR0061 through 0066 in Tdoc.R2-073672 through
R2-073677. A new section for Band XI. X.1.2 Signalling Requirements Proposed
at RAN2#59 as CR0061 through 0066 in Tdoc.R2-073672 through R2-073677. A new
section for Band XI.
* * *
## 8.5 Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
Table 8.5.1 summarises changes required for TS25.331 [17].
Table 8.5.1: Summary of Changes required for TS25.331 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 10.3.3.21a Measurement
capability extension Proposed at RAN2#59 as CR3069 in Tdoc.R2-073678. A new
reference for the FDD Frequency band (Band XI). 10.3.3.42a UE radio access
capability extension Proposed at RAN2#59 as CR3069 in Tdoc.R2-073678. A new
reference for the Frequency band (Band XI). 10.3.6.35c Frequency band
indicator 2 Proposed at RAN2#59 as CR3069 in Tdoc.R2-073678. Semantics
description is changed.
* * *
## 8.6 UTRAN Iuant interface
Table 8.6.1 summarises changes required for TS25.461 [18].
Table 8.6.1: Summary of Changes required for TS25.461 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change 4.3.7 Operating bands
Proposed at RAN3#57 as CR0048 in Tdoc.R3-071349. Add a new line for Band XI.
* * *
Table 8.6.2 summarises changes required for TS25.466 [19].
Table 8.6.2: Summary of Changes required for TS25.466 and their status
* * *
Clause Description CR Status Description of change Annex B Assigned fields for
additional data Proposed at RAN3#57 as CR0013 in Tdoc.R3-071350. Define new
bit fields for Band XI
* * *
# 9 Project Plan
## 9.1 Schedule
Table 9.1.1 summarises the schedule plan for UMTS1500.
Table 9.1.1: Schedule plan [3]
* * *
Item# Effort Required Responsibility Schedule 1 Provide deployment scenarios
for 1500 MHz DS-CDMA in Japan ARIB^*1^ RAN4#42 2 Provide requirements for co-
existence with other technologies in Japan ARIB^*1^ RAN4#42 3 Propose
necessary changes for the relevant specifications based on the information
provided in #3. ARIB^*2^ RAN4#43 4.1 Study and check necessary changes for the
relevant specifications and collect appropriate information into a TR RAN4
RAN4#43 - #44 4.2 Generate CRs to update the appropriate specifications and
other documents. RAN4 RAN4#43 - #44 5 Study any signalling issues related to
UMTS1500 RAN2 RAN2#59 6 Study regarding conformance test specification for FDD
UE RAN5 RAN5#36 - #37
* * *
> _*1: ARIB provided RAN4 outcomes from the Information and Communications
> Council of Japan._
>
> _*2: Individual member of ARIB may provide appropriate information or
> proposals based on studies at the Information and national Communications
> Council of Japan._
## 9.2 Work Task Status
Table 9.2.1 summarises the work task status for UMTS1500.
Table 9.2.1: Work task status
* * *
Item# Effort Required Responsibility Status 1 Provide deployment scenarios for
1500 MHz DS-CDMA in Japan ARIB^*1^ Completed 2 Provide requirements for co-
existence with other technologies in Japan ARIB^*1^ Completed 3 Propose
necessary changes for the relevant specifications based on the information
provided in #3. ARIB^*2^ Completed 4.1 Study and check necessary changes for
the relevant specifications and collect appropriate information into a TR RAN4
Completed 4.2 Generate CRs to update the appropriate specifications and other
documents. RAN4 Completed 5 Study any signalling issues related to UMTS1500
RAN2 Completed 6 Study regarding conformance test specification for FDD UE
RAN5 Completed
* * *
> _*1: ARIB provided RAN4 outcomes from the Information and Communications
> Council of Japan._
>
> _*2: Individual member of ARIB may provide appropriate information or
> proposals based on studies at the Information and national Communications
> Council of Japan._
# 10 Open Issues
None.
#