# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document has been produced in the scope of the study item on
\"HSPA Evolution for 1.28Mcps TDD\" [2]. The objective of the study item is to
develop a framework for the evolution of the 1.28Mcps TDD mode of the 3GPP
HSPA TD-SCDMA-based radio-access technology from Release 8 onwards.
This document lists the constraints for the 1.28Mcps TDD HSPA Evolution in
Release 8 and an assessment of technical proposals and their respective,
achievable performance and complexity.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TD RP-070673: \"Work Item Description on Scope of future HSPA
Evolution for 1.28Mcps TDD\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**HSPA:** In this document, the acronym **HSPA** (High Speed Packet Access) is
used to qualify the 1.28Mcps TDD mode features HSDPA (High Speed Downlink
Packet Access) and Enhanced Uplink as defined in the Release 7 version of the
3GPP Specifications.
**Backward Compatibility:** In this document, **Backward Compatibility** means
the ability of an HSPA infrastructure to simultaneously allocate radio
resources on a single or multiple carriers to post-release 8 terminals and
terminals compliant with previous releases of the 3GPP specifications without
performances degradation for either type of terminal. It is understood that in
that case the performance enhancements targeted in this document would only
apply to post-release 8 terminals and that the full potential of system
performance enhancements would only be achievable if all terminals operating
simultaneously on a single carrier were post-release 8 terminals.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CAPEX Capital expenditure
CPC Continuous Packet Connectivity
CS Circuit Switched
DRX Discontinuous Reception
HSPA High Speed Packet Access
LTE: Long Term Evolution
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
NAS Non Access Stratum
OPEX Operational expenditure
QoS Quality of Service
PS Packet Switched
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UE User Equipment
# 4 Introduction
The Study Item Description on "HSPA Evolution for 1.28Mcps TDD" [2] was
approved by the 3GPP TSG RAN #37 plenary meeting in September 2007.
The importance of on-going and future efforts to enhance the capabilities and
performance of HSPA-based radio networks is widely recognised and has recently
been highlighted. In order to protect the prophase investment of
telecommunication operators and offer a smooth migration path towards LTE, the
following elements should be considered as guiding principles for HSPA
Evolution:
> 1\. HSPA spectrum efficiency, peak data rate, state transition efficiency
> and latency of both user plane and control plane should continue to evolve.
>
> 2\. Evolved HSPA should be able to operate as a packet-only network based on
> utilization of Shared Channels only;
>
> 3\. HSPA Evolution should be backward compatible in the sense that legacy
> terminals (R99-DCH and HSPA mobiles) should be able to share the same
> carrier with terminals implementing the latest features of the HSPA
> Evolution track without any performance degradation;
>
> 4\. Evolved HSPA should be able to offer more efficient QoS support.
# 5 Objectives
The study should focus on improving the system performances for services
delivered through the PS-domain including voice and multimedia conversational
services. Critical elements of such evolution should include reduced latency,
higher user data rates, improved system capacity and coverage and reduced cost
for the operator while maintaining the highest possible level of backward
compatibility. The Evolved HSPA SI should concentrate on the following items:
> a) Define a set of requirements for HSPA evolution which covers the
> following aspects:
  * Targets for improvements in latency, throughput and spectrum efficiency utilising the existing 1.28MHz bandwidth;
  * Define constraints in terms of acceptable hardware and software changes to current elements {UE, Node, RNC, SGSN and GGSN};
  * Define constraints in terms of acceptable network architecture changes.
> b) Determine what performance benefit is achieved by the HSPA and in which
> scenarios HSPA evolution applies most.
>
> c) Identify potential solutions to improve HSPA performance towards the
> agreed targets within the e, defined constraints;
>
> d) Make recommendations for future HSPA Evolution WIs.
# 6 Constraints and Requirements
Note: This chapter will capture text on the constraints for 1.28Mcps TDD HSPA
evolution including on legacy issues, backward compatibility, architecture,
impact on LTE, Node B and UTRA, software and hardware upgrades, complexity
issues, acceptable impacts on UE's, protocol reuse/requirements, signalling
and physical channel limitations, etc.
# 7 Elements of Study
Note: This chapter will contain topics handled during the study item, like
architecture and UTRA.
# 8 Release 7 Technical Performance
Note: This chapter will capture text describing UTRA and UTRAN performance as
reachable with techniques specified in Release 7.
# 9 Technical Proposals and Assessment
Note: This chapter will capture all technical proposals and the assessment of
each proposal, achievable performance and complexity.
## 9.1 Architecture
## 9.2 Continuous Packet Connectivity
### 9.2.1 Motivation
The motivation of Continuous Packet Connectivity (CPC) for 1.28Mcps TDD can be
summarized as:
  * Significantly increase the number of inactive packet data users that can stay in CELL_DCH state over a long time period without degrading cell throughput and that can restart transmission with a much shorter delay than would be necessary if UEs are transferred from another state before data can be transferred;
  * Reduce UE power consumption;
  * Optimize HSDPA/E-DCH to transport low-latency low data-rate traffic like VoIP more efficiently;
### 9.2.2 Analysis of HSDPA/E-DCH and the scope of CPC for 1.28Mcps TDD
In current HSDPA specifications for 1.28Mcps TDD:
  * each UE shall be assigned associated DPCH in the uplink and downlink to keep uplink synchronization even if no data is transmitted. Therefore, the number of simultaneous packet data users will be limited due to the code limited downlink and uplink in 1.28Mcps TDD;
  * in order to launch HSDPA transmission at any time, UEs are required to monitor one or more HS-SCCHs continuously. If user stays connected over a long time span while there are only occasional periods of data transmission, the UE will consume much power unnecessarily.
  * the relative overhead consumed by HS-SCCH becomes significant when it is used to transport small packets, such as those generated in the transport of low-latency low data-rate traffic like VoIP and gaming over HSDPA
According to the current E-DCH specifications for 1.28Mcps TDD:
  * Two types of transmission are supported, one is non-scheduled transmission which is always allocated with the reserved and dedicated physical layer resources in a way similar to DPCH; the other is scheduled transmission sharing the common physical resource pool;
  * The E-PUCH and E-HICH for non-scheduled transmission can also be used to keep uplink synchronization for UE. So when E-DCH operates together with HSDPA or DPCH, from the point view of keeping uplink synchronization, the associated DPCHs or DPCHs are redundant and some resources are wasteful because E-DCH must operate in parallel with HSDPA or DPCHs
  * Not specified or optimized on how to support VoIP traffic；
  * No DRX in HSDPA reception;
CPC focuses on the optimization of HSDPA and E-DCH for 1.28Mcps TDD,
especially on the scenario that UEs are kept in CELL_DCH state with the
connections configured on HS-DSCH and E-DCH only, i.e. without additional DPCH
in the uplink or downlink. The SRBs are assumed to be mapped on HS-DSCH in
downlink and on E-DCH in uplink. According to the above analysis of
HSDPA/E-DCH and the motivation of CPC, we can define the scope of CPC for
1.28Mcps TDD as:
  * Eliminating the code limitation to increase the number of packet data user;
  * Reducing UE power consumption;
  * Optimizing to support VoIP traffic;
## 9.3 Enhanced CELL_FACH State
Delay in set up or channel allocation is one important measure of quality of
service experienced by the subscriber. As analysed in TR25.815, the setup
delays on PS and CS domain can be significantly reduced by using HSPA for
SRBs. Thus in common understanding, signalling latency when SRBs are mapped on
HSPA can meet the target requirements of Rel-7.
In current CELL_FACH state in 1.28Mcps TDD, the signalling delay on FACH and
RACH can be seen as one bottle neck compared to signalling speed on HSPA. This
can be identified by some \"always on\" type IMS services, where the UE is
typically kept in CELL/URA_PCH state and normally moved to CELL_DCH when DL/UL
user plane is activated. The enhancement on signalling bit rates in CELL_FACH
state can reduce the signalling delay experienced by the RRC messages when
transiting to CELL_DCH.
Moreover, even if the CELL_DCH state is enhanced by work done in Continuous
Packet Connectivity (CPC) in 1.28Mcps TDD, it is still faced with the user
number limited situation as resource shall be reserved to maintain UL
synchronization. In addition, for some low data amount/rate services, keeping
UE in CELL_DCH is not preferable when taking the UE power consumption into
account. The data rate in CELL_FACH state need to be increased to meet the
cases where the CELL_DCH is not preferable.
Thus the enhancement to CELL_FACH shall aim to increase the CELL_FACH data
rate and reduce state transition time to CELL_DCH state. In light of the
analysis in TR25.815 and the work done in FDD CELL_FACH enhancement, the use
of HS-DSCH and HS-PDSCH instead of FACH and S-CCPCH in CELL_FACH state can be
investigated to obtain smaller signalling delays and higher bit rate in
CELL_FACH state.
The same enhancement can also be introduced in CELL_PCH and URA_PCH state
according to the work done in FDD CELL_FACH enhancement. The main benefit is
better power and code multiplexing support with HSPA traffic and the
possibility to turn off the S-CCPCH in a pure Rel-8 system.
When investigating the enhancement in CELL_FACH state in 1.28Mcps TDD, the
following items shall be taken into account:
(a) The basic concept is to use HSDPA in CELL_FACH state. The same HSDPA
procedure in REL-5 may be considered, including e.g. the fast feedback
mechanism when dedicated H-RNTI is allocated.
(b) As the multi-carrier operation has been introduced in 1.28Mcps TDD in
Rel-7, the study shall be based on the multi-frequency architecture, e.g. the
work shall be on how HS-DSCH in E-CELL_FACH can be established on secondary
frequencies to improve the capacity and peak rate.
(c) The work shall also take the uplink transmission improvement into account,
e.g. the uplink random access resource can be considered to set up on
secondary frequencies.
## 9.4 Layer 2 Enhancements
HSPA Evolution is targeting both higher bit rates and spectrum efficiency.
However, the current UTRA Layer 2 architecture is not optimised for bit rates
higher than 2.8Mbps (MIMO and potential other technologies like 64QAM provides
data rates beyond 2.8Mbps).
The problem stems from that AM RLC uses a fixed RLC PDU size. In order to
avoid RLC window stalling the RLC PDU size needs to be increased which leads
to excessive padding and coverage issues. This rigidity in the Layer 2
protocol means that both link adaptation and cell coverage will be sub-optimal
when higher bit rate schemes are being considered.
The current Layer 2 overhead of fixed RLC SDU segmentation and MAC-hs layer
padding also poses a problem for the HSPA Evolved system efficiency.
FDD solution to reach high data rates and reduce protocol overhead and padding
is to apply flexible RLC PDU sizes in downlink. The support of flexible RLC
sizes could also be made available for the UL. Similarly to the downlink, this
will lead to performance improvement in the support for higher data rates,
reduced protocol overhead and padding in the uplink.
LCR TDD Enhancement of the Layer 2 protocol in the context of HSPA evolution
will consider the following points which has been discussed in FDD:
**\- RLC:** The RLC AM protocol is evolved into supporting flexible PDU sizes
**\- MAC:** The MAC-hs protocol is evolved into supporting RLC PDU
segmentation.
The applicability of these points shall be evaluated and the aspects
applicable to LCR TDD shall be inherited and further LCR TDD specific
enhancements shall also be considered to facilitate HSPA Evolution.
## 9.5 Downlink 64QAM Modulation
### 9.4.1 Link-level study of 64QAM in downlink
An "SNR/rate-lookup" simulation was used to evaluate the impact on throughput
of introducing 64QAM into the MCS, just like Ericsson did in "R1-062264: 64QAM
for HSDPA -- Link-Level Simulation Results" from Ericsson" for FDD system.
This method allows an expedient yet accurate assessment of the radio link in
question. Essentially, this simulation consists of:
  * generating the appropriate channel realization,
  * determining a MMSE-BLE receiver combining solution as a function of this channel realization,
  * analytically calculating the output symbol SNR for the receiver,
  * looking up the maximum supportable rate of the output SNR from an MCS table (shown in the appendix),
  * averaging this maximum supportable rate over many channel realizations (assumes ideal link adaptation).
The MCS table, as the name implies, gives us the modulation and coding scheme
which is best for the operating conditions. However, it does not give us the
transport format, which includes the number of spreading codes and timeslots
employed. Throughout, we will assume that 3 timeslots are available and 16 HS-
PDSCH codes at spreading factor 16 per timeslot, and all timeslots and codes
will be used by the UE. The simulation parameters are summarized in Table 1.
Table 1: Simulation parameters
* * *
Parameter Assumption Number Carrier 1 Number timeslots 3 Number HS-PDSCH codes
per timeslot 16 Spreading factor 16 Receiver 1 Rx Antenna, MMSE-BLE Channel
estimation Zero Forcing + Post Processing Channel model AWGN, Pedestrian A/B,
and Vehicular A UE speeds of interest 0km/h, 3km/h, 30km/h EVM model none
* * *
Figures 1 to 4 show average throughput versus Ior over Ioc for AWGN,
Pedestrian A and B, and Vehicular A channels, respectively.
{width="5.799305555555556in" height="3.870833333333333in"}
Figure 1: Average throughput for AWGN channel.
For AWGN channel, the maximum rates of 2.5Mb/s and 1.68Mb/s are apparent in
the clipping of the 64QAM-inclusive and the current non-64QAM cases. We note
that when Ior over Ioc increased to 18dB and above, the 64QAM inclusive case
will have the throughput gain than non-64QAM case.
{width="5.803472222222222in" height="3.8715277777777777in"}
Figure 2: Average throughput for Pedestrian A channel with 3km/h UE velocity.
{width="6.2652777777777775in" height="4.179861111111111in"}
Figure 3: Average throughput for Pedestrian B channel with 3km/h UE velocity.
{width="6.2652777777777775in" height="4.179861111111111in"}
Figure 4: Average throughput for Vehicular A channel with 30km/h UE velocity.
For different fading channels, current non-64QAM case will achieve the maximum
throughput of 1.6 Mb/s. But the 64QAM-inclusive case can only achieve its
maximum throughput of 2.5Mb/s for PA3 channel, while a reduced 2.3Mb/s for PB3
channel and 2.0Mb/s for VA30 channel. The more dispersive of the fading
channel, the worse symbol SNR we will get in the receiver, which leads to a
significant reduction in throughput performance. However, even for the high
dispersive VA30 channel, 64QAM will introduce about a 25% throughput increase.
Actually, the throughput performance list above is achieved by employing one
HSDPA carrier with 3 full-codes HS-PDSCH timeslots (altogether 3*16=48 codes).
Much higher HS-DSCH throughput can be achieved when we employ more carriers
and timeslots.
If considering CQI feedback delay and HARQ retransmission, the simulation
parameters are summarized in Table 2.
Table 2: Simulation parameters of considering CQI feedback delay and HARQ
retransmission
+--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 2 GHz | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Chip Rate | 1.28 Mcps | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TTI length | 5 ms | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of timeslot | 5 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ | Chase Combining, 4 HAP | | | | | | Maximum retransmission number: 4 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AMC | On | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CQI feedback delay | 2 TTI | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Spreading Factor | 16 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of multi-codes | 16 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Midamble code allocation | Common | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Model | AWGN/PA3/PB3/VA30 | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Estimation | Realistic post-processing | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Detection Algorithm | MMSE-BLE Joint Detection | +--------------------------+----------------------------------+
The simulation results of considering CQI feedback delay and HARQ
retransmission are showed as Figure 5 to Figure 8.
{width="4.6375in" height="3.477777777777778in"}
Figure 5: Average throughput for AWGN channel.
{width="4.695833333333334in" height="3.5256944444444445in"}
Figure 6: Average throughput for Pedestrian A channel with 3km/h UE velocity.
{width="4.509027777777778in" height="3.386111111111111in"}
Figure 7: Average throughput for Pedestrian B channel with 3km/h UE velocity.
{width="4.6375in" height="3.477777777777778in"}
Figure 8: Average throughput for Vehicular A channel with 30km/h UE velocity.
### 9.4.2 System-level study of 64QAM in downlink
#### 9.4.2.1 Indoor Micro-Cell Scenario
The Indoor Micro-Cell simulation scenario is showed as Figure 9 and the
simulation parameters are summarized in Table 3..
Figure 9: Indoor simulation scenario.
Table 3: Indoor Simulation parameters
* * *
Parameter Assumption Cellular Layout 3 Indoor cells in the middle of interest
+ 6 surrounding outdoor cell sites (3 sectors per site) as interference. (Fig.
1) RRU ports per Indoor cell 4 Indoor Floors of coverage per RRU port 3
Ceiling Mount Antennas per Floor 9 Indoor Building (Floor) Size 50m×50m Tx
Carrier Power per RRU Port 25.2dBm Max Tx power of Ceiling Mount Antenna 9dBm
Ceiling Mount Antenna Gain 3dBi Indoor MCL 39dB Indoor FAF 21dB Channel model
Single Path of Rayleigh Fading UE speeds of interest 0.2km/h Indoor Indoor
Shadowing standard deviation 8 dB Outdoor ISD 200m Outdoor BS Tx power per
Carrier 34dBm Outdoor BS antenna gain 15dBi Penetration Loss 20 dB Feeder Loss
1dB Outdoor MCL 70dB UE antenna gain 0 dB UE noise figure 8 dB HS-PDSCH
Carrier/TS/Code Configuration 1carrier×3TS×16codes Scheduler Proportional Fair
* * *
Figure 10 shows the indoor simulation results.
{width="5.483333333333333in" height="4.1125in"}
Figure 10: Indoor simulation results.
In the indoor micro-cell scenario, the opportunities of using 64QAM are more
because the UE received SNR is higher. The cell throughput can be improved
effectively by using 64QAM from the indoor simulation results.
#### 9.4.2.2 Outdoor Macro-Cell Scenario
The simulation parameters are summarized in Table 4.
Table 4: Outdoor Simulation parameters
+------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Parameter | Assumption | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Cellular Layout | Hexagonal grid, 19 cell | | | | sites, 3 sectors per site, | | | | wrap-round | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Inter-site distance (ISD) | 645 meters | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 6 dB | | | | { | | | | width="0.4861111111111111in" | | | | height="0.19375in"} | | | | | | | | 8 dB | | | | { | | | | width="0.4861111111111111in" | | | | height="0.19375in"} | | | | { | | | | width="1.0833333333333333in" | | | | height="0.19375in"} | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing correlation | Between cells | 0.5 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | | Between sectors | 1.0 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BS antenna gain | 15dBi | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Penetration Loss | 20 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Feeder Loss | 1dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Channel model | Typical Dense Urban, Single | | | | Path of Rayleigh Fading | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE speeds of interest | 3 km/h | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Total BS TX power per | 34 dBm | | | Carrier | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Average BS TX power | Scenario dependent (Pavg) | | | surrounding cells | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE noise figure | 8 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE antenna gain | 0 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | HS-PDSCH Carrier/TS/Code | 1carrier×3TS×16codes | | | Configuration | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE Height | 1.5m | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BS Height | 30m | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Fast Fading Model | Rayleigh | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Scheduler | Proportional Fair | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+
Figure 11 shows the outdoor simulation results.
{width="4.666666666666667in" height="3.495138888888889in"}
Figure 11: Outdoor macro-cell simulation results.
64QAM can not give significant improvements for the cell throughput in outdoor
scenarios from the simulation results. Furthermore the cell throughput
improvements of using 64QAM are also limited by reducing interference power
from neighboring cell.
#### 9.4.2.3 Outdoor Micro-Cell Scenario
The simulation parameters are summarized in Table 5.
Table 5: Outdoor Simulation parameters
+------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Parameter | Assumption | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Cellular Layout | Hexagonal grid, 19 cell | | | | sites, 3 sectors per site, | | | | wrap-round | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Inter-site distance (ISD) | 645 meters | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing standard deviation | 6 dB | | | | { | | | | width="0.4861111111111111in" | | | | height="0.19375in"} | | | | | | | | 8 dB | | | | { | | | | width="0.4861111111111111in" | | | | height="0.19375in"} | | | | { | | | | width="1.0833333333333333in" | | | | height="0.19375in"} | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Shadowing correlation | Between cells | 0.5 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | | Between sectors | 1.0 | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BS antenna gain | 15dBi | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Penetration Loss | 20 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Feeder Loss | 1dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Channel model | Typical Dense Urban, Single | | | | Path of Rayleigh Fading | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE speeds of interest | 3 km/h | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Total BS TX power per | 34 dBm | | | Carrier | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Average BS TX power | Scenario dependent (Pavg) | | | surrounding cells | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE noise figure | 8 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE antenna gain | 0 dB | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | HS-PDSCH Carrier/TS/Code | 1carrier×3TS×16codes | | | Configuration | | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | UE Height | 1.5m | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | BS Height | 10m | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Fast Fading Model | Rician,the power versus of | | | | LOS over NLOS is equal to 1. | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+ | Scheduler | Proportional Fair | | +------------------------------+------------------------------+-----+
Figure 12 shows the outdoor simulation results.
{width="4.669444444444444in" height="3.5006944444444446in"}
Figure 12: Outdoor micro-cell simulation results.
From the simulation result we can conclude that the cell throughput
improvements of using 64QAM can be obtained by reducing interference power
from neighboring cell.
### 9.4.3 Scope of 64QAM in HSPA Evolution for 1.28Mcps TDD
In light of the link-level and system-level simulation results of 64QAM for
LCR TDD system with low and high dispersion channels, significant gains were
observed by the provision of 64QAM in scenarios where users can benefit in
terms of increased throughput from favorable radio conditions such as in
indoor system solutions or well tuned outdoor systems.
## 9.6 MIMO
MIMO (Multiple Input Multiple Output) refers to multi antenna technology and
means the use of multiple antennas at transmitter and receiver side in order
to exploit the spatial dimension of the radio channel by either the diversity
to increase the reliability of data transmission or the multiplexing to
increase the throughput of data transmission. The current TDD system usually
employs 6 or 8 antennas at NodeB to improve the system throughput and
coverage, therefore, for MIMO or exactly data multiplexing beamforming in
combination of the multiplexing is hired for utilize the 8 antennas as 8x2
data multiplexing instead of taking the 2x2 MIMO as baseline in FDD.
### 9.6.1 Simulation assumptions
Link and system level simulation assumptions are summarized in table 9.6.1.1
and table 9.6.1.2 respectively.
Table 9.6.1.1 Assumptions for link level simulation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Chip Rate | 1.28 Mcps | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TTI length | 5 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of timeslot | 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Weight optimization criterion | Maximization of the received | | for D-TxAA | power of the stream with the | | | better channel condition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Codebook for D-TxAA | {} | | | $w_{3 | | | } = w_{1} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$, | | | $w_{4} = - w_{2}$ | | | | | | w1 and w2 for the stream with | | | the better channel condition | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Weight calculation | Ideal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Weight delay | UL-DL slot and 1 TTI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ | Chase Combining, 4 HAP | | | | | | Maximum retransmission number: 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AMC | On | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CQI feedback delay | 2 TTI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Spreading Factor | 16 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of multi-codes | 16 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Model | SCM CASEI, CASEIII | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Estimation | Realistic post-processing | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Detection Algorithm | MMSE-BLE Joint Detection | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 9.6.1.2 Assumptions for system level simulation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Explanation / Assumption | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Cellular layout | 19 NodeB, 3-sector cell sites | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna horizontal pattern | 70 deg(-3dB) with 20 dB | | | FBR(3-cell sites) (as defined in | | | SCM) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Site to site distance | 3000m (scenario I)) or 1000m | | | (scenario II) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation model | Scenario I: L = 34.5 + | | | 35log10(d),\ | | | according to SCM Urban Macro, | | | (SigmaAS = 8°) | | | | | | Scenario II: L = 34.53 + | | | 38log10(d), | | | | | | According to SCM Urban Micro | | | (NLOS) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power allocated to HS-PDSCH | 100% (MIMO transmissions exist | | transmission | in separate timeslots to those | | | containing control and other | | | channels) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Standard deviation of slow | 8 dB (Scenario I), 10dB | | fading | (Scenario II) (as defined in | | | SCM) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Correlation between sectors | 1.0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Correlation between sites | 0.5 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 1900MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS Antenna Num | 2 (default spacing: 4λ) or 8 | | | (default spacing: 0.5λ) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Antenna Num | 2 (default spacing: 0.5λ) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna gains | 14dBi (as defined in SCM) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna gain | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE noise figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS total Tx power | 43dBm (for both 2 antennas and 8 | | | antennas) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Thermal noise density | -174dBm/Hz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Num of Users per Cell | 10 UEs per sector | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic Model | Full Buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HS-SCCH Decoding | Ideal | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CQI feedback delay (TTI) | 2TTI, 10ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feedback error | 0% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Fast HARQ scheme | Chase Combining, 6 HARQ | | | processes | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max Retransmission Num | 3 (in addition to initial | | | transmission) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver Type | Linear MMSE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MCS Selection | 10% initial transmission BLER | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Schedule Algorithm | Proportional Fair | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Building Penetration | 0 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of HS-PDSCH timeslots | 3 per subframe | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 9.6.2 Two-antenna case
Figure 9.6.2-1: Example of two-antenna PSRC structure [4]
### 9.6.3 8-antenna case
Three MIMO schemes considering the combination of the beamforming and the
multiplexing are briefed. The combined MIMO considered in 8 or 6 antennas at
NodeB in TDD system usually utilizes the reciprocal uplink channels for the DL
beamforming.
Alternative 1.
The first one is a usual beamforming case with one stream and one beamforming
data transmission as figure 2 depicted. The difference from the non-MIMO case
is that UE has two or more antennas, which helps UE achieves additional
receive diversity gain. The beams are obtained by EBB (Eigenvector Based
Beamforming), which decomposes the correlation matrix of the MIMO spatial
channel and chooses the eigenvector corresponding to the largest eigenvalue.
Figure 9.6.3-1: Single beamforming stream transmission based on EBB
Alternative 2.
The second method is to treat the 8 antennas at NodeB as a whole. Two beams
are formed according to the UL channels and each carries one data stream. The
two beams are generated by EVD (EigenValue Decomposition) of the channel
correlation matrix or SVD of the channel matrix. The beams are chosen by the
two eigenvectors corresponding to the largest two eigenvalues derived by EVD
or SVD, i.e. precoding technology.
Figure 9.6.3-2: Double beamforming stream transmission based on SVD MIMO
Alternative 3.
The third method is to divide the multiple antennas at NodeB into 2 four-
antenna groups. For each group, one beam is formed corresponding to the UE and
together two beams carry two streams for data multiplexing. With aid of this
approach, precoding technology can be further adopted to the two data streams
before the data are weighted by the two eigen beams, which are generated based
on the effective channels when the channels with each group are handled
independently. The problem how to classify different antennas to two groups is
up to deployment environment and antenna configuration.
Figure 9.6.3-3: Double beamforming stream transmission based on antenna
grouped MIMO
In some scenarios, the correlation of the channels changes with time,
switching between the alternative 1&2 or alternative 1&3 would achieve more
throughput than only one MIMO scheme employment. We can take the switching
scheme as the fourth method. This diversity and multiplexing switching depends
on the channel quality and correlation between the NodeB and UE by either the
MMSE or channel capacity criterions which are considered in implementation
nowadays.
On top of separate use of aforementioned alternative, the multiple antenna
system could also adopt adaptive transmission switching between alternative 1
and alternative 2, alternative 1 and alternative 3 to obtain a better
performance.
### 9.6.4 Generic PSRC
Comprehensively taking account of 2-antenna and 8-antenna case, a generic PSRC
antenna structure was proposed as 1.28Mcps TDD MIMO scheme (figure 9.6.4-1).
Figure 9.6.4-1: Generic PSRC antenna structure
In this generic PSRC structure, a suitable non-codebook MIMO scheme for
1.28Mcps TDD, the data streams with their own rate control are mapped on
actual antenna port, which accounts for real antenna port for 2 antenna
case(figure 9.6.2-1) and virtual eigenvector identified antenna port for 8
antenna case depicted above.
# 10 Conclusions and Recommendations
# 11 Work Plan
Note: This chapter will capture text dealing with a proposed work plan.
#