# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is a technical report which was requested in the Objective 2 of
the RAN4 work item description "FDD Home NodeB RF requirements" [5]. The goal
of this technical report is to describe the agreed approach towards the RF
related issues raised in [5]:
**A)** The existing UTRA BS classes did not fully address the RF requirements
of the HNB application. Proposals for changes to radio performance requirement
specifications TS 25.104 are therefore provided in this report, together with
the proposals for the test specification TS 25.141. Most of the HNB-specific
additions to TS 25.104 / 25.141 were accommodated in a manner similar to the
other BS classes.
Editors note:
\- Where square bracketed values are suggested in 3GPP TR 25.820, to conduct
further work as required to agree appropriate values.
\- Where it is suggested that performance values in 3GPP TS 25.104 may be
subject to change to conduct further work as required to see if this is
necessary.
**B)** The report intends to ensure that operators are provided with
sufficient information to fully understand the issues concerning the
deployment of HNBs:
\- Deployment scenarios and their potential bottlenecks.
\- Guidance on how to control the interference to surrounding macro networks
and provide good coverage for the HNB
\- Testing of the HNB.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document.
[1] R4-083117, "Feedback on output power requirement for TS 25.104, Picochip",
3GPP RAN WG4, 49^th^ meeting, Prague, 2008
[2] R4-083355, "CR on TS25.104 HNB adjacent channel protection requirements",
3GPP RAN WG4, 49^th^ meeting, Prague, 2008
[3] R4-083249, "Meeting minutes of the ad-hoc meeting", 3GPP RAN WG4, 49^th^
meeting, Prague, 2008
[4] R4-083087, "Meeting minutes of the phone meeting", 3GPP RAN WG4, 49^th^
meeting, Prague, 2008
[5] RP-080234, "RAN4 work item description "FDD Home NodeB RF Requirements,"
[6] R4-071211, "Recommendations on transmit power of Home NodeB", Alcatel-
Lucent
R4-071231, "Open and Closed Access for Home NodeBs", Nortel, Vodafone
[7] R4-071241, "Regulatory aspects on Home Node B in the network architecture
impacting RAN4 work", BMWi
[8] R4-080409, "Home NodeB Interference Analysis", QUALCOMM Europe
[9] R4-071540, "LTE Home Node B downlink simulation results with flexible Home
Node B power", Nokia Siemens Networks
[10] R4-071578, "Simulation results of macro-cell and co-channel Home NodeB
with power configuration and open access", Alcatel-Lucent
[11] R4-071617, "HNB and HNB-Macro Propagation Models", Qualcomm Europe
[12] R4-071660, "Impact of HNB with fixed output power on macro HSDPA
capacity" ,Ericsson
[13] R4-072004, "Performance Evaluation about HNB coexistence with Macro
networks", Huawei
[14] R4-071661, "Impact of HNB with controlled output power on macro HSDPA
capacity", Ericsson
[15] R4-080149, "Simulation assumptions for the block of flats scenario",
Ericsson
[16] R4-070970, "Initial simulation results for Home Node B receiver
sensitivity", Ericsson
[17] R4-070971, "Initial simulation results for Home Node B receiver
blocking", Ericsson
[18] R4-071231, "Open and Closed Access for Home NodeBs", \"Nortel, Vodafone\"
[19] R4-071619, "Analysis of Uplink Performance under Co-channel Home NodeB-
Macro Deployment", Qualcomm Europe
[20] R4-080409, "Home NodeB Interference Analysis", QUALCOMM Europe
[21] R4-071185, "The analysis for Home NodeB receiver blocking requirements",
Huawei
[22] R4-071263, "System simulation results for Home NodeB interference
scenario #2", Ericsson
[23] R4-070902, "Initial home NodeB coexistence simulation results", Nokia
Siemens Networks
[24] R4-080151, "Simulation results for Home NodeB to macro UE downlink co-
existence within the block of flats scenario", Ericsson
[25] R4-071211, "Recommendations on transmit power of Home NodeB", Alcatel-
Lucent
[26] R4-071554, "The analysis for low limit for Home NodeB transmit power
requirement", Huawei
[27] R4-072025, "Proposed HNB Output Power Range", QUALCOMM Europe
[28] R4-071150, "Home BTS output power", Orange
[29] R4-071253, "Minutes of Home NodeB/ ENodeB Telephone Conference #3. Aug 7,
2007", Motorola
[30] R4-070825, "Home BTS consideration and deployment scenarios for UMTS",
Orange
[31] R4-080097, "Minutes of Home NodeB/ ENodeB Telephone Conference #7, Jan
31, 2008"
[32] R4-071618, "Home Node B HSDPA Performance Analysis", Qualcomm Europe
[33] R4-080152, "Simulation results for Home NodeB uplink performance in case
of adjacent channel deployment within the block of flats scenario", Ericsson
[34] R4-080155, "Home NodeB maximum output power from the maximum UE input
level point of view", Ericsson
[35] R4-082153, "Transmitter characteristics of 3G Home NodeB" CR by Alcatel-
Lucent, Ericsson, Vodafone, Orange, Huawei
[36] R4-083255, "HNB adjacent channel protection requirements", CR by Nokia
Siemens Networks, Vodafone Group, Ericsson, Huawei, Motorola, Alcatel-Lucent
[37] R4-081938 TP for 25.9xx: Section 6.1.2 Frequency error, Ericsson
[38] R4-081939 TP for 25.9xx: Section 6.1.3 Spectrum emission mask
[39] R4-082146 TP for 25.9xx: Section 6.1.4 Adjacent Channel Leakage power
Ratio (ACLR), Ericsson
[40] R4-082664 Transmitter characteristics Tests for 3G Home NodeB, CR by
Huawei.
[41] R4-082665 Receiver characteristics Tests for 3G Home NodeB, CR by Huawei
[42] R4-082666 Demodulation Requirements Tests for 3G Home NodeB, CR by Huawei
[43] R4-083193 Modified Test Models for 3G Home NodeB, CR by Alcatel-Lucent,
Huawei, Qualcomm Europe, Vodafone.
[44] R4-083149 Comparison on proposals on Modified Test Models for 3G Home
NodeB, Alcatel-Lucent
[45] R4-072006, "Clarification of Home eNB scenarios and issues for RAN2/3/4",
NTT DoCoMo, T-mobile
[46] R4-082994, "HNB Output power for adjacent channel protection", Ericsson,
RAN4 #49 Prague
[47] R4-082114, "Receiver Characteristics of 3G Home NodeB", Alcatel-Lucent,
Nokia Siemens Networks, Ericsson, Vodafone, Orange, RAN4 #48 Jeju, Korea
[48] R4-081886, "Home NodeB Co-existence Analysis with Adjacent-Channel
Operator", Qualcomm Europe, RAN4 #48 Jeju, Korea
[49] R4-081884, "Requirement for Co-existence of HNB with Adjacent Channel
Operator", Qualcomm Europe, Vodafone Group, ip.access, Airvana, RAN4 #48 Jeju,
Korea
[50] R4-082613, "Requirement for Co-existence of HNB with Adjacent Channel
Operator", Qualcomm Europe, **Airvana,** AT&T**, ip.access** , Vodafone Group
RAN4 #48bis Edinburgh, Scotland
[51] R4-081597, "Impact of uplink co-channel interference from an un-
coordinated UE on the Home Node B"**, Airvana** , Vodafone, ip.access, RAN4
#47, Munich, Germany
[52] R4-081598, "Requirement Impact of uplink adjacent channel interference
from an un-coordinated UE on the Home Node B", **ip.access** , Vodafone,
Airvana, RAN4 #47, Munich, Germany
[53] 3GPP TR 21.905: Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications
[54] Broadband Forum TR-069 Amendment 2, CPE WAN Management Protocol,
Broadband Forum Technical Report, 2007.
[56] R4-090172, "Home Node B control and monitoring", BMWi, RAN4#49bis,
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [54] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[54].
## 3.1 Definitions {#definitions .list-paragraph}
> Void.
## 3.2 Symbols {#symbols .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
No~f\ i~ Interference on frequency fi
G~ant~ Gain of antenna
I~oc~ The power spectral density (integrated in a noise bandwidth equal to the
chip rate and normalized to the chip rate) of a band limited white noise
source (simulating interference from cells, which are not defined in a test
procedure) as measured at the UE antenna connector. For DC-HSDPA
{width="0.20833333333333334in" height="0.25in"}is defined for each of the
cells individually and is assumed to be equal for both cells unless explicitly
stated per cell.
ν~UE\ max~ Maximum speed of UE
ν~UE\ HNB~ UE speed
[]{.underline}
## 3.3 Abbreviations {#abbreviations .list-paragraph}
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Rejection, can be translated to receiver
selectivity when the emission mask of the interfering signal is accounted for.
BW Band Width
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DL Downlink, the RF path from BS to UE
E-DPDCH Enhanced Dedicated Physical Data CHannel
E-DPCCH Enhanced Dedicated Physical Control CHannel
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GSM Mobile cellular system (throughout this document, this acronym is
generally to also means the services GPRS and EDGE, both enhancements to GSM,
unless not applicable to the discussion.)
HENB Home Enhanced Node B
HNB Home NodeB
HNBAP HNB Application Protocol
HNB-GW HNB GateWay
HSPA High Speed Packet Access
HS-DPCCH High Speed Dedicated Physical Control CHannel
HUE UE camping on HNB cell
IE Information Element
IRAT Inter-RAT
LAC Location Area Code
LAU Location Area Update
MBSFN Multicast/Broadcast over a Single Frequency Network
MNB Macro NodeB
MUE UE camping on Macro cell
NB NodeB
NLM Network Listen Mode
NR Noise Rise
PL Path Loss
REM Radio Environment Measurement
RRC Radio Resource Control
RTWP Receive Total Wideband Power
RX, Rx Receive, Receiver
SIB System Information Block
TX, Tx Transmit, [ ]{.underline} Transmitter
UE User Equipment, also cellular terminal
UL Uplink, the RF path from UE to BS
# 4 General
As agreed in the work item proposal [1]:
Within the course of increasing UMTS terminal penetration and fixed-mobile
convergence, an upcoming demand for 3G Home NodeBs is observed to provide
attractive services and data rates in _home environments_.
UTRAN is not optimally suited for this application as UTRAN was developed and
defined under the assumption of coordinated network deployment, whereas Home
NodeBs are typically associated with uncoordinated and large scale deployment.
Aim of this work item is to amend the UTRAN NodeB related RF specifications to
support the Home NodeBs application. No changes to the UE RF specifications
are foreseen.
The scope of this work item is limited to the UTRA FDD mode.
## 4.1 Task description
### 4.1.1 HNB class definition
The purpose of this work is to update the radio performance requirement
specification TS 25.104, further work required to agree on _new parameter
values will be documented in the TR and the updates required in test
specification TS 25.141 will be documented._
### 4.1.2 HNB measurements and adaptation
The purpose of this work item is to ensure that operators have necessary
information about how to adjust the output transmission power of HNB as a
function of the signal strength from the macro cell layer, and/or from other
HNBs, in order to enhance overall system performance.
In order to achieve this, (at least) the following areas should be addressed:
1) Guidance on how to control HNB power
a. The intention is to provide guidance to operators on possible strategies
and expected performance in typical exemplary deployment scenarios.
b. Is it possible to have the same mechanism to control HNB output power with
respect to the macro cell layer, other surrounding HNBs, and in the case of
HNB coverage control for open access HNB.
c. It is not the intention to mandate HNB behaviour.
2) Measurements of surrounding environment (i.e. macro and other HNBs signal
strength)
a. Issues to address include factors that govern accuracy and timeliness of
the suggested measurements, and the ability to identify the macro neighbour
cell list.
b. It is not the intention to restrict the vendor's scope about how to perform
measurements.
c. It is envisaged that measurements will be performed directly by the HNB or
by employing the UEs attached to the HNB, using existing UE defined
measurements.
3) Mechanism to set maximum power
a. Issues to address include accuracy and timeliness of HNB maximum power
setting.
b. It is not the intention to restrict the vendor's scope about how to process
measurements.
c. It is not the intention to restrict the vendor's scope about which network
element the measurements may be processed in.
d. It is not the intention to restrict to which network entities measurements
are reported. However, it is not envisaged that new signalling will be
standardised to support this.
4) Mechanism to adjust HNB uplink.
a. Issues to address include possibility to adjust uplink noise rise target.
b. It is not the intention to restrict the vendor's scope about what actions
may be taken regarding HNB uplink.
# 5 Radio scenarios
## 5.1 Deployment configurations
A number of different deployment configurations have been considered for Home
(e)NodeB. The aspects which define these are as follows:
\- Open access or CSG (Closed Subscriber Group)
\- Open access HNBs can serve any UE in the same way as a normal NodeB
\- CSG HNBs only serve UEs which are a member of a particular Closed
Subscriber Group
\- Dedicated channel or co-channel
\- Whether HNBs operate in their own separate channel, or whether they share a
channel with an existing (e)UTRAN network
\- Fixed or adaptive (DL) maximum transmit power
\- Fixed: HNBs have a set fixed maximum transmit power
\- Adaptive: HNB's sense interference to existing networks, and adjust maximum
transmit power accordingly
The following configurations are considered and are described in more detail
in the following sections.
A. CSG, Dedicated channel, Fixed Power
B. CSG, Dedicated channel, Adaptive Power
C. CSG, Co-channel, Adaptive Power
D. Partial Co-Channel
E. Open Access, dedicated or co-channel
### 5.1.1 Configuration A. CSG, dedicated channel, fixed power
HNB is configured as a Closed Subscriber Group. Access to HNB is controlled
through an arrangement between the HNB owner and by the network operator.
Access is restricted to a very limited number of UE; the majority of UE do not
have access to the HNB. Therefore, a CSG covers the partially open system, as
discussed in [46].
The HNB is deployed on a dedicated channel; i.e. a channel that is not used
within the macro layer. The worst case dedicated channel deployment is the
adjacent channel. The worst case adjacent channel deployment is when the
adjacent channel is owned by a different operator.
Although the HNB is deployed on the dedicated frequency with respect to the
macro network, a co-channel interference scenario remains between HNB's. HNB's
must share the same frequency, hence co-channel coexistence must be analysed
within a dense population of HNB.
In this configuration, the Home NodeB's maximum transmit power could
potentially be fixed by the operator to be lower than the Maximum Transmit
power capability. As analysed in detail in [13], the reduced power limit
ensures the dominance of the HNB with respect to a macro cell is appropriately
bounded. Therefore, the HNB cell size is limited with respect to a weak macro
signal. Consequently, the HNB can operate with a fixed maximum power level
even at the edge of a macro cell.
### 5.1.2 Configuration B. CSG, dedicated channel, adaptive power
HNB is configured as a Closed Subscriber Group.
The HNB is deployed on a dedicated channel.
Maximum transmit power may be set as high as the maximum capability of the HNB
class of base stations. However, higher maximum power level than the
acceptable "fixed" maximum power for dedicated channel deployment, Section
5.1.1 shall only be used when appropriate for the deployed environment, and
when the resulting interference is acceptable.
### 5.1.3 Configuration C. CSG co-channel, adaptive power
HNB is configured as a Closed Subscriber Group.
The HNB is deployed on the same channel as the macro network. This is
considered the worst case interference scenario; consequently this is the
highest risk deployment. Power levels used by the Home Node B and all attached
UE's must be set as appropriate for the deployed environment.
The fixed maximum transmit power limit is not considered feasible for co-
channel deployment and has been removed from further analysis.
### 5.1.4 Configuration D. Partial co-channel
Partial co-channel is proposed for CSG operation for HNBs. This works by
limiting frequencies which are shared by the "macro layer" and the HNB, as
shown in Figure 5.1.4-1. The macro layer uses the all available frequencies,
whereas the home NodeB only uses a subset -- the shared part. Macro UEs can
operate on any frequency. Macro UEs in the shared part experiencing
"pathological" interference from home NodeBs can move to the clear part.
Whilst this configuration is indented as a solution for CSG operation, it may
also be applicable to Open Access in order to limit the influence of the HNB
in the overall network and allow more control over mobility.
{width="3.627083333333333in" height="1.6381944444444445in"}
Figure 5.1.4-1 Spectrum arrangement for macro and home node Bs
Figure 5.1.4-2 shows how this could be implemented in UTRAN. Two channels are
needed, one for Macro+HNB, the other for Macro only. Macro-only UEs
experiencing HNB interference in channel 1 would handover to channel 2.
{width="3.6166666666666667in" height="1.4652777777777777in"}
Figure 5.1.4-2 Spectrum arrangement for UTRAN
Figure 5.1.4-3 shows how this could be implemented for EUTRAN. Since it has
scalable bandwidth, it does not necessarily require two channels as with
UTRAN. Provided the HENB sub-band does not overlap the central 6 RBs of the
macro's channel, then it will not prevent UEs receiving the BCH and SCH and
connecting to the macro layer. Frequency hopping and Frequency dependent
scheduling will ensure UEs experiencing HNB interference on part of the band
will still be able to function.
{width="3.71875in" height="1.4534722222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.4-3 Spectrum arrangement for EUTRAN
Providing UEs hand over to the clear channel when experiencing HNB
interference , the performance of this configuration should be similar to that
of configuration A (dedicated channel, fixed power)
### 5.1.5 Configuration E. Open Access, dedicated or co-channel
Open access Home NodeBs serve all UEs, in the same way as other NodeBs do
[6-8] . The results referenced in Section 5.2 explain the level of openness
supported by a HNB deployment when explaining the model and assumptions used.
A completely open system is already covered by the existing classes of Node B.
## 5.2 Interference scenarios
Home Node B's are intended to enhance the coverage of a UMTS Radio Access
Network in the _[home environment]{.underline}_. However, it is not feasible
to completely control the deployment of the HNB layer within the UMTS RAN.
Therefore, interference due to the HNB is a concern and interference
mitigation techniques are required. Interference mitigation techniques will
impact the HNB performance, which will present the HNB with challenges in
managing its radio resources and maintaining Quality of Service to its
attached users. In the following sections the interference scenarios that
exist between a HNB and the macro layer, and among HNBs, are discussed in more
detail.
Priority of the interference scenario investigations has been established as
shown in Table 5.1.5-1.
Table 5.2-1 Interference scenarios
* * *
Number Aggressor Victim Priority 1 UE attached to Home Node B Macro Node B
Uplink yes 2 Home Node B Macro Node B Downlink yes 3 UE attached to Macro Node
B Home Node B Uplink yes 4 Macro Node B Home Node B Downlink  
5 UE attached to Home Node B Home Node B Uplink yes 6 Home Node B Home Node B
Downlink yes 7 UE attached to Home Node B and/or Home Node B Other System  
8 Other System UE attached to Home Node B and/or Home Node B
* * *
In addition to the above scenarios, we also addressed the scenario of a HNB
mobile operating very close to its serving HNB, simulation results are
referred to in Section 5.2.9.
Additionally, possible methods for assessing HNB performance in the different
interference scenarios were proposed in [9].
### 5.2.1 Coexistence simulation parameters
Simulation results assuming a wide range of parameters were performed to
ensure a robust and diverse analysis of the problem. The results in this
section were generated over a range of simulation assumptions. Simulation
models are described for different HNB deployment scenarios in [10-14]. Models
for the dense urban apartment building, HNB-Macro are provided in [12,16].
### 5.2.2 Interference scenario 1 UL HNB UE  Macro
Noise rise on the macro layer will significantly reduce macro performance;
consequently, the transmit power of the UE should be controlled. The following
mechanisms are investigated to limit the interference cause by an HNB attached
UE:
\- HNB receiver performance will have an impact on UE transmit power;
therefore any relaxation of the BS receiver required must be carefully
investigated.
\- UE power limitations such as maximum transmit power limits, and strict
scheduling limits and noise rise limitation for HSUPA
\- Open access; UEs are permitted to move easily between the macro and HNB
layers, thereby ensuring each uplink connection requires the least amount of
UE transmit power and generates the least amount of interference [11].
Table 5.2-2. Directory of results for interference scenario 1 UL HNB UE 
Macro
+------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | Requirements | Refer-ences | Summary of | WG affected | | Affected | | analysis | | | | | provided; | | | | | | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | endorsed by | | | | | cited reference | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | High Level | | | | | Requirement | | | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | System | [14,17,18] | CSG Performance | | | Performance | | analysis | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | | [11,19] | Performance | | | | | analysis of open | | | | | system | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | | [20,21] | Need to address | | | | | trade-off | | | | | between macro | | | | | and HNB | | | | | performance. | | | | | Adaptive uplink | | | | | attenuation can | | | | | improve | | | | | performance. | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | **Base station | | | | | Requirements** | | | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | Receiver | [17,21] | As per Local | RAN4 | | Sensitivity (for | | Area BS class | | | CSG HNB) | | spec. | | | | | Acknowledgement | | | | | that | | | | | desensitisation | | | | | of the CSG HNB | | | | | receiver will | | | | | potentially | | | | | increase HNB UE | | | | | interference on | | | | | Macro | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | Receiver | [17] | As per Local | RAN4 | | Performance (for | | Area BS class | | | HNB) | | spec. | | | | | Acknowledgement | | | | | that poor | | | | | performance of | | | | | the HNB receiver | | | | | will potentially | | | | | increase HNB UE | | | | | interference on | | | | | Macro. | | | | | | | | | | However, testing | | | | | for high speed | | | | | mobile may no | | | | | longer be | | | | | required, if | | | | | lower maximum UE | | | | | speed is adopted | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | In band blocking | [18,22] | As per Local | RAN4 | | tests | | Area BS class | | | | | spec, (but may | | | | | change if a | | | | | different | | | | | Minimum Coupling | | | | | Loss is chosen) | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | **HNB system | | | | | Requirements** | | | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | UE power limits | [11] | No protocol | | | | | changes | | | | | required. A | | | | | limit is | | | | | required to | | | | | protect macro | | | | | performance. | | | | | Note: this is | | | | | operator | | | | | implementation | | | | | specific; no | | | | | need to | | | | | standardise. | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+ | | | Deployment | | | | | Scenario B will | | | | | see highest UE | | | | | power levels; | | | | | hence most | | | | | likely to | | | | | require a limit. | | +------------------+--------------+------------------+-------------+
### 5.2.3 Interference scenario 2 DL HNB  Macro UE
In a CSG, downlink interference from an HNB will result in coverage holes in
the macro network. In co-channel deployment the coverage holes are
considerably more significant than when the HNB is deployed on a separate
carrier. Several mechanisms are considered to reduce the impact on the macro
coverage:
\- fixed HNB transmit power. (this is only applicable to dedicated channel
deployment)
\- control of HNB behaviour with respect to setting its maximum transmit power
\- open access systems.
Deployment scenario C reduces the impact on the macro layer by automatically
adjusting the HNB transmit power. The algorithm used to control the HNB
transmission power will be left as an implementation detail; consequently a
variety of models are explored when setting the HNB transmission power. Some
options are as follows:
\- In [13], the maximum output power for each HNB is set based on a fixed
limit in the "dead zone" (out-of-coverage area) that would be caused by any
adjacent channel macro UE.
\- In [10], the transmit power for each HNB is set based on the inverted power
control scheme used for macro/macro coexistence simulation (power control set
1, power control set 2)
\- In [11], the average transmit power for both the HNB and the macro are
balanced at the HNB cell edge.
Deployment scenario B, where the HNB output power is controlled and the HNB's
are deployed on an adjacent carrier to the macro layer, is shown to be of
limited use [15], since the reduced power limit of Deployment Scenario A is
adequate for coverage of the majority of homes. An increase in power may be
desirable when a large coverage area is desired, or when coverage within the
home is difficult. However, when the density of HNB is very high, inter-HNB
interference dominates, and an increase in HNB power beyond Deployment
scenario A does not result in performance gains.
Open access provides an alternative solution, as illustrated in [11] and [19].
When specifying HNB behaviour, it is the goal of this study item to avoid any
RAN1 impact if possible. If possible, RAN4 will determine the framework to
allow a range of implementation to set the maximum transmit power. For
example, a framework may consist of requirements and tests for a suitable
target power level, but will not specify the algorithm.
It is acknowledge that no single mechanism alone provides a definitive
solution. Any solution will likely involve a combination of methods, and will
certainly have to reach a suitable compromise between macro layer and HNB
layer performance.
Table 5.2-3. Directory of results for interference scenario 2 DL HNB  Macro
UE
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Requirements | Refer-ences | Summary of | WG affected | | Affected | | analysis | | | | | provided; | | | | | | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | endorsed by | | | | | cited reference | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | High Level | | | | | Requirement | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | System | [13,14,23] | CSG Performance | | | Performance | | analysis, | | | | | Deployment | | | | | Configuration A | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | [1 | CSG Performance | | | | 0,14,15,21,23] | analysis, | | | | | Deployment | | | | | Configuration | | | | | B,C | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | [11,19] | Performance | | | | | analysis of | | | | | open system, | | | | | Deployment | | | | | Configuration E | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | [13,21,23,24] | CSG deployment | | | | | of HNB's using | | | | | fixed HNB | | | | | transmit power | | | | | results in | | | | | unacceptable | | | | | performance for | | | | | co-channel | | | | | deployments | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | | [21] | CSG deployment | | | | | of HNB's using | | | | | fixed HNB | | | | | transmit power | | | | | results in | | | | | unacceptable | | | | | performance | | | | | both for | | | | | co-channel and | | | | | dedicated | | | | | channel | | | | | deployments | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Base station | | | | | Requirements | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Maximum | [21,25] | **Deployment | RAN4, RAN2 | | transmit power | | Configuration | | | | | A:** | | | | | | | | | | agreement that | | | | | Adjacent | | | | | Channel | | | | | interference | | | | | still exists | | | | | without some | | | | | control or | | | | | reduction of | | | | | power. | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Maximum | [23,26,27,28] | General | RAN4, RAN2, | | transmit power | | agreement that | | | dynamic range | | CSG HNB | | | | | performance may | | | | | benefit from | | | | | the ability to | | | | | set the maximum | | | | | transmit power | | | | | to lower | | | | | values. This | | | | | will require a | | | | | change to | | | | | Primary CPICH | | | | | Tx Power in TS | | | | | 25.331, Section | | | | | 10.3.6.61 and | | | | | is currently | | | | | under | | | | | discussion with | | | | | RAN2 via LS, | | | | | [77]. | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Electromagnetic | [29] | Raised in | | | Field | | [30], no | | | protection. | | recorded | | | Need for | | objections | | | Radiated Power | | | | | Tests | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | HNB system | | | | | Requirements | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Need for BS to | [21,25] | **Deployment | RAN4, RAN2, | | set transmit | | Configuration | | | power | | B,C:** | | | appropriate for | | | | | macro | | Acknowledged | | | environment. | | that | | | | | interference in | | | | | closed system | | | | | is too high, | | | | | **interference | | | | | management | | | | | mechanism | | | | | required.** | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Definition of | [30] | **Deployment | RAN4, RAN2, | | transmit power | | Configuration | | | level | | B,C:** | | | | | | | | | | Multiple | | | | | possibilities | | | | | exist to define | | | | | HNB power | | | | | level:\ | | | | | - Relative to | | | | | macro CPICH | | | | | RSCP | | | | | | | | | | - Relative to | | | | | macro CPICH | | | | | Ec/Io | | | | | | | | | | - Relative to | | | | | total RSSI | | | | | | | | | | Could be | | | | | defined as: | | | | | | | | | | - HNB | | | | | dominance level | | | | | | | | | | - Size of dead | | | | | zone caused. | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | Hand In | [30] | **Deployment | RAN2, RAN4 | | requirement for | | Configuration | | | Interference | | A,B,C:** | | | mitigation | | | | | | | General | | | | | consensus that | | | | | aspects of open | | | | | system help in | | | | | managing HNB | | | | | interference | | | | | scenarios. | | | | | interference | | | | | mitigation is | | | | | required in a | | | | | closed system; | | | | | hand in should | | | | | be permitted as | | | | | an option. | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
### 5.2.4 Interference scenario 3 UL Macro UE  HNB
As described in interference scenario 1, the HNB attached UE is constrained in
its transmit power. Consequently, the HNB attached UE is especially
susceptible to interference from the macro UE. The HNB receiver must reach a
compromise between protecting itself against uncoordinated interference from
the macro UEs, while controlling the interference caused by its own UE's
towards the macro layer.
Table 5.2-4. Directory of results for interference scenario 3 UL Macro UE 
HNB
+-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Requirements | Ref-erences | Summary of | WG affected | | Affected | | analysis | | | | | provided; | | | | | | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | endorsed by cited | | | | | reference | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | High Level | | | | | Requirement | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | System | [20,21] | Need to address | RAN2, RAN4 | | Performance | | trade-off between | | | | | macro and CSG HNB | | | | | performance. | | | | | Adaptive uplink | | | | | attenuation can | | | | | improve | | | | | performance. | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | | [14] | CSG performance | | | | | analysis | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Base station | | | | | Requirements | | | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Receiver | [17] | In general can be | RAN4 | | Sensitivity | | the same as local | | | | | area BS | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | | [17,31] | **Deployment | RAN4 | | | | Scenario B,C:** | | | | | | | | | | In a CSG, | | | | | co-channel | | | | | deployment, HNB | | | | | must manage noise | | | | | rise of other | | | | | UE's. It is noted | | | | | that HNB | | | | | desensitisation | | | | | has an impact of | | | | | system | | | | | performance, eg. | | | | | a reduction on UE | | | | | battery life. | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Receiver Dynamic | | In general can be | RAN4 | | Range | | the same as local | | | | | area BS | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | | [31] | **Deployment | RAN4 | | | | Scenario B,C:** | | | | | | | | | | In a CSG, | | | | | co-channel | | | | | deployment, HNB | | | | | must manage noise | | | | | rise of other | | | | | UE's. Local Area | | | | | BS class spec is | | | | | sufficient. | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Adjacent Channel | | As per Local Area | RAN4 | | Selectivity | | BS class spec. | | +-------------------+-------------+-------------------+-------------+ | Receiver | [32] | general consensus | RAN4 | | Performance | | on max user speed | | | (fading) | | \ Added frequency error | | | | > requirement for Home BS | | | | > | | | | > It was agreed on a | | | | > minimum frequency error | | | | > of -0.25ppm-12Hz and | | | | > maximum frequency error | | | | > of +0.25ppm+12 Hz. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.5.2.1 | Spectrum emission mask | Added additional | | | | requirements for Home BS. | | | | Introduction of tabled | | | | 6.21D and 6.21E. See | | | | [41]. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.5.2.2 | ACLR | Added additional ACLR | | | | absolute limit requirement | | | | for Home BS. It was agreed | | | | that for Home BS, the | | | | adjacent channel power | | | | (the RRC filtered mean | | | | power centered on an | | | | adjacent channel | | | | frequency) shall be less | | | | than or equal to -49.2 | | | | dBm/MHz or as specified by | | | | the ACLR limit, whichever | | | | is the higher. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+ | 6.5.3 | TX Spurious emissions | Added Home BS spurious | | | | emissions limits for | | | | protection of the BS | | | | receiver and coexistence | | | | with Home BS operating in | | | | other bands. Added Tables | | | | 6.37C and 6.47. See | | | | [41]. | +---------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
Table 6.2-2 Changes on receiver characteristics to TS 25.141
* * *
Section Requirement Discussion / Required Changes 7.2 Reference sensitivity
level Added requirement for Home BS. See [42]. 7.3 Dynamic range Added general
and additional requirement for Home BS. See [42]. 7.4 ACS Added general and
additional requirement for Home BS. See [42]. 7.5 Blocking characteristics
Added minimum and narrowband requirements for Home BS. See [42]. 7.6
Intermodulation characteristics Added minimum and narrowband requirements for
Home BS. See [42].
* * *
Table 6.2-3 Changes on demodulation requirements to TS 25.141
* * *
Section Requirement Discussion / Required Changes 8.2 Demodulation of DCH in
static propagation conditions The requirement is applied to Home BS. See [43].
8.3.1 Demodulation of multipath fading case 1 The requirement is applied to
Home BS. See [43]. 8.3.2 Demodulation of multipath fading case 2 The
requirements shall not be applied to Home BS. See [43]. 8.3.3 Demodulation of
multipath fading case 3  
8.4 Demodulation of DCH in moving propagation conditions  
8.5 Demodulation of DCH in birth/death propagation conditions  
8.5A Demodulation of DCH in high speed train conditions  
8.8 RACH performance Only requirements in static propagation conditions or
multipath fading case 1 are applied to Home BS. See [43]. 8.11 Performance of
signaling detection for HS-DPCCH Only requirements in static propagation
conditions or multipath fading case 1 are applied to Home BS. See [43]. 8.12
Demodulation of E-DPDCH in multipath fading conditions Only requirements in
Pedestrian A are applied to Home BS. See [43]. 8.13.1 E-DPCCH false alarm in
multipath fading conditions Only requirements in Pedestrian A are applied to
Home BS. See [43]. 8.13.2 E-DPCCH missed detection in multipath fading
conditions
* * *
Table 6.2-4 Modifications of the transmitter test models in TS 25.141
* * *
Section Requirement Discussion / Required Changes 6.1.1.1 Test Model 1 For
Home base station, additional options of this test model containing 8 and 4
DPCH are also specified. See [44]. 6.1.1.3 Test Model 3 For Home base station,
additional options of this test model containing 8 and 4 DPCH are also
specified. 6.1.1.4A Test Model 5 For Home base station, an additional option
of this test model containing 4 HS-PDSCH + 4 DPCH is also specified. 6.1.1.4B
Test Model 6 For Home base station, an additional option of this test model
containing 4 HS-PDSCH + 4 DPCH is also specified.
* * *
# 7 Guidance on how to control HNB interference
## 7.1 HNB measurements
Several types of measurements that HNB can perform are listed in the following
subsections. The objectives of the HNB measurements are
\- to provide sufficient information to the HNB for the purpose of
interference mitigation
\- to provide sufficient information to the HNB such that the HNB coverage can
be maintained.
According to the measurement type, some of these measurements can be collected
through Connected Mode UEs attached to the HNB or via a DL Receiver function
within the HNB itself. Such DL receiver function is also called Network Listen
Mode (NLM), Radio Environment Measurement (REM) or "HNB Sniffer".
These measurements can also be used during the HNB self-configuration process.
### 7.1.1 Measurements from all cells
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.1-1, the HNB can obtain useful information from its surrounding cells for
purposes such as interference management.
Table 7.1.1-1: HNB measurements from surrounding cells
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement Type | Purpose | Measurement | | | | Source(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Co-channel carrier | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | RSSI | co-channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | HUEs from | | | | neighbouring cells | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Adjacent channel | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | carrier RSSI | adjacent channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | HUEs from | | | | neighbouring cells | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CPICH Ec/No | Calculation of DL | HNB DL Receiver | | | interference towards | | | | HNB | HUE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RTWP | Calculation of UL | HNB Physical Layer | | | interference towards | | | | HNB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The CPICH Ec/No measurement could be used in the scenario where the HNB is
installed near a macro NodeB such that the HNB coverage is sufficient to meet
the user requirements.
> The HNB downlink interference level depends on the HNB location and coverage
> area. It can be indicated whether the interference at the coverage edge is
> larger than the interference at the location of HNB by a pre-defined value.
> Therefore, HNB's coverage performance can be improved by changing the
> location of HNB if needed. The downlink interference at the coverage edge
> can be obtained by UE measurement reports.
>
> The interference level can be indicated to the HNB's owner. With this
> indication, the owner can make a decision as to where the proper place is to
> install HNB.
HNB could use the RTWP measurement to monitor the uplink interference. For
example, a RTWP measurement value larger than a pre-defined threshold (where
an interfering MUE is close to HNB) would mean that the MUE's Tx power would
cause significant interference towards the HNB.
### 7.1.2 Measurements to identify macro cells
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.2-1, the HNB can obtain useful information to identify its surrounding
macrocells and indirectly identifies other HNBs nearby for purposes such as
mobility handling.
Table 7.1.2-1: HNB measurements to identify macro cells
+------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+ | Measurement Type | Purpose | Measurement Source(s) | +------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+ | PLMN ID | Identification of | HNB DL Receiver | | | operator | | | | | | | | Distinction between | | | | macrocell and HNB | | +------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+ | Cell ID | Identification of | HNB DL Receiver | | | surrounding macrocells | | +------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+ | LAC | Distinction between | HNB DL Receiver | | | macrocell and HNB | | +------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+ | RAC | Distinction between | HNB DL Receiver | | | macrocell and HNB | | +------------------+------------------------+-----------------------+
Note: These measurements are all made as decoded System Information IEs.
### 7.1.3 Measurements from macro cell layer
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.2-1, the HNB can obtain useful information from its surrounding macrocells
for purposes such as interference management.
Table 7.1.3-1: HNB measurements from surrounding macro cells
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement Type | Purpose | Measurement | | | | Source(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Co-channel CPICH | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | RSCP | co-channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | macro UEs (from HNB) | | | | | | | | Calculation of | | | | co-channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | macro layer (from | | | | HUEs) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Adjacent channel | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | CPICH RSCP | adjacent channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | macro UEs (from HNB) | | | | | | | | Calculation of | | | | adjacent channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | macro layer (from | | | | HUEs) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | P-CPICH Tx Power ^1^ | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | | pathloss to MNB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note 1: "P-CPICH Tx Power" is a decoded System Information IE, rather than a
direct physical layer measurement
### 7.1.4 Measurements of other HNB cells
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.4-1, the HNB can obtain useful information from its adjacent HNBs for
purposes such as interference management.
Table 7.1.4-1: HNB measurements from adjacent HNBs
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement Type | Purpose | Measurement | | | | Source(s) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Co-channel CPICH | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | RSCP | co-channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | neighbour HUEs (from | | | | HNB) | | | | | | | | Calculation of | | | | co-channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | neighbour HNBs (from | | | | HUEs) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Adjacent channel | Calculation of | HNB DL Receiver | | CPICH RSCP | adjacent channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | neighbour HUEs (from | | | | HNB) | | | | | | | | Calculation of | | | | adjacent channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | neighbour HNBs (from | | | | HUEs) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 7.2 Control of HNB downlink interference
### 7.2.1 Control of HNB power
The following subsections provide some guidance on the control of HNB power
relative to its surrounding macro cells and/or other HNBs, as part of
interference mitigation techniques used by the HNB. The control mechanisms can
be either used during HNB normal operation or during self-configuration
process.
#### 7.2.1.1 Control of HNB power with respect to macro layer
This section provides guidelines on setting the HNB total DL transmit power
(data and control channel power) based on the following deployment scenarios:
\- HNB and MNB operate in either co-channel or adjacent channel
\- HNB situated far away from the MNB (i.e. cell edge scenario)
\- HNB situated close to the MNB (i.e. cell site scenario)
Based on these deployment scenarios, it is therefore expected that there will
be trade-off between the HUE performance and MUE performance when the HNB
transmit power is varied.
First the co-channel deployment of HNB and MNB is analyzed for both cell site
and cell edge cases. The analysis setup assumes a MNB and a HNB. A MUE is
connected to the MNB and a HUE is connected to the HNB as shown in Figure
7.2.1.1-1.
{width="2.279166666666667in" height="3.4368055555555554in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1-1: DL Interference Setup
##### 7.2.1.1.1 Co-channel deployment
In this section, the performance of HNB when deployed co-channel with MNB is
analysed, for both cell site and cell edge cases. For the analysis, some
simplified assumptions have been made in an effort to show the basic
bottlenecks that arise from such deployment scenarios.
The system model is also simplified (compared to a real situation) as shown in
Figure 7.2.1.1-1, which consists of one MNB and one HNB. Only one MUE is
connected to the MNB and only one HUE is connected to the HNB. We assume the
pathloss from the MUE, HUE, HNB to the MNB are all equal to PL_MNB, i.e.,
X=PL_MNB. The parameters for the setup are given in Table 7.2.1.1.1-1. The
total received signal level (i.e., RSSI) in the table includes the signals
received from all NBs (MNBs and HNBs) other than the HNB under consideration.
The RSSI is assumed to be the same at the HNB, HUE and MUE. Both the MUE and
the HUE are placed at PL_HNB from the HNB, i.e., Y=Z=PL_HNB.
Table 7.2.1.1.1-1: Parameters for co-channel deployment: cell edge versus cell
site
* * *
Parameters Cell Edge Cell Site PL to MNB [dB] 140 100 RSSI [dBm] -95 -60 MNB
RSCP [dBm] -107 -67 MNB maximum Tx Power [dBm] 43 43 MNB Tx CPICH Ec [dBm] 33
33 HNB CPICH Ec/Ior [dB] -10 -10 MNB load factor [%] 50 50 HNB load factor [%]
100 100
* * *
In the analysis, the HNB Tx power is varied and the corresponding CPICH Ec/No
of both the MUE and the HUE are calculated for different values of PL_HNB.
For the Cell Edge case the trade-off results are shown in Figure 7.2.1.1.1-2.
{width="5.9944444444444445in" height="4.585416666666666in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1.1-2: Trade-off between HUE and MUE performance as a function of
HNB tx power at cell edge
It is observed that the at the cell edge _, the HNB needs to transmit at low
power to maintain the required coverage for the MUE_. Also, as the desired
coverage radius reduces, the HNB power has to be lower to maintain the MUE
performance.
For the Cell Site case the tradeoff results are shown in Figure 7.2.1.1.1-3.
_At the cell site the HNB has to increase its power to maintain good coverage
for the HUE while not creating "much" interference for the MUE_. More power is
required to maintain the same coverage for the HUE compared to the cell-edge
case, due to larger interference from the MNB.
{width="5.789583333333334in" height="4.5125in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1.1-3: Trade-off between HUE and MUE performance as a function of
HNB tx power at cell site
In these figures, different PL_HNB values correspond to different HNB
deployment scenarios. Depending on the particular deployment scenario (e.g.,
suburban, urban, dense-urban), the HNB can have different coverage radius
(i.e., link budget). For example, in a suburban scenario, the HNB coverage can
be 100dB whereas a lower HNB coverage radius (e.g., 70dB) may be more suitable
for dense-urban deployments. It is seen that in the cell edge scenario, using
high HNB Tx power results in poor CPICH Ec/No for the MUE. On the other hand,
when HNB is close to the macrocell site, a low HNB Tx power results in poor
CPICH Ec/No for the HUE. As the HNB Tx power increases, the MUE CPICH Ec/No
degrades. Therefore, the HNB transmit power needs to be adjusted properly to
maintain an acceptable performance for both the HNB and the MNB.
In order to exemplify how to adjust the HNB DL transmit power, we employ the
following algorithm, where **the transmit power of HNB is determined based on
the results of a few measurements. Each HNB measures the total signal strength
(No) from all the other NodeBs (including MNBs and HNBs). It also measures the
pilot strength from the best co-channel and adjacent-channel MNBs. Based on
these measurements, the HNB can calculate its transmit power:**
1\. To maintain an CPICH Ec/No of -18dB for a MUE located X1 dB away from the
HNB on the same channel (i.e., protect the co-channel macro user)
2\. To maintain an CPICH Ec/No of -18dB for a MUE located X2 dB away from the
HNB on the adjacent channel (i.e., protect the adjacent channel macro user)
3\. To make sure that HNB is not causing unnecessary interference to others by
enforcing a cap on CPICH Ec/No of the HUE of -15 dB at X3 dB away from the
HNB.
Using the algorithm above with X1=X3=PL_HNB, the calibrated HNB transmit
powers for the co-channel case for different PL_HNB values are shown in the
following table.
Table 7.2.1.1.1-2: Calibrated HNB transmit power for cell-edge and cell-site
scenarios
* * *
PL_HNB (dB) 60 70 80 90 100 Cell Edge: HNB Transmit Power in dBm -10 -10 -10
-7.9 2.1 Cell Site: HNB Transmit Power in dBm -3.2 6.8 16.8 20 20
* * *
The performance of the HUE and the MUE at the specified coverage radius and
specified HNB output power is given in Table 7.2.1.1.1-3 and 7.2.1.1.1-4 for
cell edge and cell site cases, respectively.
Table 7.2.1.1.1-3: Performance for cell-edge scenario based on the HNB tx
powers in Table 7.2.1.1.1-2
* * *
PL_HNB (dB) 60 70 80 90 100 MUE CPICH Ec/No (dB) -37 -27 -18 -14 -14 HUE CPICH
Ec/No (dB) -10 -10 -11.3 -15 -15
* * *
Table 7.2.1.1.1-.4: Performance for cell-site scenario based on the HNB tx
powers in Table 7.2.1.1.1-2
* * *
PL_HNB (dB) 60 70 80 90 100 MUE CPICH Ec/No (dB) -8.8 -8.8 -8.8 -7.5 -7 HUE
CPICH Ec/No (dB) -15 -15 -15 -20.5 -30
* * *
In general, we observe that at the cell edge deployment, the HNB should
transmit at lower power compared to the cell site deployment. This is to
maintain the minimum level of performance requirements for the MUE at the
coverage radius. In some cases, the HNB will end up hitting the minimum
transmit power level (e.g., -10dBm) in an attempt to satisfy the requirement
for the MUE. For the cell-site, in some cases the HNB will end up hitting the
maximum transmit power level (e.g., +20dBm) in an attempt to provide coverage
for the HUE at the HNB coverage radius.
##### 7.2.1.1.2 Adjacent channel deployment
For the adjacent channel scenario, we consider the case when the two operators
have macrocell Node Bs that are _not collocated_. The simulation parameters
for the adjacent operator deployment are shown in Table 7.2.1.1.2-1.
Table 7.2.1.1.2-1: Parameters for adjacent channel non-collocated operator
deployment.
* * *
Parameters Operator 1 Adjacent Operator PL to MNB 100 dB 120 dB RSSI -60 dBm
-80 dBm MNB RSCP -67 dBm -87 dBm
* * *
The other simulation parameters are the same as for the co-channel deployment.
A NodeB ACLR of 45dB and UE ACS of 33 dB are assumed, which result in an ACIR
of 33 dB. The MUE and the HUE will have the same pathloss to the HNB (after
taking the ACIR into account), as this is the worst case envisioned in this
study.
The trade-off between the performance of the MUE and the HUE as a result of
varying the HNB transmit power is shown in Figure 7.2.1.1.2-1.
{width="5.891666666666667in" height="4.770833333333333in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1.2-1: Trade-off between HUE and MUE (on adjacent channel)
performance as a function of HNB tx power for non-collocated operators
The calculated HNB transmit powers as obtained from the example algorithm
described above with X1=X3=PL_HNB and X2=47dB are in the following table.
Table 7.2.1.1.2-2: Calibrated HNB transmit power for adjacent channel non-
collocated operator deployment.
* * *
PL_HNB (dB) 70 80 90 100 HNB Transmit Power in dBm 6.8 10.6 10.6 10.6
* * *
The CPICH Ec/No performance of the HUE and the MUE at the specified coverage
radius and specified HNB output power is given in Table 7.2.1.1.2-3.
Table 7.2.1.1.2-3: Performance for adjacent-channel scenario based on the HNB
tx powers in Table 8.6
* * *
PL_HNB (dB) 70 80 90 100 MUE CPICH Ec/No (dB) -14.7 -18 -18 -18 HUE CPICH
Ec/No (dB) -15 -20 -29.6 -39.5
* * *
It is observed that the although the HNB is close to the adjacent-channel cell
site, the calibrated powers for the HNB are lower than those in Table
7.2.1.1.1-2 for the co-channel cell site case. This is because the HNB has to
lower its power to maintain the coverage for the adjacent operator's MUE. The
case is of interest when the MNBs of the two operators are not collocated.
#### 7.2.1.2 Centralized HNB power control
From the previous studies we noticed that when HNB tries to self calibrate the
transmission power it sometime faces an important bottleneck: the power
necessary for guaranteed coverage in higher that a level which would also
insure the co- and adjacent channels protection. In the scenarios we assumed,
there are cases when either one of them has to be compromised in the favour of
the other. One of the problems is that HNB measurements on the surrounding
environment are not precise enough (i.e. we refer at the tolerance of the
measurements, how often the HNB can perform these measurement, etc.), to allow
the presented algorithm to calculate the ideal transmission power for the
respective moment in time.
In this section, we explore an alternative approach, when the HNB power
control algorithm is implemented in a _"centralized"_ manner. The HNBs may be
initially configured with default thresholds for one or more parameters: HNB
data rate, macro cell dead-zone, CIR of HUEs, detection of a nearby macro UE
etc. The individual HNB then locally calibrates the transmission power to meet
these thresholds by monitoring the relevant parameters using the algorithm
above. As traffic conditions vary, the HNB gateway, which is an element owned
by the operator deploying HNBs,, may compute the desired thresholds for these
parameters and communicate to the HNBs at a slower or faster time-scale. This
network command is not time-critical and does not rely on all HNBs being able
to "hear" the network. It is meant to simply optimize system performance.
Three options for enhancing the power adjustment of HNBs are proposed below.
Note that these techniques are not mutually exclusive, and may co-exist with
each other.
**\- Usage of macro network specific information.** The desired thresholds for
the relevant system parameters (data rate, macro cell dead-zone coverage etc)
are computed by the network for all HNBs. To do this, the network may take
into account macro NodeB load, number of active HNBs, distance of the HNB to
the macro cell, fading environment, time-of-day etc. The network command with
threshold is communicated to the HNB either through the Broadcast Control
Channel (BCCH) or the backhaul such as DSL or cable connection. By sharing
information between HNB and macro NodeBs using the backhaul, it is possible
for HNB to get more information than otherwise could obtain by listening the
broadcast channels. For example, the close-by macro UE's target signal to
noise ratio (SNR), measured SNR, and received power are information that can
be utilized for HNB power adjustment in a more proper way with respect to the
interference caused to the surrounding macro networks However, it is required
to modify the signalling at the macro layer to support this functionality and
carefully design the backhaul information exchange by controlling the
overhead.
**\- Pseudo-static power assignment for HNB.** In addition to dynamic power
calibration, it may be desirable to have a pseudo-static power assignment to
the HNB. The transmit power of the HNB is a simple function of the HNB's
geographical location. The default value for transmit power and a geographical
zone can be pre-configured at the time of buying a HNB or when there is a
change in the location of the HNB. Any changes to the zone-wise power setting
of HNB can be communicated at a slower time-scale over BCCH or the backhaul
such as DSL or cable connection. However, it is again required to modify the
signalling at the macro layer to support this functionality.
**\- Control channel -- data channel power ratio.** The proposal is to
manipulate the ratio between HNB control channels power and HNB data channels
power. For example, depending on the expected throughput, we can fix the
control channel power, while reducing the maximum data channel power. This
will ensure that the coverage area (for the assumed expected throughput) for
HUE does not diminish, but the allowed total transmit power of HNBs reduces.
This will result in improved macro cell coverage and reduced HNB maximum power
requirement, at the same time. Note that the HNBs can support relatively high
data rates even at low data channel power settings.
#### 7.2.1.3 Control of HNB power with respect to other HNB
**Similar principles as in Section 7.2.1.1 and Section 7.2.1.2 can be applied
to set the Tx power of the HNB in a dedicated deployment. One difference is
that the co-channel macro condition does not apply in this case. For example,
the transmit power of HNB may be determined as follows.**
**Each HNB measures the total signal strength (No) from all the other NodeBs
(including MNBs and HNBs). It also measures the pilot strength from the best
MNB on the adjacent channel. Based on these measurements, the HNB determines
its transmit power:**
i) To maintain an CPICH Ec/No of -18dB for a MUE located X2 dB away from the
HNB on the adjacent channel (i.e., protect the adjacent channel macro user)
ii) To make sure that HNB is not causing unnecessary interference to others by
enforcing a cap on CPICH Ec/No of the HUE of -15 dB at X3 dB away from the
HNB.
## 7.3 Control of HNB uplink interference
The guidance in this section addresses issues related to UL interference. The
specific cases considered are:
a) how to minimise UL interference from HUEs towards the macro layer and other
neighbour HNBs
b) how to accommodate UL interference from uncontrolled (e.g. macro) UEs
towards the HNB
### 7.3.1 Control of HUE allowable transmit power
This is to address UL interference from HUEs towards the macro layer and other
neighbour HNBs. This is especially significant when a HUE is at the edge of
its coverage, for example outside the property, but has good visibility of a
neighbouring cell. Under such extreme conditions the UL power transmitted by
the HUE could cause a considerable noise rise at the macro NodeB impacting its
UL capacity.
Such conditions are extreme and potentially unlikely in practice; HUE transmit
levels will not typically cause a significant noise rise at neighbour cells.
However to cover these extreme cases a maximum limit for the allowed transmit
power of HUEs can be defined.
In order to evaluate the potential level of UL interference that can be caused
by a HUE, it is necessary to estimate the pathloss from the vicinity of the
HNB to the neighbouring NodeBs. The pathloss from the vicinity of the HNB to
the neighbouring NodeBs can be derived from measurements of CPICH RSCP of the
neighbouring cells -- potentially made by UEs attached to the HNB or by the
HNB itself using a Downlink Receive mode of operation. Details of these
measurements can be found in Section 7.1.
Based on the pathloss and other related parameters, the HNB can then determine
a maximum allowed HUE transmit power, such that the noise rise experienced at
the neighbour cells is constrained to be within an acceptable limit. This
maximum power level would be signalled to the HUE as part of its normal RRC
connection setup procedure. Further, periodic and/or event-triggered pathloss
measurements made by the UEs can be used by the HNB to update the maximum
allowable UE transmit power or a correction factor that used to offset the
initial maximum allowable UE transmit power determined during the HNB self-
configuration. The updated value can be signalled to the UE using e.g., Radio
Bearer Reconfiguration message.
Alternatively, a fixed "cap" on the HUE transmit power could be defined
irrespective of the proximity of the macro NodeB. Such approach offers simpler
HNB implementation. However, due to no adaptation in the HUE transmit power
level, if the cap is set too high, then this will create high UL interference.
On the other hand, if the cap is set too low, then the UL interference is
reduced at the expense of a potential reduction in the HUE UL throughput.
Therefore, this limit would need to be selected such that the noise rise
generated at the macro layer was acceptable in the worst case co-channel
deployment scenario. A suggested value for this limit is 21dBm.
The pros and cons of these mitigation techniques can be summarised in Table
7.3.1-1.
Table 7.3.1-1: HUE Allowable transmit power control techniques - pros and cons
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HUE Allowable | Pros | Cons | | Transmit Power | | | | Control techniques | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fixed "cap" | simple HNB | potential high UL | | | implementation | interference created | | | | by HUE(s) if cap is | | | no additional | not set optimally | | | signalling | | | | requirements | high UL interference | | | | created by HUE(s) | | | | transmitting at | | | | consistently high Tx | | | | power (e.g. cell | | | | edge scenarios) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Dynamic | reduced UL | additional | | | interference created | signalling required | | | by HUE(s) | to adjust the | | | transmitting at high | allowable HUE Tx | | | Tx power | power | | | | | | | improved HNB | additional HNB RRM | | | performance | implementation | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The noise rise at the MNB due to the HUE UL transmission can be determined
from the estimated pathloss, as shown in the following link budget example.
Table 7.3.1-2 shows the parameters used on the link budget analysis.
Note that "estimated pathloss" is the difference between the MNB "CPICH Tx
Power" as indicated in its System Information and the CPICH RSCP as received
at the HNB. Therefore "estimated pathloss" is equivalent to actual pathloss
minus the MNB and HNB antenna gains.
Table 7.3.1-2: Link Budget example parameters
* * *
Parameter Value Formula Thermal noise density -174 dBm/Hz ND_t Bandwidth 3.84
MHz BW Thermal noise power -108.16 dBm N_t = ND_t + 10log(BW*10^6^) MNB Noise
Figure 5 dB NF MNB receiver noise floor -103.16 dBm N_rx = N_t + NF
MNB antenna gain 14 dBi Gant_m HNB antenna gain 0 dBi Gant_h Actual Pathloss
100 dB (for example) PL Pathloss estimate 86 dB PL_Est = PL -- Gant_m --
Gant_h
HUE tx power -30 dBm (for example) H_tx HUE antenna gain 0 dBi Gant_ue ACLR 0
dB (co-channel) ACLR HUE rx power at MNB -116 dBm H_rx = H_tx + Gant_ue - PL -
ACLR + Gant_m Noise rise due to HUE 0.22 dB NR = 10log( 1 + log2lin(H_rx --
N_rx) )
* * *
Figure 7.3.1-1 and Figure 7.3.2-2 show the noise rise at the MNB vs HUE
transmit power, for a range of pathloss values.
{width="4.756944444444445in" height="3.6444444444444444in"}
Figure 7.3.1-1: Noise rise at co-channel MNB
{width="4.756944444444445in" height="3.6444444444444444in"}
Figure 7.3.2-2: Noise rise at adjacent channel MNB
From these characterisations, the HNB can select a maximum allowable HUE
transmit power based on the estimated pathloss, the desired limit to the noise
rise at the MNB and the RSCP and/or RSSI levels of other neighbour NodeBs.
### 7.3.2 Control of HNB noise rise threshold
This is a mitigation technique to address UL interference from uncontrolled
macro or other HNB UEs towards the HNB. This is especially significant for CSG
deployments, as illustrated by the following scenarios:
1\. Uncontrolled UEs may be located within the premises where the HNB is
installed while still being attached to an external macro network. In such
cases the macro UE's transmit power will be high while the pathloss to the HNB
will be small.
2\. A HUE can generate a large UL noise rise at the HNB if the pathloss is
very small and the HUE cannot be powered down due to limited dynamic range.
This mitigation approach also applies to the use of HSUPA and is associated
with the UL scheduler. Specifically the scheduler in the HNB is configured to
dynamically allow a greater UL noise rise (rise over thermal) than would
normally be the case for a macro NodeB. This ensures that the HNB scheduler
will be able to continue to grant significant capacity on the UL, so that HUE
traffic throughput can be maintained, in the presence of an interfering macro
UE or when a HUE cannot be powered down.
Adjustment of the UL noise rise threshold can be made by the HNB, driven by
measurements of receive total wideband power (i.e. RTWP) or other similar
measurement entities on the UL (as outlined in Section 7.1). Blocking levels
of UL noise rise due to out of cell interference can be detected and the noise
rise threshold adjusted accordingly. This adjustment would only need to be
made temporarily while the UL interference was strong and as the noise rise
was seen to fall the noise rise threshold could be returned to its normal
operating value. However, in the presence of such greater UL noise rise, the
HNB receiver should be designed so as to ensure proper system stability for
HUEs (e.g., in the presence of bursty interference from MUE or power race
among multiple HUEs) and adequate demodulation performance.
Modifying the HNB scheduler in this way will increase HUE throughput but as a
result will also increase the UL interference caused by the HUEs at the macro
layer. As a consequence the UL throughput of macro UEs can become degraded.
The application of an upper limit on the HUE transmit power, as discussed in
Section 7.4.1, will ensure that this effect is constrained to an acceptable
level.
Table 7.3.2-1 summarises the control of HNB noise rise threshold.
Table 7.3.2-1: Control of HNB noise rise threshold based on different
deployment scenarios
* * *
Deployment Scenario Interference source(s) HNB noise rise threshold setting
HNB installed inside a building far from macrocell site Macro UEs attached to
macrocell and located close to HNB High HNB installed inside a building close
to macrocell site Macro UEs attached to macrocell and located close to HNB Low
HNB installed inside a building far from other HNBs HUE(s) served by other
HNBs and located close to HNB High HNB installed inside a building close to
other HNB(s) HUE(s) served by other HNBs and located close to the HNB Low HNB
installed inside a building Own HUE(s) located very close to the HNB that
cannot be powered down due to limited dynamic range High
* * *
### 7.3.3 Control of HNB receiver gain
This is an alternative mitigation technique to address UL interference from
uncontrolled UEs towards the HNB and increase in noise rise from a HUE that
cannot be powered down due to limited dynamic range. Again it is especially
significant for CSG deployments where uncontrolled UEs may be located within
the HNB premises while still being attached to an external macro network. In
such cases,
\- the macro UE's transmit power could be high while the pathloss to the HNB
could be small, or
\- the uncontrolled UE (i.e. a HUE) associated with a neighbour HNB could be
transmitting at high power, or
\- own HUE located very close to the HNB could be transmitting at high power
as it cannot be powered down due to limited dynamic range
This mitigation approach is based _on dynamic control of the receiver gain_ or
UL attenuation, also known as _adaptive noise figure adjustment_. This has the
effect of moving the dynamic range of the HNB receiver such that the
interfering UE is no longer blocking the UL. As a consequence the HNB receiver
is temporarily desensitised during periods of reduced gain or attenuation.
Adjustment of the receiver gain or UL attenuation can be made by the HNB,
driven by measurements of receive total wideband power (i.e. RTWP) or other
similar measurement entities on the UL. Blocking levels of UL noise rise due
to out of cell interference can be detected and the receiver gain reduced
accordingly. This adjustment would only need to be made temporarily while the
UL interference was strong and as soon as the noise rise was seen to fall the
receiver gain could be returned to its normal operating value.
This adjustment would also need to react fast when the UL interference is
strong or noise rise from a HUE is high and slowly decay with time, e.g., to
accommodate variations in interference due to bursty traffic. The effect of
such desensitisation would be to temporarily cause HUEs to increase their own
UL transmit power and thereby increase interference to the macro layer.
Therefore, it is crucial to determine the correct amount of attenuation that
will improve the HUE's performance without degrading the MUEs. The application
of an upper limit on the HUE transmit power, as discussed in Section 7.4.1,
will ensure that a runaway positive feedback condition is avoided.
#### 7.3.3.1 Performance analysis
The performance of using dynamic control of the receiver gain or UL
attenuation can be obtained using the following analysis setup. The general
set up for the uplink analysis is given in Figure 7.3.3.1-1. The cell edge
case is considered first, where a HNB is deployed at the edge of a macro cell
and it has an active HUE associated with it. There is also a MUE which is
located close to the HNB. The HNB, HUE and the MUE are assumed to have 140dB
PL with the MNB (X=140dB). The HUE and the MUE are assumed to be separated
from the HNB by Y and Z dB PL, respectively.
{width="1.8340277777777778in" height="2.7576388888888888in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-1: UL Interference Analysis Setup
The PL values of interest (i.e., Y and Z) depend on the HNB coverage
determined by the tx power chosen. T**hree deployment scenarios are
considered: a) HNB with 70dB coverage radius, b) HNB with 80dB coverage
radius, and c) HNB with 90dB coverage radius. Both cell edge and cell site
scenarios are analyzed.** The performance analysis for the cell edge and cell
site scenarios demonstrate the need for an adaptive algorithm that adjusts the
UL attenuation / padding based on the out-of-cell interference experienced at
the HNB.
##### 7.3.3.1.1 Cell edge scenarios
For cell edge scenario, the following PL pairs are investigated in more detail
(Table 7.3.3.1-1). When the HNB coverage of 70dB is targeted, the HNB tx power
cannot go as low as required (min HNB total tx power limitation of -10dBm is
assumed). Therefore, a MUE located at the edge of the targeted coverage region
will be in outage. Hence, the MUE is placed 80dB away from the HNB in this
case.
Table 7.3.3.1-1: Cell edge parameters
* * *
Parameters Values  
HUE UL Ec/No at HNB -2.4 dB  
HNB default Noise Figure 19 dB  
Maximum HUE/MUE Tx Power 21 dBm  
MNB Noise Figure 5 dB  
Additional interference at MNB -101 dBm  
Y: PL (HUE to HNB) 70 dB 80 dB 90 dB Z: PL (MUE to HNB) 80 dB 80 dB 90 dB
* * *
Being at the cell edge, the MUE is assumed to be transmitting at 21dBm (e.g.,
the maximum UE total tx power). The MUE transmitting at high power close to
the HNB can significantly increases the noise rise at the HNB. This noise rise
contribution is denoted by Ec/No', where Ec is received signal strength of the
MUE at the HNB and No' corresponds to the received signal strength in the
absence of HUE or MUE. The goal of the UL interference management is to keep
the MUE contribution on the HNB noise rise below the noise rise threshold by
adding attenuation or increasing the noise figure, such that the HUEs can get
scheduled.
In Figure 7.3.3.1-2, the solid curves correspond to the noise rise
contribution of the MUEs at the HNB as a function of the additional padding /
UL attenuation applied at the HNB. The HUE transmit power is determined based
on a -2.4dB Ec/No requirement. The dashed curves correspond to the noise rise
contribution of HUE at the MNB. Although the transmit power of the HUE is
increased with the additional attenuation applied at the HNB, the HUE is still
located very close to the HNB while being on the edge of the MNB coverage.
Therefore, the HUE's contribution to the MNB noise rise is minimal.
{width="4.5875in" height="3.4402777777777778in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-2: UL cell edge scenario: noise rise contribution of non-
associated UEs
The HUE and MUE Ec/No values at their corresponding serving NBs are provided
in Figure 7.3.3.1-3. Although the effect of HUE on the macro network is
minimal, using more than the required amount of attenuation is not desired.
For the cases where HUE to HNB PL is 80dB and 90dB, it is observed that beyond
10dB and 20dB additional noise figure respectively, the HUE starts running out
of headroom and is unable to maintain the Ec/No requirement.
{width="5.05in" height="3.7875in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-3: UL cell edge scenario: Ec/No at serving NB
A reference algorithm trying to maintain the out-of-cell contribution to the
HNB noise rise at 3dB would choose the following UL attenuation values (Table
7.3.3.1-2):
Table 7.3.3.1-2: Cell edge analysis: suggested UL attenuation at HNB
+---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+ | Y: PL (HUE to HNB) | 70 dB | 80 dB | 90 dB | +---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+ | Z: PL (MUE to HNB) | 80 dB | 80 dB | 90 dB | +---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL Attenuation | 27dB | 27dB | 17dB | | | | | | | (Additional Noise Figure) | | | | +---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 7.3.3.1.2 Cell site scenarios
For cell site scenarios, the HNB is deployed close to the macro cell site. In
this case the HNB, HUE and the MUE are assumed to have 100dB PL to the MNB
(X=100dB). The PL values of interest (i.e., Y and Z) again depend on the HNB
coverage determined by the tx power chosen. For the cell site case, the
following PL pairs are investigated in more detail (Table 7.3.3.1-3). When a
HNB coverage of 90 or 100dB is targeted, the HNB tx power becomes insufficient
due to the max HNB total tx power limitation of 20dBm. Therefore, a HUE
located at the edge of targeted coverage region is unable to maintain -20dB
CPICH Ec/No with the HNB.
Table 7.3.3.1-3: Cell site parameters
* * *
Parameters Values  
HUE UL Ec/No at HNB -2.4 dB  
HNB default Noise Figure 19 dB  
HUE maximum Tx Power 21 dBm  
MUE Tx Power -15 dBm  
HNB maximum Tx Power 20 dBm  
MNB Noise Figure 5 dB  
Additional interference at MNB -101 dBm  
Y: PL (HUE to HNB) 70 dB 80 dB 80 dB Z: PL (MUE to HNB) 70 dB 80 dB 90 dB
* * *
Being at the cell site, the MUE is assumed to be transmitting at -15dBm. In
Figure 7.3.3.1-4, the noise rise contributions of the MUE and HUE at the HNB
and MNB, respectively are presented. Here again, the HUE transmit power is
determined based on a -2.4 dB Ec/No requirement.
As seen in Figure 7.3.3.1-4, unlike the cell edge case, there is no need for
large additional UL attenuation values to control the noise rise at the HNB.
In fact, if unnecessary attenuation is applied, then the HUE tx power
increases considerably, creating significant noise rise at the MNB.
In Figure 7.3.3.1-5, the UE Ec/No values at their serving NB are presented. It
is clearly seen that the MNB Ec/No goes down if more than necessary UL
attenuation is used. For certain cases, the HUE could also run out of headroom
and not be able to maintain the required Ec/No.
{width="4.775in" height="3.571527777777778in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-4: UL cell site scenario: noise rise contribution of non-
associated UEs
{width="5.0125in" height="3.759027777777778in"}
Figure 7.3.3.1-5: UL cell site scenario: Ec/No at serving NB
A reference algorithm trying to maintain the out-of-cell contribution to the
HNB noise rise at 3dB would choose the following UL attenuation values (Table
7.3.3.1-4):
Table 7.3.3.1-4: Cell site analysis: suggested UL attenuation at HNB
+---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+ | Y: PL (HUE to HNB) | 70 dB | 80 dB | 80 dB | +---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+ | Z: PL (HUE to HNB) | 70 dB | 80 dB | 90 dB | +---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL Attenuation | 1dB | 0dB | 0dB | | | | | | | (Additional Noise Figure) | | | | +---------------------------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.4 HNB self-configuration
HNB should perform self-configuration at power up and on a regular basis
during normal operation. Depending on the implementation, the HNB should be
able to relay its measurements to, and receive its RF configuration from, an
external configuration element such as network planning server, O&M server and
HNB-GW. Such configuration elements can also optimize the RF parameters of a
set of HNBs in a joint manner. However, this section does not describe the
operation of these configuration elements and is limited to the self-
configuration of a HNB based on the self-obtained information..
> The HNB self-configuration can also be activated on a regular basis provided
> that no UE is RRC connected to the HNB or all UEs attached to the HNB are in
> idle mode. The self-configuration capability of HNB should not impact the
> existing UE behaviour. If any UE served by the HNB has on-going voice/data
> transmission, the HNB should wait until the corresponding UE to complete its
> voice/data transmission, release the RRC connection and then activate the
> self-configuration mode.
The self-configuration activation period can be set to long, medium or short
(exact value FFS). For example, activation period can be set to 24 hours in
order to activate HNB self-configuration mode once a day. Performing self-
configuration on a regular basis (self-configuration interval FFS) or event
triggered self-configuration will help to reduce excessive interference
generated by the HNB to the surrounding macrocells and HNBs.
Self-configuration of HNB consists of setting a number of RF parameters to a
value which is optimized for achieving the proposed objectives. The most
important parameters are:
\- Choosing the right carrier frequency,
\- Selecting the optimum DL scrambling code
\- Selecting suitable LAC and/or RAC.
\- Setting the optimum maximum allowable Tx power level in downlink and
uplink,
\- Building a set of cell lists, and,
\- Processing the UE measurement reports (if available)
The HNB self-configuration requirements are listed in Table 7.4-1. Detailed
fulfilment of HNB self-configuration requirements is vendor specific (i.e.
dependent on self-configuration modes). Generally, the HNB self-configuration
can be broadly divided into passive and active mode. The passive mode HNB
self-configuration satisfies only the basic requirements, while the active
mode HNB self-configuration is capable of handling more complex tasks such as
detecting of abnormal operating conditions, decoding UE measurement reports,
neighbour cell list construction, etc.
Table 7.4-1: HNB self-configuration modes and requirements
* * *
Requirement No Requirements  
Passive Active 1 Conduct measurements in section 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.1.3, 7.1.4
Conduct measurements in section 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.1.3 and 7.1.4 2 Select DL
scrambling code or UARFCN Select DL scrambling code or UARFCN 3 Select DL Tx
Power level of the HNB and max UL Tx power level of the HUE Select DL Tx Power
level of the HNB and max UL Tx power level of the HUE 4 Decode broadcast
channel (e.g. BCH) Decode broadcast channel (e.g. BCH) 5 N/A Use UE
measurement reports as input to self-configuration algorithm 6 N/A Perform
additional RRM (e.g. handover handling, coverage control) based on a set of
measurement inputs 7 N/A Detection of abnormal operating conditions 8
Construct a set of neighbour cell lists Construct a set of neighbour cell
lists 9 Synchronise local clock/RF oscillator with e.g., macrocells, IP
network Synchronise local data clock/RF oscillator with e.g., macrocells, IP
network 10 Select suitable LAC, RAC Select suitable LAC, RAC
* * *
### 7.4.1 Scrambling code selection
In general, HNB should have abilities to detect interference and scrambling
code. Using the information detected, HNB selects a spare scrambling code
which is not used by neighboring HNBs. For example, HNB can monitor the radio
signal in its downlink bands before setting up its own cell. Then, the HNB
selects a scrambling code as its operating scrambling code which is not used
by the neighboring HNBs or macro cells.
Therefore, each HNB would require to be configured for a particular scrambling
code on the downlink. If neighbouring HNBs use the same scrambling code,
significant problems can arise since HUEs may not be able to associate with
the correct HNB. In macrocell networks, scrambling codes for base stations are
carefully managed so that base stations in a certain region use different
scrambling codes. This, however, is not very practical for HNBs and a more
autonomous method to select the scrambling codes would be useful for HNBs. The
goal of such a mechanism is to minimize the number of scrambling code
collisions for a given number of total scrambling codes.
For instance, depending on the HNB deployment strategy, a certain set of
scrambling codes can be reserved for HNBs, denoted as S~HNB~={_S~1~, S~2~,
..., S~Nsc\ ~_}. If the HNBs operate on a dedicated carrier, the HNB can scan
all the available scrambling codes (i.e., _N~sc~_ =512) and the total number
of scrambling codes that can be reserved for HNBs is configurable. If HNBs
operate on a shared carrier (co-channel) with macrocell, a certain subset of
available scrambling codes should be reserved for HNBs and these codes should
not be used by any macrocell base station.
During HNB self-configuration, HNB scans for all scrambling codes and
construct a set of scrambling codes which have pilot energy above detection
threshold: S~DETECTED~={_S~i~, S~j~, ..., S~k~_}. Note that some of the
scrambling codes in the set S~DETECTED~ can be part of the set S~HNB~ (i.e.,
PSCs used by neighbouring HNBs) and rest of the set can be part of "macrocell
only" scrambling codes. Then, HNB can select the "best" scrambling code based
on certain criteria, for example:
\- If all HNB-reserved scrambling codes are being used by neighbour HNBs
\- HNB picks a scrambling code in S~HNB~ with smallest amount of detected
energy (i.e., smallest CPICH Ec/No and CPICH RSCP)
\- Else
\- HNB picks a scrambling code randomly from set of scrambling codes that are
member of S~HNB~ but not member of S~DETECTED~
Upon failure to pick the "best" scrambling code, an alarm or some form of
error indication shall be send to the network controller (e.g. Core Network,
HNB-GW, O&M server). The details of alarm triggering threshold is FFS.
### 7.4.2 Carrier or UARFCN selection
In general, HNB should have abilities to select a carrier frequency using
information such as interference level. For example, HNB can monitor the radio
signal in its downlink bands before setting up its own cell. Once the HNB gets
the inference level (RSSI) on each of its available frequencies, it selects a
carrier frequency as its operating frequency which has the smallest
interference.
Therefore, each HNB needs to be configured for a certain carrier frequency
(channel or UARFCN) to operate on. Such a mechanism depends on the particular
deployment configuration listed in section 5.1. If there is only one available
carrier for all HNBs, there could be certain amount of inter-HNB interference.
One solution for addressing this issue would be to use multiple carriers for
HNBs. For example, HNBs in neighboring apartments can be assigned to different
frequency carriers to mitigate the potential interference problems.
If macrocells operate on the same carrier as HNBs, then HNB-macrocell
interference can result in a certain amount of outage and performance
degradation both for HUEs and MUEs. One solution for mitigating the HNB-macro
interference would be to make sure the carriers used by HNBs are not used by
macrocells. Although this method reduces HNB-macro interference noticeably, it
is not efficient in terms of spectrum utilization especially if HNB deployment
density is not high. Also, the total number of available carriers for an
operator needs to be considered in this decision. For most operators with
limited carriers (e.g., two or three carriers), sharing the carriers between
HNBs and macrocells could be preferable. In this case, if a MUE goes into
coverage hole of a HNB, it could perform inter-frequency handoff to another
carrier frequency[^1]. In order to minimize the number of inter-frequency
hand-off events for MUEs, HNBs may prefer a certain frequency and use other
frequencies only in the homes where there is noticeable interference from
neighboring HNBs.
In general if an operator has _N_ carrier frequencies:
F={_f~1~,f~2~,...,f~N~_}, then HNBs are allowed to use a certain subset
(F~HNB~) of these frequencies while macrocells can use a certain subset
(F~macro~). Without loss of generality, in the following, we will assume
F~HNB~={_f~1~,f~2~,...,f~K~_} and F~macro~={_f~M~,f~M+1~,...,f~N~_} where 1 ≤
_K_ ≤ _N_ and 1 ≤ _M_ ≤ _N_.
As a possible method for carrier selection, during self configuration, the HNB
will measure the RSS values for all _K_ carrier frequencies and find the
carriers with least interference, denoted as _No~min~_. The accuracy of RSS
measurement is [FFS]. In order to find the carrier suitable for operation, the
HNB can scan all the available UARFCN or carrier frequencies and, starting
from _f~1~_ , choose _f~i~_ if _No~f_i~ ≤ No~min~ + HNB_Frequency_RSS_margin_.
The usage of the parameter _HNB_Frequency_RSS_margin_ is to adjust the
tradeoff between selecting least interference carrier and concentrating the
HNBs on certain carriers such that coverage hole created by macrocell is
minimized.
### 7.4.3 Neighbour cell list configuration and handover
During the HNB self-configuration mode, HNB should be able to use the
macrocells information detected on a set of UARFCNs to build the following
cell lists:
\- Intra-frequency cell list
\- Inter-frequency cell list
\- Inter-RAT list
In addition to the standard cell lists above, the HNB may also construct the
following cell lists:
\- Preferred cell camping list. This list can be a subset of the normal cell
camping list and can be operator configurable (via O&M server). The purpose of
the preferred cell camping list is to prioritise certain cells for HUE to camp
on for load balancing, traffic and QoS control.
\- Preferred RAT handover list. This is can be a subset of the normal IRAT
list and can be operator configurable (via O&M server). The purpose of the
preferred RAT handover list is to prioritise the handover preference of
certain RAT cells (e.g. prefer handover to EDGE over GSM/GPRS).
Upon constructed the cell lists, the HNB can broadcast some of the cell list
information (in e.g. SIB11) to the UEs served by the HNB.
When an HUE leaves the coverage area of HNB it can be handed over to macro
network. In order to support the handover from HNB to macro network, HNBs
should detect macro neighboring cells and add them to their neighbour cell
list automatically.
In addition, when a number of HNBs may be required to be deployed as a small
network, the HNB neighbour cell list can be configured automatically by the
HNB or a HNB controller (e.g. HNB-GW) in order to facilitate the handover
between HNBs.
To enable MNBs and network aware of the cell list information, the cell lists
constructed by the HNB during self-configuration mode and/or subsequent cell
list updates can be fed back to the network controller (i.e. Core Network,
HNB-GW) via either HNBAP or TR-069 [55] signalling.
### 7.4.4 HNB DL power setting
HNBs with large transmit power may cause significant interference to macro
network and neighboring HNBs, leading for example to dropped calls for the
connected UEs on same and adjacent channels. Therefore the transmit power of
HNBs should be controlled. Coverage range and interference level in different
HNB deployment environments are different and varied. For this reason the HNBs
should have the ability to adjust its power autonomously and/or based on the
report from UEs about interference and signal quality detected by the UEs.
HNB DL power setting is a function of HNB cell coverage, macrocell
interference and other-HNB interference. Given a suitable DL operating power
range, the HNB should be able to set its output Tx power by taking into
account a number of criterions such as:
\- The CPICH Ec/No at the expected edge of coverage of the HNB is of
sufficient quality to provide adequate coverage/performance for the HNB
\- The macro layer CPICH Ec/No at the expected edge of coverage of the HNB is
not severely degraded
\- The adjacent-channel macro layer CPICH Ec/No at certain distance/pathloss
from the HNB is not severely degraded
Out of all these three objectives, the last one is of special importance when
the adjacent channel belongs to another operator, as it refers to the impact
of HNB activity on the surrounding networks on adjacent channels.
### 7.4.5 HUE UL power setting
During HNB self-configuration, the HNB should set a maximum allowed transmit
power for its UEs based on the pathloss to the neighbour NodeBs and the
expected received power at neighbour NodeBs such that if its UEs were
transmitting at this maximum power level they will not cause a significant UL
noise rise to the neighbour NodeBs, and thus compromise the coverage or
capacity significantly. The pathloss to the neighbour NodeBs can be estimated
via measurements outlined in subclause 7.1. The received power at the
neighbour NodeBs can be obtained either from measurements outlined in
subclause 7.1 or from network (e.g. Core Network, HNB-GW).
Note that the process to set HUE maximum allowed transmit power should not
alter the existing UE behaviour. Also, the HUE transmit power will mainly
affect the macro NodeBs operating on the same frequency channels as the Home
NodeB.
As the HUE transmit power does not significantly affect the surrounding macro
NodeBs operating on adjacent channels (i.e. other operator's network), the HUE
power adjustment remains an operator choice.
### 7.4.6 LAC/RAC selection
In a CSG deployment, in order to perform user authentication for the UEs, one
technique is to utilize Location Area Update/Routing Area Update procedure.
This technique assumes that each HNB is configured with a LAC that is
different from the surrounding macro cells and nearby HNBs, so that a UE
always performs location area update when it tries to camp on the HNB.
Therefore, during the HNB self-configuration mode, the HNB should be capable
of selecting a suitable LAC (or RAC) from a list of available LACs/RACs.
However, the drawback of user authentication via LAU/RAU procedure is that
there may be potentially a large number of LAU/RAU update reject messages
generated when a HUE is not allowed to camp on to a consecutive number of HNBs
under certain mobility scenarios, particularly for CSG type deployment.
The solution to avoid generating a large number of LAU/RAU update reject
messages is [FFS].
### 7.4.7 Extreme/Abnormal operating conditions
There are certain conditions whereby the HNB might not be able to provide
optimal RF performance to its HUEs, such as not having an accurate picture of
the surrounding RF environment or the RF self-configuration algorithms not
being able to select parameters within supplied bounds. In the event of
detecting an error condition the HNB may use a set of RF parameters defined by
the operator which will provide restricted HNB coverage or could disable radio
transmission [56] until the situation has been rectified.
Table 7.4.7-1 provides a list of such conditions, their implications on HNB
operation and suggested actions to take on detecting such conditions.
Table 7.4.7-1: Extreme/Abnormal operating conditions
+-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | Condition | Implication | Possible | | | | | consequent | | | | | Actions | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | > 1 | Lack of suitable | HNB could degrade | -Select | | | DL scrambling | performance of | alternative | | | Code | other HNBs | UARFCN if | | | | | available. | | | | | | | | | | -HNB could be | | | | | relocated within | | | | | building | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | > 2 | Failure to detect | HNB power setting | -Alert operator | | | BCH on downlink | & DL primary | | | | UARFCN | scrambling code | -HNB could be | | | | might not be | relocated within | | | | optimal | building | | | | | | | | | Neighbour cell | -Other possible | | | | list will not be | actions [FFS] | | | | generated | | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | > 3 | No suitable | If a HNB reuses a | - Alert operator | | | LAC/RAC available | LAC within the | | | | | same geographical | - HNB could | | | | area it is | transmit with low | | | | possible that a | power to | | | | UE can camp on to | eliminate the | | | | neighbour's HNB | overlap in | | | | without being on | coverage areas | | | | its access | between HNBs that | | | | control list. | have the same | | | | Under this | LAC. | | | | scenario the UE | | | | | will not be able | | | | | to receive paging | | | | | messages. | | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | > 4 | Location Change | HNB is | - Alert operator | | | e.g. as indicated | potentially in a | | | | by different | location outside | - HNB could | | | macro cell IDs on | the one it was | disable radio | | | UARFCN or PLMN | provisioned for. | transmission | | | | | until new | | | | HNB can | location has been | | | | potentially | verified^1^ | | | | transmit on a | | | | | UARFCN that is | - Other possible | | | | not allocated to | actions [FFS] | | | | the operator. | | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | > 5 | Failure to detect | The RF oscillator | - Alert operator | | | a suitable | of the HNB could | | | | frequency | potentially be | - HNB could | | | reference | out-of-synch. | disable radio | | | | | transmission^1^ | +-----+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+
Note 1: For regulatory reasons (e.g., intended by Japan and Germany), HNB
should be able to stop radio transmission [56].
## 7.5 Control of HNB coverage
In principle, the HNB transmit power could be used to ensure HNB coverage.
This is because the HNB coverage range and interference level in different HNB
deployment environment are different and variable. With HNB adjusting its Tx
power either autonomously and/or based on interference and signal quality
detected and reported by surrounding UEs, the HNB coverage can be controlled.
The HNB coverage is determined by HNB output power, the data rate provided to
the HUEs, and the external interference that HNB system received from
macrocells and surrounding HNBs. There is no simple formula to define the HNB
coverage as a function of all the parameters involved. However, the HNB
coverage can be used as a trade-off in order to reduce the interference caused
to the macrocells or other surrounding HNBs. Some interference control
mechanisms in Section 7.2 and Section 7.3 can also be used to control the HNB
coverage.
The HNB can be uplink and downlink coverage limited depending on the link
budgets. The coverage of the HNB can also be controlled via dynamic switching
of service-level date rates.
### 7.5.1 CSG
[Editor notes: detail of HNB coverage control for CSG type deployment]
### 7.5.2 Open access
[Editor notes: detail of HNB coverage control for open access HNB deployment]
# 8 Interference tests
//Editors note: this section is to test the ability of HNB maximum allowable
transmit power dependant of co-channel interference conditions.
The following subsections describe example test procedure and parameters which
can be used to evaluate HNB self-configuration and performance in both uplink
and downlink scenarios.
## 8.1 Downlink
### 8.1.1 Co-channel tests
**In order to ensure reasonable behaviour of HNB on the DL, two scenarios are
considered for HNB deployments: a) cell edge and b) cell site. The DL scenario
under consideration is shown in Figure 8.1-1. Cell edge refers to the case
where the HNB and UEs are at the macro cell edge and cell site refers to the
case where the HNB and UEs are close to the macro cell edge.**
{width="1.8868055555555556in" height="2.8409722222222222in"}
Figure 8.1-1: DL interference scenario
Since a HNB can have different coverage radius (i.e., link budget) depending
on the particular deployment scenario (e.g., suburban, urban, dense-urban)**,
three categories of HNBs are considered: a) HNB with 70dB coverage radius, b)
HNB with 80dB coverage radius, and c) HNB with 90dB coverage radius.** A HNB
with a particular coverage radius shall adjust its transmit power within the
minimum and maximum power limits such that the MUE at the coverage radius can
maintain a minimum quality of the CPICH Ec/No and the HUE can maintain an
acceptable quality of CPICH Ec/No at the coverage radius. HNB DL tests are
given below for the three HNB categories. The purpose of these tests is to
ensure the HNB Tx power is adjusted properly to provide good HNB coverage and
limit the coverage hole on macro.
**[Test Set-up:]{.underline}**
**The test set-up is as follows.** The HNB under test is on frequency F1. A
noise generator on F1 generates Ioc as specified in Table 8.1.1-1. A NB on
frequency F1 is set up such that the RSSI (including Ioc) and the RSCP at the
HNB are as specified in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1.1-1: Parameters for HNB DL co-channel tests
* * *
Test Parameters Cell Edge Cell Site PL to MNB 140 dB 100 dB RSSI at HNB -95
dBm -60 dBm MNB RSCP -107 dBm -67 dBm Ioc at HNB -96dBm -75dBm
* * *
In the following tests, the requirements are in terms of lower and upper
limits for HNB Tx power. The lower limits are specified such that a HUE at the
HNB coverage radius is able to maintain -18dB CPICH Ec/No. For the upper
limits, a margin of a few dBs (\~3dB) is included to allow for variations in
the algorithm used for HNB Tx powers. CPICH Ec/Ior of -10dB for HNB and MNB
are assumed. The tests assume +20dBm as the maximum power for the HNB.
#### **8.1.1.1 DL test for HNB with 70dB coverage radius**
**For the test scenario described in Table 8.1.1-1, the total output power of
the HNB with a designed coverage radius of 70dB shall be as specified in Table
8.1.1-2.**
Table 8.1.1-2: HNB total output power
* * *
Reference Condition MNB RSCP at HNB RSSI at HNB Ioc at HNB HNB Transmit Power
Range A - 107 dBm - 95 dBm - 96 dBm -34 dBm ≤ HNB Total Tx Power ≤ -10 dBm B -
67 dBm - 60 dBm - 75 dBm 2 dBm ≤ HNB Total Tx Power ≤ 10 dBm
* * *
#### **8.1.1.2 DL test for HNB with 80dB coverage radius**
**For the test scenario described in Table 8.1.1-1, the total output power of
the HNB with a designed coverage radius of 80dB shall be as specified in Table
8.1.1-3.**
Table 8.1-3: HNB total output power
* * *
Reference Condition MNB RSCP at HNB RSSI at HNB Ioc at HNB HNB Transmit Power
Range A - 107 dBm - 95 dBm - 96 dBm -24 dBm ≤ HNB Total Tx Power ≤ -10 dBm B -
67 dBm - 60 dBm - 75 dBm 12 dBm ≤ HNB Total Tx Power ≤ 20 dBm
* * *
#### **8.1.1.3 DL test for HNB with 90dB coverage radius**
**For the test scenario described in Table 8.1.1-1, the total output power of
the HNB with a designed coverage radius of 90dB shall be as specified in Table
8.1.1-4.**
Table 8.1-4: HNB total output power
* * *
Reference Condition MNB RSCP at HNB RSSI at HNB Ioc at HNB HNB Transmit Power
Range A - 107 dBm - 95 dBm - 96 dBm -14 dBm ≤ HNB Total Tx Power ≤ -5 dBm
* * *
### 8.1.2 Adjacent channel tests
The purpose of the test is to ensure that a HNB does not cause unacceptable
interference to the adjacent channel operator. The HNB can use measurements
such as RSSI and RSCP to adjust its transmit power such that it does not cause
interference for the adjacent channel operator. The test set-up and
requirements are specified in [25.104/25.141].
## 8.2 Uplink
### 8.2.1 Basic tests
Uplink interference between HNBs and the macro layer comprises three
components, identified in the figure below as (a) (b) and (c):
Figure 8.2-1: UL interference paths
The interference mitigation approaches presented in Section 7.4 above have
addressed all of these interference components, but the key requirement being
tested here is that the UL interference from the HUE towards the macro layer
(component (a) in the figure above) is controlled to be within an acceptable
limit.
The additional Dynamic Range and ACS tests for the Home BS class in 25.104, as
specified in [3], have ensured that the HNB receiver can accommodate increased
levels of interference (b) and (c) from nearby uncontrolled UEs. Guidance on
how to make this accommodation has been provided in Sections 7.4.2 and 7.4.3
above. It has further been noted that as a result of this mitigation the
transmit power of the HUE will increase, potentially causing additional noise
rise at the macro layer \-- so interference paths (b), (c) and (a) are
inextricably linked. The way in which this positive feedback cycle is broken
is through the application of a limit on the HUE allowable transmit power as
discussed in Section 7.4.1 above.
Therefore, given that mitigation techniques to accommodate UL interference (b)
and (c) towards the HNB have already been tested by the new Dynamic Range and
ACS requirements in 25.104, it is sufficient from a "closed loop" system
perspective to ensure that the maximum UL interference (a) towards the macro
layer is controlled. This can be tested as follows.
#### 8.2.1.1 Test setup
Figure 8.2-2: UL interference test setup
The MNB emulator is configured to transmit a P-CPICH and a P-CCPCH. The latter
physical channel carries the BCH on which SIB5 is transmitted, providing an
indication of the P-CPICH Tx Power. Note that the actual transmit power of the
P-CPICH does not need to align with this signalled value. Sufficient other
SIBs must also be present to allow for identification of the NodeB as part of
the macro layer, rather than another HNB. The cabled connection to the HNB
receiver passes through a variable attenuator (not shown in the figure above)
such that the pilot power (RSCP) arriving at the HNB can be controlled.
The HNB makes measurements, as defined in Section 7.1 above, of the macro
P-CPICH RSCP and the decoded P-CPICH Tx Power IE in order to estimate the
pathloss to the MNB. From this estimate it can derive a value for the maximum
HUE allowable transmit power such that the noise rise at the macro layer is
constrained. This value will be signalled to the HUE as part of a subsequent
RL Setup procedure for AMR 12.2 kbps service and can be logged at the HUE for
verification.
#### 8.2.1.2 Test parameters
Based on the analysis in subclause 7.4.1 above, the following test parameters
are specified for the co-channel and adjacent channel cases. The maximum
allowable HUE transmit power is defined such that it causes no more than [1dB]
noise rise at the MNB:
Table 8.2-1: Co-channel UL test parameters
* * *
Signalled P-CPICH Tx Power (on MNB BCH) Pathloss ^1^ P-CPICH RSCP at HNB
Maximum allowable HUE Tx power ^2^ 33 dBm 100 dB -67 dB ≤ [-9 dBm] 33 dBm 140
dB -107 dB ≤ [21 dBm]
* * *
Table 8.2-2: Adjacent channel UL test parameters
* * *
Signalled P-CPICH Tx Power (on MNB BCH) Pathloss ^1^ P-CPICH RSCP at HNB
Maximum allowable HUE Tx power ^2^ 33 dBm 100 dB -67 dB ≤ [21 dBm] 33 dBm 140
dB -107 dB ≤ [21 dBm]
* * *
Notes:
1\. The Pathloss of 100dB and 140dB represent typical "cell-site" and "cell-
edge" scenarios respectively.
2\. The maximum allowable HUE Tx power is capped at a maximum level of [21
dBm] as per Section 7.4.1 above.
### 8.2.2 HSUPA tests
#### 8.2.2.1 HNB-Macro tests
**For the uplink tests, we again consider three deployment scenarios: a) HNB
with 70dB coverage radius, b) HNB with 80dB coverage radius, and c) HNB with
90dB coverage radius. Separate cell edge and cell site tests are specified.
The uplink tests are to be carried out in a cabled-up lab setup. The HNB and
MNB in these tests are on the same carrier frequency (i.e., co-channel). All
the path loss values specified here include antenna gains.**
**For the cell edge tests, the test setup is as displayed in Figure
8.2.2.1-1(i). The HUE, HNB and MUE path loss to the MNB is assumed to be
140dB. The MNB is assumed to experience interference at -101dBm from users
other than the HUE, which is modelled through an AWGN noise source (not shown
in the picture). Two BS testers are used as the HUE and the MUE, which are
connected to the HNB and the MNB through channel emulators. AWGN channel is
assumed and path loss values of the links are set as specified in the test
description. The MUE is set to transmit at 21dBm max Tx power, with power
control disabled. The HNB is run with the regular UL scheduler and power
control enabled with full queue traffic. The UL throughput and the transmit
power at the BS tester (HUE) is measured. The MNB does not play any role in
the test requirements.**
**For the cell site tests, a HNB, a MNB and a single BS tester (HUE) are used
(Figure 8.2.2.1-1(ii) ). The HUE and HNB path loss to the MNB is assumed to be
100dB. A channel emulator is used to adjust the path loss between the HUE and
the HNB. The HNB is operated with the regular UL scheduler with full queue
traffic. The UL throughput and the transmit power at the BS tester (HUE) is
measured. It should be noted that since there is no MUE present in this test,
the only purpose of having a MNB is for path loss estimation in case it is
used by the HNB.**
The E-DPDCH demodulation tests for FRC1 and FRC2 for Ped A channel with no Rx
diversity have been used as reference to show that the transmit power and
throughput requirements for the cell-edge and cell-site tests are indeed
achievable. However, since the power control is enabled for these tests, AWGN
channel is used instead of PedA to minimize the fluctuations in HUE tx power
and throughput (due to fading).
{width="2.0208333333333335in" height="2.5104166666666665in"}
{width="1.8340277777777778in" height="2.754861111111111in"}
(i) (ii)
Figure 8.2.2.1-1: UL test setup
**The test requirements for the different HNB coverage scenarios are given
below.**
##### 8.2.2.1.1 Uplink test for HNB with 70dB coverage radius
**The purpose of the test is for the HUE to achieve a minimum UL throughput
while its average total transmit power does not exceed the requirement given
in Table 8.2.2.1.1-1.**
**For the cell edge test, the HUE transmit power can go as high as the maximum
limit of 21 dBm. The test requirement is in terms of an upper limit for the
HUE average transmit power while the HUE average throughput is above a certain
value. The throughput and transmit power requirements are chosen based on an
Ec/No target of 0.8 dB (corresponding to the FRC2 E-DPDCH demodulation
test).**
For the cell site test, the maximum Tx power is specified such that the HUE
interference at the MNB which is 100dB away is limited to 5dB below the noise
floor of the MNB which is -103dBm. Here again, **an Ec/No target of 0.8 dB is
used.**
Table 8.2.2.1.1-1: UL test specifications - 70dB HNB coverage
* * *
Parameter Cell Edge Cell Site PL to MNB 140dB 100dB PL MUE to HNB 80dB - HUE
Throughput ≥ 811kbps ≥ 811kbps HUE Tx Power ≤ 21dBm ≤ -8dBm
* * *
##### 8.2.2.1.2 Uplink test for HNB with 80dB coverage radius
**The purpose of the test is for the HUE to achieve a minimum uplink
throughput at the HNB for cell site case while its average total transmit
power does not exceed the requirement given in Table 8.2.2.1.1-2.**
**For the cell edge test, the HUE transmit power can go as high as the maximum
limit of 21 dBm. The test requirement is specified in terms of an upper limit
for the HUE average transmit power while the HUE average throughput is above a
certain value. The throughput and transmit power requirements are chosen based
on an Ec/No target of -2.4 dB (corresponding to the FRC1 E-DPDCH demodulation
test).**
For the cell site test, the maximum tx power is specified such that the HUE
interference at the MNB which is 100dB away is limited to 5dB below the noise
floor of the MNB which is -103dBm. Here, **an Ec/No target of 0.8 dB is used
(corresponding to the FRC2 E-DPDCH demodulation test).**
Table 8.2.2.1.1-2: UL test specifications - 80dB HNB coverage
* * *
Parameter Cell Edge Cell Site PL to MNB 140dB 100dB PL MUE to HNB 80dB - HUE
Throughput ≥ 405kbps ≥ 811kbps HUE Tx Power ≤ 21dBm ≤ -8dBm
* * *
##### 8.2.2.1.3 Uplink test for HNB with 90dB coverage radius
**The purpose of the test is for the HUE to achieve a minimum uplink
throughput at the HNB for the cell edge case while its average total transmit
power does not exceed the requirement given in Table 8.2.2.1.1-3. A cell site
test is not specified for this particular HNB coverage case due to the fact
that the max Tx power limit of 20dBm on the HNB does not allow the coverage to
be 90dB.**
**For the cell edge test, the HUE transmit power can go as high as the maximum
limit of 21 dBm. The test requirement is specified in terms of an upper limit
for the HUE average transmit power while the HUE average throughput is above a
certain value. The throughput and transmit power requirements are chosen based
on an Ec/No target of -2.4 dB (corresponding to the FRC1 E-DPDCH demodulation
test).**
Table 8.2.2.1.1-3: UL test specifications - 90dB HNB coverage
* * *
Parameter Cell Edge PL to MNB 140dB PL MUE to HNB 90dB HUE Throughput ≥ 405
kbps HUE Tx Power ≤ 21dBm
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Inter-HNB uplink test
The inter-HNB test corresponds to two neighbouring HNBs on the same carrier as
shown in Figure 8.2.2.2-1.
{width="3.832638888888889in" height="1.948611111111111in"}
Figure 8.2.2.2-1: Inter-HNB uplink test set-up
**The purpose of the test is for the HUEs to maintain a minimum uplink
throughput at their own HNBs while their total transmit powers do not exceed
the requirements given in Table 8.2.2.2-1.**
**The test requirement is specified in terms of an upper limit for the HUE
average transmit power while the HUE average throughput is above a certain
value. The throughput and transmit power requirements are chosen based on an
Ec/No target of 0.8 dB (corresponding to the FRC2 E-DPDCH demodulation
test).**
Table 8.2.2.2-1: Specifications for UL inter-HNB test
* * *
Parameter HUE1 HUE2 HUE Throughput ≥ 811kbps ≥ 811kbps HUE Tx Power ≤ -11dBm ≤
-12dBm
* * *
# 9 Summary
# 10 Conclusions
#