# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document gives the detailed requirements for the correct operation
of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding
and comfort noise generation within the digital cellular telecommunications
system. The present document is part of a series covering the half rate speech
traffic channels as described below:
GSM 06.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
GSM 06.06 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; ANSI-C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
GSM 06.07 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
GSM 06.20 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
GSM 06.21 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
**GSM 06.22 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".**
GSM 06.41 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.42 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic channels\".
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the detailed requirements for the correct operation
of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding
and comfort noise generation in GSM Mobile Stations (MS)s and Base Station
Systems (BSS)s during Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) on half rate speech
traffic channels.
The requirements described in the present document are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM MSs capable of supporting the half rate speech
traffic channel.
The receiver requirements are mandatory for implementation in all GSM BSSs
capable of supporting the half rate speech traffic channel, the transmitter
requirements are only for those where downlink DTX will be used.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunication system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech transcoding\".
[3] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[4] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); \"Half
rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[5] GSM 06.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; ANSI-C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**frame:** time interval of 20 ms corresponding to the time segmentation of
the half rate speech transcoder, also used as a short term for a traffic
frame.
**H(Z):** combination of the short term (spectral) filter A(z) and the
spectral weighting filter W(z).
**SID codeword:** fixed bit pattern for labelling a traffic frame as a SID
frame.
**SID field:** bit positions of the SID codeword within a SID frame.
**SID frame:** frame characterized by the SID (Silence Descriptor) codeword.
It conveys information on the acoustic background noise.
**SP flag:** speech flag.
**speech frame:** traffic frame that cannot be classified as a SID frame.
**VAD flag:** Voice Activity Detector flag.
**W(Z):** spectral weighting filter of the GSM half rate speech codec.
Other definitions of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM
06.20 [2] and GSM 06.41 [3]. The overall operation of DTX is described in GSM
06.41 [3].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
GS Energy tweak parameter.
R0 Frame energy value.
R(i) Unquantised (normalized) autocorrelation sequence.
rj Optimal reflection coefficient.
b
SUM ( x(n) ) = x(a) + x(a+1) + .... + x(b‑1) + x(b); (Accumulation).
n=a
GSP0 codeword Vector quantization index, joint vector quantization of the
parameters GS and P0.
P0 Power contribution of the first excitation vector as a fraction of the
total excitation power at a subframe.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AFLAT Autocorrelation Fixed Point LAttice Technique (used in the GSM half rate
speech codec for the vector quantization of the LPC coefficients)
BSS Base Station System
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
MS Mobile Station
SID SIlence Descriptor
RX Receive
TX Transmit
VAD Voice Activity Detector
VQ Vector Quantization
For abbreviations not given in this subclause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
A problem when using DTX is that the background acoustic noise, which is
transmitted together with the speech, would disappear when the radio
transmission is switched off, resulting in a modulation of the background
noise. Since the DTX switching can take place rapidly, it has been found that
this effect may be annoying for the listener, especially in a car environment
with high background noise levels. In bad cases, the speech may be hardly
intelligible.
The present document specifies a solution to overcome this problem by
generating synthetic noise similar to the transmit (TX) side background noise
on the receive (RX) side. The comfort noise parameters are estimated on the TX
side and transmitted to the RX side before the radio transmission is switched
off and at a regular low rate afterwards. This allows the comfort noise to
adapt to the changes of the noise on the TX side.
# 5 Functions on the transmit (TX) side
The comfort noise evaluation algorithm uses the following parameters of the
GSM half rate speech encoder, defined in GSM 06.20 [2]:
\- the unquantized frame energy value R0;
\- the unquantized (normalized) autocorrelation sequence R(i) derived from the
optimal reflection coefficients rj;
\- the quantized energy tweak parameter GS.
These parameters give information on the level (R0 and GS) and the spectrum
(R(i)) of the background noise.
Two of the evaluated comfort noise parameters (R0 and R(i)) are encoded into a
special frame, called a SIlence Descriptor (SID) frame, for transmission to
the RX side. While the energy tweak parameter GS can be evaluated in the
encoder and decoder in the same way as given in subclause 5.1, therefore no
transmission of GS is necessary.
The SID frame also serves to initiate the comfort noise generation on the RX
side, as a SID frame is always sent at the end of a speech burst, i.e. before
the radio transmission is terminated.
The scheduling of SID or speech frames on the radio path is described in GSM
06.41 [3].
## 5.1 Background acoustic noise evaluation
The comfort noise parameters to be encoded into a SID frame are calculated
over 8 consecutive frames marked with Voice Activated Detector (VAD) flag =
\"0\", as follows:
The frame energy values shall be averaged according to the equation:
7
mean (R0[j]) = 1/8 SUM R0[j-n];
n=0
where:
R0[j] is the frame energy value of the current frame j (n=0);
R0[j-n] is the frame energy of the previous frames (n=1,...,7);
n is the averaging period index n=0,1,...,7;
j is the frame index.
The averaged value mean(R0[j]) is encoded using the same encoding table that
is also used by the GSM half rate speech codec for the encoding of the non-
averaged R0 values in ordinary speech encoding mode.
The (normalized) autocorrelation sequence R(i) shall be averaged according to
the equation:
7
mean (R[j](i)) = 1/8 SUM R[j-n](i) i = 0,1,2...,10;
n=0
where:
R[j](i) is the i\'th autocorrelation value of the current frame j (n=0);
R[j-n](i) is the i\'th autocorrelation value of one of the previous frames
(n=1,...,7);
n is the averaging period index n=0,1...,7;
j is the frame index.
The averaged values mean(R[j](i)) are used as input parameters of the
Autocorrelation Fixed Point LAttice Technique (AFLAT) recursion algorithm
which calculates the Vector Quantization (VQ) indices of the reflection
coefficients, see GSM 06.20 [2].
The SID frame containing the quantization index of mean(R0[j]), the VQ indices
of mean(R[j](i)) and the SID codeword is passed to the radio subsystem instead
of frame number j (see subclause 5.3, SID-frame encoding).
The averaging of the energy tweak parameters GS is made on the basis of the
quantized GS parameters. The quantized GS parameters can be derived from the
GSP0 indices. These indices are used as pointers to the GSP0 vector
quantization codebook. The GS components of the selected GSP0 vectors are the
quantized GS values which will be averaged.
The quantized energy tweak parameters GS shall be averaged according to the
equation:
7 4
mean (GS[j]) = 1/28 SUM ( SUM GS[j-n](i) );
n=1 i=1
where:
GS[j](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of the current
frame j (n=0);
GS[j-n](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of one of the
last frames (n=1,...7);
n is the averaging period index n=1,2,...,7;
i is the subframe index i=1,2,3,4;
j is the frame index.
NOTE: The averaging of GS is made over 7 frames only.
For each comfort noise insertion period, the averaging of the GS parameters is
done only once before sending the first SID frame to the decoder and for the
rest of the comfort noise insertion period, the averaged value mean(GS[j])
will be frozen.
Under normal conditions, the averaging of the GS parameters is done during the
hangover period, but in case of short speech bursts handling, the hangover
period can be skipped under certain conditions, see GSM 06.41 [3]. In such
cases, the GS parameters of the last seven speech frames marked with SP
flag=\"1\" are averaged.
The hangover period is defined in GSM 06.41 [3]. It is a period added at the
end of a speech burst in which no voice activity is detected (VAD flag=\"0\"),
but the speech encoder stays for the processing of 7 speech frames in speech
encoding mode (SP flag= \"1\"). This hangover period and the first SID frame
are used for averaging the comfort noise parameters contained in the first SID
frame.
mean(GS[j]) can be evaluated at the decoder in the same way as in the encoder,
because in both the encoder and decoder, the GSP0 indexes of the last 7 speech
frames shall be kept in memory. In case of an error free transmission, the
GSP0 indexes are identical at the encoder and decoder.
## 5.2 Modification of the speech encoding algorithm during SID frame
generation
When the SP flag is equal to \"0\", the speech encoding algorithm is modified
in the following way:
\- the non-averaged reflection coefficients which are used to derive the
filter coefficients of the filters H(z) and W(z) of the speech encoder are not
quantized;
\- the unvoiced speech encoding mode is forced. This simplifies the open loop
long term prediction processing: only the integer lags have to be calculated,
no determination of fractional lags is necessary and the frame lag trajectory
derivation can be avoided;
\- no fixed codebook search is made. In each subframe, the indices of both
fixed codebooks (CODE1_1, ...,CODE1_4 and CODE2_1, ...,CODE2_4) are replaced
by pseudo random numbers uniformly distributed in [0,127] (7 bit random
numbers);
\- no GSP0 determination is made. The GSP0 codeword is selected as follows:
\- at the beginning of a comfort noise insertion period, mean(GS[j]) is
calculated as defined in subclause 5.1. Then mean(GS[j]) is quantized, using
only the GS component of the GSP0 vector quantization codebook of the unvoiced
speech encoding mode as quantization table. The P0 parameter is not averaged.
For this parameter, the value is used which is associated with the quantized
mean(GS[j]) value in the GSP0 codebook of the unvoiced speech encoding mode.
For the rest of the comfort noise insertion period, the GSP0 indices are
frozen.
A simplified block diagram of the GSM half rate speech encoder in comfort
noise insertion mode is shown in figure 1.
Figure 1: GSM half rate speech encoder in comfort noise insertion mode
## 5.3 SID-frame encoding
The SID frame encoding algorithm exploits the fact that only some of the 112
bits in a frame are needed to code the comfort noise parameters. The other
bits can then be used to mark the SID frame by means of a fixed bit pattern,
called the SID codeword.
SID frames are encoded in the encoder output format for voiced frames (MODE =
3), because the two voicing mode bits are part of the SID codeword.
The index of the frame energy value R0 is replaced by the quantization index
derived from mean(R0[j]). mean(R0[j]) is defined in subclause 5.1 and is
encoded as described in GSM 06.20 [2].
The VQ indices of the reflection coefficients are replaced by VQ indices
derived from mean(R[j](i)). mean(R[j](i)) is defined in subclause 5.1 and the
VQ of the reflection coefficients is described in GSM 06.20 [2].
The SID codeword consists of 79 bits which are all \"1\". To mark a frame as a
SID frame, the parameters in table 1 have to be set as shown.
Table 1: SID codeword
* * *
Parameter Number of bits Value (Hex) MODE 2 0x0003 INT_LPC 1 0x0001 LAG_1 8
0x00ff LAG_2 4 0x000f LAG_3 4 0x000f LAG_4 4 0x000f CODE_1 9 0x01ff CODE_2 9
0x01ff CODE_3 9 0x01ff CODE_4 9 0x01ff GSP0_1 5 0x001f GSP0_2 5 0x001f GSP0_3
5 0x001f GSP0_4 5 0x001f
* * *
The parameters in table 1 are defined in GSM 06.20 [2].
# 6 Functions on the receive (RX) side
The situations in which comfort noise shall be generated on the RX side are
defined in GSM 06.41 [3] and may be started or updated whenever a valid SID
frame is received.
## 6.1 Averaging of the GS parameters
When speech frames are received by the decoder, the GS parameters of the last
seven speech frames shall be kept in memory. As soon as a SID frame is
received, these stored GS parameters shall be averaged. The averaged GS value
will be frozen and used for the actual comfort noise insertion period.
The averaging procedure works as follows:
\- when a speech frame is received, the GSP0 indices are decoded and the
decoded GS parts of these parameters are stored in memory;
\- when the first SID frame is received, the stored GS values are averaged in
the same way as in the speech encoder as follows (see also subclause 5.1):
7 4
mean (GS[j]) = 1/28 SUM ( SUM GS[j-n](i) );
n=1 i=1;
where:
GS[j](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of the current
frame j;
GS[j-n](i) is the quantized energy tweak parameter in subframe i of one of the
last frames;
n is the averaging period index n=1,2,...,7;
i is the subframe index i=1,2,3,4;
j is the frame index;
\- then mean(GS[j]) is quantized, using the GS component of the GSP0 vector
quantization codebook for the unvoiced speech encoding mode as quantization
table. The resulting index of this quantization is used for one complete
comfort noise insertion period as GSP0 codeword. The P0 parameter is not
averaged. For this parameter, the value is used which is associated with the
quantized mean(GS[j]) value in the GSP0 codebook of the unvoiced speech
encoding mode.
## 6.2 Comfort noise generation and updating
The comfort noise generation procedure uses the GSM half rate speech decoder
algorithm defined in GSM 06.20 [2].
When comfort noise is to be generated, then the various encoded parameters are
set as in table 2.
Table 2: Comfort noise encoded parameters
+-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | MODE | 0 | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | R0 | interpolation of the values received in the last two | | | valid SID frames | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | LPC1 | interpolation of the values received in the last two | | | valid SID frames | | LPC2 | | | | | | LPC3 | | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | INT_LPC | 1 | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | CODE1_1 | pseudo random numbers uniformly distributed | | | in [0,127] (7 bit numbers) | | CODE1_2 | | | | | | CODE1_3 | | | | | | CODE1_4 | | | | | | CODE2_1 | | | | | | CODE2_2 | | | | | | CODE2_3 | | | | | | CODE2_4 | | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+ | GSP0_1 | index of the averaged GS parameter | | | | | GSP0_2 | (calculated at the beginning of each comfort noise | | | insertion period and frozen for the rest of the period) | | GSP0_3 | | | | | | GSP0_4 | | +-----------+---------------------------------------------------------+
With these parameters, the speech decoder now performs the standard operations
described in GSM 06.20 [2] and thereby synthesizes comfort noise.
Updating of the comfort noise parameters (frame energy and LPC coefficients)
occurs each time a valid SID frame is received, as described in GSM 06.41 [3].
NOTE: The GSP0 codewords are not updated, they are frozen during each comfort
noise insertion period.
When updating the comfort noise parameters (frame energy and LPC
coefficients), these parameters shall be interpolated over the SID update
period to obtain smooth transitions.
# 7 Computational details
A low level description has been prepared in form of an ANSI C source code
which is part of GSM 06.06 [5].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change Request History
* * *