# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the service offered by the physical layer (3GPP
TS 45‑series of Technical Specifications) of the MS‑BS interface (3GPP TS 45‑
and 44‑series of Technical Specifications). Its main objective is to be a
guidance for the interface between the 3GPP Technical Specifications in the
45‑series and the 44‑series. It also specifies the format of signalling
channels and the order of bit transmission.
As far as possible, the present document makes use of the layering principles
of the Reference Model for Open System Interconnection (OSI) as contained in
ITU-T Recommendations X.200 and X.210.
# 1a References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[3] 3GPP TS 43.013: \"Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in the GSM System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 43.020: \"Security-related network functions\".
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TS 44.003: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Channel structures and access capabilities\".
[8] 3GPP TS 44.005: \"Data Link (DL) layer; General aspects\".
[9] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] 3GPP TS 44.012: \"Short Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support on
the mobile radio interface\".
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[17a] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station
(MS) - Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control/Medium Access
Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] Void.
[26] Void.
[26a] Void.
[26b] Void.
[27] 3GPP TS 45.001: \"Physical Layer on the Radio Path (General
Description)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[29] 3GPP TS 45.003: \"Channel coding\".
[30] Void.
[31] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[32] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[33] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
[34] Void.
[35] ITU-T Recommendation X.200: \"Information technology; Open Systems
Interconnection; Basic Reference Model: The basic model\".
[36] ITU-T Recommendation X.210: \"Information technology - Open systems
interconnection - Basic Reference Model: Conventions for the definition of OSI
services\".
[37] 3GPP TS 48.058: \"Base Station Controler - Base Transceiver Station (BCS-
BTS) Interface Layer 3 Specification\".
[38] 3GPP TR 45.902: \"Flexible Layer One\".
[39] 3GPP TS 43.064: \"Overall description of the GPRS radio interface; Stage
2\".
# 2 Interfaces to the physical layer
The physical layer (layer 1) is the lowest layer in the OSI Reference Model
and it supports all functions required for the transmission of bit streams on
the physical medium. These bit streams are transferred on traffic channels,
packet data traffic channels and control channels as defined in 3GPP TS
44.003.
NOTE: For GSM application the physical layer may also be referred to as the
radio subsystem. However, the radio subsystem supports functions additional to
those described in the present document.
The physical layer interfaces the Data Link Layer, the Radio Link Control and
Medium Access Control layer and the supported functional units of the
application (figure 2).
Figure 2: Interfaces with the Physical Layer
## 2.1 Interface to the Data Link Layer
The physical layer interfaces the data link layer. On this interface control
channels are supported. The data link layer is specified in 3GPP TS 44.005 and
44.006. Communication between the Physical Layer and the Data Link Layer is in
an abstract way performed by means of PH‑primitives. They do not constrain
implementations.
NOTE: The terms physical layer and layer 1, and data link layer and layer 2,
will be used synonymously in the present document.
The PH‑primitives exchanged between the physical layer and the data link layer
are used for the transfer of layer 2 frames. They are also used to indicate
the establishment of channels to layer 2.
## 2.1a Interface to the Radio Link Control and Medium Access Control layer
The physical layer interfaces the Radio Link Control and Medium Access Control
(RLC/MAC) layer. On this interface packet data control channels and packet
data traffic channels are supported when MS is operating in _A/Gb mode_ ; when
MS is operating in _Iu mode_ , traffic channels, dedicated control channels,
packet data control channels and packet data traffic channels are supported.
The RLC/MAC layer is specified in 3GPP TS 44.060 (_A/Gb mode_). Communication
between the Physical Layer and the RLC/MAC layer is in an abstract way
performed by means of PH‑primitives. They do not constrain implementations.
The PH‑primitives exchanged between the physical layer and the RLC/MAC layer
are used for the transfer of RLC/MAC blocks. They are also used to indicate
the establishment of packet data physical channels (_A/Gb mode_) or shared
basic physical subchannels (_Iu mode_) to the RLC/MAC layer.
## 2.1b Flexible Layer One Interface to the Radio Link Control and Medium
Access Control layer
In _Iu mode_ , when the Flexible Layer One is used the physical layer
interfaces the Radio Link Control and Medium Access Control (RLC/MAC) layer
(see 3GPP TR 45.902). On this interface transport channels are supported.
Communication between the Physical Layer and the RLC/MAC layer is in an
abstract way performed by means of PH‑primitives. They do not constrain
implementations.
The PH‑primitives exchanged between the physical layer and the RLC/MAC layer
are used for the transfer of transport blocks.
## 2.2 Interface to radio resource management
The physical layer interfaces the radio resource management (RR or RRC) entity
of layer 3 in the MS and in the network. When the MS is operating in _A/Gb
mode_ the radio resource management is provided by the RR entity whilst when
operating in _Iu mode_ the radio resource management is provided by the RRC
entity.
Communication is performed in an abstract way by means of MPH‑primitives. They
do not constrain implementations.
The primitives exchanged with the RR‑management entity are related to the
assignment of channels, physical layer system information (including
measurement results), etc.
## 2.3 Interface to other functional units
The physical layer interfaces other functional units in the MS and in the
network for supporting traffic channels. These interfaces are described in the
26, 27 and 46 series of Technical Specifications.
# 3 Service of the physical layer
The physical layer supports transfer of bit streams on the radio medium
according to the Technical Specifications of the 45‑series. The scope of the
45‑series of Technical Specifications is the definition of a framework for
operation on the radio medium. The application of this framework on the radio
medium results in a transmission service. General characteristics of the
service obtained by applying the framework of the 45‑series at the operation
on the radio medium are described in this clause.
## 3.1 Service Access Point
In the Reference Model for Open System Interconnection, Service Access Points
(SAPs) of a layer are defined as gates through which services are offered to
an adjacent higher layer (figure 3.1.a). Through a SAP the physical layer
offers a service to the data link layer. The SAP is used both for the control
of the service providing entity (in case this is the physical layer; commands
related to the establishment and release of channels) and the transfer of data
(in case of the physical layer; the transfer of bits). The physical layer
service access points defined in the present document differ from the OSI
physical layer Service Access Points; the layer 3 RR‑management instead of the
data link layer controls the SAPs (establishment and release of channels).
Figure 3.1.a: Service Access Point principle
On the physical layer of the GSM system a SAP is defined between the physical
layer and the data link layer for each control channel (figure 3.1.b, figure
3.1.b1 and figure 3.1.b2). The characteristics of SAPs (channels) are listed
in 3GPP TS 44.003.
Figure 3.1.b: SAPs between the physical layer and the data link layer when the
MS is operating in _A/Gb mode_
Figure 3.1.b1: SAPs between the physical layer and the data link layer when
the MS is capable of operating in **_Iu mode_**
Figure 3.1.b2: SAPs between the physical layer and the data link layer when
the MS has enabled EC operation (see 3GPP TS 43.064) and is operating in _A/Gb
mode._
Moreover, on the physical layer of the GSM system a SAP is defined between the
physical layer and the RLC/MAC layer for the packet data control channels,
dedicated control channels (_Iu mode_), traffic channels (_Iu mode_) and the
packet data traffic channel and the transport channels (FLO in _Iu mode_) (see
figure 3.1.c, figure 3.1.d and figure 3.1.e). Multiplexing of these channels
is controlled by the RLC/MAC layer, see 3GPP TS 44.060 (_A/Gb mode_). The
characteristics of channels are listed in 3GPP TS 44.003.
Figure 3.1.c: SAP between the physical layer and the RLC/MAC layer when the MS
is operating in _A/Gb mode_
Figure 3.1.d: SAP between the physical layer and the RLC/MAC layer when the MS
is operating in **_Iu mode_**
Figure 3.1.e: SAP between the physical layer and the RLC/MAC layer\ when the
MS is operating in **_Iu mode_ with FLO**
## 3.2 Service of the physical layer
The physical layer offers a transmission service on a limited set of logical
channels. Additionally with FLO in _Iu mode_ , the physical layer offers a
transmission service on transport channels. The BS and MS access capabilities
and the characteristics of logical channels (SAPs) are defined in 3GPP TS
44.003.
NOTE: Between 3GPP TS 44.003 and the 3GPP TS 45.0xx series there is a slight
difference in terminology. The \"channels\" mentioned in 3GPP TS 44.003 are
\"logical channels\" according to the 3GPP TS 45.0xx series (especially 3GPP
TS 45.002). The \"CCCH\", a channel name commonly used in the 3GPP TS 44.0xx
series, covers the logical channels of the type RACH, PCH and AGCH. Similarly,
the \"PCCCH\" covers the logical channels of the type PPCH, PAGCH and PRACH.
For an MS operating in _A/Gb mode_ , logical channels are multiplexed on
physical channels. Physical channels are the units scheduled on the radio
medium. Some are reserved by the network for common use (e.g. a combination of
CCCH and BCCH), others are assigned to dedicated connections with MSs
(dedicated physical channels), or are assigned to a shared usage between MSs
for packet switched data traffic (packet data physical channels). In time, the
combination of logical channels used on an assigned physical channel may
change. Allowed combinations of logical channels on a physical channel are
defined in 3GPP TS 44.003. Data on SAPs of control channels is exchanged in
discrete blocks with a size of 23 or 21 (SACCH) octets. Data on a SAP of
packet data traffic channels is exchanged in discrete blocks with a size
dependent on the block type (see clause 7).
For an MS operating in _Iu mode_ , logical channels are multiplexed on basic
physical subchannels. Basic physical subchannels are the units scheduled on
the radio medium. Some basic physical channels are reserved by the network for
common use (e.g. BCCH); dedicated basic physical subchannels are assigned to
dedicated connections with MSs, shared basic physical subchannels are assigned
to a shared usage between MSs for packet switched data traffic. In time, the
combination of logical channels used on an assigned basic physical subchannel
may change. Allowed combinations of logical channels on a basic physical
subchannel are defined in 3GPP TS 44.003. Data on SAPs of control channels is
exchanged in discrete blocks with a size of 23 or 21 (SACCH) octets. Data on a
SAP of packet data traffic channels is exchanged in discrete blocks with a
size dependent on the block type (see clause 7).
For an MS operating in _Iu mode_ with FLO, transport channels are multiplexed
on dedicated basic physical subchannels. The combination of transport channels
used on an assigned basic physical subchannel may change in time. Data on SAPs
of transport channels is exchanged in discrete transport blocks.
Synchronization between layer 1 and layer 2 (data link layer) is provided for
piggy‑backing of RR (receive ready) frames, and the starting of timers (T200).
See also 3GPP TS 44.006. Synchronization between the physical layer and the
RLC/MAC layer is provided for the handling of timers, and the multiplexing of
logical channels. See also 3GPP TS 44.060 (_A/Gb mode_).
**\- Error detection:**
The physical layer offers an error protected transmission service, it includes
error detection functions and to a lower level, error correction functions.
Erroneous received frames are not offered to the data link layer or the
RLC/MAC layer. The probability of one or more errors in a physical block
transferred by the physical layer is defined in 3GPP TS 45.005. Due to not
specified methods of quality detection, the probability of residual errors in
transferred blocks may vary between implementations.
**\- Encryption:**
Security related functions implemented at the physical layer are described in
3GPP TS 43.020.
An overview of the functions specified in the 45‑series which create the
service of the physical layer can be found in 3GPP TS 45.001.
### 3.2.1 Specific services of the physical layer in the MS
The access capability service of the physical layer in the MS differs
depending on the nature of the channel (traffic, packet data traffic or
broadcast/common channels).
**\- Establishment of dedicated physical channels (_A/Gb Mode_):**
Establishment of dedicated physical channels on the physical layer is
controlled by the radio resources management of layer 3 (3GPP TS 44.018).
During operation on a dedicated physical channel, the physical layer measures
the signals of neighbouring base stations and the signal quality of the used
dedicated physical channel. Measurements are transferred to layer 3,
measurement control information is offered by layer 3.
**\- Establishment of dedicated basic physical subchannels (_Iu mode_):**
Establishment of dedicated basic physical subchannels on the physical layer is
controlled by the radio resources management of layer 3 (3GPP TS 44.018.
During operation on a dedicated basic physical subchannel, the physical layer
measures the signals of neighbouring base stations and the signal quality of
the used dedicated basic physical subchannel. Measurements are transferred to
layer 3, measurement control information is offered by layer 3.
**\- Establishment of packet data physical channels (_A/Gb mode_):**
Establishment of packet data physical channels on the physical layer is
controlled by the radio resource management of layer 3. Packet access and the
reservation of radio resource on packet data physical channels is controlled
by the RLC/MAC layer in co-operation with layer 3 (3GPP TS 44.060). During
operation on packet data physical channels, the physical layer measures the
signals of neighbouring base stations and the signal quality of the used
packet data physical channel. Measurements are transferred to layer 3,
measurement control information is offered by layer 3.
**\- Establishment of shared basic physical subchannels (_Iu mode_):**
Establishment of shared basic physical subchannels on the physical layer is
controlled by the radio resource management of layer 3. Packet access and the
reservation of radio resource on shared basic physical subchannels is
controlled by the RLC/MAC layer in co-operation with layer 3. During operation
on shared basic physical subchannels, the physical layer measures the signals
of neighbouring base stations and the signal quality of the used shared basic
physical subchannel. Measurements are transferred to layer 3, measurement
control information is offered by layer 3.
**\- cell/PLMN selection in idle mode or in packet mode:**
In idle mode or in packet mode, the physical layer selects the best cell with
its BCCH/CCCH in close co‑operation with layer 3, meeting requirements for
PLMN selection specified in 3GPP TS 22.011. The idle mode procedures are not
modelled within the present document. Examples of procedures for cell
selection are described in 3GPP TS 45.008. The physical layer performs
automatic crossover.
# 4 Primitives of the physical layer
The Physical layer interacts with other entities as illustrated in figure 2.1.
The interactions with the data link layer of Dm channels and the interactions
with the RLC/MAC layer of packet data physical channels (_A/Gb mode_), shared
or dedicated basic physical subchannels (_Iu mode_) are shown in terms of
primitives where the primitives represent the logical exchange of information
and control between the physical layer and adjacent layers. They do not
specify or constrain implementations. The interactions between the physical
layer and layer 1 entities for Bm/Lm channels are for further study. For the
physical layer two sets of primitives are defined:
**\- Primitives between physical layer and data link layer and RLC/MAC layer
respectively:**
PH ‑ Generic name ‑ Type: Parameters.
**\- Primitives between layer 1 and the RR‑management layer 3 entity:**
MPH ‑ Generic name ‑ Type: Parameters.
## 4.1 Generic names of primitives between layers 1 and 2 for the transfer of
layer 2 frames and RLC/MAC blocks
The following primitive generic names are defined on the SAPs between the
physical layer and the data link layer:
a) PH‑DATA:
The PH‑DATA primitives are used on a SAP to pass message units containing
frames used for data link layer and RLC/MAC layer respective peer‑to‑peer
communications to and from the physical layer.
b) PH‑RANDOM ACCESS:
The PH‑RANDOM ACCESS (PH‑RA) primitives are used on the SAP of the RACH and
the PRACH to request and confirm (in the MS) the sending of a random access
frame and to indicate (in the network) the arrival of a random access frame.
For MS operating in _A/Gb mode_ , the random access protocols are specified in
3GPP TS 44.018 and 3GPP TS 44.060 respectively.
c) PH‑CONNECT:
The PH‑CONNECT primitive is used on a SAP to indicate that the physical
connection on the corresponding control channel or packet data physical
channel (_A/Gb mode_) or shared basic physical subchannel (_Iu mode_) has been
established.
d) PH‑READY‑TO‑SEND:
The PH‑READY‑TO‑SEND primitive is used by the physical layer to trigger, if
applicable, piggy backing, the start of timer for the data link layer or the
RLC/MAC layer and the forwarding a data unit to the physical layer. It is
passed to the upper layer just before a new physical block is transmitted.
e) PH‑EMPTY‑FRAME:
The PH‑EMPTY‑FRAME primitive can be used by the data link layer and the
RLC/MAC layer to indicate that no frame has to be transmitted after receiving
the PH‑READY‑TO‑SEND primitive. It enables polling of several upper layer
entities by the physical layer and support DTX.
## 4.2 Generic names of primitives between layer 1 and the RR‑management
entity of layer 3
The following primitive generic name is defined between layer 1 and the
RR‑management entity of layer 3:
‑ MPH‑INFORMATION:
MPH‑INFORMATION (MPH‑INFO) primitives are used for the control of the physical
layer by the RR‑management of layer 3. This information activates and
deactivates, configures and deconfigures, through connects and disconnects
physical, logical and transport channels. It is also used for the transfer of
measurements and measurement control information from layer 1 to layer 3.
## 4.3 Primitive types
The primitive types defined in the present document are:
a) REQUEST:
The REQUEST primitive type is used when a higher layer is requesting a service
from a lower layer.
b) INDICATION:
The INDICATION primitive type is used by a layer providing a service to notify
the next higher layer of activities in the layer. This activities are directly
related to the occurrence of a REQUEST primitive on the peer‑protocol side.
c) RESPONSE:
The RESPONSE primitive type is used by a layer to acknowledge receipt from the
INDICATION primitive type.
d) CONFIRM:
The CONFIRM primitive type is used by the layer providing the requested
service to confirm that the activity has been completed.
## 4.4 Parameter definition
Primitives contain a variable amount of parameters. The primitives with
included parameters are listed in table 4.1.
Table 4.1: Primitives of the physical layer
* * *
                                                                message unit                                                                              
                                                                               channel control parameters                                                 
                                                                                                            system information                            
                                                                                                                                 absolute frame No.
primitive entity direction measurement
MPH‑INFO‑REQ MS/BS RR(L3) PH(L1) x x  
MPH‑INFO‑CON MS/BS PH(L1) RR(L3) x x  
MPH‑INFO‑IND MS/BS PH(L1) RR(L3) x x x  
PH-CONNECT-IND MS/BS PH(L1) DL(L2) RLC/MAC x  
PH‑READY-TO-SEND MS/BS PH(L1) DL(L2) RLC/MAC x x  
PH-EMPTY-FRAME MS/BS DL(L2) RLC/MAC PH(L1) x  
PH‑DATA‑REQ MS/BS DL(L2) RLC/MAC PH(L1) x x  
PH‑DATA‑IND MS/BS PH(L1) DL(L2) RLC/MAC x x x  
PH‑RA‑REQ MS DL(L2) RLC/MAC PH(L1) x  
PH‑RA‑IND BS PH(L1) DL(L2) RLC/MAC x x  
PH‑RA‑CON MS PH(L1) DL(L2) RLC/MAC x x
* * *
Parameters involved in the primitive exchange with the physical layer are:
a) Message unit:
The message unit contains peer‑to‑peer information of a layer. It is
transferred by the physical layer to the peer layer.
b) Channel control parameters:
These parameters contain information for channel control, specified in 3GPP TS
44.018 and 3GPP TS 44.060 for MS operating in _A/Gb mode_.
c) System information:
This information is exchanged in the cell/PLMN selection procedures. It may
also contain control information for DRX (sleep mode, see 3GPP TS 43.013).
d) Absolute Frame Number:
The absolute frame number is used (in combination with a random access
identifier) to uniquely identify a random access.
e) Measurements:
This parameter is used to report the quality of a dedicated physical channel
(MS and network) and to report the quality of surrounding BCCH carriers (MS
only).
# 5 Physical layer procedures
## 5.0 General
The main body of physical layer procedures is specified in 3GPP TS 44.018 and
3GPP TS 44.060 for MS operating in _A/Gb mode_ , and 3GPP TS 45.008.
## 5.1 States of the physical layer
In the physical layer of the MS the following states are defined:
NULL: the equipment is switched off;
SEARCHING BCH: the physical layer tracks the best BCCH;
BCH: the physical layer listens to a BCCH/CCCH, PBCCH/PCCCH or EC-BCCH/EC-CCCH
and is able to do random access;
TUNING DCH: For MS operating in _A/Gb mode_ the physical layer seizes on a
respective dedicated physical channel or packet data physical channel; for MS
operating in _Iu mode_ the physical layer seizes on a basic physical
subchannel;
DCH: For MS operating in _A/Gb mode_ the physical layer has seized a
respective dedicated physical channel or packet data physical channel and may
establish and through connect logical channels; For MS operating in _Iu mode_
the physical layer has seized a basic physical subchannel and may establish
and through connect logical channels.
NOTE: BCH = Bcch/ccch physical CHannel, pbcch/pccch or ec-bcch/ec-ccch
physical channel;\ DCH = Dedicated physical CHannel or packet data physical
channel for MS operating in _A/Gb mode_ ; Dedicated basic physical subCHannel
or shared basic physical subchannel for MS operating in _Iu mode_.
Figure 5.1 gives a general state diagram of the physical layer. All state
transitions of the physical layer are controlled by MPH‑INFORMATION
primitives.
Figure 5.1: States of the physical layer in the MS
The states of the physical layer in the network are not specified. The states
in the network will reflect the other characteristics of operation on
channels.
## 5.2 Control procedures
Requirements and examples of procedures for idle mode and for packet mode
operation of the MS are specified in 3GPP TS 22.011 and 45.008. In the idle
mode and packet mode procedures the physical layer tracks the best cell and
may tune on their BCCH/PBCCH/EC-BCCH in order to enable layer 3 to read the
system information of the BCCH/PBCCH/EC-BCCH. This system information of the
BCCH/PBCCH/EC-BCCH is used in the selection process.
## 5.3 Physical layer interface procedures
Three types of primitives are defined for the communication between the
physical layer and the data link layer both in the MS and the network. When a
control channel, packet data physical channel (_A/Gb mode_), or a shared basic
physical subchannel (_Iu mode_) is being established, a PH‑CONNECT‑INDICATION
is offered to the data link layer or the RLC/MAC layer, the one which is
applicable, on the corresponding SAP. On an established full duplex control
channel (DCCHs) in both MS and network, on an established packet data physical
channel (_A/Gb mode_), or a shared basic physical subchannel (_Iu mode_) or on
the established BCCH/CCCH in the MS, physical blocks received correctly are
offered on the corresponding SAP in PH‑DATA‑INDICATION primitives. On a full
duplex control channel (DCCHs) or on the BCCH/CCCH in the network, the data
link layer will offer physical blocks to be transmitted in PH‑DATA‑REQUEST
primitives. On a packet data physical channel (_A/Gb mode_) or shared basic
physical subchannel (_Iu mode_), the RLC/MAC layer will offer physical blocks
to be transmitted in PH‑DATA‑REQUEST primitives.
In the MS in idle mode or in packet idle mode, random accesses on RACH, on
PRACH or on EC-RACH can be offered in PH‑RANDOM ACCESS‑REQUEST primitives. The
physical layer of the MS will perform a random access as soon as possible. The
physical layer of the MS will confirm the data link layer or the RLC/MAC
layer, the one which is applicable, the transmission of the random access
attempt in a PH‑RANDOM ACCESS‑CONFIRM. This confirmation contains the absolute
frame number in which the random access is transmitted. The physical layer of
the BS offers correctly received random accesses to the data link layer or the
RLC/MAC layer, the one which is applicable, in a PH‑RANDOM ACCESS‑INDICATION.
This indication contains the absolute frame number in which the random access
is received.
# 6 Physical layer protocol header
## 6.0 General
The physical layer implements a peer‑to‑peer protocol for the control of
timing advance, power control and Repeated SACCH at the operation on dedicated
physical channels (_A/Gb mode_) or dedicated basic physical subchannels (_Iu
mode_), and further, for the control of timing advance at the operation on
packet data physical channels (_A/Gb mode_) or shared basic physical
subchannels (_Iu mode_). For this purpose a two octet physical header is
defined on all blocks transferred via the SACCH, a logical channel always
present on a dedicated physical channel (_A/Gb mode_) or dedicated basic
physical subchannel (_Iu mode_). Further more, a 16 octet information field is
defined on downlink blocks transferred via the PTCCH, a logical channel
present on a packet data physical channel (_A/Gb mode_) or shared basic
physical subchannel (_Iu mode_).
## 6.1 Physical layer protocol fields and procedures
Procedures for handling the ordered and actual power level fields are
specified in 3GPP TS 45.005 and 45.008. The ordered MS power level field and
the actual MS power level field are coded as the binary representation of the
\"power control level\", see 3GPP TS 45.005.
Procedures for handling the ordered and actual timing advance fields are
specified in 3GPP TS 45.010. The numbers corresponding to the timing advance
steps in 3GPP TS 45.010 are included binary coded in the 7 bit or in case of
GSM 400 8 bit ordered and actual timing advance fields of the physical layer
header.
For all the bands except GSM 400, the values 0 to 63 are valid TA values. The
bit pattern \"1111111\" indicates that the field does not contain a timing
advance value. All other bit combinations (64 to 126 decimal) are reserved.
For all bands except GSM 400 bit 8 is set to spare.
For GSM 400, the values 0 to 219 decimal are valid TA values. The bit pattern
\"11111111\" indicates that the field does not contain a timing advance value.
The remaining values 220 to 254 are reserved.
A MS in packet transfer mode (_A/Gb mode_) or MAC-shared state (_Iu mode_)
which is assigned a TAI shall, when receiving a PTCCH downlink block on the
packet data physical channel (_A/Gb mode_) or shared basic physical subchannel
(_Iu mode_) containing PACCH, read the corresponding ordered timing advance
field in that PTCCH block. The ordered timing advance fields corresponding to
other TAIs than the assigned one shall be ignored.
Procedures for handling the FPC_EPC (Fast Power Control/Enhanced Power
Control) field (bit 6 of octet 1 in the SACCH downlink block) are specified in
3GPP TS 45.008 and 3GPP TS 48.058. The FPC_EPC field has different
interpretation depending on the channel mode of the channel to which the SACCH
is associated, and whether that channel is in EPC mode..
If the channel mode is such that FPC may be used, the FPC_EPC field indicates
whether Fast Measurement Reporting and Power Control mechanism is used. It is
coded as follows:
Value:
0 Fast Power Control not in use,
1 Fast Power Control in use.
If the channel is in EPC mode, the FPC_EPC field indicates whether EPC
procedures are used for MS (uplink) power control. It is coded as follows:
Value:
0 EPC not in use for MS power control,
1 EPC in use for MS power control.
If the channel mode is such that FPC may not be used and the channel is not in
EPC mode, the MS shall ignore the value of the FPC_EPC field.
Procedures for handling the SRO (SACCH Repetition Order) and the SRR (SACCH
Repetition Request) fields are specified in 3GPP TS 44.006. They are coded as
follows:
Value:
0 Repeated SACCH not required
1 Repeated SACCH required
# 7 Block transmission
## 7.0 General
The format of the blocks transmitted on the physical interface depends on the
mode (_A/Gb or Iu mode_) in which the MS is connected to the network, as
specified in this section.
## 7.1 SACCH downlink block format
### 7.1.1 _A/Gb mode_
The 23 octets of SACCH blocks are used in the downlink in the following way:
* * *
bit numbering\  
\ In this mode the MS is ready to access and operate on a packet data physical
> channel (_A/Gb mode_) or shared basic physical subchannel (_Iu mode_). When
> the MS is operating in _A/Gb mode_ , packet mode includes the sub-states
> packet idle mode and packet transfer mode(see 3GPP TS 44.060). When the MS
> is operating in _Iu mode,_ packet mode includes the sub-states MAC-Idle and
> MAC-Shared.
>
> **\- Packet Idle Mode:**
>
> In packet idle mode, the mobile station is prepared to transfer LLC PDUs on
> packet data physical channels. The mobile station is not allocated any radio
> resource on a packet data physical channel; it listens to the PBCCH and
> PCCCH or, if those are not provided by the network, to the BCCH and the
> CCCH.
>
> **\- Packet Transfer Mode:**
>
> In packet transfer mode, the mobile station is prepared to transfer LLC PDUs
> on packet data physical channels. The mobile station is allocated radio
> resource on one or more packet data physical channels for the transfer of
> LLC PDUs.
**\- Dual Transfer Mode:**
In dual transfer mode, the mobile station is allocated radio resources
providing an RR connection (3GPP TS 44.018) and a Temporary Block Flow on one
or more packet data physical channels. The allocation of radio resource for
the RR connection and the Temporary Block Flow is co-ordinated by the network
in agreement with the capabilities of the mobile station in dual transfer
mode.
> **\- MAC-dedicated:**
>
> **A** MAC-control-entity state where a DBPSCH is assigned and no SBPSCH is
> assigned. This state only applies in _Iu mode_.
>
> **\- MAC-DTM:**
A MAC-control-entity state where at least one DBPSCH and one SBPSCH are
assigned. This state only applies in _Iu mode_.
> **\- MAC-Idle:**
>
> A MAC-control-entity state where no basic physical subchannel is assigned.
>
> **\- MAC-Shared:**
>
> A MAC-control-entity state where at least one shared basic physical
> subchannel is assigned.
‑ **Physical block:**
The physical block is the minimal unit which can be transferred by the
physical layer.
\- **Dedicated physical channel:**
The physical blocks scheduled on the radio medium assigned to a dedicated
connection with a MS.
\- **Packet data physical channel:**
The physical blocks scheduled on the radio medium assigned to a shared usage
between MSs for packet switched data traffic.
\- **Physical channel:**
> A **physical channel** uses a combination of frequency and time division
> multiplexing and is defined in terms of a radio frequency channel sequence
> and a timeslot sequence. A physical channel uses the same timeslot number in
> every TDMA frame. The complete definition of a particular physical channel
> consists of a description in the frequency domain, and a description in the
> time domain (see 3GPP TS 45.002).
**\- Basic physical channel:**
> A **basic physical channel** is defined as a physical channel for which the
> TDMA frame number sequence is 0,1,.. FN_MAX, where FN_MAX is the maximum
> TDMA frame number for a hyperframe (i.e. all TDMA frames on a timeslot).
**\- Basic physical subchannel:**
> A **basic physical subchannel** is defined as a basic physical channel or a
> part of a basic physical channel and an associated multiframe structure. A
> basic physical subchannel can either be shared or dedicated.
#