# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification specifies the stage 2 description of the Fraud
Information Gathering System (FIGS) feature which provides the means for the
HPLMN to monitor the activities of its subscribers in a VPLMN.
Three levels of FIGS service are defined, levels 1 to 3.
Level 1 will use the facilities provided by Transferred Account Procedure
(TAP).
Levels 2 and 3 will use facilities provided by Customised Applications for
Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL), in particular, the information flows
between the GSM Service Switching Function (gsmSSF) and GSM Service Control
Function (gsmSCF). Phase 1 and Phase 2 CAMEL facilities will be used.
Connection-orientated services only are covered.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] 3GPP TS 42.031: "Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Fraud Information Gathering System (FIGS) - Stage 1\".
[3] GSM 03.78: "Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Customised Application for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL Phase 1)" -
stage 2; version 5.x.y\". (GSM Release 96)
[4] GSM 03.78: "Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Customised Application for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL Phase 2) \-
stage 2; version 6.x.y\". (GSM Release 97)
NOTE: [3] specifies CAMEL Phase 1 functionality, [4] specifies CAMEL Phase 2
functionality.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this specification the following definitions apply:
**A subscriber:** The calling mobile subscriber.
**B subscriber:** The mobile subscriber originally called by the A subscriber.
**C subscriber:** The subscriber to whom the B subscriber has requested that
calls be forwarded. The C subscriber may be fixed or mobile.
**call** : connection-oriented service/event.
**GSM Service Control Function (gsmSCF):** A functional entity that contains
the CAMEL service logic to implement OSS. It interfaces with the gsmSSF and
the HLR.
**GSM Service Switching Function (gsmSSF):** A functional entity that
interfaces the MSC/GMSC to the gsmSCF. The concept of the gsmSSF is derived
from the IN gsmSSF, but uses different triggering mechanisms because of the
nature of the mobile network.
**Originating CAMEL Subscription Information (O-CSI):** The O-CSI identifies
the subscriber as having originating CAMEL services.
**Supplementary Service Notification CAMEL Subscription Information (SS-CSI)**
: The SS-CSI identifies the subscriber as having supplementary service
invocation notification CAMEL services.
**Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information (T-CSI):** The T-CSI identifies
the subscriber as having terminating CAMEL services.
**VMSC** : The serving MSC in the VPLMN.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in GSM 01.04.
For the purposes of this specification the following abbreviations apply:
CAMEL Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CGI Cell Global Identifier
FIGS Fraud Information Gathering System
FDS Fraud Detection System
MO Mobile Originated
MT Mobile Terminated
O-CSI Originating CAMEL Subscription Information
OSS Operator Specific Services
SS-CSI Supplementary Service Notification CAMEL Subscription Information
T-CSI Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information
TAP Transferred Account Procedure
# 4 FIGS Monitoring Levels
There are three levels of monitoring of subscriber activities using FIGS.
Level 1 an accelerated TAP procedure associated with a mechanism such as Hot
Billing is implemented in the MSC of the VPLMN.
Level 2 CAMEL is used to gather information, but only at the beginning and the
end of the call.
Level 3 CAMEL provides full information on subscriber activities, as defined
in 3GPP TS 42.031, i.e. call start and end times, and partial call records.
Notification of the invocation of Explicit Call Transfer, Call Deflection,
Call Forwarding, Call Hold and Multi Party Service is also given.
# 5 FIGS Level 1: Accelerated TAP Records
## 5.1 Method of FIGS Setting
A PLMN shall request that a VPLMN monitor a designated subscriber using FIGS
level 1 by setting a Hot Billing flag in the subscriber data stored in the HLR
of the HPLMN. This data is drawn down by the VPLMN when the subscriber first
registers in the VPLMN.
If the HPLMN wishes to begin monitoring of a subscriber using FIGS Level 1
when the subscriber is already registered in the VPLMN, it resets the
subscriber data in the VPLMN using command _Insert Subscriber Data_.
## 5.2 Information Flows
If a subscriber in a VPLMN is set in the subscriber categories to be monitored
using FIGS Level 1 the VMSC shall process and return the TAP records for that
subscriber in accordance with the guidelines given in current and future
version of TAP.
# 6 FIGS and CAMEL Architecture for FIGS Levels 2 and 3
FIGS provides the following information flows to the HPLMN, with respect to
roaming subscribers monitored by FIGS Levels 2 and 3.
**FIGS Level 2:**
> **call start and end times** (both MO, MT and forwarded calls). (At CAMEL
> Phase 1 the gsmSSF will not put a timestamp on messages. The arrival times
> of messages at the gsmSCF will be used for call start and end times.)
**FIGS Level 3:**
As for level 2 with the addition of:
**partial call information** (accumulated duration of call still in progress)
(CAMEL Phase only);
**notification of the invocation of ECT, CD and MPTY, CF and call hold**
(CAMEL Phase 2 only).
Further phases of CAMEL will provide the functionality to check the IMEI of
the ME used by a CAMEL subscriber. Other information required by 3GPP TS
42.031, annex A, that is not provided by CAMEL Phase 1 and CAMEL Phase 2, may
also be provided by further phases of CAMEL.
The architecture of the services provided by FIGS Levels 2 and 3 is given in
the diagrams below. Thick lines indicate possible CAMEL monitoring/control
relationships.
Figure 1: FIGS architecture for MO call
Figure 2: FIGS Architecture for MT/forwarded call
Early call forwarding can be performed if the subscriber has set Unconditional
Call Forward or the HLR has determined, before the call is extended to VPLMN
B, that the B subscriber is not reachable. In all other cases the call must be
extended to the VMSC.
The information flows required by FIGS levels 2 and 3 can be provided by the
information flows on the CAP interfaces between the gsmSCF and the gsmSSF in
the interrogating and visiting networks.
The interface between the gsmSCF and the Fraud Detection System (FDS) is non-
standard.
# 7 FIGS Levels 2 and 3
## 7.1 Method of FIGS Setting
A PLMN shall request that a VPLMN monitor a designated subscriber using FIGS
levels 2 or 3 by setting the O-CSI, T-CSI and SS-CSI (level 3 only) flags in
the subscriber data stored in the HLR of the HPLMN. This data is drawn down by
the VPLMN when the subscriber first registers in the VPLMN.
If the HPLMN wishes to begin monitoring of a subscriber using FIGS Level 2 or
3 when the subscriber is already registered in the VPLMN, it resets the
subscriber data in the VPLMN using command _Insert Subscriber Data_.
## 7.2 Information Flows
FIGS Levels 2 and 3 will be treated together in this section but it should be
remembered that partial call records and SS notification invocation is not
available with FIGS Level 2.
Each item of call data required by FIGS will be considered in turn and the
information flows within CAMEL which provide this data given.
Text applies to the implementation of FIGS functionality using both Phases 1
and 2, unless otherwise stated.
MO and MT calls will be treated together. If a message or DP is named as
_O/T_Answer_ , for instance, this means that if the call is MO, the relevant
DP is _O_answer_ , and that if the call is MT, the relevant DP is _T_answer_.
Diagrams showing the information flows for FIGS levels 2 and 3 are given in
Annex A.
### 7.2.1 Mobile Originated and Mobile Terminated Calls
#### 7.2.1.1 Call Start Time
Information regarding a call attempt can be obtained from the _InitialDP_
message sent from the gsmSSF to the gsmSCF. This message is sent after a
control relationship for the call has been set up between the gsmSSF and
gsmSCF. This message will provide notification to the FDS that a FIGS
monitored subscriber has made a call **attempt** , or that an attempt is being
made to call a FIGS monitored subscriber.
**CAMEL Phase 1**
The call, however, has not been connected at the time of the _InitialDP_
message. The gsmSCF must therefore arm DP _O/T_answer_ , so that the gsmSSF
will inform the gsmSCF when the called party answers/connects. The gsmSCF arms
the DP with message _Request_Report_BCSM_Event_ sent to the gsmSSF.
**If the called party answers** , the gsmSSF sends _Event_Report_BCSM (Notify
and Continue)_ to gsmSCF. This message provides notification to the FDS that
the attempted call has begun. The gsmSCF must then arm DP _O/T_Disconnect_ ,
so that the gsmSSF will notify the gsmSCF when the call ends.
**If the called party does not answer** , the gsmSSF terminates the
relationship for the call with the gsmSCF. It does this using message _"ABORT_
". This message provides notification to the FDS that the call attempted did
not connect.
**CAMEL Phase 2**
The call, however, has not been connected at the time of the _InitialDP_
message. The gsmSCF must therefore arm DP _O/T_Answer_ , so that the gsmSSF
will inform the gsmSCF when the called party answers/connects. The following
DP's (with trigger events given) must also be armed so that the gsmSCF will be
informed if the trigger event occurs:
_O_Route_Select_Failure_ (call establishment fails, MO calls only)
_O/T_Busy_ (called party is busy)
_O/T_No_Answer_ (no answer from called party)
_O/T_Abandon_ (calling party abandons the call before the called party has
answered)
_O/T_Not_Reachable_ (called party is not reachable)
For the purposes of FIGS, these DP's need only be armed for notification (N).
The gsmSCF arms all these DPs with a single message
_Request_Report_BCSM_Event_ , sent to the gsmSSF.
**If the trigger event** for any of _O_Route_Select_Failure, O/T_Busy,
O/T_No_Answer, O/T_Not_Reachable_ occurs then the gsmSCF is informed by the
gsmSSF of the failure of the call attempt with _Event_Report_BCSM_ , enclosing
the relevant cause.
**If the called party answers** , the gsmSSF sends message _Event_Report_BCSM_
to the gsmSCF. This message provides notification to the FDS of the start of a
call by a FIGS monitored subscriber. The gsmSCF must then arm DP
_O/T_Disconnect_ , so that the gsmSSF will notify the gsmSCF when the call
ends.
#### 7.2.1.2 Partial Call Records
This functionality is available with CAMEL Phase 2 only.
Using the "Apply Charging" process within CAMEL Phase 2, the gsmSCF can
control the duration of a call. The gsmSCF authorises the gsmSSF to allow the
call to proceed continue for a certain time. At the conclusion of this time
period, the gsmSSF seeks further instructions from the gsmSCF. The gsmSCF can,
at this point, authorise the call to continue for another time period (which
may be different to the first) or may instruct the gsmSSF to terminate the
call.
With regard to FIGS, this functionality can be used to generate **partial call
records** for the gsmSCF, as follows:
After the gsmSCF has received the _InitialDP_ message from the gsmSSF, the
gsmSCF sends message _Apply_Charging_ to the gsmSSF, containing parameter
"Tcs", the "call segment" duration. The gsmSSF will then send message
_Apply_Charging_Report_ to the gsmSCF after _Tcs_ seconds. This message c
ontains the duration of the call since the start of charging The gsmSCF may
then instruct the gsmSSF to allow the call to continue for another _Tcs_
seconds and this sequence of events continues until the call is released. When
the call is released, _Apply_Charging_Report_ is sent to the gsmSCF.
The gsmSCF can therefore define how often it is to receive partial call
records on a per subscriber, per call basis, and can change how often the
partial call records are received during a call
#### 7.2.1.3 Call End Time
When either of the calling or called parties releases the call, the
_O/T-Disconnect_ DP is triggered and message _Event_Report_BCSM_ is sent to
the gsmSCF. This message provides notification to the FDS of the call end.
### 7.2.2 Forwarded Call
#### 7.2.2.1 Call Start Time
The forwarded leg "from" the called party to the forwarded‑to number is
considered as an MO call, originated by the called subscriber, as well as an
MT call for the called subscriber. Two separate CAMEL dialogues will therefore
be set up.
The CAMEL process for the terminating leg will follow subclause 7.1 as an MT
call and the CAMEL process for the "originating" (forwarded) leg will follow
subclause 7.1 as an MO call.
#### 7.2.2.2 Partial Call Records
As for subclause 7.1.2.
#### 7.2.2.3 Call End Time
As for subclause 7.1.3.
### 7.2.3 Supplementary Service Invocation
This functionality is available with CAMEL Phase 2 only.
From CAMEL Phase 2 (GSM 03.78 Release 97), subclause 8.11:
\"At the invocation of any of the services ECT, CD and MPTY the MSC/VLR checks
whether the criteria for sending a notification is fulfilled, i.e. whether the
subscriber is provisioned with the SS-CSI and the particular invoked
supplementary service is marked in the SS-CSI. If this is the case a
notification is sent to the gsmSCF given by the gsmSCF address contained in
the SS-CSI. The processing of the particular SS invocation is not suspended.
If the notification criteria is not fulfilled the processing of the particular
supplementary service continues unchanged and no notification is sent.
The sending of the notification is independent of call related CAMEL
processing, i.e. processing indicated by O/T-CSI.\"
###### ## Annex A (informative): FIGS Data provided by CAMEL Messages
GSM 02.33 lists the information that should be present in FIGS Data messages.
Tables A.1 to A.3 show the information required by GSM 02.33 for call start
and end and partial call records, and the CAMEL messages, if any, that provide
this information. Note that partial call records are only available with FIGS
Level 3.
The CAMEL message given for a particular call event, e.g. call end, will not
necessarily arrive at that event. The FDS must have the ability to build up a
full picture of a call as various CAMEL messages are received.
Table A.1: Required Call Start information
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | **MO** | **MT** | **CF** | | _Information_ _| | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dialled digits |_ InitialDP | _IDP, Called |_ IDP, Called | | | (IDP), Called | Party Number _| Party Number_ | | | Party BCD | | | | | Number _| | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A party number |_ IDP, Calling | _IDP, Calling |_ IDP, Calling | | | Party Number _| Party Number,_ | Party Number,_| | | | if available | if available | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B party number |_ IDP, Called | _IDP, Called |_ IDP, Called | | | Party BCD | Party Number _| Party Number_ | | | Number _| | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modified B | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | | party number | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C party number | n/a | n/a |_ Called Party | | | | | Number _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modified C | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | | party number | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CGI (of A |_ IDP, Location | location | location | | party) | Number _| number in ISUP | number in ISUP | | | | signalling, if | signalling, if | | | | available | available | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IMSI |_ IDP, IMSI _|_ IDP, IMSI _|_ IDP, IMSI _| | | (of A party_)_| (of B party) | (of B party) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IMEI (of A | Not available | Not available | Not available | | party) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Call Start | Phase 1: | Phase 1: | Phase 1: | | Time/Date | arrival time | arrival time | arrival time | | | of | of | of | | |_ Event\ | _Event\ |_ Event\ | | | _Report_BCSM _| _Report_BCSM_ | _Report_BCSM _| | | | | | | | Phase 2: | Phase 2: | Phase 2: | | | Timestamp on | Timestamp on | Timestamp on | | |_ Event\ | _Event\ |_ Event\ | | | _Report_BCSM _| _Report_BCSM_ | _Report_BCSM _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Call Reference |_ IDP, Call | _IDP, Call |_ IDP, Call | | | Refe | Refe | Refe | | | rence_Number _| rence_Number_ | rence_Number _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MO/MT |_ IDP, Event | _IDP, Event |_ IDP, Event | | indicator | Type BCSM _| Type BCSM_ | Type BCSM _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Visited MSC |_ IDP, MSC | _IDP, MSC |_ IDP, MSC | | address | Address _| Address_ | Address _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Type of |_ IDP, Basic | _IDP, Basic |_ IDP, Basic | | service | Service Code, | Service Code, | Service Code, | | | if available _| if available_ | if available* | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
**Dialed digits:** This always gives (for MO calls) the number originally
entered by the party making the call, including any non-numeric characters.
**Modified B/C party number:** As the number is modified by the gsmSCF itself,
it is assumed that the FDS will have direct access to this field and need not
scan outgoing messages from the gsmSCF to obtain the field. If, however, the
FDS must scan outgoing messages, the field is given in field Destination
Routing Address in message Connect.
Cell Global Identifier **(CGI)** : refers to the cell used by the MS at the
start of the call.
Table A.2: Required Call End information
* * *
**Information** **MO** **MT** **CF** A party number _IDP, Calling Party
Number_ _IDP, Calling Party Number,_ if available _IDP, Calling Party Number,_
if available B party number _IDP, Called Party BCD Number_ _IDP, Called Party
Number_ _IDP, Called Party Number_ Modified B party number gsmSCF gsmSCF
gsmSCF CGI _IDP, Location Number_ location number in ISUP signalling, if
available location number in ISUP signalling, if available IMSI _IDP, IMSI_
(of A party _)_ _IDP, IMSI_ (of B party) _IDP, IMSI_ (of B party) IMEI Not
available Not available Not available Call Duration/end Phase 1: Arrival time,
Phase 2: Timestamp, of _Event_Report_BCSM_ (with _Event_Type_BCSM_ =
_O/T_Disconnect_) Phase 1: Arrival time, Phase 2: Timestamp, of
_Event_Report_BCSM_ (with _Event_Type_BCSM_ = _O/T_Disconnect_) Phase 1:
Arrival time, Phase 2: Timestamp, of _Event_Report_BCSM_ (with
_Event_Type_BCSM_ = _O/T_Disconnect_) Call Reference _IDP, Call
Reference_Number_ _IDP, Call Reference_Number_ _IDP, Call Reference_Number_
MO/MT indicator _IDP, Event Type BCSM_ _IDP, Event Type BCSM_ _IDP, Event Type
BCSM_
* * *
_CGI_. If available, the CGI of the cell used by the MS at the end of the call
is used. If this is not available, the CGI of the cell used at the start of
the call is given.
Table A.3: Required Partial Call Information (CAMEL Phase 2 only)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | **MO** | **MT** | **CF** | | _Information_ _| | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Dialled digits |_ InitialDP | _IDP, Called |_ IDP, Called | | | (IDP), Called | Party Number _| Party Number_ | | | Party BCD | | | | | Number _| | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A party number |_ IDP, Calling | _IDP, Calling |_ IDP, Calling | | | Party Number _| Party Number,_ | Party Number,_| | | | if available | if available | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B party number |_ IDP, Called | _IDP, Called |_ IDP, Called | | | Party BCD | Party Number _| Party Number_ | | | Number _| | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modified B | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | | party number | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | C party number | n/a | n/a |_ Called Party | | | | | Number _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Modified C | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | gsmSCF | | party number | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CGI |_ IDP, Location | location | location | | | Number _| number in ISUP | number in ISUP | | | | signalling, if | signalling, if | | | | available | available | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IMSI |_ IDP, IMSI _|_ IDP, IMSI _|_ IDP, IMSI _| | | (of A party_)_| (of B party) | (of B party) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IMEI | Not available | Not available | Not available | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Call Start | Phase 1: | Phase 1: | Phase 1: | | Time/Date | arrival time | arrival time | arrival time | | | of | of | of | | |_ Event\ | _Event\ |_ Event\ | | | _Report_BCSM _| _Report_BCSM_ | _Report_BCSM _| | | | | | | | Phase 2: | Phase 2: | Phase 2: | | | Timestamp on | Timestamp on | Timestamp on | | |_ Event\ | _Event\ |_ Event\ | | | _Report_BCSM _| _Report_BCSM_ | _Report_BCSM _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Call Duration |_ Apply_Cha | _Apply_Cha |_ Apply_Cha | | | rging_Report, | rging_Report, | rging_Report, | | | Time Since | Time Since | Time Since | | | Start of | Start of | Start of | | | Charging _| Charging_ | Charging _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Call Reference |_ IDP, Call | _IDP, Call |_ IDP, Call | | | Refe | Refe | Refe | | | rence_Number _| rence_Number_ | rence_Number _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MO/MT |_ IDP, Event | _IDP, Event |_ IDP, Event | | indicator | Type BCSM _| Type BCSM_ | Type BCSM _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Visited MSC |_ IDP, MSC | _IDP, MSC |_ IDP, MSC | | address | Address _| Address_ | Address _| +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Type of |_ IDP, Basic | _IDP, Basic |_ IDP, Basic | | service | Service Code, | Service Code, | Service Code, | | | if available _| if available_ | if available* | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The CAMEL message for SS invocation notification have not yet been defined so
the call information for SS invocation notification can only be specified in
general terms.
The notification of supplementary service (SS) invocation will be the same as
table A.3, except that information field "Type of Service" will be "Type of
SS", and "Call Duration" will be "Time of SS invocation". "Type of SS" will be
given in the invocation notification sent from the gsmSSF to the gsmSCF. "Time
of SS invocation" will be the timestamp in the invocation notification or its
time of arrival at the gsmSCF.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Information Flow for FIGS Levels 2 and 3
* * *
**VPLMN** [Messages]{.underline} **HPLMN** [Comments]{.underline} MSC gsmSCF
              ***For each call attempt :***
              Initial DP                                                                                Request for instructions from the SCP
              \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\>
              Request Report BCSM Event                                                                 To be aware of the call end
              \
              ***+ For each unsuccessful call :***
              Event Report BCSM
EDP-N -------------------------------------> Event report on « Busy », « no
answer », etc.
* * *
Figure B.1: Message flow for a subscriber monitored using FIGS Level 2
+-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | **VPLMN** | [Me | **HPLMN** | [Co | | | ssages]{.underline} | | mments]{.underline} | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | MSC | | SCP | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | **_For each call | | | | | attempt :_** | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | Initial DP | | Request for | | | | | instructions from | | | | | the SCP | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | --------- | | | | | ---------\ | | | | | ---------- | | | | | ---------> | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | Apply Charging | | To control the call | | | | | duration | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | \ | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | ( | | This message is | | | \ | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | Event Report BCSM | | To notify the SCP | | | | | that the call has | | | | | ended | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | EDP-R | --------- | | | | | ---------\ | | | | | ---------- | | | | | ---------> | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | Continue / Release | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | \ | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+ | | | | | +-----------+---------------------+-----------+---------------------+
Figure B.2: Message flow for a subscriber monitored using FIGS Level 3
#