# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 2 description of the enhanced Multi-
Level Precedence and Pre-emption Service (eMLPP) which provides different call
priorities in combination with fast call set-up and pre-emption for different
applications according to 3GPP TS 22.067.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"UMTS Service Principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption service
(eMLPP) ‑ Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.011:\"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 43.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) ‑ Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 43.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) ‑ Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile Switching Centre ‑ Base Station System (MSC ‑
BSS) interface Layer 3 specification\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.85: \"Stage 2 description for community of interest
supplementary services (clause 3: Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
MLPP)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.735: \"Stage 3 description for community of
interest supplementary services using SS No. 7 (clause 3: Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption (MLPP)\".
[10] _Void_
[11] 3GPP TS 25,331: \"RRC Protocol Specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu Interface RANAP Signalling\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Core Network Protocols - Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.107: \"Quality of Service (QoS) concept and architecture\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.067 and the following apply:
**resource pre-emption:** the termination of a call of a low priority user
such that resources can be made available for a precedence call of higher
priority. Resource pre-emption could be initiation resource pre-emption or
handover resource pre-emption
**called-party pre-emption:** termination of a call to a particular user when
a higher priority call is directed towards that specific user. Called party
pre-emption is decided by the Mobile Station. In case of point-to-point calls,
this shall be performed by Call Waiting with automatic acceptance of the
waiting call by the Mobile Station
**compatible Mobile Station:** mobile stations which support eMLPP and
therefore have precedence and pre-emption capabilities
**non-compatible Mobile Station:** mobile stations which do not support eMLPP
**SIM:** subscriber Identity Module. This specification makes no distinction
between SIM and USIM.
Handover: This specification uses the term handover for GSM and the same term
meaning relocation in UMTS.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3G TR
21.905 apply.
# 4 Main concepts
The enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service (eMLPP) provides
different levels of precedence for call set-up and for call continuity in case
of handover.
There are seven priority levels which are defined in 3GPP TS 22.067. The
highest level (A) is reserved for network internal use. The second highest
level (B) may be used for network internal use or, optionally, depending on
regional requirements, for subscription. These two levels (A and B) may only
be used locally, i.e. in the domain of one MSC. The other five priority levels
are offered for subscription and may be applied globally, e.g. on inter switch
trunks, if supported by all related network elements, and also for
interworking with ISDN networks providing the MLPP service.
The seven priority levels are defined as follows:
A (highest, for network internal use)
B (for network internal use or, optionally, for subscription)
0 (for subscription)
1 (for subscription)
2 (for subscription)
3 (for subscription)
4 (lowest, for subscription).
Levels A and B shall be mapped to level 0 for priority treatment outside of
the MSC area in which they are applied.
As a network specific configuration, the ability to pre-empt other calls of
lower priority and the application of fast call set-up procedures can be
assigned to each priority level. An example for an eMLPP configuration is
given in 3GPP TS 22.067.
NOTE 1: The present specification defines the concepts for handling of
priorities in the network including the indication whether pre-emption or fast
call set-up procedures are to be applied. Note that the call set-up procedures
themselves are specified in the corresponding stage 2 descriptions of the
services where they are to be used. There is presently only a requirement for
VBS and VGCS (3GPP TS 43.069 and 3GPP TS 43.068, respectively).
NOTE 2: The network operator has to assure that the particular eMLPP
configuration he applies and the subscriptions he issues are co-ordinated with
the network planning (especially for blocking) and the implementation options
applied (e.g. the use of OACSU) in order to guarantee the service performance
for the subscriber.
Considering aspects of priority handling, the following issues can be
considered for each call:
a) contention during the initial random access (no specific definitions apply
for eMLPP. Delays due to access collision have to be managed by a
corresponding planning of the network resources);
b) in GSM, contention in gaining radio resources during the call set-up phase
and during handover (this item relates to the assignment of SDCCH and TCH for
which queuing and pre-emption mechanisms are applied for eMLPP);
in UMTS, contention in gaining radio resources during the call set-up phase
and during relocation (this item relates to the assignment of DCCH and DTCH
for which queuing and pre-emption mechanisms are applied for eMLPP);
A pre-emption might already be performed as a network option on the basis of
the establishment cause if a network specific eMLPP configuration assigns a
certain priority level to a particular establishment cause.
c) contention in gaining terrestrial resources inside the GSM or UMTS network
(this item relates to the assignment of terrestrial channels between the GSM
or UMTS network nodes. Priority actions shall be performed on basis of the
MLPP service implementations. The eMLPP priority levels A and B shall be
mapped to the MLPP priority level 0. No further specific definitions apply for
eMLPP);
d) contention in gaining terrestrial resources in external networks (this item
relates to interworking with external networks which shall be performed on
basis of the MLPP service if provided in the related external networks.);
e) application of different call set-up procedures in relation to the priority
levels and the network specific configuration (three classes of set-up
performance are defined in 3GPP TS 22.067, one very fast class for VBS or VGCS
emergency call services, one class for fast but normal set-up times and one
class allowing some delay in the set-up. The application of the corresponding
procedures shall be decided by the network on the basis of the requested
priority level);
f) automatic answering of calls if the incoming call exceeds a defined
priority level (if the MS is in idle mode), or called party pre-emption (if
the called subscriber is engaged in communication of a lower priority);
g) the means by which the called user is informed of priority issues and is
able to make appropriate decisions if no called party pre-emption applies;
h) the accommodation of non-compatible Mobile Stations.
The definitions in the present specification focus on the issues under item
b), e), f), g) and h). Items c) and d) are related to the MLPP service
implementation for the signalling system No. 7 according to ITU-T
Recommendations Q.85 and Q.735.
For a call establishment, a subscriber shall be able to select any one of the
priority levels he has subscribed to.
Priorities shall be treated in the network as defined in 3GPP TS 22.067.
Priority treatment is different for point-to-point calls and voice broadcast
calls or voice group calls, respectively:
\- mobile originated point-to-point call:
The priority level depends on the calling subscriber. If the user has no eMLPP
subscription, the call shall have a default priority level defined in the
network. If the user has an eMLPP subscription, the call shall have the
priority level selected by the user at set-up or the priority level predefined
by the subscriber as default priority level by registration.
\- mobile terminated point-to-point calls:
The priority level depends on the calling party. For this, interworking with
the ISDN MLPP service is required. If the call is not an MLPP call, i.e. no
priority level is defined, the call shall be treated in the mobile network
with a default priority level. If the call is an MLPP call, the call shall be
treated with the priority level provided by the interfacing network.
\- mobile to mobile point-to-point calls:
The priority shall be treated for the calling subscriber as for mobile
originated calls and for the called subscriber as for mobile terminated calls.
However, an interworking with MLPP is not required if both the calling
subscriber and the called subscriber are located in the same MSC area.
\- Voice Broadcast Calls (VBS) and Voice Group Calls (VGCS):
The link on the voice broadcast call channel or voice group call channel shall
have the priority level as defined in the corresponding registration for the
related voice broadcast call or voice group call in the GCR. At the early
stage of a voice broadcast call or voice group call establishment, before the
GCR request is made and the voice broadcast call channel or voice group call
channels are assigned, the procedure shall be the same as for point-to-point
calls. If the GCR response includes a priority level it shall be applied to
the dedicated link of the calling mobile station as well.
Queuing and resource pre-emption shall then be applied as appropriate
according to the network service configuration. In addition, automatic
answering or called party pre-emption shall be applied as appropriated
according to the Mobile Station\'s internal service configuration.
The MSC shall maintain a record of the priority level of each call in progress
in its area such that it can arbitrate over resources in a defined manner.
The priority level can be included in the CM_SERVICE_REQUEST message in the
case that a user establishing a point-to-point call is using a compatible
Mobile Station (see clause 6).
If the subscriber has not selected a priority level for that call or uses a
non compatible Mobile Station (see clause 6), the priority level shall be
assigned according to the respective VLR data.
The priority level of a call shall be determined by the MSC. Accordingly, the
MSC shall request channel assignment with an indication of the priority level
and the pre-emption capability of that call. For this the MSC shall use the
priority message element as defined in 3GPP TS 48.008. Mapping of the priority
information in this message element on the network specific eMLPP
configuration shall be performed in the MSC. Queuing and resource pre-emption
shall be performed accordingly if necessary.
In GSM, in addition to the priority signalling, the requirement for a direct
assignment of a TCH shall be included in the establishment cause of the
CHAN_REQ message in order to support a fast call set-up procedure in the BSC
at the earliest possible stage of the call establishment for high priority
calls if applicable.
In UMTS, in addition to the priority signalling, the RRC CONNECTION REQUEST
message shall be included the establishment cause.
Automatic answering or, if necessary, called-party pre-emption has to be
performed by the Mobile Station as defined in the following:
\- point-to-point calls:
If the user is in idle mode, the Mobile Station shall automatically connect to
an incoming call of a sufficient priority level. The priority level shall be
included in the paging message and in the set-up message. If the user is in
dedicated mode and has a subscription to Call Waiting, a Call Waiting
indication including the priority level of the call shall be given to the
Mobile Station which automatically accepts the waiting call.
There is no called party pre-emption for point-to-point calls without Call
Waiting.
\- voice group calls and voice broadcast calls:
Notifications for other voice group calls, voice broadcast calls or
information on paging for point-to-point calls shall be given to the Mobile
Stations involved in on-going voice group calls or voice broadcast calls as
defined in 3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069, respectively. The notifications
include the related priority level of the call. In case of a notified call
with higher priority where called-party pre-emption applies, the Mobile
Station shall automatically leave the on-going voice group call or voice
broadcast call and react according to the type of the notified call type.
For both cases, the priority level applied shall be included, either in the
paging message or Call Waiting indication, or in the notification message, in
order to enable the Mobile Station to decide on an automatic reaction
(automatic answering or called-party pre-emption) or to indicate the incoming,
non pre-empting call to the user.
The priority information of the assignment request shall also be applied for
BSS internal and also UTRAN internal handover. For external handover, the MSC
shall include the priority information in the handover request according to
the definition in 3GPP TS 48.008 (for GSM) and TS 25.413 (for UMTS) in the
same way as for the assignment request.
# 5 General architecture
No specific requirements are identified.
# 6 Compatibility issues
eMLPP cannot be applied with standard GSM Phase 1 or Phase 2 Mobile Stations
(non compatible Mobile Stations) with all service aspects. A dedicated Mobile
Station (compatible Mobile Station) with eMLPP capability is required.
Specific functions a compatible Mobile Station shall provide are:
\- priority selection via MMI for call establishment in case of an eMLPP
subscription including priority levels above level 4;
\- analysis of the priority level included in a paging message, Call Waiting
indication or notification into a voice group call or voice broadcast call,
respectively;
\- automatic reaction on basis of the analysed priority level in case of an
incoming call while in dedicated mode, group transmit mode or group receive
mode, respectively, according to the user defined Mobile Station configuration
(for each subscribed priority level the user shall be able to configure the
Mobile Station for automatic acceptation or indication or rejection of an
incoming call);
NOTE: Functions related to notifications are only required for Mobile Stations
providing VBS or VGCS functions as defined in 3GPP TS 43.069 and 3GPP TS
43.068, respectively.
However, if eMLPP is provided in a network, it can be applied to non
compatible Mobile Stations in the following way:
\- calls of subscribers which have no specific eMLPP subscription shall be
treated for resource pre-emption with a default priority level.
This shall also apply independent of the use of compatible or non compatible
Mobile Stations;
\- calls of eMLPP subscribers which use a non compatible Mobile Station shall
be treated for resource pre-emption with the subscriber\'s default priority
level;
\- calls to eMLPP subscribers which use a non compatible Mobile Station shall
be indicated to the user by Call Waiting as normal.
# 7 Transmission
No specific requirements are identified.
# 8 Information storage
## 8.1 Stored in the HLR
Information concerning the maximum priority level which a subscriber is
entitled to use at call establishment shall be stored in the HLR.
If the maximum priority level is above level 4, one level shall be indicated
as default level. This default level shall be used for mobile originated calls
if no priority selection is performed by the user at call establishment.
The default selection can be performed by the subscriber by means of a
registration procedure.
NOTE The priority levels in the subscription are related to point-to-point
calls. VBS and VGCS calls are treated with the priority level defined in the
GCR for a certain group ID in a certain group call area which can be different
to the priority levels explicitly defined in the eMLPP subscription. However,
these levels are then implicitly defined with the subscribed group IDs.
eMLPP may have the following logical states (refer to 3GPP TS 23.011 for an
explanation of the notation):
**Provisioning State Registration State Activation State HLR Induction State**
(Not Provisioned, Not Registered, Not Active Not Induced)
(Provisioned, Registered, Active and Operative Not Induced)
The HLR shall store the logical state of eMLPP (which shall be one of the
valid states listed above) on a per subscriber basis.
### 8.1.1 State transition model
The following figure shows the successful cases of transition between the
applicable logical states of eMLPP. The state changes are caused by actions of
the service provider.
Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do not
cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not cause a
state change. Hence they are not shown in the diagram.
Figure 1: State transition model for eMLPP
### 8.1.2 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
If the provisioning state for eMLPP is \"Provisioned\" then, when the
subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR information about
the logical state of eMLPP, the maximum priority level and the default
priority level.
If any of the eMLPP subscriber data is changed, the HLR shall send to the VLR
the complete eMLPP subscriber data.
## 8.2 Stored in the VLR
For eMLPP, the VLR shall store the service state information, the maximum
priority level a subscriber is entitled to use and the default priority level
received from the HLR.
## 8.3 Stored in the MSC
The network specific service configuration of eMLPP defined by the network
operator as specified in 3GPP TS 22.067 shall be stored within each MSC. This
includes information on resource pre-emption actions for any given levels of
incoming and on-going call priority. An example for a network specific service
configuration is given in 3GPP TS 22.067.
## 8.4 Stored in the SIM
Each compatible Mobile Station shall be aware of the automatic answering
actions for any given levels of priority so that when in idle mode or
dedicated mode or group receive mode or group transmit mode, it can decide on
the necessary reactions to be taken according to the priority information of
the incoming call.
For this, the SIM shall store the following data:
* * *
Priority level Subscription available Automatic answering applies Fast set-up
actions (note) A yes/no yes/no yes/no B yes/no yes/no yes/no 0 yes/no yes/no
yes/no 1 yes/no yes/no yes/no 2 yes/no yes/no yes/no 3 yes/no yes/no yes/no 4
yes/no -- yes/no
* * *
NOTE: Fast set-up actions which shall be performed by the Mobile Stations if
indicated in the SIM data are the use of the appropriate establishment cause
and the reaction on accelerated establishment procedures allowed by the
network (see subclause 11.6).
The automatic reaction of the Mobile Station for automatic answering or called
party pre-emption shall be predefined by the user via MMI. For each subscribed
priority level the user shall be able to configure the Mobile Station for
automatic acceptation or indication or rejection of an incoming call.
In addition, the Mobile Station shall verify a priority level selected by the
user at call establishment against the priority levels stored on the SIM and
act accordingly as defined in subclause 11.5.1.2.
The Mobile Station shall perform automatically the related functions for a
fast call set-up if related with a selected priority.
## 8.5 Stored in the GCR (GSM only)
In the network, specific service configurations for VBS and VGCS calls which
are registered in the GCR, a priority level shall be assigned to each voice
broadcast call or voice group call configuration, according to 3GPP TS 43.069
and 3GPP TS 43.068, respectively.
# 9 Identities
No specific requirements are identified.
# 10 Operation and maintenance aspects
NOTE: A list and short description of the operation and maintenance aspects
will be given. This includes the options and parameters which can be set by
the operator.
\- Handling of timers;
\- registration aspects etc.
# 11 Functions and information flow
## 11.1 Subscription
When the subscriber record is created in the HLR, the maximum priority level a
subscriber is entitled to use shall be included.
## 11.2 Change of subscription
The network operator can change the maximum priority level of any eMLPP
subscriber at any time. A change of subscription shall not affect any on-going
calls at the moment of change. The subscriber cannot change the maximum
priority level via the MMI.
## 11.3 Call set-up
### 11.3.1 Mobile originated calls
#### 11.3.1.1 Indication of priority
The Mobile Station may indicate the priority of each call initiated. If no
priority is indicated by the user or a non-compatible Mobile Station is used
then the default priority level shall be applied which is stored in the VLR.
The selection of priority shall be an MMI function.
Mobile stations indicate the priority of their call in the signalling that
takes place during the call establishment process.
No preferential treatment will be possible during this initial random access
until the point at which the priority information is received by the network
(CM_SERV_REQ message). Alternatively, a resource pre-emption might already
take place on basis of an establishment cause.
In GSM, prior to the indication of the selected priority level in the
CM_SERV_REQ message, the BSC may decide on the assignment of an SDCCH or
direct assignment of a TCH on the basis of the establishment cause in the
CHAN_REQ message. This allows the BSC to support a fast call set-up at the
earliest stage of the call establishment. The establishment cause for
emergency calls or an establishment cause indicating the request for fast call
set-up shall be able to trigger this function.
In UMTS, prior to the indication of the selected priority level in the
CM_SERV_REQ message, the RNC shall receive the establishment cause in the RRC
CONNECTION SETUP REQUEST.
#### 11.3.1.2 Subscription checking
The Mobile Station shall verify the selected priority level against the
priority levels stored in the SIM. If the selected priority is not allowed,
then the priority of the call shall be modified to that of the nearest allowed
priority level below the requested level.
The MSC shall request the VLR to verify if the subscriber is allowed to use
the selected priority level.
#### 11.3.1.3 Authentication and ciphering
A GSM network may wish to omit or postpone authentication and ciphering in
order to provide for a faster call set-up.
If the network decides to omit or postpone authentication and ciphering for a
call it can send a CM_SERV_ACC message in reply to the CM_SERV_REQ message.
#### 11.3.1.4 Indication of priority to the BSC/RNC
In GSM, the channel assignment request to the BSC shall also include the
priority level and pre-emption capability of the connection as defined in 3GPP
TS 48.008. The MSC maps the eMLPP priority on these priority levels. In
addition, the eMLPP priority shall be explicitly indicated to the BSC in the
assignment request. The BSC shall store the priority level in order to decide
on later actions, e.g. to arrange notifications to the Mobile Station
according to priorities.
In UMTS, the RAB assignment request to the RNC may also include the priority
level and pre-emption capability of the connection as defined in TS 25.413
[12]. The MSC maps the eMLPP priority on these priority levels. In addition,
the eMLPP priority shall be explicitly indicated to the RNC in the RAB
assignment request. Values for radio access bearer service attributes defined
in TS 23.107 [14] should be taken into account for mapping from eMLPP priority
into priority related information element in RANAP. The RNC shall store the
priority level in order to decide on later actions, e.g. to arrange
notifications to the Mobile Station according to priorities.
#### 11.3.1.5 Choice of radio channel
If an appropriate radio channel is available the BSC (for GSM) or the RNC (for
UMTS) shall assign it as normal. If no channels are available then the BSC
(for GSM) or the RNC (for UMTS) shall perform queuing according to the
priority levels. If the assignment request has a pre-emption capability
indicator, pre-emption shall be performed.
In addition, the network related service configuration defines the set-up
class in relation to a priority level and therefore the allowable delay of the
call establishment (see 3GPP TS 22.067). By using this information, the MSC
shall decide whether OACSU may be applied for a call or not.
#### 11.3.1.6 Indication of priority to the Mobile Station
The network shall include the assigned priority level in a CALL_PROCEEDING
message if the network supports priority.
The Mobile Station shall store the priority level requested by the user,
possibly overridden by the level received by the network, to perform automatic
answering of calls or pre-emption of on-going calls.
NOTE: When the mobile station connects to the R98 or older network, the mobile
station may not receive priority granted even if the network supports
priority.
### 11.3.2 Mobile terminated calls
#### 11.3.2.1 Indication of priority
For a mobile terminated call, the priority level is defined in the ISUP set-up
message to the VMSC. It may also be present in the MAP_PROVIDE_ROAMING_NUMBER
request (see 3GPP TS 29.002 [15]). The priority and pre-emption indications
used in the ISUP shall follow the definitions of the MLPP service as defined
in the ITU-T recommendations Q.85 and Q.735, respectively.
In GSM, a PAGING REQUEST message on CCCH may also include a priority level as
described in GSM 04.08 [10], subsection \'Paging initiation using paging
subchannel on CCCH\'.
NOTE: A mobile stations in idle mode which are going to respond to a paging
message do not need to analyse the priority level in the paging request
message but can take the priority level provided in the set-up message. A
mobile stations in group receive mode or an MS in class-B mode that
communicates on GPRS radio channels when a dedicated channel is needed need to
analyse the priority level in the paging request message in order to decide to
respond to the paging request. (see TS 23.060 subclause 16.2.2)
In UMTS, if the MSC identifies a mobile terminated call as a high priority
call based on local configuration of the eMLPP service, the MSC shall include
in the Paging message the Paging Cause IE set to the value \"Terminating High
Priority Signalling\".
#### 11.3.2.2 Indication of priority to the BSC/RNC
In GSM, the channel assignment request to the BSC may include the priority
level and pre-emption capability of the connection as defined in 3GPP TS
48.008. The MSC maps the eMLPP priority on these priority levels. In addition,
the eMLPP priority shall be explicitly indicated to the BSC in the assignment
request. The BSC shall store the priority level in order to decide on later
actions, e.g. to arrange notifications to the Mobile Station according to
priorities.
In UMTS, the RAB assignment request to the RNC may include the priority level
and pre-emption capability of the connection as defined in TS 25.413. The MSC
maps the eMLPP priority on these priority levels. In addition, the eMLPP
priority shall be explicitly indicated to the RNC in the RAB assignment
request. Values for radio access bearer service attributes defined in TS
23.107 [14] should be taken into account for mapping from eMLPP priority into
priority related information element in RANAP. The RNC shall store the
priority level in order to decide on later actions, e.g. to arrange
notifications to the Mobile Station according to priorities.
#### 11.3.2.3 Authentication and ciphering
The network may wish to omit or postpone authentication and ciphering in order
to provide for a faster call set-up according to the priority level to be
applied for the call and the network specific service configuration stored in
the MSC.
If the network decides to omit or postpone authentication and ciphering for a
call it, can send the SETUP message immediately after reception of the initial
layer 3 message.
#### 11.3.2.4 Termination with called subscriber in idle mode or group receive
mode
In this case the Mobile Station shall be paged in the normal manner, but with
the paging messages also containing the priority level of the call. In
addition, the priority level will be provided with the SETUP message.
The Mobile Station in group receive mode shall consult the internal service
configuration list stored on the SIM to check whether it should automatically
respond to the paging request. If it does respond to the paging request and if
a following Call Control SETUP message (received as a response to paging
response) specifies a priority different from the one specified in the paging
request, this fact is not a reason for the mobile station to reject the
(point-to-point) call for which the SETUP message was received.
The Mobile Station in idle mode does not need to analyse the priority level
from the paging request message but can derive it from the SETUP message and
then decide on automatic acceptance of the call.
In the case where the called subscriber is using a non compatible Mobile
Station, automatic answering is not possible.
#### 11.3.2.5 Termination with called subscriber in dedicated mode
In the case where the called subscriber has a subscription for eMLPP and for
Call Waiting and is using a compatible Mobile Station, the Mobile Station
shall be informed of the priority of the new call together with the call
waiting indication. The Mobile Station will then consult the internal service
configuration list stored on the SIM to establish whether it should
automatically accept the waiting call without consulting the user, or whether
the call waiting facility will be used as normal.
In the case where the called subscriber has no subscription for Call Waiting,
called party pre-emption is not possible.
In the case where the called subscriber is using a non compatible Mobile
Station and has a subscription for Call Waiting, Call Waiting shall be
performed as normal.
### 11.3.3 Voice group call or voice broadcast call (GSM only)
#### 11.3.3.1 Indication of priority to the related MSC
For each voice group call or voice broadcast call service configuration
registered in the GCR as defined in 3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069,
respectively, a priority level is assigned at registration of the GCR data by
the service provider. The priority level will be provided by the GCR together
with the call attributes.
#### 11.3.3.2 Authentication and ciphering
Authentication of the calling service subscriber shall be performed equivalent
to the standard mobile originated call case as defined in subclause 11.5.1.3.
If the GCR response provides a priority level then the calling service
subscriber shall be treated with the GCR defined priority. If not, then the
calling service subscriber shall be treated with his selected priority or with
his default priority as known in the VLR as long as he has an own link with
the network (see 3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069). The priority which
applies to the voice group call channel or voice broadcast call channel is
defined in the GCR.
Authentication and ciphering of the calling service subscriber might therefore
be performed, omitted or postponed (see subclause 11.3.1.3).
#### 11.3.3.3 Indication of priority to the called Mobile Stations
The priority level shall be indicated together with the related paging
messages or notification messages and treated in the Mobile Station as defined
in 3GPP TS 43.068 and 3GPP TS 43.069, respectively.
## 11.4 Pre-emption
### 11.4.1 Choice of communication to pre-empt
For all resources where pre-emption may be required, namely radio channels,
A-interface (for GSM) or Iu interface (for UMTS) channels and inter switch
trunks, the network specific service configuration stored within the MSC shall
be used to determine whether pre-emption should occur, and if so, which
communication to pre-empt. The MSC shall inform the BSS (for GSM) or RNC (for
UMTS) about priority and pre-emption by using the priority message element in
the assignment request as defined in 3GPP TS 48.008 (for GSM) and TS 25.413
[12] (for UMTS). Mapping of the priority information in this message element
on the network specific eMLPP configuration shall be performed in the MSC.
### 11.4.2 Release procedures
Suitable messages shall be passed from the point at which the pre-emption is
to occur, to other affected entities. In the case of fast call set-up, such
pre-indication may need to be foregone to meet the required set-up time.
The indication to the pre-empted user shall be performed by an indication for
congestion as defined in 3GPP TS 22.101.
## 11.5 Pre-emption at handover/relocation
When an on-going call is handed over or relocated into a fully used cell, the
BSC or RNC shall perform queuing and pre-emption if necessary according to the
priority and pre-emption capability information received with the assignment
request.
In case of BSS external handover or RNC relocation, the priority and pre-
emption capability information shall be included in the handover request as
defined in 3GPP TS 48.008 (for GSM) and TS 25.413 [12] (for UMTS).
## 11.6 Overview of call related signalling
In this overview, the message structure to implement the specified concept is
identified, and brief details are given of each message.
A diagrammatic representation of the transport procedures to be used to carry
the priority information in case of standard point-to-point calls are given in
figures 1 to 6. The message flow is not represented completely.
The corresponding message flows in case of voice group calls or voice
broadcast calls are given in 3GPP TS 23.068 and 3GPP TS 23.069, respectively.
Figure 2: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at mobile
originating call establishment without fast call set-up (for GSM)
**Initial RACH CHAN_REQ:** Standard message.
**IMM_ASS:** Standard message.
**SABM (SERV_REQ):** Modified form of the current L3-MM CM SERVICE REQUEST
where the priority level is provided in addition if a priority selection is
performed by the user. In case of no priority selection or use of a non-
compatible Mobile Station the Mobile Station shall send a standard service
request message and the network shall apply a default priority to their
request.
**UA (SERV_REQ):** Standard message.
**COM_L3_INFO:** The MSC is provided with initial information about the
requested service together with the selected priority level if applicable.
**AUTH_REQ:** Standard message.
**AUTH_RES:** Standard message.
**CIPH_MOD_CMD:** Standard message.
**CIPH_MOD_COM:** Standard message.
**SETUP:** Standard message.
**CALL_PROCEEDING:** The network shall include the assigned priority level in
a CALL_PROCEEDING message when the network supports priority.
**ASS_REQ:** This message is sent from the MSC to the BSC including the call
priority and pre-emption capability to be applied as defined in 3GPP TS
48.008, according to the priority information the MSC has obtained from the
service request or from the VLR data. In addition, the eMLPP level is included
as explicit information.
**ASS_CMD:** Standard message.
**SABM:** Standard message.
**UA:** Standard message.
**ASS_COM:** Standard message.
Release 9
{width="3.8645833333333335in" height="3.6354166666666665in"}
Figure 3: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at mobile
originating call establishment with fast call set-up (for GSM)
_**SYSTEM INFO:** The network may provide information on the BCCH system
information, that a MM connection is provisional granted after establishment
of the main signalling link._
_If such information is provided on the BCCH and the user has selected a fast
call set-up, the Mobile Station shall immediately send a SETUP message to the
network after the main signalling link is established._
**Initial RACH CHAN_REQ:** Standard message.
**IMM_ASS:** Standard message.
**SABM (SERV_REQ):** Modified form of the current L3-MM CM SERVICE REQUEST
where the priority level is provided in addition if a priority selection is
performed by the user.
**UA (SERV_REQ):** Standard message.
**COM_L3_INFO:** The MSC is provided with initial information about the
requested service together with the selected priority level if applicable.
If the network itself decides not to perform ciphering, it shall send an
CM_SERV_ACC message.
**SETUP:** Standard message.
**CALL_PROCEEDING:** The network shall include the assigned priority level in
a CALL_PROCEEDING message when the network supports priority
**ASS_REQ:** This standard message is sent from the MSC to the BSC including
the call priority and pre-emption capability to be applied as defined in 3GPP
TS 48.008, according to the priority information the MSC has obtained from the
service request or from the VLR data. In addition, the eMLPP level is included
as explicit information.
**CHAN_MOD_MODIFY:** Standard message.
**CHAN_MOD_MODIFY_ACK:** Standard message.
MS BSS MSC
┌─┐ ┌─┐ ┌─┐
│ │ │ │ │ │ SETUP (prec.)
│ │ │ │ │ │\┤ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ IMM_ASS │ │ │ │
│ │\│ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ UA (PAG_RSP) │ │ PAG_RSP │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ AUTH_REQ │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ CIPH_MOD_CMD │ │
│ │\│ ├────────────────>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ SETUP │ │ │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ASS_REQ │ │
│ │ │ │\│ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ UA │ │ │ │
│ │\│ ├────────────────>│ │
└─┘ └─┘ └─┘
Figure 4: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at mobile
terminating call establishment without fast call set-up and without called-
party pre-emption (for GSM)
**SETUP (prec.) req. ind.:** In addition to the basic call requirements, the
contents of the set-up information flow shall contain the information on the
requested MLPP priority level.
**PAGING:** Modified paging command including the priority level to be
applied.
**PAG_REQ:** Modified paging message including the related priority level.
**Initial RACH CHAN_REQ:** Standard message.
**IMM_ASS:** Standard message.
**SABM (PAG_RSP):** Standard message.
**UA (PAG_RSP):** Standard message.
**PAG_RSP:** Standard message.
**AUTH_REQ:** Standard message.
**AUTH_RES:** Standard message.
**CIPH_MOD_CMD:** Standard message.
**CIPH_MOD_COM:** Standard message.
**SETUP:** Standard message.
**CALL_CONF:** Standard message.
**ASS_REQ:** This standard message is sent from the MSC to the BSC including
the call priority and pre-emption capability to be applied as defined in 3GPP
TS 48.008, according to the priority information the MSC has obtained from the
incoming set-up message. In addition, the eMLPP level is included as explicit
information.
**ASS_CMD:** Standard message.
**SABM:** Standard message.
**UA:** Standard message.
**ASS_COM:** Standard message.
MS BSS MSC
┌─┐ ┌─┐ ┌─┐
│ │ │ │ │ │ SETUP (prec.)
│ │ │ │ │ │\│ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ IMM_ASS │ │ │ │
│ │\│ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ UA (PAG_RSP) │ │ PAG_RSP │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ SETUP │ │ │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ CHAN_MOD_MODIFY │ │ │ │
│ │\│ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
└─┘ └─┘ └─┘
Figure 5: Signalling information required for the prioritisation at mobile
terminating call establishment with fast call set-up and without called-party
pre-emption
**SETUP (prec.) req. ind.:** In addition to the basic call requirements, the
contents of the set-up information flow shall contain the information on the
requested MLPP priority level.
**PAGING:** Modified paging command including the priority level to be
applied.
**PAG_REQ:** Modified paging message including the related priority level.
**Initial RACH CHAN_REQ:** Standard message. A new establishment cause shall
be provided to indicate the requirement for the direct assignment of a TCH
(very early assignment) for the support of fast call set-up procedure.
**IMM_ASS:** Standard message.
**SABM (PAG_RSP):** Standard message.
**UA (PAG_RSP):** Standard message.
**PAG_RSP:** Standard message.
For fast call set-up the network shall immediately send a SETUP message to the
Mobile Station. Authentication and ciphering may not be performed or delayed
by the network.]
**SETUP:** Modified message with an indication of the priority level.
**CALL_CONF:** Standard message.
**ASS_REQ:** This standard message is sent from the MSC to the BSC including
the call priority and pre-emption capability to be applied as defined in 3GPP
TS 48.008, according to the priority information the MSC has obtained from
incoming set-up message. In addition, the eMLPP level is included as explicit
information.
**CHAN_MOD_MODIFY:** Standard message.
**CHAN_MOD_MODIFY_ACK:** Standard message.
MS BSS MSC
┌─┐ ┌─┐ ┌─┐
│ │ │ │ │ │ SETUP (prec.)
│ │ │ │ │ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ ALERT │ │ │ │
│ ├────────────────┤ ├────────────────>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ HOLD │ │ │ │
│ ├────────────────┤ ├────────────────>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ HOLD_ACK │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ CONN_ACK │ │
│ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ ALERT │ │ │ │
│ ├────────────────┤ ├────────────────>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ RELEASE_COM │ │ │ │
│ ├────────────────┤ ├────────────────>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ CONNECT │ │ │ │
│ ├────────────────┤ ├────────────────>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ CONN_ACK │ │
│ │\ New Version Subject/Comment Apr 1999 GSM 03.67
Transferred to 3GPP CN1 CN#03 23.067 3.0.0 Approved at CN#03 CN#07 23.067 001
R99 3.1.0 Cause pre-emption removed from HOLD message CN#10 23.067 002r2 R99
3.2.0 The accepted priority in the call proceeding message CN#10 23.067 007r3
R99 3.2.0 Correction of Pre-emption service (eMLPP) CN#10 23.067 008r1 R99
3.2.0 Correction of Pre-emption service (eMLPP) CN#10 23.067 004 Rel-4 4.0.0
Correction of abbreviations CN#10 23.067 005r1 Rel-4 4.0.0 MS strategy in case
of discrepancy of priority in MT CN#10 23.067 006r1 Rel-4 4.0.0 Automatic
answering CN#12 23.067 010r1 Rel-4 4.1.0 Remove the statement when MS receives
no priority granted CN#16 23.067 010r1 Rel-4 4.1.1 References updated CN#16
23.067 010r1 Rel-5 5.0.0 Release 5 after CN#16 CN#19 23.067 011r1 Rel-6 6.0.0
Optional additional eMLPP priority level for subscription to accommodate
Priority Service CN#27 23.067 012r1 Rel-6 6.1.0 Clarification on mapping of
eMLPP priorities CT#30 23.067 0017 Rel-7 7.0.0 Correction to priority for
calling subscriber\'s link in a voice group/ voice broadcast call CT#31 23.067
0018 Rel-7 7.1.0 Correction on references to non existing specifications CT#41
23.067 0019 Rel-8 8.0.0 eMLPP Priority in MAP SRI, PRN and PSI request CT#42
23.067 Rel-8 8.0.1 Copyright Notification updated CT#46 23.067 - Rel-9 9.0.0
Update to Rel-9 version (MCC) 2011-03 23.067 - Rel-10 10.0.0 Update to Rel-10
version (MCC) 2012-09 23.067 - Rel-11 11.0.0 Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)
2013-12 23.067 0020r3 Rel-12 12.0.0 High priority mobile terminated calls
2015-12 23.067 - Rel-13 13.0.0 Update to Rel-13 version (MCC)