# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The scope of this Technical Report is to study:
\- The identification of impact areas of satellite integration in the 5GS,
when considering TR 22.822 [2] use cases.
\- The identification of solutions to adjust the 5G system for the impact
impacts areas for the reference use cases:
\- Roaming between terrestrial and satellite networks.
\- 5G Fixed Backhaul between Satellite Enabled NR-RAN and the 5G Core.
\- The resolution of RAN & CN inter-related issues.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 22.822: \"Study on using satellite access in 5G\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TR 23.793: \"Study on access traffic steering, switch and splitting
> support in the 5G system architecture\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TR 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TR 38.821: \"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial networks
> (NTN)\".
>
> [8] 3GPP TS 22.011: "Service Accessibility".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and in TS 23.501 [6] apply. A term defined in TS 23.501 [6]
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] or in any other specifications.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and in TS 23.501 [6] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1], or in any other specifications.
ALM Additive Layer Manufacturing
CDN Content Distribution Network
CE Coverage Enhancement
FIFO First In First Out
gNB-CU gNB-Centralized Unit
gNB-DU gNB-Distributed Unit
GEO Geostationary satellite Orbit
HEO Highly-Eccentric-Orbit
HPA High Power Amplifier
ISL Inter-Satellite-Link
LEO Low-Earth Orbit
LFU Least Frequently Used
LRU Least Recently Used
MEO Medium-Earth Orbit
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
NGSO Non-Geostationary Satellite Orbit
NTN Non Terrestrial Network
OBP On-Board Processor
PDB Packet Delay Budget
PSAP Public Safety Answering Point
RTT Round Trip Time
SAT Satellite
sNB satellite Node B.
SRI Satellite Radio Interface
TER Terrestrial
TTC Telemetry, Tracking, and Command
WCRTT Worst Case RTT
# 4 Reference Satellite Integration Scenarios and Architectural Assumptions
## 4.1 Satellite access class scenarios
### 4.1.1 Satellite and terrestrial access networks within a PLMN
A PLMN may have both terrestrial 3GPP access and satellite 3GPP access. In
this scenario, separate N2 instances are handling separate access type nodes.
However, the coverage of the satellite access network may span over the
coverage of the terrestrial access network.
Figure 4.1.1-1: Satellite and terrestrial 3GPP access networks within a PLMN -
architecture (left) and coverage (right)
### 4.1.2 PLMNs with shared satellite access
A satellite access network is shared between multiple core networks in a 5G
Multi-Operator Core Network (MOCN) sharing architecture. In this case, the
shared satellite Radio Access Network broadcasts system information for both
PLMNs whose core networks are available. These PLMNs may also be with
different Mobile Country Codes (MCCs).
Figure 4.1.2-1: Multi Operator Core Network sharing architecture with
satellite radio access network architecture (left) and coverage (right)
### 4.1.3 Roaming and mobility between satellite only PLMN and terrestrial
only PLMN
PLMNs are identified by a Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network Code
(MNC). Country codes that are actually country agnostic (90x) exist and have
been on occasions assigned to satellite, air-aboard aircraft, maritime-aboard
ships, Antarctica networks. Examples are Iridium - 90105, Thuraya 90106, etc.
Figure 4.1.3-1: Roaming and mobility between satellite and terrestrial PLMNs -
architecture (left) and coverage (right)
## 4.2 Satellite backhaul scenario
A satellite backhaul is used between the core and terrestrial access network
providing a transport for the N1/N2/N3 reference points. The satellite
coverage plays no role as the satellite system transparently carries the
communication payload of the 3GPP reference points.
Figure 4.2-1: 5G System with a satellite backhaul
## 4.3 Architectural assumptions
The following architectural assumptions are applied to all potential
solutions:
\- The 5GC shall be able to identify UEs which are accessing via satellite
3GPP access.
\- A satellite access network is considered as a 3GPP access.
\- Multi-connectivity over multiple N2 interfaces is not considered in this
release.
\- Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communication (URLLC) over satellite is not
considered in this release.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Mobility management with large satellite coverage areas
### 5.1.1 General description
The coverage area of a PLMN is limited by the regulators of the HPLMN home
country, and the terrestrial system is able to handle the partially
overlapping coverage area of PLMNs of different countries at border areas.
Furthermore, the \"country wide\" network coverage consists of cells which are
grouped into Tracking Areas as part of the mobility management handling of
UEs. In contrast, a satellite cell, or a satellite with a set of cells, as
part of an access network, may span at least partially over multiple countries
or a large part of Earth and could be bigger than a complete terrestrial PLMN.
These characteristics of satellite coverage are captured in Annex A. The 5G
system mobility management has not been designed with access network coverage
of the size of a satellite system. Furthermore, scenarios where a single PLMN
has both satellite and terrestrial 3GPP radio access and mobility of a UE
moving between these two access types should be possible.
The following points are expected to be studied within this key issue:
1\. Whether existing Connection Management mechanisms can be reused for a UE
accessing 5GC via satellite 3GPP access?
2\. How is UE reachability (paging) handled within the large satellite
coverage area?
3\. What is the relation between satellite coverage areas and the 5G system
Tracking/Registration Area?
4\. Whether a UE can access 5GC via satellite access and terrestrial access
simultaneously? And how?
5\. How does a UE select between satellite and terrestrial access within a
PLMN?
6\. How is idle mode mobility between satellite and terrestrial access
performed?
7\. How is connected mode mobility between satellite and terrestrial access
performed?
8\. Which country specific regulatory requirements affect the architecture
design, and how are they enforced?
9\. Whether any changes are needed for charging in roaming situations?
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Mobility Management with moving satellite coverage areas
### 5.2.1 General description
In the case when gNBs are on-board Non Geostationary satellites (i.e. NGSO
OBP/ISL constellation as described in annex A of this Technical Report), the
attached cells and tracking areas will be moving with the corresponding gNBs.
There is thus, contrary to terrestrial access networks, a potential disconnect
between geographical coverage, cell definition and tracking area and
registration area definitions.
This may have some impact on functions that are associated to geographical
areas, such as authorisation, billing, etc.
The following points are expected to be studied within this key issue:
\- Whether existing Connection Management mechanisms can be reused for a UE
accessing 5GC via satellite 3GPP access?
\- What are the functional impacts on the 5G CN when considering a satellite
access with moving coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
\- What are the impacts on the definition and on the management of Tracking
Areas and Registration Areas as well as on mobility management when
considering a satellite access with mobile coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
\- What are the requirements on the satellite access with mobile coverage
areas and on-board gNBs to limit the impact on the 5G CN and on the UE?
\- How is UE reachability (paging) handled in case of moving satellite access
coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
\- What are the impacts to idle mode mobility with moving satellite coverage
areas and on-board gNBs?
\- What are the impacts to connected mode mobility with moving satellite
coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
\- Whether a UE can access 5GC via satellite access and terrestrial access
simultaneously? And how?
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Delay in satellite
### 5.3.1 General description
In satellite access, the one-way propagation delay between a UE and a
satellite communication payload may range between 2 ms and 140 ms depending on
the satellite altitude and the relative position of the UE with respect to the
UE. Some delay values are given in Annex A, figure A.3-3. Furthermore, it is
possible that in a constellation of non-geostationary satellites including
Inter Satellite Links (ISLs), the delay between a UE and functional elements
of the Core Network is increased depending on the actual location of the
communication end-points, but also a function and mode of operation of the
configuration of the NGSO Access Network.
\- Considering a scenario where a 5G System integrates a satellite
access,"What are the impacts of delays in the satellite access on the 5G
system in the Non Access Stratum (e.g, Session Management and Mobility
Management procedures)?", noting that:
\- The propagation delay from between the UE and the access node can vary
significantly (i.e. between 2 ms and 140 ms);
\- The propagation delay between a satellite access node and a core network
can also vary significantly (from 2 ms to 140 of ms).
\- What are the architectural assumptions on the 5G System to minimize the
impacts on the NAS?
\- What are the requirements on the satellite access to minimize the impacts
on the NAS, as well on the 5G System?
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: QoS with satellite access
### 5.4.1 General description
The introduction of a satellite access in the 5G system will induce a larger
latency in the delivery of the information than in terrestrial cases due to
the distance of the satellites above the surface of Earth.
The following points are expected to be studies in this key issue:
\- What are the impacts on the QoS of a 5GS when introducing a satellite
access?
\- What are the functional nodes and procedures in the 5GS to be updated to
take into account these impacts, if any?
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: QoS with satellite backhaul
### 5.5.1 General description
In cases where satellite connectivity is used as backhaul between terrestrial
RAN nodes (e.g. at a remote location or in a moving platform such as airplane
or ship) and terrestrial CN nodes (e.g. at a central location), this satellite
connection may not be able to provide appropriate QoS for all flows. For
instance, ultra-low latency (e.g. using 5QI = 81, with Packet Delay Budget of
5 ms) may be required but the satellite link may be a GEO (Geostationary Earth
Orbit) satellite link with a typical one-way latency of at least 240 ms - 280
ms (see Annex A of this Technical Report for typical propagation delays).
The following points are expected to be studied for this key issue.
\- What are the impacts on the 5G System QoS in case of using satellite
backhaul?
\- What are the functional nodes and procedures in the 5GS to be updated to
take into account these impacts, if any?
## 5.6 Key Issue #6: RAN mobility with NGSO regenerative-based satellite
access
### 5.6.1 General description
Embarking RANs on-board moving NGSO satellites implies frequent handovers of
these RANs for any given 5CN, as well as their interconnection through an Xn
interface.
As NGSO satellites coverage spans a large coverage, and can include a
significant number of UEs, a large number of UE\'s could be simultaneously
handed over from one RAN to another one, leading to a group handover of the
anchor point be the RAN and the CN.
Under these circumstances, this key issue shall address the following points:
\- What are the conditions for a 5CN to handover from a RAN to another RAN?
\- What are the requirements on the Xn and on the NG interfaces to ensure the
mobility of the RAN with respect to the 5CN?
\- What are the functional requirements on the 5CN and RAN to ensure the
mobility of the RAN with respect to the CN?
Existing / proposed procedures from other topics should also be reviewed.
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: Multi connectivity with satellite access
### 5.7.1 General description
The introduction of satellite in the 5G system implies the need for the 5G CN
to tackle different access capabilities such as propagation delays, coverage
with respect to those than can be met for a terrestrial network.
In this context multi connectivity is defined as the capability for the 5G CN
to establish, for a given UE simultaneous multiple sessions, each of these
sessions taking the benefits of the characteristics (such as coverage,
broadcast capability) of different 3GPP access networks (terrestrial and
satellite), in the forward and/or return direction.
Figure 5.7.1-1: Multi connectivity architecture with terrestrial, NGSO
satellite and GEO satellite RANs
The following points are expected to be addressed in this key issue:
\- What are the impacts (if any) on the 5GS when introducing multi
connectivity with satellite access?
\- Should impacts be identified, are there any similarities with respect to
ATSSS described in TR 23.793 [5] that should be exploited?
\- Should impacts be identified, what are the functional nodes and procedures
in the 5GS to be updated to take into account these impacts?
In particular, what are the impacts when considering the following scenarios?
\- A Geostationary-satellite access and a non-geostationary-satellite access.
\- A Geostationary-satellite access and a terrestrial access.
\- A non-geostationary-satellite access and a terrestrial access.
\- A non-geostationary-satellite access and a terrestrial access.
\- A non-geostationary satellite access composed of multiple gNBs
interconnected with each other via Xn interface over Inter Satellite Links.
The impacts on the Xn and NG interfaces should be assessed as well as the
criteria for access network selection and handover.
Existing / proposed procedures from other topics should also be reviewed.
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: The role of satellite link in content distribution
towards the edge
### 5.8.1 General description
Where a gNB is connected via transport layer that includes a satellite link
there is the possibility to distribute content close to the edge.
The following point is expected to be addressed in this key issue:
\- Architecture implications so that content does not need to be sent over the
satellite link multiple times.
\- This key issue does not address how content is distributed to the cache.
## 5.9 Key Issue #9: Multi connectivity with hybrid satellite/terrestrial
backhaul
### 5.9.1 General Description
Referring to use case \"Optimal routing or steering over satellite\" TS 22.822
[2] clause 5.5, the 5G system should be able to combine multiple links (e.g.
satellite and terrestrial) to optimise the traffic flow according to e.g. the
requested QoS. The following illustration from TS 22.822 [2] clause 5.5
describes the problem which should be encountered.
Alice owns two factories of Additive Layer Manufacturing (ALM) which are
located at the edge of the radio coverage of a 5G terrestrial RAT for the
first one and the second one has no radio coverage of 5G terrestrial access
network. These two factories need a complete automation in terms of
operations, maintenance and surveillance of the production. ALM electronic
files have to be uploaded to the machines in the factory and then the machines
are remotely commanded and monitored. The network resources are saturated to
efficiently transfer the files and the command and monitoring system need
reactivity.
A satellite system covering the area can provide high data rate connectivity
to the factories. But this satellite system has high latency and would be
inappropriate for remote monitoring and command while the existing terrestrial
system offers low latency but with very poor data rate.
The objective of this Key Issue is to investigate the possibilities of using
both links efficiently. For example, the remote monitoring and command could
be performed through low latency terrestrial link while less latency sensitive
and data rate consuming communication would use the high data rate satellite
link.
A backhauling configuration is considered where the traffic between the Core
Network and the (R)AN is transmitted through one or more satellite links and
one or more terrestrial links. In this configuration, the traffic could be
steered, switched or/and split over two links between the Core Network and the
(R)AN.
The following figure illustrates this multi connectivity backhaul
configuration with the requirement of efficient use of available links.
NOTE: This clause is not related to multilink connectivity between UE and Core
Network.
Figure 1: Multilink backhaul over two links
The objectives of this key issue are:
1\. What are the impacts (if any) on the 5GS when introducing backhaul multi-
connectivity with satellite link?
2\. What is the finest backhaul traffic granularity which can be managed on
N2, N3 interfaces (e.g. per-UE, per-QoS Flow)?
3\. What are the criteria for steering/splitting/switching the traffic towards
a specific backhaul link and where is the decision taken?
4\. Should the configuration of the protocols on N2, N3 be adapted in order to
allow the support of satellite link (e.g. support of high latency)?
## 5.10 Key Issue #10: Regulatory services with super-national satellite
ground station
### 5.10.1 Description
The telecommunication regulations of the country in which the UE is physically
located can be expected to be applicable to that UE's telecommunications
operator. Some relaxations in regulations may be unavoidable, but the fewer
relaxations that need to be negotiated, the better for speedy deployment.
System complexities can be expected when a satellite's coverage crosses
country borders and/or the UE's communications use terrestrial equipment (e.g.
Earth stations) that are in a different country to the UE. This is illustrated
in figure 5.10.1-1:
Figure 5.10.1-1: Satellite access with satellite beams overlapping several
countries
Another similar situation may arise with the use of satellite backhaul. A
satellite transport would in this case interconnect a RAN with a 5CN. The
satellite's coverage could overlap more than one country. This is illustrated
in Figure 5.10.1-2:
Figure 5.10.1-2: Satellite access with satellite beams overlapping several
countries
In both satellite access and satellite backhaul situations, at least the
following points should be addressed within this key issue:
a) When required, how to ensure that the UE is using a core network of the
country in which the UE is physically located?
b) How to select a core network when the UE is in an aeronautical or maritime
location?
c) If the satellite system is using the same MCC+MNC in multiple countries,
how to enable per-country, UE specific prohibition of satellite access?
d) How to route an emergency call to the correct PSAP?
e) How to handle Lawful Interception?
f) How to address Public Warning System?
g) How to handle charging and tariff notifications?
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Position-based and fixed TA Satellite Access
### 6.1.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue 1, 2 and 6.
As illustrated in figure 6.1.1-1, it is assumed that the satellite(s) whether
Non-Geostationary (NGSO) or geostationary (GEO) are connected to a gNB
(located on ground on the figure). The gNB is connected to a CN. Aspects
relating to motion of the satellite(s), beam steering, etc. are addressed in
the RAN.
For non-geostationary-satellites, with moving platforms which satellite orbits
are accurately determined and anticipated, satellites beams generate a fixed
pattern on ground thanks to a tracking scheme so as to generate a fixed radio
coverage towards the UE. This can be implemented with combined electronic
and/or mechanical steering of the antennas, as this is already in operation
for some satellites.
The size of the beam increases with the altitude of the satellite as the
antenna diameter of the satellites is limited by technology. The beam radius
can range for instance from tens of kilometres for LEO satellite, to hundreds
of kilometres for MEO or GEO satellites.
NOTE: As this solution relates to the coverage of the satellite, it does not
make any assumption on whether the gNB is located on-board the satellite or
on-ground. Interconnection of the satellites with ISLs is also possible
Figure 6.1.1-1: Satellite integration in the RAN
**A - Principle of the fixed Tracking Areas (TAs)** \- As for terrestrial
networks, Tracking Areas are defined as a set of cells. TAs as well as Cells
are fixed with respect the surface of Earth. For NGSO satellites, as time
goes, the mapping between gNB and satellite beams will change. For
geostationary-satellites (GEO), satellite beams are fixed and generate a fixed
radio coverage pattern on Earth.
In both the GEO & NGSO satellite case, there is thus no need to update the CN
(AMF) with new mappings between cells/TAs and gNBs.
Should the beam size be larger than a cell size, a complementary position
determination scheme has to be introduced to locate the UE in the correct
cell, and associated TA.
This principle is illustrated in Figure 6.1.1-2. In this particular example,
TA #1 and TA #2 are defined with respect to the case of beam spots of a fixed
(GEO) satellite system: for each of these TA\'s, a number of fixed cells and
satellite beams are associated with a TA. On the same figure are shown
(smaller) moving beam spots from a non-geostationary moving satellite. In this
case, it does not impact the definition of TAs, as TAs are independent from
moving beams.
This definition shall take into account the accuracy of the position estimate
system used by the satellite access to locate the UEs.
Figure 6.1.1-2: Satellite beams for Geostationary and Non-Geostationary
satellites, cells and tracking areas
Figure 6.1.1-3 illustrates also the handover mechanism from one satellite to
another one to guarantee the continuity of service for moving gNBs when
embarked on non-geostationary satellites. As the ephemerides of the satellites
are mastered by the satellite operator, it is possible to guarantee, thanks to
an optimised design of the satellite constellation of the payload, that cells
and TAs are always served by at least one active beam. This implies that
during handover period, a cell is visible by at least two satellites at the
same time. This also implies that whilst for a geostationary-satellite a TA
will be served by the same satellite, a TA may be served by different NGSO
satellites.
The operating mode is such that when a satellite is not in the position to
serve a cell through its steerable beams, there shall be as a minimum another
incoming satellite to replace this outgoing satellite, serving the
corresponding cell.
Figure 6.1.1-3: Non-Geostationary Satellite Beam steering and Handover
**B - Principle for the mobility registration update** \- the position of a UE
in CM-IDLE and CM-CONNECTED modes would be estimated on a periodic basis. The
UE position is used the following way.
**Mobility**
\- The position of the UE is estimated at switch-on and is used to select a
tracking area and a registration area. The position can be determined either
through a beam and cell selection process. Should the beam size be too large
to discriminate cells and TAs, the position of the UE is estimated via a
dedicated position determination mechanism by the RAN.. On the basis of the
knowledge of the position of UE, the corresponding cell / TA /RA to which the
UE belongs is determined by the RAN.
\- In CM-IDLE and CM-CONNECTED modes, the UE position is re-estimated at
regular intervals.
NOTE: Should this solution be selected, the UE position estimation and its use
to trigger the mobility procedure updates should be specified by TSG RAN.
**C - Principle for CN Paging** \- The 5GC still pages UE in CM-IDLE within
the allocated Registration Area, i.e. a list of TAs.
### 6.1.2 Procedures
No changes are identified to the procedures.
### 6.1.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
NOTE: If needed, the specific UE position determination mechanism should be
specified during the normative phase by TSG RAN.
### 6.1.4 Solution evaluation
This solution is applicable for Key Issue 1, 2 and 6.
In this solution, the NG-RAN is assumed to handle all aspects with respect to
the motion of the satellite (including beam steering with the motion of non-
geostationary satellites).
This solution proposes an approach which does not modify the definition of TAs
and RAs. No impacts are identified on the CNs procedures or functional
elements.
A position determination mechanism may be needed for mobility management
should the beam size of the satellite be larger than the cell size. This
mechanism would be used to determine the cell and associated TA, and would be
transparent to the mobility management procedures.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Addition of new values to RAT type IE
### 6.2.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue #4 --"QoS with satellite access".
This solution provides a partial solution for the CN awareness of satellite
access for several other use cases also, such as RAT Restriction.
The solution proposes to add a new value to the RAT Type. The AMF will
determine the RAT Type from the gNB ID part of the Global RAN Node ID and
possibly TA during the N2 setup. The new RAT Types for satellite access are
only known in the CN. Any possible RAN needs for NR Satellite Access need to
be addressed by the RAN groups.
RAT Type can be signalled from the AMF towards the SMF to impose restriction
on which QoS profiles can be used for PDU sessions going via the new RAT. This
RAT Type is used by the AMF for any mobility procedures that need RAT Type
awareness (such as RAT Restrictions) and it can be passed to any NF that needs
it for other reasons, such as Policy Control or charging. The SMF needs to be
able to handle this new RAT Type to know which QoS values should be excluded.
Charging will also need to be aware of the new RAT Type if it is necessary to
be able to apply specific charging on satellite access.
Different orbits introduce substantially different delays on the signalling
path. Consequently it is necessary to distinguish the different orbits for QoS
and policy control purposes. This distinction can be created by introducing
different RAT types for different orbits.
LCS positioning methods for satellite access are under control of TSG RAN. The
architecture framework for LMF selection for the LCS procedures uses RAT Type
as one of the input parameters and that LCS framework can also be re-used if
satellite access is distinguished based on new RAT Type(s).
Next to the already defined values in TS 23.502 [3]:
\- \"E-UTRA\".
\- \"NR\".
We propose to add:
\- \"NR (LEO)\".
\- \"NR (MEO)\".
\- \"NR (GEO)\".
\- \"NR (OTHERSAT)\".
A new RAT Type code points to accommodate this solution.
These New RAT types would be defined as follows:
\- \"NR (LEO)\": which RATs, would be NR RAN\'s, based on LEO satellite
constellations, for which the satellite altitude would be below 2000 km. This
altitude is set artificially as satellites being above would be deemed in the
radiation intensive van Allen Belts, where it is extremely difficult to
maintain for materials.
\- \"NR (MEO)\": which RATs, would be NR RAN\'s, based on MEO satellite
constellations, for which the satellite altitude would be between 8000 km and
25.000 km. This class of altitude is set artificially as satellites being
above would be deemed above radiation intensive van Allen Belts, not in LEO,
but not in GEO neither.
\- \"NR (GEO)\": which RATs would be NR RANs, based on GEO satellites
constellations, for which the satellite altitude would be on geo-stationary
orbit 35.786 km.
\- \"NR (OTHERSAT)\": which RATs, would be NR RAN\'s, based on other type of
satellites that are not identified yet.
NOTE: The potential need for addition of new Global RAN Node ID needs to be
determined by RAN groups in the normative phase.
### 6.2.2 Procedures
The AMF determines RAT Type based on the gNB ID part of the Global RAN Node ID
and possibly TA associated with the N2 interface. For example, a separate
Global RAN Node ID value range can be used for Satellite NR nodes to
distinguish them from terrestrial NR nodes.
During the UE requested PDU Session Establishment Procedure the AMF sends the
RAT Type towards the SMF in a Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Request in step
3 in figure 6.2.2-1.
In the case of PCF deployment the PCF is notified via SM Policy Association
Establishment procedure by the SMF. The SMF will invoke
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Create operation that carries the RAT Type information.
The PCF will make a Policy decision and respond with a
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Create response which carries the policy information that
contains the 5QI value that should be enforced by the SMF. For RAT Types
related with satellite access, 5QI values that require low latency should not
be considered in this response.
If the PCF is not deployed the SMF will according to local policy determine a
QoS profile and 5QI value for this PDU session and communicate this in step
11. For RAT Types related with satellite access, 5QI values that require low
latency should not be considered in this response.
In step 11 the SMF sends Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer which contains
the N2 SM information that carries QoS profiles for the RAN.
In step 12 the AMF sends a N2 PDU Session Request towards the RAN over N2 and
it contains the N2 SM information again.
Figure 6.2.2-1: UE-requested PDU Session Establishment for non-roaming and
roaming with local breakout. Figure from TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.3.2.2.1
### 6.2.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
This new RAT type code point impacts the following functions:
\- AMF determines this new RAT type from the Global RAN Node ID during N2
setup and uses it in any procedures where RAT type is applied.
\- SMF uses this new RAT type code point to restrict certain 5QI values.
\- PCF uses this new RAT type code point to restrict certain 5QI values.
\- Charging uses this new RAT Type code point for satellite specific charging.
\- LCS uses this new RAT Type code point for satellite specific location
procedures.
### 6.2.4 Solution evaluation
The benefits of the solution are:
\- The solution introduces a new code points for RAT type IE. The solution
enables distinction between NR connection types, namely terrestrial and
satellite and may be extended beyond NR. Since the transport and mobility
properties of the satellite orbits differ from each other, multiple new RAT
Types are introduced to distinguish between LEO, MEO and GEO orbits and other
orbits for future use.
\- The solution allows the AMF to determine which RAT type is being used by
re-using the procedure specified in TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.3.2.3.
\- The AMF can use the new RAT Types in the existing mobility management
procedures, e.g. to enforce subscription-based RAT Restriction.
\- The solution enables the AMF to signal the identified RAT type to the SMF.
The SMF (together with PCF when deployed) determines which QoS profile will be
enforced. It is expected that the RAT types are considered when setting the
5QI values that require low latency.
\- RAT Type is already considered for charging, so any charging that is
specific to satellite access can operate based on this solution without
needing new parameters at CN interfaces.
\- RAT Type is already considered for LCS procedures, such as LMF selection
(with the capability to support the desired positioning methods). The
introduction of new RAT Type for satellite access can help to re-use the
existing LCS architecture framework.
The drawbacks of the solution are:
\- The new RAT Types for satellite access can make use of satellites deployed
in different orbits (LEO, MEO, GEO, and one spare code point is left for
future use). Accordingly, in 5G satellite networks a much wider range of
latencies is possible compared to 5G terrestrial networks. Using a single RAT
type \'NR Sat Access\' to denote satellite access irrespective of the
satellite orbit might prevent the 5G system to use certain QoS profiles (5QIs)
that do meet user requirements. For example, communication over a LEO
satellite experiences a much smaller latency and a much higher latency
variation compared to the case when a GEO satellite is used. However, even for
LEO the 5G core would not consider the 5QI values that require low latency.
This drawback is minimised by specifying multiple RAT Types to distinguish
between the delays introduced by satellite systems on different orbits.
## 6.3. Solution #3: Backhaul triggered QoS adaptation
### 6.3.1 Description
This a Candidate solution for Key Issue#5- "QoS with satellite backhaul".
This Candidate solution is comprised of the following components:
\- UPFs are aware of QoS limitations of user plane connections attached to
their end-points. QoS limitation is expressed as a minimum latency and it is
related to the QoS characteristic PDB (Packet Delay Budget). For instance, a
UPF may have a satellite connection to a gNB attached to its N3 interface.
This connection could have a QoS limitation with respect to latency, i.e. the
connection will have a minimum latency largely determined by the latency
caused by the satellite connection. The awareness of the UPF may be pre-
provisioned, or it may be dynamically determined, e.g. by monitoring the QoS
properties of a connection. QoS limitations can sometimes change dynamically,
e.g. because of fading of satellite connections. The dynamic determination of
QoS limitations is left for implementation.
\- An SMF can become informed about the QoS limitation known by UPFs for a
given interface via the N4 interface before PDU Session Establishment or after
PDU Session Establishment. A UPF interface can be towards an AN node or
towards another UPF on the path towards an AN node.
\- At PDU Session Establishment an SMF can use information about the set of
QoS limitations of UPFs for the selection of UPFs and after selection of one
or more UPFs the information can be used to adapt (if necessary) the initial
choice of QoS Profile to be sent to the AMF and to the AN.
\- At PDU Session Modification an SMF can use the information about the set of
QoS limitations of UPFs for the adaptation of UE requested QoS, or dynamically
changing QoS limitation in the UPF can be a trigger for starting a QoS Update
resulting in a PDU Session Modification.
### 6.3.2 Procedures
A UPF can inform an SMF about the QoS limitation of connections attached to
its end-points via the N4 Node Level Procedures as described in TS 23.502 [3],
clause 4.4.3. For instance the N4 Association Setup Procedure can be used: the
information from the UPF can be provided in the N4 Association Setup Response
(see figure 6.3.2-1).
Figure 6.3.2-1: N4 association setup procedure
After an association the UPF can provide update to QoS limitation via the UPF
initiated N4 Association Update Procedure in the N4 Association Update Request
(see figure 6.3.2-2).
Figure 6.3.2-2: UPF initiated N4 association update procedure
During the PDU Session Establishment Procedure the SMF can use the information
on QoS limitation of UPFs during the selection of UPFs in step 8 in Figure
6.3.2-3 from TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.3.2.2. Depending on the chosen UPF(s) the
SMF may adapt the QoS information (i.e. QFI(s), QoS Profile) sent to the AMF
in step 11 and sent to (R)AN in step 12.
When dynamic PCC is to be used for the PDU session, the PCF may provide the
SMF with dynamic PCC rules in step 7 or in step 9 in Figure 6.3.2-3 from TS
23.502 [3] clause 4.3.2.2. A PCC rule associates a service data flow template
to an authorized QoS, which is used in the SMF to bind a service data flow to
a QoS Flow. The authorized QoS shall include a 5QI which, among others,
identifies the authorized QoS parameters. The standardized set of 5QIs also
maps to a standardized set of QoS characteristics (such as Packet Delay
Budget).
In case PCF is deployed, the SMF is aware of the QoS limitation of UPFs, and
the SMF is not able to comply to the PCC rules provided by the PCF, then the
SMF shall inform the PCF about the QoS requirements that cannot be fulfilled
using a Policy Control Request Trigger during step 9 in Figure 6.3.2-3 from TS
23.502 [3] clause 4.3.2.2. The Policy Control Request Trigger shall state
\"Requested PDB cannot be fulfilled\", which is a new trigger. PCF makes
policy decision based on the QoS limitation and provides updated policies to
the SMF. The PCF policy decision can be either i) update the 5QI with changed
5G QoS characteristics PDB, or ii) instruct the SMF to release the PDU
session.
Figure 6.3.2-3: UE-requested PDU Session Establishment for non-roaming and
roaming with local breakout
During PDU Session Modification the SMF can use the information on QoS
limitations of UPFs to adapt the UE requested QoS in step 1a in figure
6.3.2-4. Dynamically changed QoS limitations can also be used as a trigger for
the UPF to let the SMF initiate a PDU Session Modification Procedure (see the
new information flows 1f and 1g).
When PCF is deployed during PDU Session Modification the SMF may inform the
PCF about QoS limitations in a similar way as during PDU Session
Establishment.
Figure 6.3.2-4: UE or network requested PDU Session Modification (for non-
roaming and roaming with local breakout)
1f. (UPF initiated modification) The UPF initiates the PDU Session
Modification procedure by the transmission of an N4 Association Update Request
(QoS limitations list).
1g. In case of UPF initiated modification, the SMF shall respond to the UPF
with an N4 Association Update Response.
3b. For SMF requested modification or UPF initiated modification, the SMF
invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer (N2 SM information (PDU Session
ID, QFI(s), QoS Profile(s), Session-AMBR), N1 SM container (PDU Session
Modification Command (PDU Session ID, QoS rule(s), QoS Flow level QoS
parameters if needed for the QoS Flow(s) associated with the QoS rule(s), QoS
rule operation and QoS Flow level QoS parameters operation, Session-AMBR))).
If the UE is in CM-IDLE state and an ATC is activated, the AMF updates and
stores the UE context based on the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer and
steps 4, 5, 6 and 7 are skipped. When the UE is reachable e.g. when the UE
enters CM-CONNECTED state, the AMF forwards the N1 message to synchronize the
UE context with the UE.
### 6.3.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The solution has impact on:
\- UPF: this function is enhanced with information on QoS limitations of
connections attached to its interfaces; QoS limitations can be minimum
latency, maximum throughput, minimum packet error rate, etc.
\- SMF: this function is enhanced with functionality to obtain information on
QoS limitations from UPFs, to choose UPFs based on QoS limitations, to provide
QoS limitation to PCF, and to adapt QoS sent to AMF and (R)AN based on the
information on QoS limitations;
\- PCF: this function is enhanced with functionality to receive QoS limitation
from SMF and make policy decision based on the QoS limitation.
### 6.3.4 Solution evaluation
The benefits of the solution are:
\- The solution enables the use of (high-latency) satellite backhaul
connections in combination with the standardized 5GS UPF selection mechanism
and the standardized 5GS QoS mechanism.
\- The solution enables a mixture of UPFs with varying QoS limitations thereby
supporting other (non-satellite specific) deployment scenarios.
\- The solution enables deployment of various scenarios involving terrestrial
or satellite backhauls, or a combination of both.
\- The solution does not assume that control plane and user plane are both
using the same backhaul, e.g. the control plane may use a traditional (low-
latency) backhaul connection whereas the user plane may use the satellite
(high-latency) backhaul connection.
The drawbacks of the solution are:
\- The solution requires extension of the protocol used over the N4 interface.
\- The solution requires additional functionality in the UPFs, PCF and SMF.
\- PCF needs to be enhanced to support adjusting policy decisions based on the
QoS limitation trigger received from the SMF.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Support of UP path switch between SAT RAN and TER RAN
### 6.4.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue #7 -- "Multi connectivity with
satellite access".
As terrestrial network may have poor coverage in some areas, 5G system may
also provide satellite access in those areas to promise service availability,
especially for some real time services, e.g. IMS voice/video. Therefore, for a
UE in the poor terrestrial network coverage, it shall be possible to
simultaneously establish multi-connectivity with the 5G network via satellite
access and terrestrial access to serve some real time services, so that the
user data transmission can be switched from terrestrial access to satellite
access if necessary.
NOTE 1: This solution is not applied to the case where satellite access and
terrestrial access are provided by same RAN.
No matter whether the satellite access and the terrestrial access are provided
by same PLMN or different PLMNs, the UE can establish a multi-access PDU
session to have multi-connectivity with the 5G network as described in TS
23.501 [6].
NOTE 2: The MA-PDU session defined in TS 23.501 [6] is to be extended to
support UP connections being established over terrestrial access network and
satellite access network.
While data transmission is on-going over the UP connection of a MA-PDU
session, the UE or the network can activate another UP connection over another
RAN under the following conditions:
\- Loss of coverage of terrestrial access;
\- Notification from RAN; or
\- SMF decision.
### 6.4.2 Procedures
When a UE is accessing 5GC via SAT RAN and TER RAN, the UE may establish a
MAPDU session as described in TS 23.501 [6]. However, at same time, the UE may
only activate one UP connection for data transmission. Therefore, while the
data transmission via terrestrial access is on-going, if the radio coverage of
terrestrial access becomes poor or even being lost, the UE or network can
activate the PDU session over satellite access, and then switch the data
traffic.
#### 6.4.2.1 Activating a MA-PDU session for path switching
The following figure 6.4.2.1-1 shows the procedure of activating the MA PDU
session over different access.
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Activating a MA-PDU session for path switching
1\. A UE established a MA PDU session in SAT RAN and Terrestrial RAN
respectively. Some time later, the UE moves into an area with poor terrestrial
network coverage, which makes the data transmission via terrestrial RAN not
applicable or not available. As the result, the terrestrial RAN may notify UE
and/or SMF that the QoS requirements on data transmission cannot be met, or
release the AN resources for the UE due to radio link failure.
NOTE: Step 1 is based on existing mechanisms.
2a. In the case of RAN notification to UE, the UE determines whether to
activate PDU session over satellite RAN. If yes, the UE initiates Service
Request procedure via satellite RAN to activate the PDU session over satellite
RAN. Once the PDU session over satellite access is activated, the SMF switches
the data transmission path and the steps 2b-4 are not executed.
2b. In the case of notification control or AN release, the SMF will be aware
of the failure of data transmission via terrestrial RAN, then the SMF can
request the UPF to release the N3 UP connection of the PDU session over
terrestrial RAN and prepare to activate the PDU session over satellite RAN.
3\. The SMF sends N2 SM info containing UL CN tunnel info for satellite access
to the AMF. In the case that SAT RAN and Terrestrial RAN are served by same
AMF, the SMF shall also include a RAT type in the
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer message to indicate the AMF to send the
N2 SM info to the corresponding RAN.
4\. The AMF receives the UL CN tunnel for satellite access and initiates
Network Initiated Service Request procedure over satellite RAN. Once the PDU
session over satellite access is activated, the SMF switches the data
transmission path.
### 6.4.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Editor\'s note: This is for further study.
### 6.4.4 Solution evaluation
This solution is based on use of MA PDU Sessions and ATSSS defined in TS
23.501. Since the MA PDU Session is only applicable to scenarios with one 3GPP
access and one non-3GPP access, this solution is not applicable to cases where
satellite-based NR and terrestrial NR are used simultaneously by the UE.
## 6.5 Solution #5: QoS control for satellite backhaul scenario
### 6.5.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue #5: -\"QoS with satellite
backhaul\".
For the scenario that satellite connectivity is used as backhaul between AN
and CN nodes, after the non-UE associated NG Setup procedure, AMF can be aware
of the satellite connection between AN and CN nodes.
When AMF knows the UE access network through an AN which using the satellite
backhaul. AMF provides the satellite backhaul related information (i.e.
satellite backhaul type) to the SMF.
.
NOTE: For satellite backhaul related information, please refer to Solution #11
SMF may check the consistency of the DNN/S-NSSAI and the satellite backhaul
related information, for example, if the DNN/S-NSSAI is only used for some
specific low latency service that anyhow the satellite backhaul can\'t meet
the requirements, SMF rejects the PDU Session Establishment procedure.
Otherwise, SMF takes the satellite backhaul related information into account
for QoS parameters decision. If PCC is deployed, SMF provides the information
about backhaul to PCF for QoS related policy decision, e.g. PCF may use the
information received from AMF about backhaul to decide whether a request from
AF is acceptable or not.
### 6.5.2 Procedures
The non-UE associated NG Setup procedure as described in TS 38.413 [4], clause
8.7.1 is not changed. After this procedure, the Node level N2 interface is
setup successfully, AMF is aware of the satellite connectivity between AN and
CN.
During The PDU session establishment procedure as described in TS 23.502 [3],
clause 4.3.2.2, AMF provides the satellite backhaul related information to
SMF. If PCC is deployed, SMF further provides the information about backhaul
to PCF for QoS related policy decision. Figure 6.5.2-1 shows the PDU session
establishment procedure.
Figure 6.5.2-1: PDU session establishment procedure
Comparing to the existing PDU Session Establishment procedure, the difference
is as following:
Step3: AMF provides the satellite backhaul related information to SMF. SMF may
check the consistency of the DNN/S-NSSAI and the satellite backhaul related
information, for example, if the DNN/S-NSSAI is only used for some specific
low latency service that anyhow the satellite backhaul can\'t meet the
requirements, SMF rejects the PDU Session Establishment procedure.
Step7b or Step9: SMF provides the information about backhaul to PCF.
PCF takes the information about backhaul into account for the policy
decisions.
### 6.5.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following nodes are impacted:
\- AMF:
\- Provides the satellite backhaul related information to SMF in the PDU
Session Establishment procedure.
\- SMF:
\- Checks the consistency of the DNN/S-NSSAI and the satellite backhaul
related information to decide whether proceed with the PDU Session
Establishment procedure.
\- Provides the information about backhaul to PCF for QoS related policy
decision.
\- PCF:
\- Taking the information about backhaul into account for the policy
decisions.
### 6.5.4 Solution evaluation
The benefits of the solution are:
\- The solution enables AMF to provide satellite backhaul type to SMF, the
type is used by SMF to decide whether the S-NSSAI and DNN requested by UE can
be supported by satellite backhaul.
The drawbacks of the solution are:
\- N11 and N7 interfaces are impacted to transfer satellite backhaul type.
\- Additional functionalities as specified in 6.5.3 are needed in AMF, SMF and
PCF.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Role of satellite backhaul in content distribution towards
the edge
### 6.6.1 General description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue #8 -- "The role of satellite link
in content distribution towards the edge".
Currently, serving media content to UE is usually performed from a content
server on the DN to the end user crossing the network. UE delivery does not
usually benefit from the CDN concept which consists on caching the most
popular contents in the edge and being streamed from a location closer to end-
users.
Actually, contents can be stored within the core network or at the (R)AN using
traditional caching policies such as LRU (Least Recently Used), LFU (Least
Frequently Used), FIFO and random caching. In this context satellite can bring
an interesting possibility through large bandwidth and its multicast
capabilities.
UE requests for media content can lead to multiple transmissions through the
network while redirecting this request to the local DN at the edge would
prevent the multiple transmission of the same content, regardless of how many
times it is requested.
Assuming that the requested content is already available at the Edge, the
following solutions address how the UE would be served by local DN at the edge
and then relieve the satellite link.
NOTE 1: How the content is distributed to the edge is out the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: It is out of scope of 3GPP how the CDN is aware of the popular assets
either via predictive or analytics algorithms.
### 6.6.2 Procedures
#### 6.6.2.1 Procedures to serve UE from the edge with a requested content
The following figure presents an architecture where a network function at the
edge (edge NF) is capable of storing content files (e.g., video segments in
HTTP-based video streaming applications) provided by a CDN server through a
satellite link and making them available at the edge cache. Afterwards, the
file stays in the edge cache (subject to the content provider\'s caching
policy) and is served locally to UEs that request it in the future. This
ensures that any file is transmitted through the satellite backhaul only once
regardless of how many times it is requested.
When a UE requests a file, different approaches are proposed to provide
requested content to the UE from the local DN.
**[Approach 1- Uplink classifier]{.underline}** :
This approach proposes to use UL CL standardized in TS 23.501 [6] clause
5.6.4.2 and TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.3.5.4. A UPF supporting UL CL is selected
and diverts the traffic which matches with traffic filters provided by SMF.
This approach should prevent the satellite link from multiple content
transmissions. However, this approach implies having a permanent PDU session
between the UE and the remote DN, and thus having a satellite link always
loaded because of the resource allocation to each PDU session till their
release.
NOTE: The UL CL can be configured to steer all DNS request to the local Data
Network (DN). Depending on whether the requested content is available at the
edge, the UE\'s DNS request can be either resolved in a local IP address (in
which case all subsequent context fetching is performed from the local cache)
or in a remote IP address (in which case all subsequent context fetching is
performed from a remote content distribution server). The DNS resolution
mechanisms are provided here for illustration purposes and are out of the
scope of this SID.
**[Approach 2- Multi-homing:]{.underline}**
A multi-homed solution defined in TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.6.4.2 and TS 23.502
[3] clause 4.3.5.4 can also be appropriate. The PDU session is associated to
multiple IPv6 prefix and a UPF supporting the Branching Point functionality is
configured by SMF. The Branching Point provides traffic forwarding toward the
PDU session anchors. Thus, one anchor can route the traffic toward a local DN
and the other toward the remote DN. UE has routing rules that tells the UE
where to send the traffic and which IP address to use. This approach implies
having a permanent PDU session between the UE and the remote DN, and thus
having a satellite link always loaded because of the resource allocation to
each PDU session till their release.
Figure 6.6.2.1-1: Architecture overview with edge-based content storage and
request handling
### 6.6.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Approach 1 and Approach 2 are based on existing specifications and should not
have any impact on existing specifications. However, the mentioned DNS
redirection following a UE request may impact the following functions:
1\. PCF should be able to handle the redirection policies provisioned by AF;
2\. Introduction of Edge NF for content storage at the edge;
3\. UPF should be able to redirect UE\'s request to edge NF;
4\. AF should be able to interface with the edge NF.
### 6.6.4 Solution evaluation
The solution does not imply any impacts on existing procedures, functions and
architecture, in particular for the UE and the core network, as the described
procedures are based on the Uplink Classifier and on multi-homing, already
specified in TS23.501 and TS 23.502.
Benefits of the solution:
  * The proposed solution allows the deployment of local caching server that can be provisioned with popular content (e.g. through a satellite transport network) and such content would be delivered to the UE directly from the network edge;
  * The solution has the advantage of being implementable without further specification work since described Uplink Classifier and multi-homing procedures are implemented using the existing specification.
Drawback of the solution:
  * Although the solution prevents the resending of content already present in the edge through the satellite link, it does require a permanent PDU Session established between the UE and the remote DN causing the satellite link to maintain some minimum resources.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Idle mode mobility procedure for non-geostationary
satellite access
### 6.7.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue #2 --"Mobility Management with
moving satellite coverage areas".
Key Issue #2 identifies the problem caused by non-geostationary satellite gNBs
moving constantly in relation with the UE location. This will cause a new
mobility challenge as even a stationary UE will need to re-select between the
serving cell disappearing below the horizon and the new one emerging in quick
succession.
The cell re-selection part is expected to be dealt with in [7] 3GPP TS 38.821,
but the NAS procedures are in the scope of this report.
The existing protocol procedures already allow the satellites in the
constellation to be grouped in single TA, or groups of TAs, of which a TAI
List can be composed by the AMF to send to the UE. The drawback of all these
methods when using non-geostationary satellite gNB is that the Registration
Area assigned to the UE is also the paging area for MT signalling and data. If
the non-geostationary gNBs are grouped to a single TA or issued to the UE as a
single TAI List, then the UE need not perform Mobility Registration Updates,
but consequently, the network is not fully aware of the UE location and may
need to page over a very large area. The network awareness of the UE location
can be improved by assigning each non-geostationary gNB a different TAI, and
not including a multitude of these in the Registration Area that is issued to
the UE. The network awareness of UE location improves the efficiency of the
paging procedure, but only at the cost of substantially increased Mobility
Registration Update signalling when re-selecting between non-geostationary
gNBs.
As a consequence, a procedure for reasonably accurate paging area with minimum
update signalling is needed.
### 6.7.2 Procedures
The procedure is based on the AMF issuing the UE a sequence of Registration
Areas that are expected to follow each other in a pre-determined order, as is
the case in satellite communication over non-geostationary satellites. This
can be encoded as a sequenced list of Registration Areas or as a sequenced
list of Tracking Areas.
When the UE initiates Registration procedure over satellite gNB, the AMF
discovers satellite access based on the Cell ID or TAI that is indicated over
N2 interface (see Solution #2 in clause 6.2). The Registration procedure then
continues as specified in TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.2.2.2.1, with the following
exceptions:
\- In step 21, if the AMF detects that the registration procedure originates
from a satellite gNB based on N2 parameters (Cell ID) received in step 3 or
the TAI included by the UE in step 1, the AMF may assign an ordered sequence
of Registration Areas (or Tracking Areas).
\- If the AMF assigns a Registration Area List, the first Registration Area
includes the TAI of the current serving gNB, and subsequent Registration Areas
are for the expected following TAIs represented by the foreseen next satellite
gNBs that are expected to cover the same area as the current serving gNB in
the UE location. This sequence of Registration Areas may be derived based on
AMF pre-configuration for certain location, based on geo-location (if
available) or network topology (Cell ID, TAI). The Active Registration Area in
the UE changes when the UE re-selects to a cell of the next Registration Area
in the sequence.. Expiry of the validity time of the Active RA (if assigned to
the UE) causes Mobility Registration Update.
\- The AMF may additionally issue a validity period for each Registration
Area. It is assumed that the validity periods of each Registration Area in the
Registration Area List are a continuous sequence of ordered and pre-timed
Registration Areas that follow each other in a pre-determined sequence, with
only one Registration Area being valid at any time. The Registration Area
whose validity period is on-going is called Active Registration Area.
\- If the UE moves from the currently active Registration Area to the next one
in the sequence indicated in the sequential Registration Area List, it need
not initiate Mobility Registration Update, as this implies that the UE is
remaining in a predicted area under the satellite constellation. The new
Registration Area becomes the Active Registration Area.
\- If the UE that is stepping outside of the predicted sequence of
Registration Areas in the Registration Area List by re-selecting a cell that
is neither part of the current Registration Area nor the next Registration
Area in the Registration Area List, the UE initiates Mobility Registration
Update.
\- Periodic Registration Update procedure is not affected.
AMF procedures:
\- The AMF derives the Registration Area to be sent to the UE based on
sequence of Registration Areas that corresponds with the pre-determined
sequence of satellites passing above the UE location. The starting point of
the sequence is determined based on the cell that the UE is accessing.
\- The AMF sends the derived sequenced Registration Area List to the UE and
stores it as part of the UE context. Optionally, the AMF may also include
validity time associated with each RA in the RA List.
\- The AMF maintains validity time for each Registration Area in the
Registration Area List. The AMF may take into account the validity times of
the Registration Areas that is indicates to the UE in Registration Area List
when selecting the Periodic Update Timer value for the UE.
\- When the validity period of the Active Registration Area expires, the AMF
takes next Registration Area in Registration Area List and uses it as the
Active Registration Area until its validity time expires.
\- The AMF considers the transition from the previous Active Registration Area
to new Active Registration Area as an implicit Mobility Registration Update.
\- For DL data or signalling, the AMF pages the UE in the Active Registration
Area. The AMF may optionally page the UE also in the previous and in the next
Registration Area, especially to cover the unpredictability of the UE's cell
re-selection to the new satellite cell.
UE procedures, if the UE has received Registration Area List (with or without
validity time):
\- In step 21, when the UE receives a Registration Area List, it takes the
first Registration Area in the list as the Active Registration Area to use for
its mobility management procedures.
\- After re-selection to new cell, the UE compares the TAI of the new serving
cell with the Active Registration Area. If the TAI of the serving cell is
included in the Active Registration Area, the UE stays in the same Active
Registration Area. If the TAI of the new serving cell is not included in the
Active Registration Area, but it is included in the next Registration Area in
the Registration Area List, the UE takes the next Registration Area as the
Active Registration Area. As long as the UE following this procedure remains
in Active Registration Area, it need not initiate Mobility Registration
Update.
\- If the TAI of the serving cell is not included in the Active Registration
Area, the UE initiates Mobility Registration Update.
\- If there is validity time associated with the Active RA, and the validity
time runs out before the UE re-selects to a cell of another RA, the UE
initiates Mobility Registration Update.
An overview of Registration and paging call flows is shown in Figure 6.7.2-1.
Figure 6.7.2-1: Registration and Paging procedures using sequenced
Registration Areas
1\. Based on criteria specified in TS 23.501 [6], the UE detects the need to
register, and initiates Registration Request.
2\. RAN identifies satellite access to the CN in the Initial Message that
encapsulates the Registration Request.
3\. The indication received from the RAN informs the AMF of satellite access.
This triggers the AMF to assign Registration Area List to the UE, optionally
with associated validity times in the Registration Accept. The AMF stores the
sequenced RA list that is assigned to the UE in order to use the pre-scheduled
sequence of RAs to determine the paging area if the UE needs to be paged
before the next Registration Update.
4\. Satellite RAN passes the Registration Accept including the Registration
Area ListOptionally with validity time to the UE.
5a. The UE makes the next RA in the sequenced Registration Area list the
Active Registration Area, if it selects a cell in the next Registration Area
in the sequenced Registration Area list. When changing the Active Registration
Area, the UE considers itself still registered, even though the Mobility
Registration Update signalling is omitted.
5b. At the validity time of the next Registration Area in the sequenced RA
list, the AMF locally takes the next RA in use as the Active Registration
Area, as long as there are more RAs in the sequenced RA list that was issued
by the AMF in step 3. The AMF having still more sequenced RAs for the UE
considers the UE as updated and does not start Implicit Detach Timer even if
no Mobility Registration Update signalling occurs.
6\. AMF pages the UE for DL data using the Registration Area that is currently
active in the sequence.
7\. The UE initiates Registration Update based on the criteria specified in TS
23.501 [6]. This occurs at the latest when the UE re-selects a cell of a TA
that is outsides of the sequenced Registration Area List that were received in
the latest Registration Update, or if RA List with validity periods is
assigned to the UE, when the validity time of the last RA in the RA List
expires.
NOTE: If the Periodic Update Timer expires before the UE se-selects a cell
outside of the RA List, the UE initiates Periodic Registration Update as
usual.
### 6.7.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
AMF needs to support the following new capabilities:
\- Detection that the UE is accessing over non-geostationary satellite.
\- Determining an ordered sequence of Registration Areas based on their
validity periods on Registration Area List.
\- Encoding of more than one Registration Area in Registration Accept message.
UE needs to support the following capabilities:
\- Decoding of more than one Registration Area in Registration Accept message.
\- Omitting Mobility Registration Update when cell re-selection or validity
period moves the UE from the current Registration Area to the next one in the
ordered Registration Area List.
### 6.7.4 Solution evaluation
This solution allows the UE to initiate Mobility Registration Update
signalling only when moving out of the predicted sequence of Registration
Areas.
UE mobility cannot be mitigated by this solution without AMF awareness of the
UE's mobility, and consequently, a fast-moving UE will need to initiate
Mobility Registration Update when re-selecting to a cell of out-of-sequence
RA. If the AMF is aware of the UE's moving trajectory it can assign an RA List
comprising satellite cells along the UE's flight path to minimise mobility
updates of fast-moving UE, whose flight path is predictable. This optimisation
is applicable on both polar and non-polar LEO and MEO orbits.
Network topological UE location is needed in order to use the pre-timed
sequence of RAs. The subsequent satellite can be determined with reasonable
accuracy based on the current serving satellite-based cell even though the
UE's precise time of availability is not known. Consequently, the sequence of
RAs can be determined with based on the satellite based cell the UE is
accessing even without knowing the precise UE geo-location. In this case, the
UE can apply the sequence of RAs without validity time. If the UE fails to
respond to paging in the expected satellite cell, the AMF is still able
determine the previous or the next satellite cell to escalate paging.
The indication of the optional pre-determined validity time of each RA in the
sequential RA List to the UE depends on accurate UE location information. In
order to use this optional feature with high accuracy, the AMF would need to
know in which part of the possibly very large coverage area of the satellite
cell the UE is accessing in order to calculate the appearance of the next
satellites precisely.
NOTE: The UE positioning procedures over satellite access will be specified as
part of TSG RAN work. In certain deployments, especially with LEO satellites,
satellite beams can move rather fast and frequently over a stationary UE (in
the order of 10 seconds), thus requiring long ordered sequences of
Registration Areas, which require added complexity in the UE implementation
for handling the valid registration area based on a validity timer. Moreover,
if the UE and the AMF determine the valid registration areas based on internal
mechanisms and independently, there may be a less deterministic identification
by the AMF of the area to page.
## 6.8 Solution #8: 5GS enhancement to support gNBs on NGSO satellites
### 6.8.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issue 2 -- "Mobility Management with
moving satellite coverage areas" but mobility management in different 5G
network architecture with support of satellite access will be different, thus
the solution proposes to solve the key issue under possible 5G network
architectures.
When a NGSO satellite is used to provide radio access, the satellite can work
as an on-board gNB or gNB-DU. If the NGSO satellite is used as a gNB-DU, and
the gNB-CU is on the earth, then the gNB-CU can handle the change of gNB-DU,
which has no impact to 5GC. If the NGSO satellite works as an on-board gNB,
the gNB will contact different earth stations with high frequency and inform
the AMF the change of served TA list, thus it will generate lots of signalling
on the N2 interface. Therefore, this solution proposes to enhance 5G network
architecture to reduce the impact of N2 signalling. There may be two options
to support NGSO satellite based gNBs in 5G network:
1\. Deploying distributed AMFs close to gateways on earth. In this option, the
N2 signalling is handled by AMF locally.
2\. Deploying AMF agents close to gateways on earth as shown in Figure
6.8.1-1, if distributed AMF option is not applicable. The AMF agent is used to
handle N2 signalling and forward the N2 messages between gNB and AMF.
Figure 6.8.1-1: Support of NGSO satellite based gNB using AMF agent
The functions of AMF agent include:
\- Establishing TNL Associations with the gNB, and establishing TNL
Associations with the AMF;
\- Terminating the NG AP message(s) from on-board gNB for NG Setup or RAN
Configuration Update;
\- Sending a NG AP message to the AMF to establish or update NG connection by
including a proxy RAN node ID and/or proxy RAN node name which are statically
configured with same format as RAN node ID and RAN node name;
\- Storing the mapping between TA(s) that each connected on-board gNB serves
and the gNB ID;
\- Receiving Paging message from AMF, and forwarding the Paging message to the
gNB(s) which is serving the Registration Area allocated to the UE;
\- Allocating a **RAN UE NGAP** proxy **ID which has same format as RAN UE
NGAP ID allocated by the gNB. The RAN UE NGAP** proxy **ID doesn't change as
long as the UE is within the serving area of the AMF agent;**
\- Storing 1:1 mapping between **RAN UE NGAP ID and RAN UE NGAP proxy ID;**
\- Updating the mapping between **RAN UE NGAP ID and RAN UE NGAP proxy ID if
RAN UE NGAP ID allocated by the gNB is changed** ;
\- Replacing the **RAN UE NGAP ID included in any UE associated NG AP message
from the gNB with the corresponding RAN UE NGAP proxy ID;**
\- Replacing the **RAN UE NGAP proxy ID included in any UE associated NG AP
message from the AMF with the corresponding RAN UE NGAP ID.**
NOTE: Security related functions need to be addressed by SA WG3 during the
normalisation phase.
Existing Registration management and connection management can be reused in
the 5G network with support of gNBs on NGSO satellites with following changes:
\- The distributed AMF or the AMF agent needs to identify which on-board
gNB(s) is serving the Registration Area allocated to a UE before paging the
UE.
### 6.8.2 Procedures
The following call flow should be applied to AMF agents or distributed AMFs:
Figure 6.8.2-1: Call Flow for Distributed AMF or AMF Agents
1\. The address of an AMF agent is configured to the earth station, so that
the NG setup messages sent by satellite RAN nodes can be sent to the AMF
agent.
2\. The AMF agent stores the TA list supported by the satellite RAN node, and
replaces the RAN node ID with a Proxy RAN node ID which is allocated by the
AMF agent. The AMF agent stores the mapping between the RAN node ID and the
Proxy RAN node ID. The AMF agent may provide its serving area (TA list) to the
AMF.
3-4. The AMF responds the request, the AMF agent replaces the Proxy RAN node
ID with the RAN node ID, and forwards the response message to the NG RAN node.
5\. If satellite RAN node changes the supported TA list due to mobility, then
the satellite RAN node sends RAN Configuration Update message including the
updated TA list the RAN node supports. The message is not required to be sent
to the AMF.
6\. The AMF agent sends an acknowledge message.
7\. When a UE registers via satellite RAN. The NAS transport message carrying
Registration Request will be sent to the AMF agent first.
8\. The AMF agent needs to allocate a **RAN UE NGAP proxy ID** **which is
similar as RAN UE NGAP ID, and replaces** **the RAN UE NGAP ID in the NAS
transport message with the allocated RAN UE NGAP proxy ID** **(so that the
downlink message** **can be routed** **to the AMF agent). The AMF agent
stores** **the mapping between RAN UE NGAP ID and RAN UE NGAP proxy ID.**
9-10. The AMF responds the registration request, the AMF agent replaces the
**RAN UE NGAP proxy ID** with the **RAN UE NGAP ID, and** forwards the
response message.
### 6.8.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
If local AMF is used, the AMF needs to store the TAs that each connected on-
board gNB serves;
If AMF agent is used, there is no impact to existing nodes other than AMF.
### 6.8.4 Solution evaluation
This solution can efficiently handle the NG-AP messages introduced by the
movement of the NGSO satellite based gNB to update N2 connection. The solution
is optimising mostly N2 traffic, however, it cannot eliminate the Mobility
Updates over the radio interface over satellite link.
In the option which has no impact to existing nodes other than AMF, a new AMF
agent functionality needs to be introduced.
Potential security issues introduced by AMF agent need to be investigated in
SA3.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Distributed gNB for NGSO satellites
### 6.9.1 Description
This is candidate solution for Key Issue #2 - \"Mobility Management with
moving satellite coverage areas\" and for Key Issue #6 -\"RAN mobility with
NGSO regenerative-based satellite access».
Consider a satellite network with a constellation of NGSO satellites. Since
this is an NGSO constellation, the satellites will be moving with respect to
Earth and the UEs using this satellite access will be connected to different
satellites over time. If each of the (moving) satellites has its own (moving)
TA, the mobility of the satellites will be equivalent to the mobility of the
UEs and hence a solution needs to be found for handling this (mass) mobility.
In this solution, it is assumed that satellite networks are designed as
terrestrial ones when dealing with service accessibility (see [8] 3GPP TS
22.011).
This solution is taking the following approach to the situation: it assumes
that from the point of view of a UE the constellation (satellites(s) and
ground station) acts as a single gNB, which is called a distributed gNB which
has a single TA which is stationary (as far as the UEs are concerned). The
solution assumes that the NGSO satellite constellation and ground stations can
support multiple distributed gNBs and the corresponding distinct stationary
TAS The distributed gNB will consist of:
\- NGSO satellites covering a certain area of the earth (and their -
stationary - TA). The NGSO constellation is of a single satellite operator and
a single vendor who are capable of realizing stationary TAs using beam forming
and beam steering techniques as well as the knowledge of ephemeris and
satellite positions at each time instant. Therefore there is no need for a
3GPP standardized interface between the satellites of the constellation;
\- The Inter-Satellite Links (ISL) between the NGSO satellites;
\- A Ground Station;
\- The feeder link between the Ground Station and (one or more of) the NGSO
satellites.
The concept of the distributed gNB is illustrated in figure 6.9.1-1. The NGSO
satellites used in this solution possess on-board processing (OBP)
capabilities to allow for use of ISLs. The solution assumes that within one TA
a single CellID is broadcasted.
Figure 6.9.1-1: Distributed gNB with stationary Tracking Area TA
The distributed gNB is connected to 5G Core Network (in particular to one or
more AMFs, and to one or more UPFs) over the standard N2 and N3 interfaces and
the UEs connect via the N1 interface over the distributed gNB to an AMF, and
the UE will have an NR interface to the distributed gNB. From the point of
view of the UEs and from the point of view of the 5G Core Network the
distributed character of the gNB will not be visible: the distributed gNB is a
purely NGSO satellite solution.
Note that the satellite constellation is moving with respect to Earth so any
(stationary) UE will be connecting to different satellites depending on their
vicinity to the UE. In this solution it is assumed that the beams that the
NGSO satellites project in order to serve a stationary TA are moving depending
on the location of the satellites. Once a serving satellite would become out
of reach it will switch off the beam related to the given TA. To ensure
continuity of service, the TA would be served by a new satellite already in
reach of the TA. In this process TAs appertaining to a PLMN will not cross the
boundaries of that PLMN. Each satellite may have multiple beams so it may
project multiple (disjunct) TAs. Satellites that are out of reach of a ground
station could make use of Inter Satellite links in order to connect
(indirectly) to the ground station. In case a UE moves from one to another
static TA a tracking area update will occur.
This solution further assumes that, if this is possible, each of the beams
(from different satellites) that are related to the same TA are using the same
radio characteristics, i.e. the same radio frequencies, the same cell
information, the same SIB, etc. This implies that the UE will not be aware of
which satellite it is connected to.
The solution also assumes that a single NGSO satellite constellation with its
Ground Stations can support multiple distributed gNBs, so each satellite and
also the Ground Station will support the distributed gNBs in a virtualized
way. This virtualization is not visible to UEs and the 5G Core Network. Two
distributed gNBs implemented in the same set of NGSO satellite may make use of
different Ground Stations, so e.g. the first distributed gNB will be supported
by the first Ground Station and the second distributed gNB will be supported
by the second Ground Station. However both distributed gNBs may be supported
by the same set of satellites.
The solution assumes that the point at which the contact between the
distributed gNB and the Core Network is established is kept fixed. The 5G Core
Network can see multiple distributed gNBs via the same physical Ground
Station. In case one Ground Station ('master') experiences unfavourable radio
propagation conditions (e.g. rain, clouds, etc.) the distributed gNB can be
'reconfigured' to make use of another Ground Station ('slave'). The switching
among the Ground Stations occurs transparent to 3GPP layer and can be
considered as a transport network implementation. The 3GPP interface end
points (N2, N3) do not change.
In the proposed solution moving NGSO satellites cover a static TA. Note that a
distributed gNB is implemented by a satellite operator/vendor and is out of
scope of 3GPP. Usage of ISLs might increase the overall delay and consequently
introduce RAN QoS limitations. Consequently, QoS profiles and 5QI values that
require low latency might not be considered in case ISLs are used. Handling of
such a situation is described in Solution#2 and Solution#3.
### 6.9.2 Procedures
The solution does not require new or changed procedures in either UE or 5G
Core Network.
The solution does not require changes in the functionality and or procedures
of the 3GPP gNB concept.
The solution does require the NGSO satellite constellation (including the
associated Ground Stations) to implement the distributed gNB concept, but this
implementation is out-of-scope of 3GPP.
Delays introduced by the ISLs do not impact the selected class of new RAT type
introduced in Solution#2 of 23.737.
### 6.9.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
This solution does not impact existing 3GPP nodes and functionality.
The general RAN aspects applicable to this solution are described in TR 38.821
[7] as follows:
\- Doppler compensation is described in clause 6;
\- Timing advance management is described in clause 6 and clause 7;
\- Tracking area management, Registration Update and Paging Handling, and
Connected Mode Mobility are described in clause 8.
### 6.9.4 Solution evaluation
In this solution an NGSO constellation, inter satellite links and a ground
station form a distributed gNB with a corresponding Earth fixed tracking area
(TA). The same constellation, ISL and ground stations can create numerous,
disjunct static TAs in a virtualized fashion.
Distributed gNBs are implemented by a single satellite operator/vendor and
need not require introduction of new procedures or adaptation of existing
procedures neither for UE nor for 5G Core Network.
This solution requires the usage of satellites with on board processing in
order to accommodate for the usage of ISLs. NGSO satellites used in this
solution should be capable of beam steering and beam forming in order to
create static Earth fixed TAs. The usage of static TAs that fall within the
perimeter of a PLMN and the assumption that TAs act as defined in [8] 3GPP TS
22.011 is part of a solution for solving national regulatory issues related to
e.g. emergency calls and LI.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Addressing delay in satellite
### 6.10.1 Description
The candidate solution addresses Key issue #3 - "Delay in satellite" -, which
considers the impacts of delays in the satellite access on the 5G system in
the Non Access Stratum (e.g, Session Management and Mobility Management
procedures), and focuses on two main questions:
\- What are the architectural assumptions on the 5G System to minimize the
impacts on the NAS?
\- What are the requirements on the satellite access to minimize the impacts
on the NAS, as well on the 5G System?
#### 6.10.1.1 Sources of delay
There are three sources of potential delays:
  1. Ground to satellite
  2. Inter-satellite link
  3. Satellite to ground
  4. Satellite being used as a backhaul (which would include two or all three of the above)
The worst-case scenario of (1) + (2) + (3) should be considered when analysing
the impact of delays on timers.
The impact of delays on NAS timers in the worst-case of satellite being used
as a backhaul is not considered in this release.
When signalling is exchanged between the UE and the 5G CN, each satellite leg
on which a message is sent introduces a delay. The specific delays for
satellite to ground and vice versa depend on the type of satellite (LEO, MEO
or GEO). The worst-case scenario of GEO satellite, for which delays are
higher, should be considered in this analysis. The associated RTT is defined
as the Worst Case RTT (WCRTT) in the following.
The scenario of satellite being used as backhaul is explicitly excluded from
this analysis and considered out of scope.
#### 6.10.1.2 Delay adaptation in the Core Network
The introduction of the CIoT feature in the EPS had to deal with impact on NAS
timer of CIoT features implemented in RAN. This work has similarities with the
introduction of satellite as a RAT in 3GPP, and it is worth observing what was
done for CIoT. Specifically, for CIoT RAN2 agreed not to adjust AS timers
based on the coverage level in NB-IoT (i.e., NAS timers should be long enough
by taking into account the worst possible transmission delay of the NAS PDU in
NB-IoT). RAN3 agreed that, in case the UE is accessing from an NB-IoT Cell,
the MME will take into account the worst transmission delay and set the NAS
timer long enough. SA2, aligned with CT1 decisions, clarified that the
transmission delay of the NAS PDU should be considered when the MME determines
the NAS PDU retransmission strategy. SA2 added that, to determine the NAS PDU
retransmission strategy, the MME should t** _ake into account_** the
**_transmission delay of the NAS PDU and, if applicable, the CE mode_** ,
**_i.e., set the NAS timers long enough according to the worst transmission
delay._** The concept of CE mode does not apply to the case of satellite.
However, a similar concept can be adopted: based on AMF awareness of RAT Type
being "satellite", the AMF adjusts the NAS timers to consider the delays
introduced by the satellite link based on implementation dependent mechanisms.
A similar mechanism is used by SMF based on RAT Type.
#### 6.10.1.3 Impact on timers
Although the final analysis of the timers impacted by the use of satellite
should be done by CT1, it is expected that only timers impacted by RTT
propagation delay are relevant to the discussion:
\- T3510: the 5GMM Registration Procedure involves 5 round trip communications
over a satellite link (one message for UE initiates Registration Request to
CN, two messages for the optional identity request from the AMF to the UE, two
messages for the optional authentication request to UE, two messages for the
optional security mode request to UE, two messages for the second optional
identity request to UE, and one message for the Registration Accept to the UE.
Considering each message to be half of a round trip, this sums up to 5 round
trips, which implies the **need to ensure that timer T3510 supports a delay of
5 times the value of the WCRTT delay**.
\- T3517: the 5GMM Service Request Procedure involves 3 round trip
communications over a satellite link (one message for Service Request from the
UE, two messages for the optional authentication request sent by the AMF, two
messages for the optional security request to the UE, and one message for the
Service Accept message). Considering each message to be half of a round trip,
this sums up to 3 round trips, which implies the **need to ensure that timer
T3517 supports a delay of 3 times the value of the WCRTT delay**.
\- T3580: the 5GSM UE initiates PDU session Establishment involves 4 round
trip communications over a satellite link (one message for UE initiates PDU
session Establishment, six messages for the PDU session authentication request
to UE by the SMF -- for which the number of messages depend on authentication
mechanism, a rough estimate of worst case scenario is 6 messages, and one
message for the PDU session Establishment accept from AMF to the UE.
Considering each message to be half of a round trip, this sums up to 4 round
trips, which implies the **need to ensure that timer T3580 supports a delay of
4 times the value of the WCRTT delay**.
\- T3581: the 5GSM UE initiated PDU session Modification involves 1 round trip
communications over a satellite link (one message for UE initiates PDU Session
Modification Request, and one message for the PDU Session Modification Accept
from SMF to the UE. Considering each message to be half of a round trip, this
sums up to 1 round trip, which implies the **need to ensure that timer T3581
supports a delay of 1 time the value of the WCRTT delay**.
\- T3582: the 5GSM UE Requested PDU Session Release involves 1 round trip
communications over a satellite link (one message for UE initiates PDU Session
Release Request, and one message for the PDU Session Release Command from SMF
to the UE. Considering each message to be half of a round trip, this sums up
to 1 round trips, which implies the **need to ensure that timer T3582 supports
a delay of 1 time the value of the WCRTT delay**
It is expected that longer times (e.g. more than 1 minute, like in the case of
all other 5GMM timers) do not need to be modified due to the scale of the RTT
delay with respect to the timer duration.
It is expected that timer values that are defined by the network will be
determined appropriately by the AMF based on satellite awareness.
An overview of the analysis is in the following table:
Table 6.10.1.3-1: Summary of timers impacted by satellite RTT and suggested
timer value increase
                             **Timer \#**                                             **RTTs propagation delay**   **(Minimum) Suggested Timer value increase**
* * *
**5GMM UE Side Timers** T3510 5 RTT 5 WCRTT T3517 3 RTT 3 WCRTT **5GMM AMF
Side Timers** No need for changes, AMF determines appropriate values  
**5GSM UE Side Timers** T3580 4 RTT 4 WCRTT T3581 1 RTT 1 WCRTT T3582 1 RTT 1
WCRTT **5GSM SMF Side Timer** No need for changes, SMF determines appropriate
values
#### 6.10.1.4 Timers management
It is proposed that UE capable only of connectivity via NTN RAN uses extended
timers defined to handle satellite delays.
For UEs that can use both NTN RAT and terrestrial RAT, it is proposed that the
UE uses regular timers or extended timers based on the RAT Type in use. It is
assumed that the AMF assigns a Registration Area to the UE using either only
terrestrial RATs, or only NTN RATs, thus the regular or extended timers apply
to the whole Registration Area.
In order to ensure the correct and most efficient use of timers for UEs that
are capable of using both terrestrial RAN and NTN RAN, the following is
proposed:
\- A UE that is capable of both terrestrial RAT and NTN RAT connects to the
network using extended timers (i.e. timers extended to deal with satellite
delays).
\- During the Registration procedure, the AMF determines the type of timers
required for the UE (based on RAT type, UE capabilities, and the type of RANs
the UE may be using in a specific registration area). If the UE is capable of
using both NTN RAT and terrestrial RAT, and the UE is registering or
performing a Service Request in a terrestrial RAT, then the UE and the AMF
apply regular timers. If the UE is registering or performing a Service Request
in an NTN RAT, then the UE and the AMF apply extended timers.
SMF timers also need to be extended when the UE is using NTN RAT. Based on the
SMF obtaining the RAT Type through existing 5G mechanisms (i.e. SMF subscribes
to RAT Type indications from AMF), the SMF applies regular timers if the UE is
using a terrestrial RAT, and extended timers if the UE is using an NTN RAT.
It is also proposed that SMSF, in order to handle SMS, subscribes to the AMF
reporting of RAT Type, and the SMSF applies extended timers -- to be defined
by stage 3 -- for NTN RATs.
#### 6.10.1.5 Overall proposal
The solution proposes three aspects:
\- CN functions (AMF and SMF) consider the RAT Type to determine the value of
the timers assigned by the network based on an implementation dependent
mechanism
\- The following UE timers are impacted and extended, all other UE, AMF and
SMF timers remain unmodified:
\- T3510 must support 5 times the value of the worst-case RTT delay;
\- T3517 must support 3 times the value of the worst-case RTT delay.
\- T3580 must support 4 times the value of the worst-case RTT delay.
\- T3581 must support 1 times the value of the worst-case RTT delay.
\- T3582 must support 1 times the value of the worst-case RTT delay.
\- UE and CN functions apply regular or extended timers as described in clause
6.10.1.4.
### 6.10.2 Procedures
The Registration procedure is modified to enable the AMF to indicate to the UE
the range of timers that the UE shall use in the current Registration Area, as
described in clause 6.10.1.4.
### 6.10.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following impacts are considered:
\- AMF: the AMF takes into consideration the RAT Type to determine the value
of the 5GMM timers assigned by the AMF, based on an implementation dependent
mechanism;
\- SMF: the SMF takes into consideration the RAT Type to determine the value
of the 5GSM timers assigned by the SMF, based on an implementation dependent
mechanism
\- UE: UE timers are impacted as described in clause 6.10.1.5.
### 6.10.4 Solution evaluation
Solution #10 enables the UE and the CN entities to adapt the timers to the
worst-case scenarios for delays introduced by satellite. Solution #10 does not
require modifications to procedures.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Backhaul QoS handling based on AMF and UPF information
### 6.11.1 Description
This is a candidate for solution for Key Issue #5 -- "QoS with satellite
backhaul".
This solution is based on the following assumptions:
\- Satellite connectivity is used on some N3 and/or N9 interfaces resulting in
limitations on the services and QoS that can be provided due to latency
conditions on these interfaces;
\- The AMF may be/may become aware of the use of satellite category (e.g. GEO,
MEO, LEO) applicable to the N3 connection between an AN node and the 5GC;
\- UPFs may be aware of latency limitations of N3 and/or N9 interfaces
connected to AN nodes and/or upstream UPFs (i.e. interfaces connected to UPFs
closer to the AN).
The solution is applicable to the following deployment scenarios (see also
Figure 6.11.1-1, 6.11.1-2, 6.11.1-3, respectively):
1\. An AN node is connected to a single UPF via a single (type of) satellite
connection; the UPF interface connected to the AN node may have a clear
latency limitation;
2\. An AN node is connected to multiple UPFs and/or to a single UPF via
multiple (type of) connections; some of the connections are satellite
connections; for each of the UPFs, each interface connected to the AN node has
a clear latency limitation (e.g. due to the fact that it is based on a
satellite connection);
3\. A UPF is connected to multiple (downstream) UPFs and/or to a single
(downstream) UPF via multiple (type of) connections; some of the connections
are satellite connections; for each of the (downstream) UPFs, each interface
connected to the upstream UPF has a clear latency limitation (e.g. due to the
fact that it is based on a satellite connection).
NOTE: In case of multiple interfaces per UPF a single (worst case) QoS
limitation or no QoS limitation is used per UPF.
Figure 6.11.1-1: Deployment scenario 1
Figure 6.11.1-2: Deployment scenario 2
Figure 6.11.1-3: Deployment scenario 3
For deployment scenario 1, the satellite category (GEO, MEO, LEO) of the
connection between AN and 5GC may be determined by the AMF, e.g. by AMF
configuration or via signalling between AN node and 5GC.
NOTE: If and how to signal the satellite category is to be determined by RAN
3.
If available in the AMF, the satellite category is sent by the AMF to the SMF,
and it may be sent to the PCF. It may then be used by the SMF and PCF as shown
below:
\- The SMF may check the consistency of the DNN/S-NSSAI and the satellite
category information provided by the AMF. Based on this check, the SMF may
reject the PDU Session Establishment request (e.g. due to the fact that the
DNN/S-NSSAI is only used for some specific low latency service). The SMF may
also take the satellite category information into account for QoS parameter
decisions.
\- The PCF may take the satellite category information provided by the SMF
into account for policy control, e.g. to decide whether a request from AF is
acceptable or not. It may also be used to adjust the PCC information provided
to the SMF or to request the SMF to release the PDU Session.
For all applicable deployment scenarios, some or all of the selectable UPFs
may have a QoS limitation (i.e. latency limitation) for one or more of its
interfaces. For instance, a UPF may have a satellite connection to a gNB
attached to its N3 interface, this connection could have a QoS limitation with
respect to latency, i.e. the connection will have a minimum latency largely
determined by the latency caused by the satellite connection. The awareness of
the UPF may be pre-provisioned, or it may be dynamically determined, e.g. by
monitoring the QoS properties of a connection. QoS limitations can sometimes
change dynamically, e.g. because of fading of satellite connections. The
dynamic determination of QoS limitations is left for implementation.
If available in a UPF, the QoS limitation of its interfaces are provided to
the SMF via the N4 interface. The QoS limitation can be used by the SMF and
PCF as shown below:
\- The SMF can use the QoS limitation of UPFs for the selection of UPFs, and
after selection of one or more UPFs, the information can be used to adapt (if
necessary) the initial choice of QoS Profile to be sent to the AN.
\- After UPF selection, the SMF can inform the PCF via an SM Policy
Association Modification procedure about the inability to apply the provided
PCC. The PCF can use this information (possibly after informing/consulting an
AF or based on the service characteristics provided by the AF when requesting
QoS over N5) to adjust the QoS parameters in the PCC rule provided to the SMF
or to request the SMF to release the PDU Session.
### 6.11.2 Procedures
#### 6.11.2.1 Procedures of detecting backhaul related information
A UPF can inform an SMF about the QoS limitation (minimum latency) of
connections attached to its interfaces via the N4 Node Level Procedures as
described in TS 23.502 [3], clause 4.4.3. The QoS limitation will indicate the
minimum latency (to its other end-point) that is supported for a given
interface. For instance the N4 Association Setup Procedure can be used: the
information from the UPF can be provided in the N4 Association Setup Response
(see figure 6.11.2.1-1).
Figure 6.11.2.1-1: N4 association setup procedure
After an association the UPF can provide update to QoS limitations via the UPF
initiated N4 Association Update Procedure in the N4 Association Update Request
(see figure 6.11.2.1-2).
Figure 6.11.2.1-2: UPF initiated N4 association update procedure
#### 6.11.2.2 Procedures of detecting backhaul related information via N2
interface
If an AN node establishes a TNL association with the AMF via satellite
backhaul, it includes the satellite backhaul related information in the AMF
CONFIGURATION UPDATE ACKNOWLEDGE message sent to the AMF.
.
Figure 6.11.2.2-1: AMF CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure
#### 6.11.2.3 Procedures of utilizing backhaul related information during the
PDU session establishment procedure
During the PDU Session Establishment Procedure, SMF uses the satellite
category (if received from the AMF) to determine whether the PDU session
establishment request can be accepted, and may provide the satellite category
to the PCF for appropriate policy decision. The SMF can also use the
information on QoS limitations of UPFs for UPF selection. QoS limitation is
expressed as minimum latency and it is related to the QoS characteristic PDB
(Packet Delay Budget).
6.11.2.3-1 The PDU session establishment procedure with support of satellite
backhaul
The enhancements to the PDU Session Establishment procedure of TS 23.502,
clause 4.3.2.2 that constitute the solution described here are as follows.
1\. After reception of the UE to AMF NAS message, the AMF may determine
whether the UE is accessing the network via satellite backhaul. If yes, the
AMF shall determine the satellite category (GEO, MEO, LEO).
NOTE: The AMF determines the satellite category either by configuration, or by
signalling over the N2 interface during NG-AP Setup. If and how to signal the
satellite category to the AMF is determined by RAN3.
3\. If available, the AMF sends the satellite category to the SMF. The SMF may
check the consistency of the DNN/S-NSSAI and the satellite category
information provided by the AMF. Based on this check, the SMF may decide to
reject the PDU Session Establishment request (e.g. due to the fact that the
DNN/S-NSSAI is only used for some specific low latency service).
5\. Based on the decision described in step 3 above, the SMF may reject the
PDU Session Establishment request.
7b. If the SMF performs an SM Policy Association Establishment procedure, then
the SMF may send the satellite category to the PCF. The satellite category
shall be indicated in the new (optional) input Backhaul Type in the
Npcf_SMPolicyControl_Create operation sent to the PCF. The PCF may take the
satellite category information into account when generating the PCC rules (to
be provided to the SMF) and may make other policy decisions, e.g. it may also
request the SMF to reject the PDU Session Establishment request.
8\. If PCC rules have been received or are available, then the SMF may take
these rules and information on QoS limitations (if available) of the candidate
UPFs into account as input for the UPF selection process.
9\. Based on the QoS limitations of the selected UPF(s), if the SMF determines
it cannot comply to the PCC rules received from the PCF, the SMF may initiate
an SM Policy Association Modification procedure to notify the PCF of the QoS
limitation according to a Policy Control Request Trigger. The Policy Control
Request Trigger shall indicate 'Requested PDB cannot be fulfilled'. The PCF
may make policy decision based on the QoS limitation and provides updated
policies to the SMF. The PCF policy decision can be either i) provide PCC
Rules with updated 5QI with changed 5G QoS characteristics PDB in case the
Application can adjust to different QoS profiles, or ii) remove the PCC Rules
in case the Application cannot adjust to different QoS profile, the removal of
PCC Rules may lead to termination of the PDU session in the SMF. The mapping
of possible QoS profiles suitable for an Application is defined in the PCF
using operator defined policies.
11\. The SMF generates QoS parameters based on the PCC rules. The SMF provides
the QoS parameters to the AN node and the UE.
#### 6.11.2.4 Procedures of utilizing backhaul information during the PDU
session modification procedure
Dynamically changed QoS limitations can also be used as a trigger for the UPF
to let the SMF initiate a PDU Session Modification Procedure (see the new
information flows 1f and 1g). During PDU Session Modification procedure, the
SMF uses the information on QoS limitations of UPFs to adapt the UE requested
QoS in step 1a in figure 6.1111.2.4-1.
When PCF is deployed during PDU Session Modification the SMF informs the PCF
about QoS limitations in a similar way as during PDU Session Establishment.
6.11.2.4-1 The PDU Session Modification procedure triggered by the changed QoS
limitation
1f. (UPF initiated modification) The UPF initiates the PDU Session
Modification procedure by the transmission of an N4 Association Update Request
(QoS limitations list).
1g. In case of UPF initiated modification, the SMF shall respond to the UPF
with an N4 Association Update Response.
2\. The SMF reports the QoS limitations to the PCF, if the Policy Control
Request Trigger 'Requested PDB cannot be fulfilled' is set. The PCF may make
policy decision based on the QoS limitation and provides updated policies to
the SMF. The PCF policy decision can be either i) provide PCC Rules with
updated 5QI with changed 5G QoS characteristics PDB in case the Application
can adjust to different QoS profiles, or ii) remove the PCC Rules in case the
Application cannot adjust to different QoS profile, the removal of PCC Rules
may lead to termination of the PDU session in the SMF. The possible QoS
profiles suitable for an Application is defined in the PCF based on the
Alternative service requirements provided by the Application as described in
clause in TS 23.502 clause 4.15.6.6 or if no Application requested QoS then
the possible QoS profiles are locally configured in the PCF.
3b. For SMF requested modification or UPF initiated modification, the SMF
invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer (N2 SM information (PDU Session
ID, QFI(s), QoS Profile(s), Session-AMBR), N1 SM container (PDU Session
Modification Command (PDU Session ID, QoS rule(s), QoS Flow level QoS
parameters if needed for the QoS Flow(s) associated with the QoS rule(s), QoS
rule operation and QoS Flow level QoS parameters operation, Session-AMBR))).
If the UE is in CM-IDLE state and an ATC is activated, the AMF updates and
stores the UE context based on the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer and
steps 4, 5, 6 and 7 are skipped. When the UE is reachable e.g. when the UE
enters CM-CONNECTED state, the AMF forwards the N1 message to synchronize the
UE context with the UE.
### 6.11.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The solution has impact on:
\- AMF
\- Determines the backhaul related information (i.e. satellite category);
\- Provides the satellite category to the SMF during PDU Session Establishment
procedure.
\- SMF:
\- Checks the consistency of the DNN/S-NSSAI and the satellite category to
decide whether to proceed with the PDU Session Establishment procedure;
\- Provides the satellite category to PCF for QoS related policy decision;
\- Collects information on QoS limitations from UPFs;
\- Chooses UPFs based on QoS limitations;
\- Provides Policy Control Request Trigger information on PDB to PCF;
> \- PCF:
\- Takes the backhaul information (satellite category and QoS limitation) into
account to decide the PCC Rules and the PDU Session policy control information
provided to the SMF.
\- For the scenario where no AF session requesting QoS is defined, then the
PCF needs to be enhanced to select a QoS profile that matches the service
requirements. This is based on operator policies in the PCF, the selection of
the QoS profile uses the Policy Control Request Trigger information received
from the SMF on QoS limitations on supported PDB.
\- UPF:
\- Detects and reports QoS limitations of connections attached to its
interfaces;
### 6.11.4 Solution evaluation
The benefits of the solution are:
\- The SMF can decide whether the S-NSSAI and DNN requested by UE can be
supported by satellite backhaul;
\- The SMF can select an appropriate UPF for the PDU session to be established
based on the QoS limitations of the UPF;
\- PCF can make appropriate policy decision based on the satellite category or
QoS limitations;
\- Flexible deployment is supported on user plane:
\- An AN node can have a terrestrial backhaul, one or more satellite
backhauls, or a combination of both;
\- The backhaul type on the control plane is independent with that on the user
plane, e.g. the control plane may use a traditional (low-latency) backhaul
connection whereas the user plane may use the satellite (high-latency)
backhaul connection.
The drawbacks of the solution are:
\- The protocol over the N4, N7 and N11 interface needs to be extended;
\- Additional functionalities in the AMF, UPF, PCF and SMF are required.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Satellite cells for 5G satellite access
### 6.12.1 Description
This is a candidate solution for Key Issues 1, 2 and 10.
The main objectives of this solution are as follows:
\- Minimize 5GCN impact by presenting UE access as being provided from fixed
cells and TAs similar to existing access for NR and LTE;
\- Confine mobility aspects of satellite access caused by movement of NGSO
satellites to the NG-RAN;
\- Enable satellite access using NR or other radio access techniques (e.g.
CDMA) with minimal impacts to 5GCN -- similar to support of both LTE and NR
access via NG-RAN;
\- Support regulatory requirements (e.g. emergency services, lawful intercept
(LI) and wireless emergency alerts (WEA)) in the same manner as for
terrestrial 3GPP access from the perspective of 5GCN and external clients;
\- Support operational requirements (such as charging) in the same manner as
for terrestrial 3GPP access from the perspective of 5GCN;
\- Ensure that the UE uses the Core Network of the country in which the UE is
physically located.
The solution envisages satellite operation which is transparent or
regenerative and where ground stations control UL and DL transmission. Figure
6.X.1-1 shows the assumed architecture. Here, a Satellite Node B (sNB) in the
NG-RAN provides the N2 interface to one or more AMFs. An sNB can include
either a single ground station or several ground stations which act as DUs
using an sNB central unit (sNB-CU). Note that an sNB is not the same as a gNB
though some functions may be common and a gNB might be enhanced to also act as
an sNB. Note also that a ground station needs not be dedicated to 5G NR access
only and could support other types of satellite communication and broadcast.
This solution is valid for 5G satellite access with large or moving radio
coverage.
NOTE: Large coverage is defined in the context of this solution as satellite
beam radio coverage spanning more than one country.
Figure 6.12.1-1: Architecture for support of 5G Satellite Access with large or
moving coverage
Assuming 5G satellite access using NR with minimal change to accommodate the
higher latency and possibly narrower bandwidth, 5G satellite access may either
be treated as a new sub-type of NR or, alternatively, as a new RAT (e.g. as
described for Solution 2). The solution envisaged here can support either
alternative.
The solution assumes that the UEs can determine their own position and that
this position can be also determined by the NG-RAN. Further, the satellite
coverage would be mapped with satellite cells as close as technically feasible
to the national borders of countries.
Two different approaches for this solution are envisioned:
  * a first approach, based on "virtual cells", with a regular mapping of the satellite coverage, possibly with adjustments of this mapping as close as technically feasible to the national borders of countries. For this approach, additional cell description would be broadcast on the SIB;
  * a second approach, based on "geographical zones", with an irregular mapping of the satellite radio coverage, as close as technically feasible to the national borders of countries and allowing for variable sizes of satellites cells. UEs would have to be aware of the zone descriptions (as a vertex of latitude and longitude). The description of the zones could be stored in the UEs and could be updated as needed by the PLMN.
These approaches are described in the following sub-clauses.
NOTE: It is expected that TSG-RAN will select and specify in details the
appropriate approach for definition of cells during the normative phase.
Both approaches assume that cells in different countries use different
Tracking Area Identifiers (e.g. different TA Codes and/or different PLMN IDs).
For both approaches, satellite beam sizes can vary and the case of one cell
per satellite with varying beam size for a beam spanning more than one country
or with moving coverage can be also considered.
Editor's Note : mobility aspects regarding handover between satellite cells
are FFS and depend on RAN WGs decisions.
#### 6.12.1.1 Virtual Cells approach
In the description below, treatment as a new sub-type of NR is assumed
(although most of the description applies when one or more new RATs are
defined).
PLMN operators divide a coverage area (e.g. for an entire country, a region or
multiple countries) into fixed cells with well-defined geographic boundaries
just as for normal cellular operation. The cells are virtual and do not
correspond to actual RF coverage from any satellites or to existing cells for
terrestrial NR access. The cells may be defined with reference to an array of
grid points, as shown in Figure 6.12.1.1-1 for a rectangular array defining
square or rectangular cells and in Figure 6.12.1.1-2 for a hexagonal array
(with alternately staggered rows and columns) defining hexagonal cells. A
serving cell for any UE would then be defined by the cell associated with the
grid point which is closest to the current UE location. The definition of the
cells may be closely aligned to the national borders of a country.
Figure 6.12.1.1-1: Virtual Cells defined by a rectangular array of grid points
Figure 6.12.1.1-2: Virtual Cells defined by a hexagonal array of grid points
Virtual cells are preferred to reuse of existing cells (for existing
terrestrial NR coverage) because the coverage areas for existing cells may be
difficult to precisely define in a simple manner, will typically overlap with
one another and will not normally exist for areas outside a PLMN operator
licensed coverage area. Similarly, while virtual cells might be defined
without grid points (e.g. by defining two sets of parallel lines in two
different (e.g. orthogonal) directions to define cell boundaries), use of grid
points is preferred due to simplicity and conciseness of definition and
ability to determine a serving cell for any UE using just one simple test.
Virtual cells can be grouped into virtual TAs which include only virtual cells
or may be assigned to existing terrestrial TAs in areas where these are
defined. A benefit of virtual TAs is that paging of a UE in CM IDLE state can
be restricted to either sNBs and satellites only or terrestrial gNBs only when
the current TA for a UE is either a virtual TA or an existing terrestrial TA,
respectively. A benefit of existing terrestrial TAs is that a UE in CM IDLE
state can camp on either a 5G satellite or terrestrial gNB, and can move from
one to other, without needing to reregister with the 5GCN. It is thus proposed
that both alternatives be allowed with a PLMN operator deciding which type(s)
to deploy.
Grid point locations (e.g. lat/long) are broadcast by satellites (e.g. using a
new Satellite System Information Block (SSIB)) together with their associated
cell IDs, TAIs and PLMN IDs (MCC, MNC). The information can be compressed when
inter-grid point spacing and orientation remains fixed and when cell IDs and
TAIs (in the case of virtual TAs) change in simple predictable ways (e.g.
where cell IDs change by fixed increments between adjacent grid points).
A UE periodically updates its location and determines a serving virtual cell
by association with the closest grid point. Due to the necessity for good
satellite signal reception, UEs will normally be outdoors and able to use
accurate GNSS based location -- though can supplement this using inertial
sensors and RAT dependent location including from NR, LTE and future (to be
developed) 5G satellite positioning. When a UE is close to an international
border, the UE may first determine the country (e.g. if additional information
is broadcast by a satellite defining the locations of an international border)
and then determine the closest grid point in the same country. This two steps
process can be reduced to one step if extra grid points are assigned to each
virtual cell on either side of a border (e.g. grid points on either side of
and equidistant from a border at say 100-500 meter intervals). In this case,
the closest grid point to a UE will generally be in the same country as the
UE. The grid points and associated virtual cells and TAs can be extended to
cover international areas such as oceans and polar regions. The virtual cells
and TAs in the international case may be associated with a nearby country
and/or with the home country of any UE (e.g. using special MCC-MNC code to
signify the home PLMN of any UE). Virtual cells and virtual TAs can also be
associated with several PLMNs just as for real 5G cells and TAs, to permit sNB
sharing by multiple PLMNs. Because different PLMNs may prefer to use different
cell IDs and TAIs, sharing of multiple PLMNs may follow one of these options:
\- Option 1: A common set of virtual cells and virtual TAs (with associated
common cell IDs and TAIs) is shared by all PLMNs with only the PLMN MNCs (and
possibly MCCs) being different;
\- Option 2: A common set of virtual cells (defined by grid points) is shared
by all PLMNs but cell IDs and/or TAIs are different for each PLMN;
\- Option 3: Each PLMN has its own set of virtual cells (defined by distinct
sets of grid points) and associated own sets of cell IDs and TAIs.
UE access and mobility can still be supported as described here, but for
options 2 and 3, a UE would first need to select a PLMN prior to determining a
current serving cell and TA. Since all three options appear feasible and
operators may have different preferences, it may be useful to support all
three. However to reduce impacts, Option 1 seems most worth supporting
followed by Option 2.
Each satellite (when providing coverage to a supported PLMN area) can have
radio access to a single ground station for one sNB or to several ground
stations for one or more sNBs, directly or using ISL. This association can be
fixed for GEO satellites and dynamic for NGSO satellites with sNBs interacting
to manage the transfer of each satellite between ground stations and sNBs.
Each satellite broadcasts (e.g. in an SSIB) its currently associated sNB
identity or identities, the locations of ground stations for the sNB(s) which
are accessible from the satellite, and a list of the TAs and corresponding
PLMNs which are currently in coverage from the satellite. (Note that to avoid
providing sensitive ground station location data, a ground station location
can be defined approximately via a virtual cell ID). For any satellite, a PLMN
operator may choose to indicate coverage of TAs which are wholly or mostly
included in the current satellite radio footprint and exclude TAs which are
not included or mostly not included (e.g. as shown by the example for TAs 1-3
in Figure 6.X.1-2). For an NGSO satellite, this information will change as the
satellite moves and is recalculated periodically by an sNB based on satellite
orbital data. A UE accessing the NG-RAN via 5G satellite coverage for the
first time finds an available satellite, receives data on virtual cells,
virtual TAs, sNBs and PLMNs. The UE then determines its current serving
virtual cell, TA and a preferred PLMN and selects the sNB for the selected
PLMN with the closest accessible ground station to the UE (since minimal
distance to a ground station also maximises the probability of combined
coverage by one satellite). The UE then performs registration with the
selected PLMN via the selected sNB. Note that information for the virtual
cells and their TAs only needs to be received once, which will restrict
latency impacts to just the first access.
While the UE remains in CM CONNECTED state, the UE can perform intra-sNB
handovers between satellites under the control of the serving sNB, which is
transparent to the 5GCN. This can operate in a similar manner to cellular
handover for NG-RAN. The UE provides periodic measurements of visible
satellites and possibly different beams for each satellite to the serving sNB.
Measurements for terrestrial gNBs may also be provided. The serving sNB then
determines a new satellite or a new satellite beam for the UE based on the
following objectives for the new satellite or new satellite beam:
\- Improved signal reception at the UE compared to a previous satellite or
previous satellite beam;
\- For a new NGSO satellite, favourable coverage for the current UE location
at current and later times, based on known satellite orbital data, as the
satellite (or satellite beam) coverage footprint moves across the current UE
location; and
\- Ability to access a new satellite from a ground station for the serving sNB
(as well as from the UE).
For a GEO satellite, only the first objective generally needs to be evaluated.
For an NGSO satellite, all objectives should be evaluated since failure to
support any one of them could lead to effective loss of UE coverage. As an
example, a UE in a valley or next to a hill or large building might fail to
receive coverage from a satellite which only satisfied the second and third
objectives. The handover support can be extended by including UE measurements
for terrestrial gNBs and by supporting handover between an sNB and terrestrial
gNB.
When the UE goes into CM IDLE state, the UE camps on any satellite (and
satellite beam) with good signal reception, where the satellite indicates
coverage for the current TA (or at least one TA in the current set of allowed
TAs). The UE is allowed to camp on any new satellite or any new satellite beam
due to movement of the UE or satellite without network interaction as long as
the new satellite (or new satellite beam) indicates coverage for the current
TA (or at least one TA in the current set of allowed TAs). The UE periodically
determines its current virtual cell as described above. A UE performs a new
registration when moving into a new TA. In order to page a UE in CM IDLE
state, the serving AMF sends a paging request to all sNBs supporting the
current UE TA. Each of these sNBs broadcasts the paging request via all
satellites with coverage of this TA. As an option, a PLMN could allow a UE to
assume being in the same TA even when the UE physically moves out of the TA
without needing to re-register with the PLMN -- except when a periodic
registration time expires. With this option, the PLMN can still page the UE
using the previous TA as long as the UE remains camped on a satellite with
coverage for this TA. However, to support WEA and movement into coverage of a
different PLMN or different country, a UE still needs to periodically
determine its current virtual cell.
When the UE enters a TA for a new PLMN, the UE registers with the new PLMN and
disconnects from the old PLMN. The UE may also change from one satellite beam
to another if there is a requirement that any satellite beam is only used
within one country.
SNBs track NGSO satellite movement and change of virtual cell and TA coverage
and update the list of sNB IDs, ground station locations, TAs and PLMNs
broadcast by the satellite.
To support UEs which do not have an accurate location capability and to reduce
initial NG-RAN access delay for a UE with accurate positioning capability, a
serving sNB may position a UE and determine a current virtual cell and TA.
With this arrangement, a UE selects a satellite with good signal reception
which provides access to a preferred PLMN, and establishes a signalling
connection with an sNB associated with this PLMN and accessible from this
satellite. The sNB then positions the UE (e.g. using measurements of timing
advance to the current satellite and/or others and measurements of received
signal power and/or AOA at the UE and/or at the sNB). The positioning only
needs to determine a current TA for the UE initially, although cellular
accuracy may be useful or necessary later for some regulatory services. The
sNB then returns the TA to the UE, allowing the UE to perform an initial or
new registration. While the UE remains in CM CONNECTED state, the sNB can
control UE handover to new satellites as described above. When the UE enters
CM IDLE state, the UE can assume that it remains within the current TA even if
that is not the case, since the current TA is mainly used to determine when to
reregister and to page the UE, both of which continue to work even when the UE
leaves the current TA. When the UE again establishes a signalling connection
with an sNB (e.g. to reregister), the sNB can again position the UE and assign
a new TA. However, in order to support WEA and determine if a UE has moved
into a new PLMN area or new country, a UE without positioning capability would
need to establish an association (e.g. signalling connection) with an sNB
periodically in order to have the sNB determine the current UE location and
associated virtual cell ID and TA. However, such interaction could be reduced
for UEs well within a country and PLMN serving area and would only need to be
frequent for UEs close to the border of a PLMN or country.
The approach as described above supports UE mobility in the same manner as for
terrestrial NR cellular access from the perspective of a 5GCN, which minimizes
new 5GCN impacts. In addition, the approach can support regulatory services
the same as for NG-RAN cellular access as follows.
6.12.1.2 Geographical Zones approach
This approach is based on the following principle:
  * From reference [1], a cell is defined as a "Radio network object that can be uniquely identified by a User Equipment from a (cell) identification that is broadcasted over a geographical area from one UTRAN Access Point. A Cell is either FDD or TDD mode"
  * A Satellite beam radio coverage can be larger than what is acceptable when considering a coverage in particular when considering operational or regulatory requirements;
  * Several cells would be transmitted in the same satellite beam.
  * Geographical zones are defined with geographical borders (with vertices for instances), and their size can be of much smaller size than satellite beam coverage. Zones borders can therefore match operational / regulatory constraints of PLMNs. Each PLMN would define a set of geographical zones to which a UE would be authorized to have access to (a country, areas within this country for instance).
  * UEs are provided with the information of the Geographical Zones (geographical definition). This information may already be available to a UE at log on, or a UE be provided with updates of this information by the PLMN.
  * The cell / selection process within a satellite access is based on the existing procedure, as for terrestrial networks, and thus on the broadcast on SIB of the cells that are available (including the PLMN information) (all with the same quality since they are in the same satellite radio coverage), as well as on the location of the UE :
    * The UE determines its own location;
    * Based the on the knowledge of its location and the definition of the set of geographical zones that are authorized, the UE would select the it can have access to.
  * For NG-RANs embarked on NGSO satellite constellations:
    * The proposed approach is not influenced by the nature of the NG-RAN.
  * For NG-RAN backhauled by satellite transport link:
    * The same principle would apply for backhauling with a 3GPP satellite access.
As cells are fixed, Transfer of N1/N2/N3 reference points between NG-RANs and
5CNs would be based on the association of cells with TAs and RAs (with an
Inter-satellite Link transport for 5CNs out of reach of NG-RANs). An example
of the approach is provided in the figure below 6.X.1-1:
  * 3 PLMNs (U,V,W) are each and respectively serving Countries A,B and C. The radio coverage of the beam used by the PLMNs used to provide coverage over these countries covers these three countries at the same time.
  * The radio coverage of the PLMNs within the satellite beam of concern has been planned as follows:
    * Cells #U1, #U2 provide coverage for country A and PLNM U,
    * Cells #V1, #V2, #V#3 provide coverage for country B and PLMN V,
    * Cell #W1, #W2 provide coverage for country C and PLMN W.
  * As a direct mapping can be made between the Cell & the PLMN, it is possible for a satellite Earth station providing connectivity to the satellite access to transfer the N1 (as well as N2/N3 interface for NG-RANs embarked on satellites) towards the adequate NG-RAN (5CN for embarked NG-RANs).
**Figure 6.12.1.2-1: Example of cell allocations for a supranational satellite
radio beam coverage**
The following figure illustrates how UE located in country C would be served
by PLMN#W serving country C:
**Figure 6.12.1.2-2: Architecture of PLNMs using the same satellite access and
radio beam supra national coverage**
### 6.12.2 Procedures
#### 6.12.2.1 Mobility Procedures
Existing 5GCN procedures for mobility management in 3GPP TS 23.502 (e.g.
including Registration, Service Request, Paging and Handover) should be
reusable for 5G satellite access without new impacts at a NAS level. From a
5GCN perspective. an NG-RAN coverage area is extended by a new set of
satellite cells (e.g. according to one of the approaches previously described)
which the 5GCN can treat as normal NR cells.
NG-RAN procedures applicable to a UE and sNB would be impacted to support the
following:
> \- Cell, TA and PLMN selection by a UE;
>
> \- Handover of an NGSO satellite between sNBs;
>
> \- Handover of a UE from one satellite to another satellite with or without
> change of a serving sNB;
>
> \- Optional Cell and TA determination for a UE by a serving sNB.
In addition, according to the selected approach (virtual cell or geographical
cell approach), the following is considered:
\- In both cases:
\- A UE would be able to determine its position;
\- For certain regulatory services, e.g. emergency services and LI, the sNB
would have to determine the location of the UE as well;
\- For the Virtual cell approach:
\- new types of broadcast data would need to be supported for each satellite
(e.g. in a SIB or SSIB):
\- Fixed Virtual Cell and TA Data (e.g. grid point locations and associated
cell IDs, TAIs and PLMN IDs):
\- Fixed (GEO) or Dynamic (NGSO) satellite association with TAs, sNBs and
ground station locations.
\- For the Geographical Zones approach:
\- Geographical Zones should be defined with geographical vertex by the PLMN;
\- UEs shall be provided and store the corresponding geographical zones it is
authorised to have access to;
\- The cell/selection procedure should be modified to account for the UE
position and the zones geographic definition.
In addition, mechanisms are needed to overcome any AMF that allocates multi-
country TAI lists without authorisation of all the involved countries:
1) In idle mode, at every RRC Connection Establishment (both for Service
Request and Registration) and every RRC Resume/Re-establishment, the NG-RAN
checks whether the "new cell's" country matches the country associated with
the AMF Set ID and AMF Pointer fields within the 5G-S-TMSI.\ \ When a mis-
match is found, the new N2 connection is routed to an AMF in the new country.
The new AMF should then treat the situation as any other unknown 5G-S-TMSI and
e.g. perform identification and authentication procedures.
2) In CONNECTED mode, before performing "intra Earth Station" handover for a
moving UE, the NG-RAN functionality in the Earth Station detects if this
involves a PLMN or country change. If the handover would lead to such a
change, the Earth Station can be configured to either attempt N2 handover to
the new cell (which should lead to inter-PLMN, inter-AMF handover in the core
networks), or, to trigger N2 and Uu release (with a new N2 cause value such as
"UE moved across a national border") anticipating that the UE will reselect a
cell in the new PLMN and perform a Registration Update from IDLE.
3) The Core Network operators sharing the Earth Station may need to co-
ordinate so that they use 5G-S-TMSIs with distinct AMF Set IDs/Pointers.
Editor's Note: solutions for when the UE is in an aeronautical or maritime
location are FFS.
Editor's Note: how to enable per-country, UE specific prohibition of NTN
access when the Satellite System is using the same MCC+MNC in multiple
countries is FFS.
To support the correct routing of emergency calls:
4) At every N2 connection setup (and in other N2-AP messages), the NG-RAN
provides the UE's current cell ID to the Core Network. The Cell ID should be
associated with a sufficiently small geographic area to allow configuration
data within the core network to correctly select a PSAP.
#### 6.12.2.2 Emergency Calls
It is anticipated that existing "network provided UE location" functionality
can be reused provided that the Cell ID sent in N2 signalling procedures is
associated with a sufficiently small geographic area to allow configuration
data within the core network to correctly select a PSAP.
Once RRC Security has been established, other 3GPP (and/or Over The Top and/or
SMS-based) positioning techniques and signalling can be used to determine the
UE's position more accurately.
In addition, in case of satellite cells (whether associated with virtual cells
or geographical zones), a UE would include the current satellite serving cell
ID in a SIP INVITE request sent to an IMS in the serving PLMN. The IMS can use
the satellite serving cell ID to route the emergency services call to a local
PSAP and as an initial approximate UE location. A PLMN operator can arrange
for virtual cell areas to be small enough to be normally contained within the
serving area of one PSAP -- thereby defining the routing.
#### 6.12.2.3 Lawful interception by the UE's visited country
Provided that the NG-RAN/Earth Station can guarantee that the UE is always
using the core network associated with the country where the UE is located,
then existing LI functionality should be able to be reused.
As a basic approach, as intra-country, intra-Earth-Station mobility would not
normally be reported to the AMF, and the Earth Station's coverage may
represent a very large geographic area, it can be anticipated that extra
location reporting to the core network is required. Two potential solutions
are:
a) The AMF uses "RAT-Type = satellite" to trigger location reporting of all
cell changes (for all UEs) to the AMF;
b) The Earth Station is configured to automatically send location reports for
all cell changes (for all UEs) to the core network.
In case of satellite cells (whether associated with virtual cells or
geographical zones), a 5GCN can include satellite cells (whether associated
with virtual cells or geographical zones), ID as part of the LI data collected
for a UE which will enable an LI client to treat data collected for 5G
satellite access the same as data collected for NR or LTE access. Triggers can
also be set up for LI based on UE change of virtual serving cell ID or entry
into or exit from an area of interest composed of a number of satellite cells
(whether associated with virtual cells or geographical zones). For example,
the NGAP Location Reporting Control procedure in 3GPP TS 23.502 can be used
between a serving AMF and serving sNB to collect LI related location data for
a UE.
#### 6.12.2.4 Public Warning System
The NG-RAN functionality in the Earth Station is expected to need extension to
operate with different geographically distinct PWS messages coming from
different CN nodes.
For WEA, a 5GCN can assign WEA messages that are received from a Government or
other authority to one or more satellite cells (whether associated with
virtual cells or geographical zones) in the same way as WEA messages are
assigned to real cells for NR and LTE access. The WEA messages can then be
broadcast in a SIB or SSIB in association with the assigned cells. Three
options for broadcast would be possible:
> \- Option A: A SIB or SSIB is broadcast by a satellite for each cell in each
> TA within the current coverage area of the satellite. This cell associated
> SIB contains one or more WEA messages that have been assigned to the cell;
>
> \- Option B: A single SIB or SSIB broadcasts all WEA messages for all TAs
> within the current coverage area of the satellite. Each WEA message includes
> the specific cell IDs for which it is applicable;
>
> \- Option C: All WEA messages are broadcast one time only in a common SIB
> (or SSIB) with a reference ID for each WEA message. For each cell, there is
> a separate broadcast (e.g. SSIB) containing the WEA reference IDs applicable
> to that cell.
Option A is analogous to current WEA support for real cells but is
inefficient. Option B is more efficient but may increase UE impacts. Option C
is in between.
#### 6.12.2.5 Charging / Customer Notifications
Incorporation of Cell ID and RAT Type on the CDRs and in signalling messages
used for on-line charging may be sufficient for customer charging.
The use of distinct TA Codes for terrestrial and satellite-based coverage
should, if needed, enable existing APIs to be used to generate appropriate SMS
message to inform customers.
### 6.12.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In addition to the impacts highlighted above, for both approaches the
following impacts are needed:
\- UE:
\- Satellite, cell, TA and PLMN selection for 5G satellite access based on
current UE location;
\- UE shall have the capability to locate itself.
NOTE: For the solution associated with geographical zones, the UE shall have
the capability to store the definition of geographical zones associated with
PLMNs.
\- sNB:
\- Handover of NGSO satellites between sNBs;
\- Handover of a UE between satellites;
\- Control of UL/DL satellite transmission for both ground stations and UEs;
\- Dynamic assignment of TAs to NGSO satellites;
\- Position determination of UEs for trusted location service for some
services.
\- AMF:
\- No new impacts at a NAS level for mobility management.
NOTE: For the solution associated with geographical zones, the AMF shall have
the capability to provide the geographical zones associated with the UE.
### 6.12.4 Solution evaluation
This Candidate Solution is proposed for 5G satellite access with large or
moving radio coverage.
This Candidate Solution introduces the definition and usage of Satellite cells
and the support needed from UEs and sNBs. Satellite Cells are defined as
Virtual Cells, or standard cells in association with the use of geographical
zones that are stored with UEs. In both cases the main assumption is that the
UE has access to its position.
In addition, sNBs need to contain mobility management functions related to the
management of satellites, particularly NGSO satellites, and the support of
mobility management for UEs. While sNBs may be added to NG-RAN, procedures in
3GPP TS 23.502 (and 3GPP TS 38.300) will need to differ from an NG-RAN and UE
perspective.
The solution has the following benefits:
> \- Mobility Management procedures are not impacted at a NAS level;
>
> \- Support for regulatory services (emergency calls, LI and WEA) is aligned
> with that for NR and E-UTRA connected to 5GCN from the perspective of a UE,
> 5GCN and external client;
>
> \- Impacts to the UE and NG-RAN are restricted to managing new types of
> handover for NGSO satellites, mapping satellite coverage to Satellite cells
> and TAs and cell, TA and PLMN selection for UEs.
The solution supports and resolves key issues #1, #2 and #10.
For Key Issue #1, the solution supports 5G satellite access and mobility
management with large satellite coverage areas as described above. Answers to
points 1-10 in clause 5.1.1 are as follows:
> 1\. Whether existing Connection Management mechanisms can be reused for a UE
> accessing 5GC via satellite 3GPP access?
>
> Answer: Yes as described above.
>
> 2\. How is UE reachability (paging) handled within the large satellite
> coverage area?
>
> Answer: paging is handled as for a normal terrestrial TA as described above.
>
> 3\. What is the relation between satellite coverage areas and the 5G system
> Tracking/Registration Area?
>
> Answer: a satellite coverage area can include all or part of new Satellite
> TAs or existing terrestrial TAs.
>
> 4\. Whether a UE can access 5GC via satellite access and terrestrial access
> simultaneously? And how?
>
> Answer: not explicitly addressed but the treatment of 5G satellite access as
> an extension to 3GPP NG-RAN access would allow simultaneous 5G satellite
> access and WLAN access. Simultaneous 5G satellite access and terrestrial NR
> or LTE access also seems possible -- e.g. if 5G satellite access is assigned
> a new RAT (or RATs).
>
> 5\. How does a UE select between satellite and terrestrial access within a
> PLMN?
>
> Answer: not explicitly addressed, but could be similar to selection between
> terrestrial NR and LTE.
>
> 6\. How is idle mode mobility between satellite and terrestrial access
> performed?
>
> Answer: partially addressed -- the UE camps on an accessible 5G satellite
> serving a current TA and can move to camping on a terrestrial gNB supporting
> the same TA. The reverse type of transfer is also supported.
>
> 7\. How is connected mode mobility between satellite and terrestrial access
> performed?
>
> Answer: partially addressed -- a serving sNB controls handover between
> satellites and from an sNB to a gNB. A gNB could support handover to an sNB
> or to a satellite accessible from the gNB if enhanced with sNB capability.
>
> 8\. Which country specific regulatory requirements affect the architecture
> design, and how are they enforced?
>
> Answer: country specific regulatory requirements can be supported in the
> same way as for terrestrial NR access. Verification (e.g. of a current UE
> location) might need to be an additional network function. As indicated in
> the geographical cell description, this could be performed through the sNB
> of the NG-RAN providing a trusted location function of UEs.
>
> 9\. Whether any changes are needed for charging in roaming situations?
>
> Answer: not addressed and can be evaluated separately.
For Key Issue #2, the solution supports 5G satellite access and mobility
management with moving satellite coverage areas as described above. Answers to
the points in clause 5.2.1 are as follows:
\- Whether existing Connection Management mechanisms can be reused for a UE
accessing 5GC via satellite 3GPP access?
Answer: yes, as described.
\- What are the functional impacts on the 5G CN when considering a satellite
access with moving coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
Answer: on-board satellite gNBs are not needed and were not evaluated.
Functional impacts to the 5G CN with separate sNBs can be zero or very low at
a NAS level for mobility management.
\- What are the impacts on the definition and on the management of Tracking
Areas and Registration Areas as well as on mobility management when
considering a satellite access with mobile coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
Answer: existing TAs can be extended to include new Satellite cells.
Alternatively, new Satellite TAs can be defined composed of Satellite cells.
Management of these by the 5G CN can be the same as for existing terrestrial
TAs.
\- What are the requirements on the satellite access with mobile coverage
areas and on-board gNBs to limit the impact on the 5G CN and on the UE?
Answer: on-board satellite gNBs are not needed and were not evaluated. The
solution limits 5G CN and UE impacts for mobility management. However, new UE
impacts are needed to manage Satellite cell selection and reselection.
\- How is UE reachability (paging) handled in case of moving satellite access
coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
Answer: The solution supports UE reachability via paging as described above.
Paging can be supported with zero (or very low) new impact to the 5G CN.
\- What are the impacts to idle mode mobility with moving satellite coverage
areas and on-board gNBs?
Answer: The solution supports UE idle mode mobility as described above \--
which does require some new UE impacts.
\- What are the impacts to connected mode mobility with moving satellite
coverage areas and on-board gNBs?
Answer: The solution supports UE connected mode mobility as described above --
and with impacts to an sNB.
\- Whether a UE can access 5GC via satellite access and terrestrial access
simultaneously? And how?
> Answer: not explicitly addressed but the treatment of 5G satellite access as
> an extension to 3GPP NG-RAN access would allow simultaneous 5G satellite
> access and WLAN access. Simultaneous 5G satellite access and terrestrial NR
> or LTE access also seems possible -- e.g. if 5G satellite access is assigned
> a new RAT (or RATs).
The solution addresses Key Issue #10 by supporting regulatory services in the
same way as for terrestrial NR access. Answers to the points in clause 5.10.1
are as follows:
a) When required, how to ensure that the UE is using a core network of the
country in which the UE is physically located?
Answer: the solution requires and enables UE access to a PLMN in the same
country as the UE. This can be enforced via UE location from an sNB or PLMN on
initial access, reregistration or when a regulatory service is invoked.
Moreover, the cells in the different countries can use different Tracking Area
Identifiers (e.g. different TA Codes and/or different PLMN IDs).
b) How to select a core network when the UE is in an aeronautical or maritime
location?
Answer: The solution supports access from international maritime areas.
Aeronautic access was not considered but should be possible in a similar
manner to terrestrial access.
c) If the satellite system is using the same MCC+MNC in multiple countries,
how to enable per-country, UE specific prohibition of satellite access?
Answer: the solution can provide country specific information to UEs in
association with Satellite cells or TAs. Countries which prohibit satellite
access could have no Satellite cells assigned to them. A UE which determines
not being located in any Satellite cell would then not perform 5G satellite
access.
d) How to route an emergency call to the correct PSAP?
Answer: This is enabled via the serving Satellite cell as described above.
e) How to handle Lawful Interception?
Answer: supported as described above.
f) How to address Public Warning System?
Answer: supported as described above.
g) How to handle charging and tariff notifications?
Answer: not evaluated but would be possible based on serving Satellite cells
and/or Satellite TAs.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Country specific PLMN selection
### 6.13.1 Description
This solution addresses several aspects under Key Issue #10.
Terrestrial network coverage area is typically restricted (with reasonable
accuracy) inside the country that licensed the frequency band. This minimises
the overlap of networks from different countries to only border areas, as
elsewhere there is no coverage from \"foreign\" networks. Based on this
assumption, the current definition of \"country\" in TS 23.122 is based on
network topology observed by the UE:
  * **Country: A country is identified by a single MCC value, with the exception that MCC values 310 through 316 identify a single country (USA) and MCC values 404 through 406 identify a single country (India).**
Possible satellite access deployment case in Figure 5.10.1-1 shows a large
multi-national cell coverage area spanning substantially across country
borders and changing the above assumption.
It is expected that local regulations apply in each country and the UE is
expected to register to one of the PLMNs of the country of the UE location.
The following situations are considered in this solution:
\- UE switching on or recovering from lack of coverage situation;
\- UE performing PLMN selection for other reasons;
\- UE registered in VPLMN performing background scanning;
\- CN (AMF) receiving Registration Request from UE that is accessing over
satellite RAT Type.
### 6.13.2 Procedures
#### 6.13.2.1 UE switch on and recovery from lack of coverage situation
Following the current specifications, UE considers all available PLMNs in
priority order, which gives highest priority to HPLMN and the RPLMN even if
the UE has meanwhile moved from one country to another. This means the UE
whose HPLMN is PLMN A of country A will select HPLMN if it is available in the
UE location in country B or C.
To overcome the above problem, if the UE is aware of its present location
inside certain country, the UE should use that knowledge to limit its PLMN
selection to only PLMNs of the country of the present UE location.
In order to get emergency call routed to PSAP of the country of the present UE
location, if the UE is registering for emergency services and if it is aware
of its location in certain country, the UE shall use this knowledge to select
one of the PLMNs in the same country. This allows the selected PLMN to route
emergency calls in a PSAP of the same country as the UE location.
NOTE: It cannot be assumed that all UEs would we aware of their location. Even
if the UE knows its location, the positioning methods, frequency and accuracy
of location measurements are UE implementation dependent.
#### 6.13.2.2 UE performing PLMN selection
Following the current specifications, UE considers all available PLMNs in
priority order, which gives highest priority to HPLMN even if the UE has
meanwhile moved from one country to another. This means the UE whose HPLMN is
PLMN A of country A will select HPLMN if it is available in the UE location in
country B or C.
To overcome the above problem, when performing PLMN selection or initiating
Mobility Registration Update, if the UE is aware of its present location
inside certain country, the UE should use that knowledge to limit its PLMN
selection to only PLMNs of the country of the present UE location.
In order to get emergency call routed to PSAP of the country of the present UE
location, if the UE is registering for emergency services and if it is aware
of its location in certain country, the UE shall use this knowledge to select
one of the PLMNs in the same country. This allows the selected PLMN to route
emergency calls in a PSAP of the same country as the UE location.
NOTE: It cannot be assumed that all UEs would we aware of their location. Even
if the UE knows its location, the positioning methods, frequency and accuracy
of location measurements are UE implementation dependent.
#### 6.13.2.3 UE registered in VPLMN
Following the current specifications, UE registered to VPLMN shall perform
periodic background scanning in attempt to find HPLMN or other higher priority
PLMN (based on HPLMN configuration). As specified in TS 23.122 clause 4.4.3.3,
the UE shall limit its attempts to access higher priority PLMN/access
technology combinations to PLMN/access technology combinations of the same
country as the current serving VPLMN.
Multi-national cell coverage area can span over multiple countries, thus the
\"same country as the current serving VPLMN\" will keep the UE registered in
the same VPLMN even though the UE is moving between countries A, B and C.
This problem can be solved by UE and / or serving network awareness of the UE
location.
If the UE is aware that it has moved away from the country of the current
registered VPLMN, then the UE should use that information to perform
background scanning of higher priority PLMNs among those PLMN candidates that
are available in the country of the present UE location. For example, if the
UE whose HPLMN is PLMN A of country A has registered to VPLMN B in country B,
then upon detecting that the UE has moved to country C, the UE should select
among candidate PLMNs broadcasting MCC of country C.
NOTE: It cannot be assumed that all UEs would be aware of their location. Even
if the UE knows its location with reasonable accuracy to determine its
location inside certain country, the positioning methods, frequency and
accuracy of location measurements are UE implementation dependent.
#### 6.13.2.4 AMF processing of Registration Request from UE accessing over
satellite
The network should verify the UE location during registration procedure over
satellite access, as it cannot be guaranteed that the UE would always be aware
of its present location. When the UE accessing over satellite RAT Type
initiates Registration Procedure, the AMF can trigger UE positioning procedure
to verify that the UE is accessing PLMN in the same country as the present UE
location. The AMF verifies all registration criteria as usual, but with the
additional verification whether the PLMN selected by the UE matches with the
country of the UE location.
If UE is attempting to register to PLMN of different country than the present
UE location, the AMF responds with REGISTRATION REJECT, including suitable
cause value to tell the UE that the selected PLMN is not allowed in the
present UE location. Based on the UE location, the AMF may also include a hint
of country code (MCC) or list of PLMN codes (MCC+MNC) or list of PLMN + RAT
codes (MCC+MNC+RAT).
In order to ensure the call being routed to a PSAP of the country of the UE
location, the AMF shall take the same approach if the UE is requesting
emergency registration in a country that is different from the UE location.
After Registration Reject indicating PLMN not allowed in the present UE
location, the UE attempts to select another PLMN, using the hint received from
the rejecting PLMN, and the UE memorises the PLMN that is not allowed in the
present county for as long as the UE remains in that country.
#### 6.13.2.5 UE mobility in connected mode
The UE needs not initiate Registration Updates in connected mode. This opens
up the possibility that the UE might move from one country to another while in
connected mode. This case could be addressed either by UE verifying its
location periodically, or the network positioning the UE periodically, or
both.
The UE and network policy for such periodic verification of the UE location
within the country of the RPLMN is implementation specific.
### 6.13.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
UE needs the following enhancements:
\- Optionally, if the UE is aware of its location in certain country (by
whatever means), the UE limits its PLMN selection to PLMNs broadcasting MCC of
that country;
\- If the UE receives REGISTRATION REJECT message indicating that the
requested PLMN is not allowed in the present UE location, then the UE attempts
to select another PLMN instead. The UE may take the MCC hint received from the
network into account in this fallback to another PLMN of the indicated MCC.
AMF needs the following enhancements:
\- Based on detecting that the UE has initiated registration procedure over
satellite access, the AMF requests for UE positioning;
\- In addition to the existing criteria, the AMF also considers the UE
location information when determining whether to allow the registration or
not;
\- If the UE is attempting to register to a PLMN or a country that does not
match the present UE location, the AMF responds with REGISTRATION REJECT,
including cause value indicating that the selected PLMN is not allowed in the
present UE location. The AMF may optionally add a hint of MCC or PLMN ID
(MCC+MNC) or PLMN and RAT (MCC+MNC+RAT).
NOTE: It is expected that TSG RAN develops positioning methods that are
suitable for satellite access.
### 6.13.4 Solution evaluation
Solution #13 ensures that in optimal case, the UE that is aware of its
location selects among the PLMNs of the country of the present UE location. It
also triggers the UE to change PLMN when it changes country.
If the UE is not aware of its location within certain country, Solution #13
allows the network to enforce the UE registration to PLMNs of the country of
UE location.
## 6.14 Solution #14: Mobility and QoS with Satellite Access
### 6.14.1 Description
Key issue #4 "QoS with satellite access" considers introduction of a satellite
access in the 5G system that will induce a larger latency in the delivery of
the information than in terrestrial cases due to the distance of the
satellites above the surface of Earth.
Specifically, the key issue addresses the following points:
  *   * What are the impacts on the QoS of a 5GS when introducing a satellite access?
  * What are the functional nodes and procedures in the 5GS to be updated to take into account these impacts, if any?
Key issue #5 "QoS with satellite backhaul" focuses on the use of satellite
connectivity as backhaul between terrestrial RAN nodes and terrestrial CN
nodes, since such connection may not be able to provide appropriate QoS for
all flows. For instance, ultra-low latency (e.g. using 5QI = 81, with Packet
Delay Budget of 5 ms) may be required but the satellite may not be able to
support it.
Specifically the key issue addresses the following points:
\- What are the impacts on the 5G System QoS in case of using satellite
backhaul?
\- What are the functional nodes and procedures in the 5GS to be updated to
take into account these impacts, if any?
The proposed solution addresses the following issues specifically:
\- in idle mode mobility, how do we avoid that a UE that has active PDU
sessions requiring QoS that cannot be supported by an NTN RAT or a terrestrial
RAT with satellite backhaul selects an inappropriate cell?
\- when a UE moves between RATs, how do we ensure that the selected target RAT
supports the required QoS for the UE PDU sessions? E.g. that the selected
target cell is not an NTN RAT or a terrestrial RAT supporting satellite
backhaul when the QoS has strict latency requirements?
The proposed solution is based on the following aspects:
\- In handover procedures, the solution proposes that QoS is considered when
performing the handover and that RAN considers this. E.g., the target RAN node
is selected considering necessary QoS, and satellite RAT or terrestrial RAT
with satellite backhaul is not selected as target; alternatively, the selected
target RAN node rejects the handover if backhaul is satellite, assuming that
source RAN node may not be aware of target RAT backhaul.
NOTE: it is assumed that no Xn handover is defined for satellite-terrestrial
RAT handover.
\- In IDLE mode mobility, if the UE has PDU sessions that have a QoS that
cannot be satisfied by a satellite link or satellite backhaul, the CN may
assign to the UE an RFSP that does not allow the UE to camp on an satellite
RAT cell.
\- When UE selects a cell for resource establishment, if the selected cell is
a satellite RAT, or a terrestrial RAT with SAT backhaul, and the required QoS
cannot be satisfied, the solution proposes that the network redirects or
handovers the UE to an appropriate target RAN node (if available) before
establishment of radio resources. As an example (to be determined by RAN
groups):
\- Target RAN node receives N2 container and determines QoS cannot be
guaranteed;
\- Target RAN node does not establish the user plane resources (e.g. does not
establish DRBs or does not schedule the UE), and triggers measurement reports
to select an appropriate target RAN node;
\- Other aspects of SR procedure are not modified.
### 6.14.2 Procedures
No new procedures are required. Handovers procedures will consider the type of
target RAT (e.g. satellite for a handover from terrestrial RAT to satellite
RAT) and the QoS requirement of active data flows when selecting the target
node. This requires standardization in RAN groups and is dependent on RAN
decisions.
### 6.14.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following impacts are foreseen:
\- RAN: RAN nodes consider among other aspects the current QoS requirements
for the ongoing data flow and the type of target RAT node candidates (NTN or
not) when deciding the target RAT node for a handover.
There is no impact to SA2 specifications.
### 6.14.4 Solution evaluation
The solution based on RFSP for idle mode camping has no normative impact and
is based on implementation solutions in the AMF in terms of determining the
appropriate RFSP. An RFSP-based only solution is not sufficient in all cases,
and thus a joint solution for redirecting the UE is also required.
The aspects of the solution based on redirecting/handing over the UE re-use
existing procedures. Possible changes to the DRB handling and resource
scheduling before the UE is redirected to another RAT may require further
discussion in RAN groups.
###
###
###
###
# 7 Overall evaluation
## 7.1 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #1 - Mobility management with
large satellite coverage areas
For Key Issue #1 - \" Mobility management with large satellite coverage areas
\" two Candidate Solutions have been proposed, Candidate solutions #1 and #12
all serve the purpose of mitigating the large coverage areas of satellite
access, whether at global scale (for NGSO satellite systems with embarked NG-
RAN) or generated by large radio coverage by satellite beams. These two
Candidates solutions address directly or indirectly the items raised by the
Key Issues.
Candidate Solution #1 "Position-based and fixed TA Satellite Access" requires
satellites capable of projecting static coverage area on Earth surface, with
fixed beams with respect to ground (for NGSO or GEO satellites). Satellite
capabilities are however outside of the scope of 3GPP specifications.
Candidate Solution #1 requires the satellite NG RAN to be able to dynamically
change the SIB. The size of the satellite coverage is also a factor which
impose constraints on the satellite definition and could imply the
introduction of positioning functionalities in the satellite network. For the
UE position determination, a position determination mechanism may be needed
for mobility management should the beam size of the satellite be larger than
the cell size. This mechanism would be used to determine the cell and
associated TA, and would be transparent to the mobility management procedures.
Candidate Solution #12 "Satellite cells for 5G satellite access with large or
moving radio coverage" introduces the definition and usage of Satellite cells
and the support needed from UEs and sNBs. Satellite Cells are defined as
Virtual Cells, or standard cells in association with the use of geographical
zones that are stored with UEs.
In both cases the main assumption is that the UE has access to its position.
In both cases a minimum of CellID, unless more refined location is available
(e.g. Geo-Coordinates) remains the location information that may be used for
operations & management services, for location service and for regulatory
services. The size and shape of the satellite cell / geographical zones remain
the determining acceptability parameter.
## 7.2 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #2 - Mobility Management with
moving satellite coverage areas
For Key Issue #2 - \" Mobility Management with moving satellite coverage
areas\" four candidate solutions have been proposed, Candidate solutions #1,
#7 and #9 all serve the purpose of mitigating the Mobility Registration Update
signalling from UEs that are camping on satellite cell on non-geostationary
orbit. Candidate Solution #8 proposes to re-use existing Registration
Management and Connection Management mechanisms.
Candidate Solutions #1 and #9 require satellites capable of projecting static
coverage area on Earth surface. Solution #7 and #8 do not require static
coverage area. This difference in the satellite capabilities is outside of the
scope of 3GPP specifications.
Candidate Solution #1 is the simplest candidate solution for the UE and the
CN, but it requires the satellite NG RAN to be able to dynamically change the
SIB.
Candidate Solution #7 is transparent for the gNB, but it adds the requirement
for the UE and AMF to use sequenced List of Registration Areas instead of just
a single RA.
Candidate Solution #8 does nott eliminate the Mobility Updates signalling from
the UE, but it can mitigate the NG-AP message introduced by the movement of
the NGSO satellite. This solution has requirements on either network
deployment or new AMF agent functionality.
Candidate Solution #9 is a superset of Candidate Solution #1 that adds more
functionality, such as the duplication of radio parameters and Inter-Satellite
Link (ISL). Some aspects, such as duplication of radio parameters (radio
frequencies + SIB) is in RAN area, so SA2 cannot evaluate candidate solution
#9 without input from the RAN groups.
## 7.3 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #3 - Delay in satellite
This clause provides evaluation of Candidate Solution(s) for Key Issue #3.
Candidate Solution #10 addresses completely Key Issue #3 and provides a
solution to address the delays introduced by satellite links.
NOTE: It is expected that the final determination of the values of extended
timers is left to stage 3 work.
## 7.4 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #4 - QoS with satellite access
This clause provides evaluation of Candidate Solution(s) for Key Issue #4.
Candidate Solution #2 that introduces new 3GPP radio access technologies for
satellite access (RAT Type) is an enabler that provides the basis for several
aspects related Key Issue #4. SMF and PCF need the awareness of QoS
properties, such as delay caused by LEO, MEO and GEO orbits. This can be
provided by the introduction of the new RAT Types as described in Solution #2.
In addition to QoS aspects under this key issue, the detection of satellite
access provided by Solution #2 is also an enabler for solving the following
requirements that may need specific procedures to handle satellite access:
\- Policy Control;
\- Mobility procedures, such as Mobility Restrictions (per RAT Type);
\- Charging specific to satellite access (per RAT Type);
\- Location services for satellite access (discovery of LMF supporting the
appropriate positioning methods);
\- Regulatory requirement (to authorise satellite access, possibly per RAT).
The interfaces of AMF, SMF, PCF, LMF and CHF already include RAT Type
parameter, so re-use of the existing parameter avoids interface updates.
The internal processing rules of the affected nodes already use RAT Type among
other decision criteria, so RAT Type dependent processing rules already exist,
but satellite specific (or orbit specific) processing needs to be added in
each NF as appropriate.
Candidate Solution #14 addresses Key Issue #4 and provides a solution for the
mobility aspects related to the use of satellite as an access.
## 7.5 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #5 - QoS with satellite backhaul
This clause provides evaluation of candidate solutions for Key Issue #5.
Four Candidate Solutions have been proposed:
\- Candidate Solution #3: \"Backhaul triggered QoS adaptation\";
\- Candidate Solution #5: \"QoS control for satellite backhaul scenario\";
\- Candidate Solution #11: \"Backhaul QoS handling based on AMF and UPF
information\";
\- Candidate Solution #14: "Mobility and QoS with Satellite Access"
Candidate Solution #3 is based on the assumption that one or more UPFs are
involved in the setup of PDU session establishment and that a UPF is able to
determine the type of QoS limitations (e.g. latency) that the connections to
AN nodes and/or other UPFs are exhibiting. Candidate solution #3 does not
assume that an AN node has a single type of backhaul and hence it can be used
in other situations, e.g. in case of hybrid backhaul and in case of the use of
multiple UPFs for the same PDU Session. For the case applicable for Solution
#5 , this solution provides the SMF for an method for providing the
appropriate QoS to the PDU Session after a UPF with QoS limitation is selected
during PDU Session Establishment, which requires the SMF to initiates an SM
policy Association modification procedure.
Candidate Solution #5 is based on the assumption that the AMF can be aware of
the backhaul characteristic of the AN during the N2 setup procedure. During a
subsequent PDU Session Establishment this characteristic is then signalled to
the SMF and potentially to the PCF which can use this for providing
appropriate QoS to the PDU Session. This solution is applicable for the
deployment scenario where an AN node has a single type of connection to the
5GC.
Candidate Solution #11 is a combination of Solution #3 and Solution #5.
All candidate solutions require changes to SMF and PCF functionality and to
the service-based interface between SMF and PCF. Candidate Solution #5 further
assumes changes to AMF functionality and to the service based interface
between AMF and SMF. Candidate Solution #3 further assumes changes to UPF
functionality and to the N4 protocol. Solution #14 may require changes to the
AMF functionality and to the interface between AMF and SFM if AMF based
information is available. Candidate Solution #11 may require changes to the
UPF functionality and to the N4 protocol if UPF based information is
available. Candidate Solution #11 combines the two sources of information by
applying them in different phases of the PDU Session Establishment procedure.
Summarizing the above results in the following table.
Table 7.5-1: Summary of evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #5
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Solution | Solution | Solution | Remarks | | | #3 | #5 | #11 | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Applicable | No | Yes | Yes | | | before UPF | | | | | | selection | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Applicable | Yes | No | Yes | | | after UPF | | | | | | selection | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Suitable | Yes | No | Yes | Hybrid | | for hybrid | | | | means a | | backhaul | | | | combination | | | | | | of | | | | | | terrestrial | | | | | | and | | | | | | satellite | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Suitable | Yes | Yes | Yes | | | for | | | | | | multi-UPF | | | | | | deployments | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | No | Yes | Maybe | AMF needs | | AMF needed | | | | to send | | | | | | backhaul | | | | | | info to the | | | | | | SMF, if AMF | | | | | | information | | | | | | is | | | | | | available | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | Yes | Yes | Yes | SMF needs | | SMF needed | | | | to be able | | | | | | to act upon | | | | | | AMF and UPF | | | | | | based | | | | | | information | | | | | | on backhaul | | | | | | QoS and if | | | | | | needed | | | | | | interact | | | | | | with PCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | Yes | Yes | Maybe | PCF needs | | PCF needed | | | | to be able | | | | | | to receive | | | | | | AMF and UPF | | | | | | based | | | | | | information | | | | | | on backhaul | | | | | | QoS and act | | | | | | on this, | | | | | | possibly in | | | | | | combination | | | | | | with AF | | | | | | i | | | | | | nteraction. | | | | | | | | | | | | If PCF is | | | | | | used. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | Yes | No | Maybe | UPF needs | | UPF needed | | | | to send | | | | | | information | | | | | | on QoS | | | | | | Limitation | | | | | | to the SMF, | | | | | | if UPF | | | | | | information | | | | | | is | | | | | | available | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | Yes | No | Maybe | If UPF | | N4 | | | | information | | protoco | | | | is | | l/interface | | | | available. | | needed | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | No | Yes | Maybe | SBI = | | SBI between | | | | Service | | AMF and SMF | | | | Based | | needed | | | | Interface, | | | | | | i.e. it | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | the SBA | | | | | | clients and | | | | | | servers | | | | | | that make | | | | | | use of the | | | | | | SBA | | | | | | ar | | | | | | chitecture, | | | | | | e.g. AMF as | | | | | | SBA client | | | | | | and SMF as | | | | | | SBA server | | | | | | | | | | | | If AMF | | | | | | information | | | | | | is | | | | | | available. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Changes to | Yes | Yes | Maybe | SBI = | | SBI between | | | | Service | | SMF and PCF | | | | Based | | needed | | | | Interface, | | | | | | i.e. it | | | | | | refers to | | | | | | the SBA | | | | | | clients and | | | | | | servers | | | | | | that make | | | | | | use of the | | | | | | SBA | | | | | | ar | | | | | | chitecture, | | | | | | e.g. SMF as | | | | | | SBA client | | | | | | and PCF as | | | | | | SBA server. | | | | | | | | | | | | If PCF is | | | | | | used. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Candidate Solution #14 addresses completely Key Issue #5 and provides a
solution for the mobility aspects related to the use of satellite for
backhaul..
## 7.6 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #6 - RAN mobility with NGSO
regenerative-based satellite access
See Key Issue #1.
## 7.7 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #7 - Multi connectivity with
satellite access
The satellite access is considered as a 3GPP access in SA2, a single
registered UE cannot simultaneously establish multiple PDU sessions via
different 3GPP RATs. Therefore, the multiple PDU sessions scenario described
in KI #7 will not occur, and no solutions are needed.
Dual-connectivity via satellite RAN and terrestrial RAN is a RAN issue, and
RAN has conducted related study, thus SA2 should just follow RAN conclusion.
## 7.8 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #8 - The role of satellite link
in content distribution towards the edge
This clause provides evaluation of Candidate Solutions for Key Issue #7.
A unique Candidate Solution has been proposed:
\- Candidate Solution #6 - Role of satellite backhaul in content distribution
towards the edge. Two approaches are proposed within Solution 6:
\- Approach #A: Uplink classifier based Approach: This approach proposes to
use UL CL standardized in TS 23.501 [6] clause 5.6.4.2 and TS 23.502 [3]
clause 4.3.5.4. A UPF supporting UL CL is selected and diverts the traffic
which matches with traffic filters provided by SMF. This solution should
prevent the satellite link from multiple content transmissions. However, this
approach implies having a permanent PDU session between the UE and the remote
DN, and thus having a satellite link always loaded because of the resource
allocation to each PDU session till their release
\- Approach #B- Multi-homing: A multi-homed approach defined in TS 23.501 [6]
clause 5.6.4.2 and TS 23.502 [3] clause 4.3.5.4 can also be appropriate. The
PDU session is associated to multiple IPv6 prefix and a UPF supporting the
Branching Point functionality is configured by SMF. The Branching Point
provides traffic forwarding toward the PDU session anchors. Thus, one anchor
can route the traffic toward a local DN and the other toward the remote DN.
The evaluation of both approaches indicates that they are based on existing
specifications and should not have any impact on existing specifications.
## 7.9 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #9 -- Multi connectivity with
hybrid satellite/terrestrial backhaul
Topics listed in KI#9 are out of scope of this study. Accordingly no solutions
are proposed for this KI.
## 7.10 Evaluation of solutions for Key Issue #10 - Regulatory services with
super-national satellite ground station
For Key Issue #10 - \" Key Issue #10: Regulatory services with super-national
satellite ground station \". This Key Issue identifies the following aspects
that need to be solved for super-national cell coverage area.
Two candidate solutions have been proposed.
Candidate Solution #12 "Solution 12: Satellite cells for 5G satellite access
with large or moving radio coverage". This solution introduces the definition
and usage of Satellite cells and the support needed from UEs and sNBs. In a
first approach, Satellite Cells are defined as Virtual Cells, whilst in a
second approach satellite cells are defined as standard cells in association
with the use of geographical zones that are sent by the network to the UE and
stored with UEs. In both cases the main assumption is that the UE has access
to its position. This Candidate Solution answers to a) to f) above. It is
understood that charging and tariff notifications (items g) could be possible
based on serving Satellite cells and/or Satellite TAs.
Solution #13" Country specific PLMN selection" Country specific PLMN
selection" allows the UE uses its awareness of its location. If the UE is
aware of its location, it can use this knowledge to select among the PLMNs of
the country of the present UE location. It can also trigger the UE to change
PLMN when it changes country. If the UE is not aware of its location within
certain country, Solution 13 allows the network to enforce the UE registration
to PLMNs of the country of the UE location by rejecting the registration
attempt to PLMN of another country and giving the UE a hint of which MCC PLMNs
to attempt instead. Solution #13 answers to items a -- d) of this Key Issue.
In addition, the same solution helps to solve also item e) as well by ensuring
that the UE is registered to a PLMN of the same country as the present UE
location.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #1
.
Solution #1 does not require any modification of the existing 3GPP
specifications for the 5G-CN. Depending on its implementation it could require
modifications for NG-RAN for UE location. Evaluation of the RAN aspects are
within RAN groups' scope.
Solution #12 needs further evaluation and may need further work in SA2 but has
so far been found fulfil KI#1, but with a different set of properties and
impacts to the 5GSUE, RAN and 5G-CN.
So far, no show stoppers have been found from SA2 related aspects. As RAN
dependencies have been identified in both solution #1 and solution #12, RAN
groups need to evaluate these solutions.
Whether Solution #1 and/or Solution #12 can proceed to normative work is
conditional on the feedback from RAN groups.
NOTE: the same conclusion is agreed for Key Issue #6.
## 8.2 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #2
Key Issue #2 studied Mobility Management with moving satellite coverage area.
3GPP system should adapt to being usable over variety of satellite types
without putting pre-requisite conditions on the capabilities of the
satellites, or the satellite constellation to be used. The system impact on
3GPP system depends on what kind of satellites are used, and therefore, the
following conclusions are made.
Both Solutions #1 and #9 have been identified as having no impacts on the
existing 3GPP specifications of the 5G-CN. It is thus concluded that no
normative work is needed in SA2 for these solutions. Feedback and evaluation
of these solutions has also been requested to the RAN Working Group.
Solutions #7 and #8 have both impacts on the 5G-CN. Dependency with respect to
Moving Tracking Areas in the case of Satellite based RAN has been identified
for these solutions. Before concluding on the normative work for Solution #7
or Solution #8, input from RAN WGs is needed, e.g. if Moving Tracking Areas
would be selected as a basis for normative activity during Rel. 17.
## 8.3 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #3
It is concluded to take Candidate Solution #10 for normative work on this key
issue.
Key Issue #3 is for satellite delay's impact on NAS procedures. Following the
evaluation in clause 6.10, no impacts are identified for LEO and MEO satellite
systems for NAS timers. The Registration procedure needs to be modified for
GEO satellite system to enable the AMF to indicate to the UE, when extended
NAS timers are used in the current Registration Area that the UE shall use in
the current Registration Area.
## 8.4 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #4
Key Issue #4 studied QoS with satellite access. Following the evaluation in
clause 7.4, it is concluded to take Candidate Solution #2 as the baseline for
normative work on this Key Issue
It is also proposed to use Candidate Solution #14 as way forward for KI#4,
depending on decisions to be made by RAN groups with respect to mobility and
QoS.
## 8.5 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #5
It is proposed to use Candidate Solution #11 for the basis of normative work.
For mobility aspects, it is proposed to use Candidate Solution #14 as way
forward for KI#5, depending on decisions to be made by RAN groups with respect
to mobility and QoS.
## 8.6 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #6
Conclusions agreed for Key Issue #1 are also applicable to Key Issue #6.
## 8.7 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #7
Key issue #7 includes study of simultaneous PDU Session multi-connectivity of
a UE over terrestrial RAN and satellite-based NG-RAN. This topic is not
further progressed in this study and it is concluded that no normative work is
needed.
NOTE: A device with two UEs may simultaneously have separate Registrations and
PDU Sessions in satellite and terrestrial networks with different PLMNs.
Key issue #7 also includes study of dual-connectivity over terrestrial RAN and
satellite-based NG-RAN. This topic is more RAN related and will not be further
progressed in this study. It is concluded that, for this topic, only alignment
to RAN (if any) is needed in normative phase.
## 8.8 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #8
It is concluded that Solution #6 has no impact on the 5GS architecture and
thus requires no normative work.
In order to satisfy requirements in certain geographies that indicate that the
information broadcast by a satellite are receivable only within the limits of
the country to which the PLMN belongs, during normative phase solutions need
to be defined to restrict such broadcasting. Whether such solutions need to be
defined in SA2 or RAN will be decided during normative work.
## 8.9 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #9
As KI#9 goes beyond the scope of this study, it is concluded not to have a
normative work on this Key Issue.
## 8.10 Conclusion on solutions for Key Issue #10
Candidate Solution #12 and Candidate Solution #13 have been evaluated. SA2 is
not aware of any issues that would prevent the feasibility of either solution.
Both solutions have external dependencies outside of SA2. Before concluding on
the normative work, SA2 requests the evaluation and guidance of RAN2 and RAN3
for Solution #12 and CT1 for Solution #13.
###### ### Annex A: Characteristics of satellite systems
# A.1 General
This annex describes the main characteristics of satellite systems when
considering their integration with the 5G system.
# A.2 Class of orbit
On the one hand, our planet attracts as a main body the much smaller
satellite, which motion is dictated as a consequence by the laws of Kepler. On
the other hand, the environment of Earth can be also constraining: the higher
density of the atmosphere, debris from launchers and former satellites in the
lower altitudes, as well as higher energy particles trapped in the Van Allen
belts between 2000 and 8000 km\'s altitudes are to be avoided. These two
constraints contribute to defining several classes of orbits that are used for
communication satellites:
**\- Geostationary** (GEO) satellites, located precisely in the plane of the
Equator at an altitude of 35 786 km, these satellites rotate at the same rate
as the Earth\'s rotation: a GEO satellite stands still with respect to Earth.
Thanks to this property, a single GEO satellite is sufficient to create a
continuous coverage.
**\- Non-Geostationary Orbiting** (NGSO) satellites: NGSO satellites do not
stand still with respect to Earth. Should service continuity be required over
time, a number of satellites (a constellation) is required to meet this
requirement; the lower the altitude the higher the number of satellites
Different classes of NGSO satellites are listed below:
\- **Low-Earth Orbiting** (LEO) satellites, with altitude ranging 500 km and
2000 km, and with inclination angle of the orbital plane ranging from 0 to
more than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the International
Space Station and debris, and below the first Van Allen belt.
\- **Medium-Earth Orbiting** (MEO) satellites, with altitude ranging from 8000
to 20,000 km. The inclination angle of the orbital plane ranges from 0 to more
than 90 degrees. These constellations are placed above the Van Allen belts.
\- **Highly-Eccentric Orbiting** (HEO) satellites, with a range of operational
altitudes (the orbit of such satellites being designed for the spacecraft to
be exploited when the vehicle is closer to its apogee \- the higher part of
the orbit -) between 7,000 km and more than 45,000 km. The inclination angle
is selected so as to compensate, completely or partially, the relative motion
of Earth with respect to the orbital plane, allowing the satellite to cover
successively different parts of Northern land masses (e.g. Western Europe,
North America, and Northern Asia).
{width="2.8in" height="1.7479166666666666in"}
Figure A.2-1: Illustration of the classes of orbits of satellites
# A.3 Geometrical coverage of satellite and propagation delay
As depicted in the following figure, the theoretical geometrical coverage of a
satellite is associated to its altitude and the minimum elevation angle under
which the satellite is seen by the UE above the horizon.
{width="2.95625in" height="2.0347222222222223in"}
Figure A.3-1: Illustration of the geometrical coverage of a satellite
The following figure illustrates the geometrical coverage for a LEO satellite
and for geostationary-satellites:
{width="3.5305555555555554in" height="2.138888888888889in"}
Figure A.3-2: Illustration of the geometrical coverage of a LEO satellite and
of GEO satellites
The following tables provide elevation, distance and geometrical coverage
related figures for different classes of satellites:
{width="4.495833333333334in" height="5.095833333333333in"}
Figure A.3-3: Geometrical coverage radius, propagation distance and delay for
different orbits
NOTE: The above figure provides only examples, some designers may decide to
select lower altitudes as this contribute lowering the propagation delay.
The following table illustrates the number of satellites that are necessary
for a constellation of satellites to provide continuous coverage for an
elevation angle ranging from 5 to 10 degrees. Global coverage may not be fully
achieved for MEO or GEO satellite, however in this case the vast majority of
the world population is covered.
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="1.2090277777777778in"}
Figure A.3-4: Illustration of number satellites in a constellation for
continuous Earth coverage
# A.4 Type of satellite communication payloads
Communication payloads embarked on-board satellites are of two main
categories, for any type of satellite (whether GEO or NGSO):
**\- Transparent payloads** : the electromagnetic wave that are transmitted
from Earth surface are converted by a satellite receive antenna into an
electric signal which is channel filtered and amplified by low-noise amplifier
(LNA). The signal is then frequency converted. A high power amplifier (HPA)
delivers finally the signal to a transmitting antenna generating a
reconditioned electromagnetic wave towards the Earth surface where receive
station are located.
**\- Regenerative payloads:** an On-Board Processor (OBP), is inserted between
the LNA and the HPA. This OBP allows converting the air interface between the
uplink (from Earth to satellite) and the down link (from satellite to Earth).
It allows to correct bits or packet in errors before retransmitting them, or
to route packet between beams. Ultimately any network function can be
implemented, as the expense of power and mass, thanks to an OBP (including gNB
CU\'s or DU\'s, or any function attached to a CN).
**\- Inter-Satellite Links (ISL):** can also interconnect regenerative
satellite payloads. Through ISL\'s satellites can be interconnected through a
dedicated mesh-network.
# A.5 Handovers
While a UE would stand still, hand overs from one satellite to another
satellite could be imposed by the motion of NGSO satellite in a constellation,
whilst GEO would stand still with respect to Earth.
The average rate of hand over for a single UE would depend on the actual
altitude of spacecrafts in a constellation. Typical values for LEO are in the
order of 10 minutes.
Not all UE\'s would be handed over simultaneously.
NOTE: Such a handover mechanism is illustrated in Solutions #1 and #12 of this
document.
# A.6 Air interfaces
Air interfaces can include:
\- 3GPP defined air interfaces, such as the New Radio;
\- Non-3GPP defined air interfaces
Unless otherwise indicated, 3GPP NR will be assumed in this Technical Report.
# A.7 General considerations on the use of satellite networks
In relation to the coverage associate with Non-Geostationary Satellite
Networks, or Geostationary-Satellite ones, the use of satellite networks is
related to:
\- The complement of terrestrial networks where these terrestrial networks are
not available, permanently for physically (maritime or aeronautical
constraints) or economic reasons, or for temporary reasons associated to local
a unavailability of a terrestrial of network (drought, Earth quake) or local
overload of the demand;
\- Satellite networks can be used for broadcast over large areas of a same
content, for multicast (with acknowledge of delivery of content), for unicast;
\- Use cases are related to the actual of altitude of the satellite platforms
and the associated delay of propagation.
###### ### Annex B: Architecture Models for Satellite Integration in 5GS
# B.1 Elementary satellite network architecture
The physical implementation of satellite network architecture can always be
sketched as displayed in the following figure:
Figure B.1-1: Reference Satellite Access Network Architecture
A satellite network is always composed of:
\- One, or more, satellite(s), embarking a telecommunication payload.
\- Satellite enabled UEs, such as IoT devices, broadband vehicular or fixed
terminals.
\- A Hub, including an RF Earth station, and a data centre including (co-
located or not) RAN and CN related functions. The hub is also interconnected
to (a) data network(s).
\- UEs interconnected to the hub through the satellite.
# B.2 Reference architecture with satellite enabled NR-RAN
The following figure depicts a reference architecture for a direct access with
a satellite enabled NR-RAN (see below):
Figure B.2-1: 5GS with Satellite enabled NR-RAN
Knowing the possible nature of satellite payloads (transparent or re-
generative), the instantiation of this architecture can have several forms:
In a first implementation, the satellite is transparent, the NR signals are
generated from gNBs from a satellite enabled NR-RAN that are located on
ground. The satellite is equivalent to a Radio Frequency (RF) Remote Unit, and
is full transparent to the New Radio protocols, including the physical layer
(see below).
Figure B.2-2: 5GS with transparent satellite enabled NR-RAN
In a second implementation, the satellite is regenerative. The satellite
payload implements a gNB-DU as part of a satellite enabled NR-RAN. Some of the
protocols of the NR are processed by the satellite. A Satellite Radio
Interface (SRI) transports the F1 protocol between the on-ground CU and the
on-board DU (it can be the NR (see below)).
Figure B.2-3: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN and distributed
gNB
In a third implementation, the satellite is regenerative. The satellite
payload implements a full gNB supporting a satellite enabled NR-RAN. A
Satellite Radio Interface (SRI) transports the N1/N2/N3 interfaces between the
on-ground 5G CN and the on-board gNB-CU (see below).
Figure B.2-4: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN and on-board gNB
One can note that with a regenerative implementation (either with distributed
gNB or not) a 5GS can have a global coverage, providing a single 5G CN with
global or regional (continental or sub-continental) coverage as well. This is
valid for GEO or LEO (see below):
Figure B.2-5: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN, with ISL for
regional or global coverage
Another configuration (see below) may consist in satellites each embarking a
gNB supporting a satellite enabled NR-RAN, and 5G CN\'s accessing these gNBs,
as described in the following figure, where specific (or not) satellite radio
interfaces are used to handle control and user planes:
Figure B.2-6: 5GS with regenerative satellite enabled NR-RAN, with ISL &
multiple 5G CN connectivity
#