# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies and evaluates possible enhancements of Public
Warning System(ePWS) to address the following objectives:
\- to develop stage 2 specifications to support stage 1 requirements on ePWS
as follows
1) Specify how to support the language-independent contents (e.g. non-text
based icon or image mapping to a disaster). In detail, this is to specify how
to map the disaster by using symbols or images so that users can recognize the
disaster in their screens. (It is a useful scenario for foreigners who do not
know languages.)
2) Specify how to support UEs with no user interface or UEs with a user
interface that is incapable of displaying text based warning notification. In
detail, there is a specific requirement on UEs with no user interface or UEs
with a user interface that can not display a text based warning notification.
UEs with no user interface can be IoT device and it was intended that the
device performs some dedicated actions when the warning notification is
received.
3) Specify how to support relay functionality for providing warning
notification.
\- to develop stage 3 specifications to support stage 1 requirements on ePWS.
No new functionality for US WEA and Japan ETWS will be introduced.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.038: \"Alphabets and language-specific information\".
[5] ECONOMIC LOSSES, POVERTY & DISASTERS 1998-2017, CRED and UNISDR
[6] www.emdat.be/classification (as of 27th August 2019)
[7] CAP v1.2: \"Common Alerting Protocol, version 1.2\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Stage 2 Requirements for enhancements of Public Warning System
It is recognised that UEs with different or no user interface or with
different roles (e.g. devices implemented as wrist bands with a tiny screen
and a limited or no user interface, sensors that support a simple
functionality such as the control for power on/off, or UEs with relay
functionality) are on the market. In addition, as 5G brings the connected
society with the application of the 3GPP system to non-ICT industry
businesses, the number of such UEs in the market is expected to increase in
the near future.
In addition, the number of mobile users who internationally travel or live in
other countries than their mother country without knowledge of the local
language is increasing. So, other means than texts (e.g. globally standardised
graphical symbols or images that are mapped to disasters or any event
triggering to disseminate a Warning Notification) might be much more powerful
and efficient to let such mobile users recognise what is happening from the
Warning Notification they receive. UEs may have accessibility capabilities
that help mobile users with disabilities (e.g. people with vision impairment)
understand text-based and language-dependent Warning Notifications. Warning
Notifications may also supplement current content of Warning Notification with
additional content tailored to the needs of users with disabilities.
Requirements described in clause 9 of 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] are specified to
define behaviours suitable for UEs with no user interface (e.g. things with no
display screen) or with a user interface incapable of displaying text-based
Warning Notifications and to improve the comprehension of Warning Notification
for UEs of users who are not fluent in the language of the Warning
Notifications and UEs of users with disabilities who have UEs supporting
assistive technologies beyond text assistive technologies.
The relay functionality of UEs is specified to extend the coverage supported
by 3GPP system. Requirements described in clause 10 of 3GPP TS 22.268 [2] are
specified to define behaviors of UEs that play the role of a relay UE or a
remote UE when receiving a Warning Notification via the relay functionality.
In order to support requirements specified in clause 9 and clause 10 of 3GPP
TS 22.268, the following requirements shall be addressed to enhance Public
Warning System for UEs described above.
\- A Warning Notification shall be capable of supporting the inclusion of the
information mapped to an event or a disaster that enables a UE with ePWS
functionality to identify a warning message and render such information to the
user.
> NOTE 1: How the information mapped to an event or a disaster included in a
> Warning Notification is rendered or displayed to a user depends on UE
> implementation unless the content to be displayed is provided from Warning
> Notification.
>
> NOTE 2: In case of a UE of a user who is not fluent about the language used
> in texts described in a Warning Notification, a language-independent content
> such as pictogram or Unicode symbol can be the information included in a
> Warning Notification.
>
> NOTE 3: In case of a UE of a user with disabilities that has a user
> interface providing accessibility extensions for such a user, the
> information mapped to an event or a disaster can be same as legacy texts
> that can be displayed in a better comprehensive way to such a user depending
> on UE implementation.
\- A Warning Notification shall be capable of supporting the inclusion of the
information that enables UEs with no user interface (e.g. IoT devices such as
an elevator, an automotive or a robot with no user interface that are
connected to 3GPP networks) and with ePWS functionality to identify a warning
message.
> NOTE 4: How a UE with no user interface and with ePWS functionality behaves
> depends on UE implementation when such a UE receives a Warning Notification.
\- A UE with ePWS functionality and the remote UE functionality shall be
capable of receiving a Warning Notification transmitted from UEs with the
relay functionality.
\- A UE with ePWS functionality and with the relay functionality shall be
capable of unconditionally forwarding a Warning Notification broadcast
received from the network.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key Issue 1: Support of language-independent content mapped to an event
or a disaster in a warning message
### 5.1.1 General description
A text-based warning message can be understood by mobile users who know the
language used in a text-based warning message. For users such as foreigners
who are not fluent about the language used in a warning message, it is
necessary to enable a language-independent content (e.g. a unicode symbol)
mapped to an event or a disaster to be included in or referenced by a warning
message in order to improve the comprehension of a warning message by such
users.
### 5.1.2 Open issues
The following aspect should be studied and considered in proposed solutions.
\- How to enable a language-independent content (e.g. a unicode symbol) mapped
to an event or a disaster to be included in a warning message or referenced by
a warning message to a stored language-independent content, e.g. the warning
message might contain an identifier of an image of a disaster (e.g. typhoon or
hurricane) that is stored on the device
## 5.2 Key Issue 2: Identification of characteristics of an event or a
disaster for UEs with no user interface
### 5.2.1 General description
A UE with no user interface (e.g. elevator) is not able to take specific
actions by reading a text-based warning message. In addition, characteristics
of an event or a disaster (e.g. water in case of flooding, wind in case of
hurricane or water and wind in case of typhoon) could be more appropriate to
be notified to a UE with no user interface as well as the severity of an event
or a disaster than a name of a disaster from the perspective of a UE with no
user interface, i.e. things.
In addition, each country has different kind of disasters that are critical to
each country for public safety so it is desirable to describe characteristics
of an event or a disaster rather than the kind of an event or a disaster in a
message identifier dedicated to UEs with no user interface.
### 5.2.2 Open issues
The following aspects should be studied and considered in proposed solutions.
\- How to enable UEs with no user interface and with ePWS functionality to
identify characteristics of an event or a disaster from a Warning Notification
\- How to describe characteristics of an event or a disaster in a Warning
Notification in order to make UEs with no user interface and with ePWS
functionality take specific actions based on the information of
characteristics of an event or a disaster
## 5.3 Key Issue 3: Support of the relay of Warning Notification
### 5.3.1 General description
The relay functionality is specified to extend coverage supported by 3GPP
system. The relay of Warning Notification can be useful for users who are not
able to receive warning messages and who are near the place where an event or
a disaster is occurring. In addition, it is of critical importance to keep
warning messages transmitted by authorities for a reasonable period of time in
order to be able to relay them to other users who possibly have not had an
opportunity to receive those warning messages.
### 5.3.2 Open issues
The following aspects should be studied and considered in proposed solutions.
\- How to enable remote UEs which support ePWS functionality and the reception
of relayed Warning Notifications to receive Warning Notifications transmitted
by a UE which supports the relay functionality
\- How to enable a UE with the relay functionality and ePWS functionality to
forward a Warning Notification that is received from a 3GPP network
\- How to enable a UE which support ePWS functionality and the reception of
relayed Warning Notifications that is out of network coverage to inquire of
other UEs which support ePWS functionality as well as the relay functionality
whether any Warning Notification messages have been received by the other UEs
and to connect to such UE to receive those messages.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: Support of language-independent content mapped to an event
or a disaster in a warning message
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution applies to Key Issue 1 -- Support of language-independent
content mapped to an event or a disaster in a warning message.
Message identifiers related to additional languages (i.e. 4383 to 4395 and
4397) are specified for foreigners who do not know a local language in 3GPP TS
23.041 [3]. However, most countries do not support additional languages or
they support or prepare for supporting only the English language. In some
countries, a warning message with a message identifier related to a local
language includes texts written in both the local language and an additional
language (e.g. English).
Considering conventional use of warning messages by authorities in different
countries, it is necessary to enable language-independent content (e.g. a
unicode symbol) to be included in a warning message for devices that have a
conventional display screen that was assumed when legacy procedures of
broadcasting warning messages were specified in 3GPP.
### 6.1.2 Procedure
The inclusion of the language-independent content mapped to an event or a
disaster in a warning message should be supported over the legacy architecture
of broadcasting warning messages.
NOTE: Language-independent contents mapped to disasters need to be formatted
to be suitable to be included in a warming message like texts. It may be a
unicode symbol that are standardised in other standardisation bodies. It is
desirable that standardised symbols mapped to disasters are applied in all
countries that provides warning messages for public safety. This will make it
possible for foreigners to intuitively understand the meaning of language-
independent contents displayed to their devices.
In order to include language-independent content such as unicode symbol, ISO
is requested to define new characters mapping to specific pictograms that
intuitively remind users of disasters. In addition, UEs with ePWS
functionality should be capable of identifying such new characters if they are
included in a warning message and displaying them to users.
### 6.1.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
This solution is assumed to be applied over the legacy procedure and
architecture and the language-independent content is assumed to be a
compatible format as texts to be included in a warning message.
So there is no impact on existing nodes and functionality in terms of the
network architecture and network procedure of broadcasting warning messages.
And this solution requires UEs with ePWS functionality to be capable of
identifying new characters mapped to specific pictograms that represent
disasters and displaying them to users.
### 6.1.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves Key Issue 1 based on legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages over the 3GPP system.
## 6.2 Solution 2: Identification of characteristics of an event or a disaster
for UEs with no user interface
### 6.2.1 Description
This solution applies to Key Issue 2 -- Identification of characteristics of
an event or a disaster for UEs with no user interface.
Things as devices capable of receiving warning messages, i.e. UEs with no user
interface, were not assumed when the legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages was specified in 3GPP. In near future, diverse
forms of things as devices capable of receiving warning messages are expected
to be launched in markets.
However, legacy text-based warning messages can not be understood by UEs with
no user interface and may be useless to make UEs with no user interface
properly take actions for damage reduction or public safety when a legacy
text-based warning message is received.
So it is necessary to address how to make UEs with no user interface take
actions for damage reduction or public safety when they receive the legacy
form of a warning message broadcast over the legacy architecture of
broadcasting warning messages.
Disasters that may cause severe damages are different in countries (for
example, hurricane causes severe damage in the east of the United State of
America but there is no severe damage caused by hurricanes in Korea), which
means that the finite set of disasters may not be possible to be listed. In
addition, characteristics of disasters could be more useful information to be
notified to things than the type of disaster.
So it is desirable to define new message identifiers of warning messages
targeted for things so that things can directly extract information on
characteristics of a disaster from message identifiers.
Legacy message identifiers specified in 3GPP TS 23.041 [3] are classified by
following categories and support the indication of the risk level about a
disaster to be alerted.
\- 4370 for a local language and 4383 for additional language: a warning
message shall be always displayed.
\- 4371 to 4379 for a local language and 4384 to 4392 for additional language:
a warning message shall be displayed when a user selects opt-in option.
1) In case of CMAS CBS messages, 4371 to 4379 and 4384 to 4392 are classified
by severity, urgency and certainty.
2) In case of EU-Alert messages, 4371 to 4379 and 4384 to 4392 are classified
by level 1, level 2 and level 3.
\- 4352 for earthquake warning, 4353 for tsunami warning and 4354 for
earthquake and tsunami warning by ETWS messages
However, in most countries a single message identifier (e.g. 4371 in case of a
local language) is conventionally used because authorities select high level
of risk indications regardless of the risk level specified in 3GPP when a
warning message is broadcast to users. Considering the conventional use of
message identifiers, it might be good to simplify the risk level of disasters
to be notified to things from authority\'s perspective as a user of public
warning system.
Therefore, it is desirable to define new message identifiers classified by
following categories to inform things of characteristics of disasters.
\- one message identifier to make UEs with no user interface and with ePWS
functionality always take action when a warning message is received
\- A group of message identifiers (e.g. the group of three message
identifiers) per the characteristic (e.g. water) of disasters to indicate the
risk level of characteristics of a disaster to be alerted. For example, three
message identifiers per the characteristic of disasters can be defined to
mean:
a) both severity and urgency are high;
b) severity is high but urgency is not high;
c) severity is not high but urgency is high.
Considering the conventional use of message identifiers and the important
information about a disaster from things\' perspective to decide whether
proper action shall be taken immediately when receiving a warning message, the
definition of new message identifiers targeted for things, i.e. UEs with no
user interface and with ePWS functionality, should be described to take into
account all aspects addressed above.
### 6.2.2 Procedure
Message identifiers from 4400 to 6399 are reserved for future PWS versions. A
single new message identifier should be defined to make UEs with no user
interface and with ePWS functionality always take pre-defined actions when a
warning message is received like 4370 and 4383 regardless of the type of
disasters and characteristics of a disaster.
Example of characteristics of disasters or events that may cause serious
damage to things is water, fire, pressure, wind, dust, chemical material and
electricity. New message identifiers should be defined per the characteristic
of disasters. A group of a few (e.g. three) message identifiers may need to be
defined per the characteristic of disasters and a few message identifiers
among a group may need to be defined to indicate the risk level of the
characteristics of a disaster.
NOTE 1: What number of reserved message identifiers are allocated is to be
decided when the normative work starts.
NOTE 2: How many characteristics of disasters are classified will be studied
and reviewed by a few countries if possible and is to be decided when the
normative work starts.
NOTE 3: How many message identifiers among a group of message identifiers
mapped to one of combined characteristics of disasters will be studied (e.g.
three message identifiers to indicate the risk level are sufficient or not)
and reviewed by a few countries if possible. Then, it will be decided when the
normative work starts.
### 6.2.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
This solution is assumed to be applied over the legacy procedure and
architecture, so there is no impact on existing nodes and functionality in
terms of network architecture and network procedure of broadcasting warning
messages except for defining new message identifiers from 4400 to 6399
reserved for future PWS versions.
### 6.2.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves Key Issue 2 based on legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages over the 3GPP system.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Support of the relay of Warning Notification
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution applies to Key Issue 3 -- Support of the relay of Warning
Notification.
The relay functionality was initially specified in 3GPP from the demand of
public safety domain and then, other 5G vertical domains also have such
demands to address their issues over 5G system. In order to satisfy such
demands from diverse vertical domains including public safety domain over 5G
system, studies related to the relay functionality supported over 5G system
are ongoing in 3GPP to be targeted to start a normative work in 3GPP Release
17 as follows.
\- FS_REFEC (Study on enhanced Relays for Energy eFficiency and Extensive
Coverage) for Stage 1study in SA WG1
\- FS_5G_ProSe (Study on System enhancement for Proximity based Services in
5GS) for Stage 2 study in SA WG2
Considering current progress in 3GPP, devices with relay functionality and
devices receiving relayed messages from devices with relay functionality are
expected to be on market from 3GPP Release 17 onwards. So it is desirable not
to specify solution 3 for support of the relay of Warning Notification in 3GPP
Release 16 specification.
### 6.3.2 Procedure
NOTE: There is no specified procedure in 3GPP Release 16 because devices with
relay functionality are expected to be on markets from 3GPP Release 17
onwards.
### 6.3.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on existing nodes and functionality
### 6.3.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves Key Issue 3 based on legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages over the 3GPP system.
## 6.4 Solution 4: Support of a stored language-independent content referenced
by a warning message
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution applies to Key Issue 1 -- Support of language-independent
content mapped to an event or a disaster in a warning message.
It is recently recognised that devices incapable of displaying text-based
warning messages (e.g. devices with an augmented reality-based user interface
or devices with a hologram-based user interface) are expected to be launched.
Considering the limited capacity of a warning message broadcast from
authorities, legacy procedures for broadcasting warning messages do not allow
contents to be properly displayed to such devices.
Assuming that users have several devices capable of receiving warning messages
broadcast from authorities, it is desirable to alert users by displaying a
stored language-independent content referenced by a warning message. In such
case, there might be the limit of the number of language-independent contents
stored in devices incapable of displaying text-based warning messages because
of the restriction of those devices (e.g. memory size).
Devices incapable of displaying text-based warning messages, such as devices
with a augmented reality-based user interface or devices with a hologram-based
user interface, were not assumed when the legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages was specified in 3GPP. In addition, legacy
warning messages are broadcast with the single message identifier (e.g. 4371)
in most countries that currently provide warning messages, regardless of the
type and severity of disasters. So it is desirable to make a stored language-
independent content of such device be referenced in order to be displayed to a
user of such device when a warning message is received.
### 6.4.2 Procedure
Message identifiers specified for legacy UEs with the conventional display
method (i.e. display screen to be able to present text-based warning messages)
should be able to make UEs with ePWS functionality incapable of displaying
text-based warning messages reference a stored language-independent content
from such UEs when warning messages are received.
UEs with ePWS functionality incapable of displaying-text-based warning
messages shall be capable of mapping message identifiers of received warning
messages to contents stored in UEs with ePWS functionality.
### 6.4.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
This solution is assumed to be applied over the legacy procedure and
architecture by using legacy message identifiers to reference a stored
language-independent content to be displayed to users.
So there is no impact on existing nodes and functionality in terms of the
network architecture and network procedure of broadcasting warning messages.
And this solution requires UEs with ePWS functionality to be capable of
mapping message identifiers of warning messages to contents stored in UEs with
ePWS functionality.
This solution does not require any changes of information sent over radio
interface.
How to manage a stored language-independent content is out of the scope of
this solution and depends on the manufacturers'implementation.
### 6.4.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves Key Issue 1 based on legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages over the 3GPP system.
## 6.5 Solution 5: Carrying characteristics of an event or a disaster for UEs
with no user interface in the message payload
### 6.5.1 Description
This solution applies to Key Issue 2 -- Identification of characteristics of
an event or a disaster for UEs with no user interface.
Things as devices capable of receiving warning messages, i.e. UEs with no user
interface, were not assumed when the legacy procedure and architecture of
broadcasting warning messages was specified in 3GPP. In the near future,
diverse forms of things as devices capable of receiving warning messages are
expected to be launched in markets.
However, legacy text-based warning messages cannot be understood by UEs with
no user interface and may be useless to make UEs with no user interface
properly take appropriate action when a legacy text-based warning message is
received.
Therefore, it is necessary to address how to make UEs with no user interface
take appropriate actions when they receive the legacy form of a warning
message broadcast over the legacy architecture of broadcasting warning
messages.
Disasters have different characteristics in different in countries, which
means that it may not be possible to list an exhaustive list of disasters, but
characteristics of disasters could be more useful information to be notified
to things than the type of disaster.
The content of the message could be a CAP message, which would make the
characteristics independent of 3GPP specifications.
The CAP v1.2 [7] protocol provides a generic format to relay warning messages,
but the format is in XML which needs to be compressed (economized) in order to
relay it in a CB message. The message identifier would relate to the device
class (e.g. a device that understands a CAP payload) and not to an event.
### 6.5.2 Procedure
Legacy Warning Message Delivery as specified in TS 23.041 [3] would be used
but a specific message identifier would need to be allocated to identify
messages that have a CAP payload.
The CB Data element (payload of CB message) is populated with a compressed
version of a CAP message. The compression format is out of scope of the
present study.
Alternatively, the CB Data element could consist of one or more numbers which
could be the same as the message identifiers that would be allocated in
solution 2 to identify event characteristics.
### 6.5.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on existing nodes and functionality in terms of the network
architecture and network procedure of broadcasting warning messages.
This solution requires UEs with ePWS functionality to be capable of parsing
the compressed CAP message in the CB Data element in order to take appropriate
action.
### 6.5.4 Solution Evaluation
This solution is an alternative to solution 2. The information about the
disaster is carried in the payload (i.e. CB Data element) rather than in the
value of the message identifier. The CAP elements allow characterizing the
disaster and also the action that needs to be taken.
Adding new characteristics of events is done in the CAP payload and is
flexible and independent of 3GPP specifications.
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
## 7.1 Conclusions
### 7.1.1 Key issue 1: Support of language-independent content mapped to an
event or a disaster in a warning message
Solution 1 and solution 4 are recommended for normative work to support
language-independent content mapped to an event or a disaster in a warning
message.
### 7.1.2 Key issue 2: Identification of characteristics of an event or a
disaster for UEs with no user interface
Solution 2 is recommended for normative work to address the identification of
characteristics of an event or a disaster for UEs with no user interface based
on legacy procedure and architecture of broadcasting warning message over the
3GPP system.
### 7.1.3 Key issue 3: Support of the relay of Warning Notification
For key issue 3, it is recommended that no solution be specified for normative
work in 3GPP Release 16 specification.
## 7.2 Recommendations
It is recommended to start the normative work based on the conclusions
described in clause 7.1 to address key issues described in chapter 4.
###### ### Annex A: Classification of disasters
# A.1 Statistic data per disaster type
UNISDR (United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction) which is now
renamed as UNDRR (UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction) published the report
[5] by the collaboration with CRED (Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of
Disasters) and its report describes the statistic data on what kind of
disasters cause economic loss as well as human death in the world from 1998 to
2017.
According to the report [5], the number of disasters per type from 1998 to
2017 is as follows.
Table A.1-1: Number of disasters per type from 1998 to 1997
* * *
Disaster Flood Storm Earthquake Extreme temperature Landslide Drought Wildfire
Volcanic activity Mass movement (dry) **Number** 3,148 2,049 563 405 378 347
254 99 12 **Percentage** 43.4% 28.2% 7.8% 5.6% 5.2% 4.8% 3.5% 1.4% 0.2%
* * *
In addition, pictograms mapped to disasters described in Table A.1-1 are
described in the report [5].
Disaster type responsible for the majority losses in top 10 countries or
territories is also provided in its report [5] as follows.
Table A.1-2: Disaster type responsible for the majority losses in top 10
countries or territories from 1998 to 1997
* * *
Disaster Earthquake Earthquake & Tsunami Storm Extreme temperature Flood
Drought
* * *
In addition, the number of people affected and the number of deaths per
disaster type from 1998 to 2017 are also provided in its report [5] as
follows.
\- The number of people affected per disaster type from 1998 to 2017
1) Flood: 2.0 billion (45% of all disaster types)
2) Drought: 1.5 billion (33% of all disaster types)
3) Storm: 726 million (16% of all disaster types)
4) Earthquake: 125 million (3% of all disaster types)
5) Extreme temperature: 97 million (2% of all disaster types)
6) Wildfire, volcanic activity, mass movement (dry): 6.2 million (0.1% of all
disaster types)
7) Landslide: 4.8 million (0.1% of all disaster types)
\- The number of deaths per disaster type from 1998 to 2017
1) Earthquake: 747,234 deaths (56% of all disaster types)
2) Storm: 232,680 deaths (17% of all disaster types)
3) Extreme temperature: 166,346 deaths (13% of all disaster types)
4) Flood: 142,088 deaths (11% of all disaster types)
5) Drought: 21,563 deaths (2% of all disaster types)
6) Landslide: 18,414 deaths (1% of all disaster types)
7) Wildfire, volcanic activity, mass movement (dry): 2,398 deaths (0.2% of all
disaster types)
Based on the reported economic losses per climate-related disaster type and
per geophysical disaster type, following list is also provided in its report
[5] as follows.
\- Reporting of economic losses per disaster type (climate-related)
1) Storm: 55% reported
2) Wildfire: 41% reported
3) Flood: 32%
4) Drought: 29%
5) Landslide: 13%
6) Extreme temperature: 11%
\- Reporting of economic losses per disaster type (geophysical)
1) Earthquake: 43% reported
2) Volcanic activity: 11% reported
3) Mass movement (dry): 8%
# A.2 Classification of disaster group
The classification of disaster group is defined in EM-DAT website by CRED
website [6] as follows.
The disaster group is classified into the group of natural disaster and the
group of technological disaster. The group of natural disaster is classified
as disaster subgroups described in Table A.2-1 and the group of technological
disaster is classified as disaster subgroups described in Table A.2-2.
Table A.2-1: General classification of natural disaster group
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Definition Disaster Main Type Geophysical A hazard
originating from solid earth. This term is used interchangeably with the term
geological hazard. Earthquake Mass Movement (dry) Vocanic activity
Meteorological A hazard caused by short-lived, micro- to meso-scale extreme
weather and atmospheric conditions that last from minutes to days Extreme
Temperature Fog Storm Hydrological A hazard caused by the occurrence,
movement, and distribution of surface and subsurface freshwater and saltwater.
Flood Landslide Wave action Climatological A hazard caused by long-lived,
meso- to macro-scale atmospheric processes ranging from intra-seasonal to
multi-decadal climate variability Drought Glacial Lake Outburst Wildfire
Biological A hazard caused by the exposure to living organisms and their toxic
substances (e.g. venom, mold) or vector-borne diseases that they may carry.
Examples are venomous wildlife and insects, poisonous plants, and mosquitoes
carrying disease-causing agents such as parasites, bacteria or viruses (e.g.
malaria). Epidemic Insect infestation Animal Accident Extraterrestrial A
hazard caused by asteroids, meteoroids, and comets as they pass near-earth,
enter the Earth's atmosphere, and/or strike the Earth, and by changes in
interplanetary conditions that effect the Earth's magnetosphere, ionosphere,
and thermosphere. Impact Space weather
* * *
Table A.2-2: General classification of technological disaster
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Industrial accident Chemical spill
Collapse Explosion Fire Gas leak Poisoning Radiation Oil spill Other Transport
accident Air Road Rail Water Miscelleanous accident Collapse Explosion Fire
Other
* * *
In addition, each disaster subgroup in case of the group of natural disaster
is classified into several disaster sub-type and disaster sub-sub-type and it
is also described in Table A.2-3 to Table A.2-8.
Table A.2-3: Classification of geophysical disaster subgroup
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Disaster Sub-Type Disaster Sub-Sub-Type
Geophysical Earthquake Ground movement  
Tsunami  
Mass Movement (dry) Rock fall  
Landslide  
Vocanic activity Ash fall  
Lahar  
Pyroclastic flow  
Lava flow
* * *
Table A.2-4: Classification of geophysical disaster subgroup
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Disaster Sub-Type Disaster Sub-Sub-Type
Meteorological Storm Extra-tropical storm  
Tropical storm  
Convective storm Derecho Hail Lightning/thunderstorm Rain Tornado Sand/dust
storm Winter storm/blizzard Storm/surge Wind Severe storm Extreme Temperature
Cold wave  
Heat wave  
Severe winter conditions Snow/ice Frost/freeze Fog
* * *
Table A.2-5: Classification of hydrological disaster subgroup
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Disaster Sub-Type Disaster Sub-Sub-Type
Hydrological Flood Coastal flood  
Riverine flood  
Flash flood  
Ice jam flood  
Landslide Avalanche (snow, debris, mudflow, rockfall)  
Wave action Rogue wave  
Seiche
* * *
Table A.2-6: Classification of climatological disaster subgroup
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Disaster Sub-Type Disaster Sub-Sub-Type
Climatological Drought  
Glacial Lake Outburst  
Wildfire Forest Fire  
Land fire : Brush, bush, pasture
* * *
Table A.2-7: Classification of biological disaster subgroup
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Disaster Sub-Type Disaster Sub-Sub-Type
Biological Epidemic Viral disease  
Bacterial disease  
Parasitic disease  
Fungal disease  
Prion disease  
Insect infestation Grasshopper  
Locust  
Animal Accident
* * *
Table A.2-8: Classification of extraterrestrial disaster subgroup
* * *
Disaster Subgroup Disaster Main Type Disaster Sub-Type Disaster Sub-Sub-Type
Extraterrestrial Impact Airburst  
Space weather Energetic particles  
Geomagnetic storm  
Shockwave
* * *
#