# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This technical report seeks to identify key issues and associated solutions
for enhancements to the existing location architecture. Key issues introduced
in this study should seek to uncover gaps between MC service level
requirements (found in 3GPP TS 22.179 [2], 3GPP TS 22.280 [3], 3GPP TS 22.281
[4], and 3GPP TS 22.282 [5]) and stage 2 MC application architecture (found in
3GPP TS 23.379 [6], 3GPP TS 23.280 [7], 3GPP TS 23.281 [8], and 3GPP TS 23.282
[9]) related to MC location.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies the impact of location requirements from stage
1 that have yet to be realized within the stage 2 MC services architecture,
and to propose solutions and enhancements where needed to fulfil these
requirements.
Based on any gaps found between stage 1 service level requirements and
existing MC location architecture, the present document consists of a
technical report that includes: identification of key issues and gaps with the
existing location architecture as specified in 3GPP TS 23.379 [6], 3GPP TS
23.280 [7], 3GPP TS 23.281 [8], and 3GPP TS 23.282 [9]; associated solutions
for enhancements to existing MC location architecture; and corresponding
evaluations and conclusions.
The location enhancements considered in the present document are limited to MC
services over EPS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe);
Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control;
Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.180: \"Security of the mission critical service\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
# 4 Use cases
## 4.1 Use case #1: Location information - Timestamp
In order to find a missing child in a kidnapping case, a detective is charged
with the observation of the suspect. A small UE with a GNSS receiver is
attached to the suspect\'s car. It periodically sends location reports, which
then are used to create a movement profile. The timestamp in the location
report allows associating the coordinates with the right time the position was
determined. The analysis of the profile finally leads to the hideout, which
the child is locked in.
## 4.2 Use case #2: Location information - Speed and bearing
The control room of a greater city responsible for the coordination of all the
city\'s ambulances uses frequent location reports from the UEs of the
ambulance fleet based on both the travelled distance and the elapsed time, to
be able to assign the nearest located car as fast as possible in case an
emergency occurs. As the city has many tunnels and the cars often lose their
GNSS signals when heading through, additional information like speed and
direction of travel is used to estimate the current location and continue
displaying on the dispatcher\'s map.
## 4.3 Use case #3: Location information - Accuracy
After chasing a pickpocket through the inner city without success, a police
officer is missing his UE. Back at the patrol car he briefs his colleague and
they inform the control room about the situation. The UE will be temporarily
disabled to be on the safe side and the dispatcher sends them the current
location of the lost UE acquired by an on-demand location report. The
coordinates delivered by the UE are not very accurate, because it fell out of
the officer\'s pocket under a steel stair in a dark corner without free sight.
Using the accuracy information displayed as ellipse around the coordinates the
officers know which area they have to look for and are able to find the UE
after a while.
## 4.4 Use case #4: Location information - Altitude
Two mountaineers initiate emergency, because they have lost orientation due to
nightfall and have run into difficult terrain. They cannot answer the question
where they actually are. The only information they can provide is the name of
the route on which they wanted to ascend. Both a helicopter is sent and a
ground team is composed to do the ascension. The helicopter is able to find
the two mountaineers after a while, but the terrain is unsuitable for a rescue
operation from the helicopter. Therefore, the pilot sends his location
information to the rescue team on the ground. Beyond longitude and latitude,
the altitude information helps the team to assess the position of the
mountaineers and how long they will take to get to them.
## 4.5 Use case #5: Location History Reporting
A child is missing and an extensive search with several hundred police
officers is ongoing. Due to an unknown technical failure location information
from 12 police officers is not available at the overlooking dispatcher. The
dispatcher is observing the search on a large scale map with live location
information from involved police officers. It is obvious, that a region is
currently not searched by any police officer, because no location information
is available for this region. After the technical problem is solved all not
yet transmitted location information is transmitted as bulk to the dispatcher
and remaining gaps are filled. The dispatcher is able to concentrate the
search at other regions and is therefore avoiding the waste of valuable time.
## 4.6 Use case #6: Location triggering criteria for emergency state
In preparation of an operation to liberate some people who have been taken as
hostages by terrorists and are now held captive in a building complex, it is
arranged that if anything goes wrong, the members of the special unit shall
initiate emergency and try to head to a specific safe area. The entering of
this area is defined as triggering criteria in emergency cases for sending a
location report and the UEs are configured with it. When receiving the
location report the overlooking dispatcher knows which unit in emergency has
reached the safe area. He can cancel the emergency alert of this safe unit and
concentrate the rescue efforts to the other units still in emergency. This
approach is chosen in preference over the simple deactivation of the emergency
state by the units themselves, because it is feared that the units could maybe
be captured and manipulated by the terrorists.
## 4.7 Use case #7: Location information -- individual receiving UE
First responder Jorge is on his day shift and has therefore his personal cell
phone with a special mission critical app in use. In parallel the official
mission critical smart phone along with the health tablet and the ambulance
car onboard system. All four devices can be used with one single mission
critical ID, which offer voice, short messages and location information. In
his current state all four devices report with defined triggers location
information to the critical mission control room, but the control room is not
able to distinguish between these location information. Jorge requested
additional support. In order to send support to Jorge the estimated center of
these four location information is used together with the associated
inaccuracy. The support arrives at the wrong location and can\'t find Jorge.
By selecting just the mission critical smart phone from which Jorge is
currently talking the dispatcher can coordinate the support to the building
across the street and around the corner.
## 4.8 Use case #8: Location information -- individual addressable UE
Fire fighter Isabella is using on duty her official mission critical UE along
with a pager, but now she is on standby and both devices are active. The
dispatcher is receiving location information from both devices, but is not
able to make the connection between location information received and devices.
In standby all fire fighters have to carry their pager all the time. Therefore
the dispatcher is able to request the location information of her pager by
selecting this device and sending the proper request, which is acknowledged
with the location of Isabella. The dispatcher is able to make the right
judgment to leave her in standby or based on her location to include her to
the nearby car accident with engine oil on the street.
## 4.9 Use case #9: Sharing of location information
A first responder car is blocking the street as well as parked cars due to an
elderly person requiring oxygen after a small kitchen fire. While Inés is
providing support, Miguel is at the first responder\'s car for additional
medication. In this moment the owner of a blocked car is demanding the removal
of the first responder\'s car, because of his very important meeting. Miguel
is not paying attention to the arguing person. The working procedure in such
circumstances requires emergency support and Miguel is pressing the red button
on his voice communication device. The location information of this emergency
call is reaching the emergency dispatcher and is shared with the city owned
video processing system which is not under the same organisation as Miguel.
Based on this location information video footage is selected and automatically
provided. Therefore, the dispatcher of his organisation receives live footage
of two stationary cameras of a different organisation observing the area. The
dispatcher sees Miguel, the first responder\'s car as well the person arguing
with Miguel. The dispatcher is warning Miguel, who is currently inside the
first responder\'s car, about a shiny object the person is pulling from his
pocket. The in parallel immediately requested police support is able to avoid
a dangerous situation for Miguel and the elderly person.
## 4.10 Use case #10: Location information of unauthenticated user
Police officer George just started his shift at an outpost. His colleague
Margaret is very nervous and instantly sends him to an emergency, which she
just got from the dispatcher for this region. George hurries up, powers on his
UE and leaves to his car. He doesn\'t manage to log on to the MC service
providing his MC ID, but the UE is already registered to the SIP core. George
drives with high speed to get to the emergency scene as soon as possible.
Suddenly, a cat appears on the road in front of him and he leaves the road
accidentally. His car has gone head over heels and now lays in a hardly
visible ditch, whereas George has lost his consciousness. The dispatcher gets
nervous as he is not able to reach George and decides to send help to him. He
alerts George\'s colleague in the outpost. While Margaret drives along the
road, the dispatcher directly requests location information from George\'s UE
and transfers it to Margaret. Margaret arrives at George\'s accident location
and gives first aid. George can be rescued, but not a moment too soon.
## 4.11 Use case #11: Location information in off-network operation
An upcoming match between two rival soccer clubs requires a large-scale
operation, because the fans of these two clubs have come to the notice several
times in terms of violence in the past. In order to ensure the security of the
event, patrols in the whole city are expanded and the fans of the soccer clubs
are observed and controlled by unit A as early as they arrive at the station
and head for the stadium. For tactical and capacitive reasons the police
officers of unit B securing the stadium communicate with their officer in
charge in off-network operation and the officer in charge communicates with
the other units and gets information from them.
The unit responsible for the security in and around the stadium communicates
within a dedicated off-network group and the group members are configured to
report their location information periodically to the authorized officer in
charge, who has an overview of the crowded stadium and needs this information
to coordinate the operation and to be able to react as fast and efficient as
possible to disturbances or violence in the stadium.
## 4.12 Use case #12: Sharing of past location information
A dispatcher at City Centre is responsible for 1200 police officers and is
receiving periodic location information, due to location information
subscriptions to all police officers under the supervision of this dispatcher
location. Due to a failure the dispatcher at City East, which is part of the
same MC system, has to take over. This dispatcher is able to subscribe for
periodic location information as well as to request location information of 48
police officers of the special task force for the past 24 hours.
## 4.13 Use case #13: Location sharing and temporary location configuration
between interconnected MC systems
Daan a police officer of The Police of the Netherlands is coordinating a joint
mission on opioid and drug smuggling with forces in Germany and Belgium. Each
country is providing 5 members of a special task force. In order to coordinate
the mission, Daan has subscribed to the location information of each member of
the joint team, with the possibility to temporarily adjust the configuration
for the periodic location information as well as in case of an emergency. Daan
is able to see location updates based on the temporary configuration.
After the operation has been concluded, Daan removes the temporary changes,
which reverts each team member to their original location reporting
configuration.
Editor\'s Note: The complexity introduced by configurations changes of any
type from a remote system are significant and therefore require further study.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue 1: Information in the location report
### 5.1.1 Description
Clause 10.9.3.1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] describes \"ECGI, MBMS SAIs, geographic
coordinates and other location information\" as possible information included
in the location report. This description justifies the interpretation just to
use longitude and latitude as required for geographical coordinates. Clause
F.3.3 of 3GPP TS 24.379 [10] shows longitude and latitude as the selected
location information out of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7], but further elements like
timestamp, speed, bearing, altitude, accuracy are required, which common GNSS
receivers get or calculate from the satellite signals. It is the intention to
provide more guidance to specify also the other required location information.
### 5.1.2 Architectural Requirements
No new architectural requirements are needed.
## 5.2 Key Issue 2: Location History Reporting
### 5.2.1 Description
After being off-network a UE may want to send location information of multiple
positions, collected during the time it was off-network based on the
triggering criteria it is configured with. Therefore, this key issue will
study the reporting of location history when the UE has come back on-network,
after being off-network.
### 5.2.2 Architectural Requirements
No new architectural requirements are needed.
## 5.3 Key Issue 3: Handling of triggering criteria in emergency cases
### 5.3.1 Description
At the current state of the MC architecture it is only possible to adjust the
triggering criteria in non-emergency cases over the air, but not the
triggering criteria in emergency cases since no information element is
designated for this in the location reporting configuration (see Table
10.9.2.1-1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] and location reporting trigger (see Table
10.9.2.4-1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] messages. Therefore, this key issue studies
the handling of triggering criteria in emergency cases.
## 5.4 Key Issue 4: Location mechanism compatibility for MCPTT
### 5.4.1 Description
In R13, the user location is reported to and handled at MCPTT server. In R14,
the location mangement server and location management client are introduced to
management the user location for all the service including MCPTT, MCVideo and
MCData, and the MCPTT server acquires the user location from the location
management server.
For MCVideo and MCData service, there is no compatibility issue as R14
location mechanism is the only one option.
For MCPTT, there are two location mechanisms since R14. How to handle the two
location mechanism at MCPTT server and MCPTT UE with the backward
compatibility is not clear.
For different cases, the backward compatibility issues are identified in table
5.4.1-1.
Table 5.4.1-1: Cases for compatibility consideration
* * *
Case LMS && LMC MCPTT client MCPTT server Remarks A N R13 R13 Only R13
location mechanism is available and shall be utilized. B N R13 R14 Only R13
location mechanism is available and shall be utilized. C N R14 R13 Only R13
location mechanism is available and shall be utilized. D N R14 R14 Only R13
location mechanism is available and shall be utilized. E Y R13 R13 Only R13
location mechanism is available and shall be utilized . F Y R13 R14 Both R13
and R14 location mechanism are available G Y R14 R13 Only R13 location
mechanism is available and shall be utilized. H Y R14 R14 Both R13 and R14
location mechanism are available
* * *
1\. For the cases A, C, E and G with R13 MCPTT server, there is no
compatibility issues as there is no interface between R13 MCPTT server and
LMS, and only R13 location mechanism is available.
2\. For the cases B and D with R14 MCPTT server, there is no compatibility
issues as there is no deployment of LMS and LMC, and only R13 location
mechanism available.
3\. For the cases F and H with R14 MCPTT server and deployment of LMS and LMC,
both R13 and R14 location mechanisms are available, i.e., MCPTT server
acquires location information from either MCPTT client or LMS.
The location mechanism to be utilized in MCPTT server for the cases F and H
needs to be resolved.
Editor\'s Note: The description for the version of MCPTT server and MCPTT
client is FFS.
### 5.4.2 Architectural Requirements
No new architectural requirements are needed.
## 5.5 Key Issue 5: Sharing of location information
### 5.5.1 Description
The following aspects have been identified in order to share available
location information and refer to use case #9: Sharing of location information
and use case #13: Location sharing and temporary location configuration
between interconnected MC systems:
a. Use of the location information of a MC user from one MC service at one MC
service UE by another MC service of the same user at a different MC service
UE;
b. Location information of one MC user at home MC system is shared with other
MC users at home system;
c. Location information of one MC user at home MC system is shared with other
MC users at partner MC system;
d. Location information of one MC user at home MC system is shared with other
MC users at connected LMR system;
e. Location information of one MC user at home MC system is shared with an
outside 3GPP recipient.
f. An authorized MC user at partner/home MC system is able to temporarily
change location configuration parameters of users at home/partner MC system.
Editor\'s Note: Current MC architecture intentionally does not allow
configuration changes of any type from a remote system because of increased
complexity. Only an authorized user which is homed to the system where the
configuration change is resident may make such a change.
NOTE: Sharing of location information includes requesting and automatically
provide them.
### 5.5.2 Architectural Requirements
Adjustments of the existing information flows and procedures as well as
additional information flows and procedures are required.
## 5.6 Key Issue 6: Individual UE addressing
### 5.6.1 Description
The current Stage-2 approach allows addressing on the MC service ID basis,
which does take into account a user could have several MC clients running the
same MC service. The addressing of a specific UE, out of multiple
simultaneously running UEs offering the same MC service, is currently not
possible by using the MC service ID.
This key issue is addressing use case #7: Location information -- individual
receiving UE and use case #8: Location information -- individual addressable
UE.
The following gaps have been identified:
a. Support for communication (e.g. location) with a specific MCX UE when a MC
user is using several MCX UEs at the same time;
b. Support for communication (e.g. location) with a specific MCX UE when no
MCX service clients are active in the MCX UE;
c. Support for communication (e.g. emergency group call including location)
with a specific MCX UE when the MCX service client on that MCX UE is operating
in a limited service state (i.e. unauthenticated).
### 5.6.2 Architectural Requirements
Adjustments of the existing information flows and procedures as well as
additional information flows and procedures are required.
## 5.7 Key Issue 7: Location information of unauthenticated user
### 5.7.1 Description
This key issue arises from use case #10: Location information of
unauthenticated user.
In some cases it is necessary to request location information, before the user
is authenticated and authorized by the MC service, but has already registered
to the SIP core. This situation may occur in a deployment scenario, where the
MC service provider is different from the PLMN operator (further described in
3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause 9.2.2) and MC user authentication and SIP
registration are separate procedures.
According to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause 10.1.1.1 providing MC services to an MC
service UE with an unauthenticated MC service user is FFS and according to
3GPP TS 33.180 clause 5.1.1 a UE may enter a \"limited service\" state in this
case.
This key issue tries to find solutions for the following aspects:
a. Requesting location information from a UE which is in a \"limited service\"
state.
### 5.7.2 Architectural Requirements
The MC System has to be able to individually address a specific UE of a MC
user as the MC ID is not available to the Identity Management Server before
authentication took place, e.g. by use of an existing or new UE specific
identity.
## 5.8 Key Issue 8: Location information in off-network operation
### 5.8.1 Description
This key issue arises from use case #11: Location information in off-network
operation.
Location management for on-network operation is described in 3GPP TS 23.280
clause 10.9, but today there are no procedures and information flows for off-
network location management.
Issues:
\- Can the architecture for on-network location management or a subset be
reused for off-network location management?
\- Whether or which new entities are required?
\- Which functionalities (e.g. immediate request, event-triggered, client-
triggered) are required?
\- Whether or which authorizations are required?
\- How are privacy restrictions applied?
NOTE: This key issue only targets off-network UE to UE communication.
## 5.9 Key Issue 9: Sharing of past location information
### 5.9.1 Description
3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause 10.9.2.3 describes the request of location
information and the procedure in clause 10.9.3.2 is asking for the latest
location information. Information flow elements are missing to request also
past location information either from the location management server, if such
capability is provided to store for a defined period of time, or from the
location management client of the target MC service ID, if such capability is
provided to store for a defined period of time.
The following aspects have been identified in order to share available past
location information and refer to use case #12: Sharing of past location
information:
a. How past location information can be requested;
b. Who is providing past location information;
c. Who is storing location information;
d. Appropriate time period to retain location information;
e. How past location information can be identified and separated from the
latest location information; and
f. How the location information can be provided to the requester.
### 5.9.2 Architectural Requirements
No new architectural requirements are needed.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: Additional details within the location information report
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #1 - Information in the location report.
The solution is to add a description to the corresponding parts of the
location management in clause 10.9 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] which describes
timestamp, speed, bearing, altitude and accuracy as examples for location
information.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following solution does not have an impact on the specified architecture.
#### 6.1.2.1 Location information report
Table 6.1.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client to the location management server for the location information
reporting.
Table 6.1.2.1-1: Location information report
* * *
Information element Status Description Set of MC service IDs M Set of
identities of the reporting MC service user on the MC service UE (e.g. MCPTT
ID, MCVideo ID, MCData ID) Triggering event M Identity of the event that
triggered the sending of the report Location Information M Location
information (see NOTE) NOTE: This may include timestamp, ECGI, MBMS SAIs,
longitude, latitude, accuracy, speed, bearing, altitude, measurement code and
additional other location information.
* * *
Timestamp: Time expressed with a certain precision to reflect the moment of
the location measurement. The timestamp shall allow the comparison of
associated location information in respect to timestamp and is therefore based
on a common clock.
Accuracy: Reflects the deviation of the location in the moment of location
measurement with a defined unit and scale.
Speed: Movement in the moment of location measurement with a defined unit and
scale. Speed is the magnitude or absolute value of velocity.
Bearing: Direction in the moment of location measurement with a defined unit
and scale. The direction shall also have a reference, like \"true north\" or
\"magnetic north\".
Altitude: Third dimension for the geographical coordinates in the moment of
location measurement with a defined ground level, unit and scale. The altitude
shall also have a reference, like \"sea level (MSL)\" or \"local ground level
(above ground level, or AGL)\".
Measurement code: This part of the location information element shall give an
indication for what reason the location could not be determined from the
positioning system on the UE and gives an indication of how to correctly
interpret the provided values, e.g. Measurement code = \"no satellite using
default value set 1\" and in this case the Latitude / Longitude may be set to
\"Null\" or to \"last known position\".
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides additional details about location information elements
contained in the location information report in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause
10.9.2.2. Currently identified elements are: timestamp, accuracy, speed,
bearing, altitude, measurement code. Other elements that are already described
in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 10.9.3.1 may be considered as well. Definitions of
all these elements may have to be provided in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 3.1.
## 6.2 Solution 2: Additional details within the location information
notification
### 6.2.1 Description
The following solution does not have an impact on the specified architecture.
This solution addresses key issue #1 - Information in the location report.
The solution is to add a description to the corresponding parts of the
location management in clause 10.9 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] which describes
timestamp, speed, bearing, altitude and accuracy as examples for location
information.
### 6.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.2.2.1 Location information notification
Table 6.2.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server to the MC service server.
Table 6.2.2.1-1: Location information notification
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | **Information element** | **Status** | **Description** | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | MC service ID list | M | List of the MC service | | | | users whose location | | | | information needs to be | | | | notified | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | MC service ID | M | Identity of the MC | | | | service user subscribed | | | | to location of another MC | | | | service user (see NOTE 1) | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Triggering event | M | Identity of the event | | | | that triggered the | | | | sending of the | | | | notification | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Location Information | M | Location information (see | | | | NOTE 2) | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This is only used | | | | for location management | | | | server sends location | | | | information notification | | | | to the MC service user | | | | who has subscribed the | | | | location. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This may include | | | | timestamp, ECGI, MBMS | | | | SAIs, longitude, | | | | latitude, accuracy, | | | | speed, bearing, altitude, | | | | measurement code and | | | | additional other location | | | | information. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
Timestamp: Time expressed with a certain precision to reflect the moment of
the location measurement. The timestamp shall allow the comparison of
associated location information in respect to timestamp and is therefore based
on a common clock.
Accuracy: Reflects the deviation of the location in the moment of location
measurement with a defined unit and scale.
Speed: Movement in the moment of location measurement with a defined unit and
scale. Speed is the magnitude or absolute value of velocity.
Bearing: Direction in the moment of location measurement with a defined unit
and scale. The direction shall also have a reference, like \"true north\" or
\"magnetic north\".
Altitude: Third dimension for the geographical coordinates in the moment of
location measurement with a defined ground level, unit and scale. The altitude
shall also have a reference, like \"sea level (MSL)\" or \"local ground level
(above ground level, or AGL)\".
Measurement code: This part of the location information element shall give an
indication for what reason the location could not be determined from the
positioning system on the UE and gives an indication of how to correctly
interpret the provided values, e.g. Measurement code = \"no satellite using
default value set 1\" and in this case the Latitude / Longitude may be set to
\"Null\" or to \"last known position\".
### 6.2.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides additional details about location information elements
contained in the location information notification in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause
10.9.2.7. Currently identified elements are: timestamp, accuracy, speed,
bearing, altitude, measurement code. Other elements that are already described
in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 10.9.3.1 may be considered as well. Definitions of
all these elements may have to be provided in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 3.1.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Adjusting the location reporting procedure
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #1 - Information in the location report.
The solution extends the location information element as provided in clause
10.9 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] as part of the event-triggered location reporting
procedure.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.3.2.1 Event-triggered location reporting procedure
The location management server provides location reporting configuration to
the location management clients, indicating what information the location
management server expects and what events will trigger the sending of this
information to the location management server. The decision to report location
information can be triggered at the location management client by different
conditions, e.g., the reception of the location reporting configuration,
initial registration, distance travelled, elapsed time, cell change, MBMS SAI
change, MBMS session change, leaving a specific MBMS bearer service area,
tracking area change, PLMN change, call initiation, or other types of events
such as emergency alert, emergency call or imminent peril calls. The location
report can include information described as timestamp, ECGI, MBMS SAIs,
longitude, latitude, accuracy, speed, bearing, altitude, measurement code and
additional other location information.
### 6.3.3 Solution Evaluation
The current set of elements which describe triggers for the location
information reporting in 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 10.9.3.1 are extended to add
the conditions provided in solution #1 and solution #2.
## 6.4 Solution 4: Handling of triggering criteria in emergency cases
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #3 - Handling of triggering criteria in
emergency cases.
The solution is to provide an information element \"triggering criteria in
emergency cases\" in the location reporting configuration (see Table
6.4.2.1-1) and location reporting trigger (see Table 6.4.2.2-1) messages. The
existing procedures for event-triggered location reporting and client-
triggered location reporting in clause 10.9.3 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] will be
used and are not be affected by this solution, but are listed below for
illustration.
Figure 6.4.1-1 illustrates the message flow for event triggered location
reporting:
Figure 6.4.1-1: Event-triggered location reporting procedure
Figure 6.4.1-2 illustrates the message flow for client-triggered location
reporting:
Figure 6.4.1-2: Client-triggered location reporting procedure
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.4.2.1 Location reporting configuration
Table 6.4.2.1-1 describes the information elements of the location reporting
configuration message from the location management server to the location
management client.
Table 6.4.2.1-1: Location reporting configuration
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M Identity of the MC
service user to which the location reporting configuration is targeted.
Requested non-emergency location information O (see NOTE) Identifies what
location information is requested, except for emergency or imminent peril
calls or emergency alerts Requested emergency location information O (see
NOTE) Identifies what location information is requested, for emergency or
imminent peril calls or emergency alerts Triggering criteria in non- emergency
cases O (see NOTE) Identifies when the location management client will send
the location report in non-emergency cases Triggering criteria in emergency
cases O (see NOTE) Identifies when the location management client will send
the location report in emergency cases Minimum time between consecutive
reports O (see NOTE) Defaults to 0 if absent and 0 for emergency calls,
imminent peril calls and emergency alerts NOTE: If none of the information
element is present, this represents a cancellation for location reporting.
* * *
#### 6.4.2.2 Location reporting trigger
Table 6.4.2.2-1 describes the information elements of the location reporting
trigger message from the location management client to the location management
server.
Table 6.4.2.2-1: Location reporting trigger
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | MC service ID | M(see NOTE 1) | Identity of the | | | | requesting authorized | | | | MC service user (e.g. | | | | MCPTT ID, MCVideo ID, | | | | MCData ID) | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | MC service ID | M (see NOTE 1) | Identity of the | | | | requested MC service | | | | user (e.g. MCPTT ID, | | | | MCVideo ID, MCData ID) | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Immediate Report | O (see NOTE 2) | Indicates whether an | | Indicator | | immediate location | | | | report is required | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Requested non-emergency | O (see NOTE 2) | Identifies what | | location information | | location information is | | | | requested, except for | | | | emergency or imminent | | | | peril calls or | | | | emergency alerts | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Requested emergency | O (see NOTE 2) | Identifies what | | location information | | location information is | | | | requested, for | | | | emergency or imminent | | | | peril calls or | | | | emergency alerts | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Triggering criteria in | O (see NOTE 2) | Identifies when the | | non- emergency cases | | client will send the | | | | location report in | | | | non-emergency cases | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Triggering criteria in | O (see NOTE 2) | Identifies when the | | emergency cases | | client will send the | | | | location report in | | | | emergency cases | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | Minimum time between | O (see NOTE 2) | Defaults to 0 if absent | | consecutive reports | | and 0 for emergency | | | | calls, imminent peril | | | | calls and emergency | | | | alerts | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The identity of | | | | the requesting MC | | | | service user and the | | | | requested MC service | | | | user should belong to | | | | the same MC service. | | | | E.g. if requesting MC | | | | service user is using a | | | | MCPTT ID, then the | | | | requested MC service | | | | user identity should be | | | | an MCPTT ID. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: At least one of | | | | these rows shall be | | | | present. | | | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
### 6.4.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides an additional information element to ensure that
triggering criteria can be adjusted separately for the emergency and non-
emergency case.
As location information of a specific client may be needed, using an
individual identity to address a specific client, should be taken into
considerations.
## 6.5 Solution 5: Location management mechanism backward compatibility for
MCPTT
### 6.5.1 Description
For case F and G identified with backward compatibility problem in the key
issue 4, both R13 and R14 location mechanism are available at the MCPTT server
(i.e., MCPTT server acquires location information from either MCPTT client or
LMS). It is the MCPTT server that makes the decision to use R13 or R14
location mechanism based on policy.
In addition, the server URI of location management server should be included
in the initial UE configuration table in annex A.6 in 3GPP TS 23.280[7].
### 6.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
MCPTT server is enhanced to determine the location management mechanism to be
used based on policy.
### 6.5.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution solves the location management mechanism backward compatibility
for MCPTT by enhancing the MCPTT server to determine the location management
mechanism based on its capability (i.e., release version) and policy.
Editor\'s Note: The description for the version of MCPTT server and MCPTT
client is FFS.
## 6.6 Solution 6: Off-network storing of event-triggered location information
### 6.6.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #2: Location History Reporting.
The location management client gets the location reporting configuration from
the location management server and reports location information to the
location management server based on conditions. When the location management
client is not able to send location information reports to the location
management server, the location management client locally stores the event-
triggered location information reports.
### 6.6.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.6.2.1 Off-network storing of event-triggered location information
procedure
The location management client may get into an off-network situation at any
time after the initial location reporting configuration was provided by the
location management server. If any location information trigger applies, the
location management client locally saves the corresponding location
information report. The conditions in off-network situation may vary from the
conditions in an on-network situation and may e.g. include distance travelled,
elapsed time, call initiation, off-network emergency alert, off-network
emergency group call, off-network imminent peril group call and off-network
emergency private call.
NOTE 1: The procedure may also apply in some scenarios of isolated operation
for public safety. Which conditions are applicable in this case, may depend on
the particular isolated operation scenario. They may include all or a subset
of the on-network conditions and e.g. in case only one single base station is
available, the conditions entering cell and leaving cell may be relevant
instead of cell change.
Figure 6.6.2.1-1: Off-network storing of event-triggered location information
procedure
1\. The location management server sends location reporting configuration
message to the location management client(s) containing the initial
configuration (or a subsequent update) for reporting the location of the MC
service UE.
NOTE 2: The location reporting configuration information can be made part of
the user profile, in which case the sending of the message is not necessary.
NOTE 3: Different location management clients may be given different location
reporting criteria.
2\. The location management client loses connection to the location management
server or changes to off-network operation.
3\. A location reporting event occurs.
4\. The location management client locally stores the location information
report, containing location information identified by the location reporting
configuration and available to the location management client.
NOTE 4: It is proposed, that the location management client stores location
information based on a configurable period of time or number of reports.
NOTE 5: The location information report may include timestamp, ECGI, MBMS
SAIs, longitude, latitude, accuracy, speed, bearing, altitude, measurement
code and additional other location information.
### 6.6.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution adds a mechanism for configuring events, which will cause the
location management client to store location reports while operating off-
network. This does not affect any of the existing location management
procedures. A separate set of off-network trigger criteria besides the on-
network trigger criteria may be required.
The following configuration aspects may have to be defined for each location
management client separately:
a) Activation and de-activation to locally store location reports;
b) Activation of automatic transmission of triggered events after the location
management client returns from off-network operation; and
c) Amount of location reports locally stored before the first location report
while operating off-network will be overwritten.
## 6.7 Solution 7: On-demand location history reporting
### 6.7.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #2: Location History Reporting.
The location management client may have stored one or multiple event-triggered
location information reports while operating off-network. This solution
provides information flows and procedures for on-demand request of one ore
multiple stored location information reports based on different criteria (e.g.
specific number of last stored reports, all reports of a specific period of
time, all reports triggered by a specific triggering criteria), after the
location management client returns to on-network operation.
### 6.7.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.7.2.1 Location information history request
Table 6.7.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server to the location management client for requesting one or several
location information reports.
Table 6.7.2.1-1: Location information history request
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID list M List of MC service
IDs (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, MCVideo ID) of one MC user at home MC system
whose location information is requested Reporting number of last stored
reports O (see NOTE) Indicates the number of last stored reports to be sent
Reporting start time O (see NOTE) Indicates to send all reports having this
time stamp and newer Reporting end time O (see NOTE) Indicates to send all
reports having this time stamp and older Reporting triggering criteria O (see
NOTE) Indicates to send all reports triggered by this condition Minimum time
between consecutive reports O Defaults to 0 if absent NOTE: If none of these
information elements are present, all stored location information reports
shall be reported. Reporting number of last stored reports shall not be
present, if either reporting start time or reporting end time is present.
* * *
#### 6.7.2.2 On-demand location history reporting procedure
The location management server can request UE location information history at
any time by sending a location information history request to the location
management client, which triggers location management client to send the
requested location information report(s) immediately or based on interval
determined by the location management server.
Figure 6.7.2.2-1: On-demand location information history reporting procedure
1\. The location management client indicates the location management server
the on-network status (e.g. through a triggered location information report).
2\. Based on configurations such as periodical location information history
timer, or location information history request from other entities (e.g.
another location management client, MC service server), the location
management server initiates the request of location information history from
the location management client.
3\. The location management server sends a location information history
request to the location management client.
4\. The location management client decides to send one or several location
information reports as determined by location management server (e.g. period
of time, last N reports, all stored reports).
5\. The location management client responds to the location management server
with one or several off-network location information reports.
NOTE 1: The transmission of requested off-network location information reports
does not interrupt the on-network location information reports.
NOTE 2: The last stored location information report is transmitted first.
6\. The location management client responds to the location management server
with one or several off-network location information reports.
A method is necessary to allow the location management server to indicate one
or many location management clients to stop the transmission of off-network
location information reports (e.g. in case of channel congestion).
#### 6.7.2.3 Location information report
Table 6.7.2.3-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client to the location management server for the location information
reporting.
Table 6.7.2.3-1: Location information report
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID list M List of MC service
IDs (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, MCVideo ID) of the reporting MC user at home MC
system Triggering event M Identity of the event that triggered the sending of
the report Location Information M Location information (see NOTE) Off-network
O Off-network location information indicator NOTE: This may include timestamp,
ECGI, MBMS SAIs, longitude, latitude, accuracy, speed, bearing, altitude,
measurement code and additional other location information.
* * *
### 6.7.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution provides information flows and procedures for on-demand location
information history reporting, after the location management client returns
from off-network operation. The described solution does not affect any of the
existing information flows and procedures for on-network operation.
## 6.8 Solution 8: Triggered location history reporting
### 6.8.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #2: Location History Reporting.
The location management client may have stored one or multiple event-triggered
location information reports while operating off-network. This solution
provides a procedure for the automatic transmission of off-network stored
location reports after the location management client returns to on-network
operation. This solution may affect the existing information flow for
reporting location information.
### 6.8.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.8.2.1 Triggered location history reporting procedure
The location management client may be triggered to send any stored location
information report(s) to the location management server by entering on-network
operation.
Figure 6.8.2.1-1: Triggered location history reporting procedure
1\. The location management client enters on-network operation, establishes
connection to the location management server and enters the state to transmit
location information reports.
2\. The location management client sends one or multiple location information
reports to the location management server.
NOTE 1: The transmission of requested off-network location information reports
does not interrupt the on-network location information reports.
NOTE 2: The last stored location information report is transmitted first.
3\. Upon receiving the report(s), the location management server stores
location information reports of the reporting location management client.
A method is necessary to allow the location management server to indicate one
or many location management clients to stop the transmission of off-network
location information reports (e.g. in case of channel congestion).
#### 6.8.2.2 Location information report
Table 6.8.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client to the location management server for the location information
reporting.
Table 6.8.2.2-1: Location information report
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID list M List of MC service
IDs (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, MCVideo ID) of the reporting MC user at home MC
system Triggering event M Identity of the event that triggered the sending of
the report Location Information M Location information (see NOTE) Off-network
O Off-network location information indicator NOTE: This may include timestamp,
ECGI, MBMS SAIs, longitude, latitude, accuracy, speed, bearing, altitude,
measurement code and additional other location information.
* * *
### 6.8.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution provides a procedure for triggered location history reporting on
returning to on-network operation after the location management client has
stored location reports while operating off-network, which does not affect any
of the existing procedures.
## 6.9 Solution 9: Adding a UE label to Initial MC service UE configuration
### 6.9.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #6: Individual UE addressing.
An MC UE label is added to table A.6.1 in 3GPP TS 23.280 [7], the Initial MC
service UE configuration data. After user authentication and service
authorization the MC service client will inform the MC service server of the
MC UE label being used. The MC service will be able to map the MC UE label to
the MC service ID for that specific instance of user login.
When a MC service user is logged on to multiple MC service UEs using the same
MC service ID, the MC service server will be able to map location reports from
these different MC service UEs by using the MC service ID together with the MC
UE label to distinguish between specific MC service UEs.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how to transfer the MC UE label from MC service
client to MC service server.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how to indicate a specific MC service ID and MC UE
label in the delivery of location reports to the MC service clients consuming
these location reports.
### 6.9.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Addition of extra parameter to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] Initial MC service UE
configuration data
Table 6.9.2-1: Initial MC service UE configuration data (on-network)
* * *
Reference Parameter description Subclause 10.1.1 Operational information > MC
service UE information >> MC UE label
* * *
### 6.9.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution adds a new entry to the existing Initial MC service UE
configuration data (on-network) table, in order to identify a specific UE.
A solution is needed for how to transfer the MC UE label from the MC service
client to the MC service server, and how the MC UE label is sent in
conjunction with the MC service ID in delivery reports to MC service clients
consuming these location reports.
## 6.10 Solution 10: Associate a user profile per MC service UE
### 6.10.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #6: Individual UE addressing.
When a MC service user logs on to a specific MC service UE, each time a
specific MC service user profile may be used (either automatically or
manually) to identify which MC service UE the MC service user has just logged
on to.
With the possibility to select an individual MC service user profile for each
MC service UE, the MC service ID together with the current MC service user
profile can be used to identify a specific MC service UE (e.g. for location
information report).
In the case of manual selection of the MC service user profile, each MC
service user profile should uniquely identify an MC service UE.
In the case of automatic selection no additional setup step for the MC service
user is required. The MC service user profile is automatically assigned by the
MC system for a specific MC service UE using a specific MC UE identifier.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the individual MC service user IDs will be
mapped to the associated MC service user.
### 6.10.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
No significant impacts on the existing architecture are identified using this
solution because it uses the already defined MC service ID and MC service user
profile to identify individual UEs.
### 6.10.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution has to be evaluated from the operative-tactical point of view.
The manual mapping allows meaningful MC service UE identifications, but
requires an additional setup step for the MC service user.
The automatic mapping does not require an additional setup step for the MC
service user, but requires additional impact to the existing architecture.
## 6.11 Solution 11: MC UE identity (new ID)
### 6.11.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #6: Individual UE addressing.
A new MC UE identity (MC UE ID) is introduced, which is included in every
location report that is sent by the MC service client. With this each location
report will contain a MC service ID and a MC UE ID which allows the MC service
clients consuming to interpret the location reports correctly.
The new MC UE ID may include manufacturer related information (e.g. name of
manufacturer, brand, model, serial number).
### 6.11.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Editor\'s note: Capture impacts on existing 3GPP nodes and functional
elements.
#### 6.11.2.1 MC UE ID part of location information report
An additional information element is added to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause
10.9.2.2. Location information report.
Table 6.11.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client to the location management server for the location information
reporting.
Table 6.11.2.1-1: Location information report
* * *
Information element Status Description List of MC service IDs M List of MC
service IDs (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, MCVideo ID) of the reporting MC user at
home MC system MC UE ID O MC UE ID of the reporting MC service UE at home MC
system Triggering event M Identity of the event that triggered the sending of
the report Location Information M Location information
* * *
#### 6.11.2.2 MC UE ID part of location information request
An additional information element is added to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause
10.9.2.3. Location information request.
Table 6.11.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the MC service server to
the location management server and from the location management server to the
location management client for requesting an immediate location information
report.
Table 6.11.2.2-1: Location information request
* * *
Information element Status Description List of MC service IDs M List of MC
service IDs (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, MCVideo ID) of the requested MC user at
home MC system MC UE ID O MC UE ID of the requested MC service UE at home MC
system
* * *
#### 6.11.2.3 Definition
An additional definition is added to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause 3.1
Definitions.
**MC UE ID:** Mission critical unique identification of a specific MC service
UE.
##### 6.11.2.4 MC service UE configuration data
An extra parameter is added to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] Table A.6-1: Initial MC
service UE configuration data.
Table 6.11.2.4-1: Initial MC service UE configuration data (on-network)
* * *
Reference Parameter description Subclause 10.1.1 Operational information > MC
service UE information >> MC UE ID
* * *
### 6.11.3 Solution Evaluation
Depending on the size of the MC UE identity, including the MC UE identity in
the location report may have a large impact on message size. As location
reports may be sent frequently this will decrease efficiency.
A mechanism may be needed to allow an MC service server to query the
association of MC UE ID to a MC service user.
## 6.12 Solution 12: Obtaining location of UE in \"limited MC service\" state
### 6.12.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #7: Location information of unauthenticated
use..
The solution is to provide a mechanism to obtain the location of the UE in
\"limited MC service\" state by reusing the procedure in subclause 9.1.15 -
EPC Mobile Terminating Location Request (EPC-MT-LR) in 3GPP TS 23.271 [12].
The utilization of this network procedure is outside the scope of the present
specification.
### 6.12.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
## 6.13 Solution 13: Sharing location information across MC service UEs
### 6.13.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #5 - Sharing of location information.
This solution adds new procedures and information flows for the sharing of
location information across MC service UE\'s either operated by the same or a
different MC service user.
### 6.13.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Addition of new information flows and procedures to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] at
clause 10.9 Location management (on-network). Changes to existing procedures
in 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] at clause 10.9 Location management (on-network).
#### 6.13.2.1 Location information client subscription request
Table 6.13.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client to the location management server for a location information
subscription request.
Table 6.13.2.1-1: Location information client subscription request
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M Identity of the
requesting MC service user at home MC system MC service ID list M List of
identities of the reporting MC service users at home MC system MC UE ID list
(see NOTE) O List of identifications of the reporting MC service UEs of the MC
service users at home MC system Time between consecutive reports M It
indicates the interval time between consecutive reports NOTE: The order of
this list has to be the same as the list of the MC service IDs of the
reporting MC service UEs.
* * *
#### 6.13.2.2 Location information client subscription response
Table 6.13.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server to the location management client for location information client
subscription response.
Table 6.13.2.2-1: Location information client subscription response
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M Identity of the
responding MC service user at home MC system Subscription status M List of
indications of the individual subscription results
* * *
#### 6.13.2.3 Location information client notification
Table 6.13.2.3-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server to the location management client.
Table 6.13.2.3-1: Location information client notification
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M Identity of the MC
service user subscribed to location information of another MC service user at
home MC system MC service ID M Identity of the MC service user who location
information have to be updated at home MC system MC UE ID O Identification of
the MC service UE of the MC service user who location information have to be
updated at home MC system Triggering event M Identity of the event that
triggered the sending of the notification Location Information M Location
information (see NOTE) NOTE: This may include timestamp, ECGI, MBMS SAIs,
longitude, latitude, accuracy, speed, bearing, altitude, measurement code and
additional other location information.
* * *
#### 6.13.2.4 Location information client subscription procedure
Figure 6.13.2.4-1 illustrates the high level procedure of location information
client subscription request.
Figure 6.13.2.4-1: Location information client subscription request procedure
1\. Location management client sends a location information subscription
request to the location management server to subscribe location information of
one or more MC service UE\'s.
2\. The location management server shall check if the location management
client is authorized to initiate the location information subscription
request.
3\. The location management server replies with a location information
subscription response indicating the subscription status for each individual
subscription request.
#### 6.13.2.5 Event-triggered location information notification procedure
Figure 6.13.2.5-1 illustrates the high level procedure of sharing event-
triggered location information within the home MC system.
NOTE: The location management client and sever have already successfully
subscribed to location information of one or more MC service UE.
Figure 6.13.2.5-1: Event-triggered location notification information procedure
1\. The location management server checks the configurations, e.g.,
subscription, periodical location information timer.
2\. Based on the configuration and subscription the location management server
sends the location information report including the last available location
information of one MC service user and the respective MC service UE to one
location management client and to the MC service server. The last available
location information is derived from the location report procedure as
described in clause 10.9.3.1, or may come from a PLMN operator.
3\. MC service server may further share this location information to a group
or to another MC service user.
NOTE: Step 3 can be skipped if not required.
#### 6.13.2.6 On-demand request of location information procedure
The MC service server can request MC service UE\'s location information at any
time by sending a location information request to the location management
server. The location information request as described in clause 10.9.2.3 of
3GPP TS 23.280 [7] is carried out as an immediate procedure to receive on-
demand the last available location information of the requested MC service UE.
Figure 6.13.2.6-1 illustrates the high level procedure of requesting on-demand
location information.
NOTE: The location management client has already successfully subscribed to
location information of one or more MC service UE.
Figure 6.13.2.6-1: On-demand request of location information procedure
1\. MC service server sends a location information request to the location
management server.
2\. The location management server acquires the last available location
information of a MC service UE, by triggering an on-demand location report
procedure as described in clause 10.9.3.2, or from a PLMN operator.
3\. The location management server checks the configurations and subscriptions
to receive notification of location information.
4\. Based on the configuration and subscription the location management server
immediately sends the location information report including the last available
location information acquired of one MC service UE to one or more location
management clients and the MC service server.
5\. MC service server may further share this location information to a MC
service group or to another MC service user.
> NOTE: Step 3 can be skipped if not required.
### 6.13.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution depends on the MC UE ID proposed in solution 11 of this study.
The procedures and information flows have to be adapted after the overall
evaluation of identifying location information of a specific MC UE ID have
been completed.
## 6.14 Solution 14: Functional model for sharing location information across
MC systems
### 6.14.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #5 (5.5.1.c) - \"Location information of one
MC user at home MC system is shared with other MC users at partner MC
system\".
This solution adds an enhanced functional model, enabling the sharing of
location information across MC systems.
### 6.14.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.14.2.1 On-network functional model
This solution is based on an enhanced functional model for application plane
for an MC system, as described in 3GPP TS 23.280 [7], clause 7.3.1.
Figure 6.14.2.1-1 describes the enhanced functional model.
Figure 6.14.2.1-1 Enhanced functional model to support the sharing of location
information between MC systems
#### 6.14.2.2 Reference point CSC-23 (between location management servers in
different MC systems)
The CSC-23 reference point, which exists between location management servers
in different MC systems, is used by location management servers to handle
location management related signalling in different security domains, as
described in 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause 10.9.
The CSC-23 reference point uses the HTTP-1, HTTP-2 and HTTP-3 reference points
for transport and routing of non-subscription/notification related signalling.
#### 6.14.2.3 Reference point CSC-22 (between location management server and
MC gateway server)
The CSC-22 reference point, which exists between location management server
and MC gateway server, is used to handle location management related
signalling between different security domains.
The CSC-22 reference point uses SIP-2 and SIP-3 reference points for transport
and routing of subscription/notification related signalling.
#### 6.14.2.4 Reference point CSC-21 (between MC gateway servers in different
MC systems)
The CSC-21 reference point, which exists between MC gateway servers in
different MC systems in different security domains, is used to share
subscription and notification related signalling for group configuration, user
configuration and location management to permit interconnection and migration
between MC systems.
The CSC-21 reference point uses the SIP-3 reference point for transport and
routing of subscription/notification related signalling.
#### 6.14.2.5 Information flows
NOTE: This includes the information flows for location reporting
configuration, location information report, location information request,
location reporting trigger, location information subscription requests,
location information subscription response, location information notification,
location information cancel subscription request, location information cancel
subscription response and location report response.
### 6.14.3 Solution Evaluation
The functional model needs to be enhanced, as a new reference point between
the location management servers in the primary and partner MC systems is
needed.
A mechanism may be required in order to terminate a subscription for location
information across MC systems.
## 6.15 Solution 15: Sharing location information for interconnected MC system
### 6.15.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #5 -- Sharing of location information.
This solution adds new procedures and information flows for the sharing of
location information with other MC service users at partner MC system(s)
either operated under the same or different organisation / administration /
authorized user.
### 6.15.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.15.2.1 General
Addition of new information flows and procedures to 3GPP TS 23.280 [7] clause
10.9 Location management (on-network). Changes to existing procedures in 3GPP
TS 23.280 [7] clause 10.9 Location management (on-network).
#### 6.15.2.2 Location information subscription request
Table 6.15.2.2-1 describes the information flow from the MC service server or
location management client in the primary MC system to the other location
management server in the partner MC system for the location information
subscription request.
Table 6.15.2.2-1: Location information subscription request
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID (see NOTE 1) | M | The MC service ID of the | | | | requesting MC service user | | | | located in the primary MC | | | | system | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID list | M | List of the MC service IDs | | | | of MC service user(s) | | | | located in the partner MC | | | | system whose location | | | | information are requested | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Time between consecutive | M | Indicates the interval time | | location notifications (see | | between consecutive | | NOTE 2) | | location notifications | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This element is | | | | only present when the | | | | subscription request is | | | | originated by an MC service | | | | client. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the interval | | | | time has a value of zero | | | | then the location | | | | management server will send | | | | the location information | | | | notification immediately | | | | after the location | | | | information update is | | | | received from the MC | | | | service user in the MC | | | | service ID list. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 6.15.2.3 Location information subscription response
Table 6.15.2.3-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server in the partner MC system to the location management server, MC service
server or location management client in the primary MC system for location
information subscription response.
Table 6.15.2.3-1: Location information subscription response
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID (see NOTE 1) | M | MC service ID of the | | | | requesting MC service user | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Subscription status (see | M | Indicates the subscription | | NOTE 2) | | result | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This element is | | | | only present when the | | | | subscription request was | | | | originated by an MC service | | | | client. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The subscription | | | | status provides the status | | | | for each MC service ID | | | | listed in the subscription | | | | request. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 6.15.2.4 Location information notification
Table 6.X.2.4-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server in the partner MC system to the MC service server and location
management server in the primary MC system for location information
notification.
Table 6.15.2.4-1: Location information notification
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID (see NOTE) M MC service
ID of MC service user in the primary MC system who subscribed to location
information update MC service ID M MC service ID of MC service user in the
partner MC system who provided an location information update Triggering event
M Describes the event which triggered the location information update Location
Information M Location information NOTE: This element is only present when the
location information notication is the result of a subscription by an MC
service client.
* * *
#### 6.15.2.5 Location information subscription procedure
Figure 6.15.2.5-1 illustrates the high level procedure of location information
subscription requests of an interconnected MC system.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service server or an authorized MC service user in the primary MC
system is in possession of the MC service ID of the target MC service user in
the partner MC system.
\- The MC service user in the primary MC system is authorized to subscribe to
location information of the target MC service user in the partner MC system.
Figure 6.15.2.5-1: Location information subscription request procedure
1\. The MC service server or a location management client in the primary MC
system requests to subscribe to location information of MC service user
located in the partner MC system.
2\. The location management server in the primary MC system checks if the MC
service user in the primary MC system is authorized to subscribe to location
information of the target MC servicer user in the partner MC system.
3\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the location
information subscription request to the location management server in the
partner MC system.
4\. The location management server in the partner MC system checks if the MC
service user in the primary MC system is authorized to receive location
information of the target MC service user in the partner MC system.
NOTE: Whether the authorization check is a specific check of the requesting MC
service user or is a general policy check is outside the scope of this
solution.
5\. The location management server in the partner MC system replies with a
location information subscription response indicating the subscription status.
6\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the location
information subscription response indicating the subscription status to the
requesting MC service server or the location management client.
#### 6.15.2.6 Event-triggered location information notification procedure
Figure 6.15.2.6-1 illustrates the high level procedure of event-triggered
sharing of location information.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service server or an authorized MC service user in the primary MC
system has successfully subscribed to receive the location information of an
MC service user in the partner MC system.
Figure 6.15.2.6-1: Event-triggered sharing of location information procedure
1\. The location management client at partner MC system is triggered to send a
location information update. For triggers see 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 10.9.3.1.
2\. The location management server in the partner MC system sends the location
information notification, based on the subscription.
3\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the location
information notification to the MC service server or the location management
client in the primary MC system.
#### 6.15.2.7 Location information request
Table 6.15.2.7-1 describes the information flow from the MC service server or
location management client in the primary MC system to the other location
management server in the partner MC system for the location information
request.
Table 6.15.2.7-1: Location information request
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID (see NOTE) M The MC
service ID of the requesting MC service user located in the primary MC system
MC service ID list M List of the MC service IDs of MC service user(s) located
in the partner MC system whose location information are requested NOTE: This
element is only present when the request is originated by an MC service
client.
* * *
#### 6.15.2.8 Location information report
Table 6.15.2.8-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server in the partner MC system to the MC service server and location
management server in the primary MC system for location information report.
Table 6.15.2.8-1: Location information report
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID (see NOTE) M MC service
ID of MC service user in the primary MC system who requested a location
information update MC service ID M MC service ID of MC service user in the
partner MC system who provided an location information update Triggering event
M Describes the event which triggered the location information update Location
Information M Location information NOTE: This is only used when the location
management server sends location information notification to the MC service
user who has requested an location information report.
* * *
#### 6.15.2.9 On-demand request of location information procedure
The MC service server or location management client in the primary MC system
can request MC service user\'s location information, which is in the partner
MC system, at any time by sending a location information request to the
location management server at primary MC system.
Figure 6.15.2.9-1 illustrates the high level procedure of on-demand request of
location information.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service server or the location management client at primary MC
system is in possession of the MC service ID of a MC service user at partner
MC system.
Figure 6.15.2.9-1: On-demand request of location information procedure
1\. The MC service server or a location management client in the primary MC
system requests on-demand location information of MC service user located in
the partner MC system.
2\. The location management server in the primary MC system checks if the MC
service user in the primary MC system is authorized to request on-demand
location information of the target MC service user in the partner MC system.
3\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the on-
demand location information request to the location management server in the
partner MC system.
4\. The location management server in the partner MC system checks if the MC
service user in the primary MC system is authorized to receive location
information of the target MC service user in the partner MC system.
NOTE: Whether the authorization check is a specific check of the requesting MC
service user or is a general policy check is outside the scope of this
solution.
5\. The location management server at partner MC system updates the location
information. For the procedure to get the latest location information see 3GPP
TS 23.280 clause 10.9.3.2.
6\. The location management server in the partner MC system replies with a
location information report.
7\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the location
information report to the requesting MC service server or the location
management client.
#### 6.15.2.10 Authorization to share location information
Editor\'s note: How the authorization of a MC service server to request
location information is FFS.
Table 6.15.2.10-1 contains the authorization part of the MCPTT user profile as
described in 3GPP TS 23.379 Annex A.3.
Table 6.15.2.10-1: MCPTT user profile data (on and off network)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | P | MCPTT UE | MCPTT | Confi | MCPTT | | eference | arameter | | Server | guration | user | | | des | | | ma | database | | | cription | | | nagement | | | | | | | server | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | [R-5.1 | List of | | | | | | 1-004], | MCPTT | | | | | | | IDs, for | | | | | | [R-6.17 | which | | | | | | .2-001] | subs | | | | | | of | cription | | | | | | 3GPP | inf | | | | | | TS 22.2 | ormation | | | | | | 80 [3] | sharing | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | rmitted. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | > MCPTT | N | Y | Y | Y | | | ID | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.15.2.10-2 contains the authorization part of the MCData user profile
as described in 3GPP TS 23.282 Annex A.3.
Table 6.15.2.10-2: MCData user profile data (on and off network)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | P | MCData | MCData | Confi | MCData | | eference | arameter | UE | Server | guration | user | | | des | | | ma | database | | | cription | | | nagement | | | | | | | server | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | [R-5.1 | List of | | | | | | 1-004], | MCData | | | | | | | IDs, for | | | | | | [R-6.17 | which | | | | | | .2-001] | subs | | | | | | of | cription | | | | | | 3GPP | inf | | | | | | TS 22.2 | ormation | | | | | | 80 [3] | sharing | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | rmitted. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | > | N | Y | Y | Y | | | MCData | | | | | | | ID | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.15.2.10-3 contains the authorization part of the MCVideo user profile
as described in 3GPP TS 23.281 Annex A.3.
Table 6.15.2.10-3: MCVideo user profile data (on and off network)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | P | MCVideo | MCVideo | Confi | MCVideo | | eference | arameter | UE | Server | guration | user | | | des | | | ma | database | | | cription | | | nagement | | | | | | | server | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | [R-5.1 | List of | | | | | | 1-004], | MCVideo | | | | | | | IDs, for | | | | | | [R-6.17 | which | | | | | | .2-001] | subs | | | | | | of | cription | | | | | | 3GPP | inf | | | | | | TS 22.2 | ormation | | | | | | 80 [3] | sharing | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | rmitted. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | > | N | Y | Y | Y | | | MCVideo | | | | | | | ID | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 6.15.2.11 Location information cancel subscription request
Table 6.X.2.11-1 describes the information flow from the MC service server or
location management client in the primary MC system to the location management
server in the partner MC system for the location information cancel
subscription request.
Table 6.15.2.11-1: Location information cancel subscription request
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID (see NOTE) M The MC
service ID of the requesting MC service user located in the primary MC system
MC service ID list M List of the MC service IDs of MC service user(s) located
in the partner MC system for who the subscription is cancelled NOTE: This
element is only present when the cancel subscription request is originated by
an MC service client.
* * *
#### 6.15.2.12 Location information cancel subscription response
Table 6.15.2.12-1 describes the information flow from the location management
server in the partner MC system to the location management client or the MC
service server in the primary MC system for location information cancel
subscription response.
Table 6.15.2.12-1: Location information cancel subscription response
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC service ID (see NOTE 1) | M | MC service ID of the | | | | requesting MC service user | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Subscription status (see | M | Indicates the cancel | | NOTE 2) | | subscription result | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: This element is | | | | only present when the | | | | cancel subscription request | | | | was originated by an MC | | | | service client. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The subscription | | | | status provides the status | | | | for each MC service ID | | | | listed in the cancel | | | | subscription request. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 6.15.2.13 Location information cancel subscription procedure
Figure 6.15.2.13-1 illustrates the high level procedure of location
information cancel subscription request.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service server or an authorized MC service user in the primary MC
system is in possession of the MC service ID of the target MC service user in
the partner MC system.
\- The MC service user in the primary MC system has successful subscribed to
location information of the target MC service user in the partner MC system.
Figure 6.15.2.13-1: Location information cancel subscription procedure
1\. The MC service server or location management client in the primary MC
system requests to cancel subscription to location information of MC service
users located in the partner MC system.
2\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends a location
information cancel subscription request to the location management server in
the partner MC system.
3\. The location management server in the partner MC system replies with a
location information cancel subscription response indicating the subscription
status.
4\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the location
information cancel subscription response indicating the cancel subscription
status.
#### 6.15.2.14 Location reporting temporary configuration request
Table 6.15.2.14-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client and location management server in the primary MC system to the location
management server and location management client in the partner MC system for
the location reporting temporary configuration request. This information flow
may be sent individually addressed or group addressed on unicast or multicast
(see 3GPP TS 23.280 clause 10.7.3.4.1).
Table 6.15.2.14-1: Location reporting temporary configuration request
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M The MC service ID of
the configuring MC service user located in the primary MC system MC service ID
or MC service group ID M The MC service ID or MC service group ID of MC
service user(s) located in the partner MC system whose location reporting has
to be configured Temporary location reporting configuration M Provides set of
location reporting parameters to be used temporarily. Configuration expiration
criteria O Criteria for restoration of original location reporting parameters
(e.g. timer).
* * *
#### 6.15.2.15 Location reporting temporary configuration response
Table 6.15.2.15-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client and location management server in the partner MC system to the location
management server and location management client in the primary MC system for
the location reporting temporary configuration response.
Table 6.15.2.15-1: Location reporting temporary configuration response
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M The MC service ID of
the configuring MC service user located in the primary MC system MC service ID
M The MC service ID located in the partner MC system whose location reporting
has been configured Result M Indicates the status of each configuration
parameter
* * *
#### 6.15.2.16 Location reporting temporary configuration procedure
Figure 6.15.2.16-1 illustrates the high level procedure of location reporting
temporary configuration procedure.
Editor\'s Note: Current MC architecture intentionally does not allow
configuration changes of any type from a remote system because of increased
complexity. Only an authorized user which is homed to the system where the
configuration change is resident may make such a change.
Pre-conditions:
\- An authorized MC service user in the primary MC system is in possession of
the MC service ID or the MC service group ID of the target MC service user(s)
in the partner MC system.
\- The MC service user in the primary MC system is authorized to configure the
location reporting of the target MC service user(s) in the partner MC system.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.95625in"}
Figure 6.15.2.16-1: Location reporting temporary configuration procedure
1\. The location management client in the primary MC system requests to
configure the location reporting of MC service user(s) located in the partner
MC system.
2\. The location management server in the primary MC system checks if the MC
service user in the primary MC system is authorized to configure the location
reporting of the target MC servicer user(s) in the partner MC system.
3\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the location
reporting temporary configuration message to the location management server in
the partner MC system.
4\. The location management server in the partner MC system checks if the MC
service user in the primary MC system is authorized to receive location
information of the target MC service user(s) in the partner MC system
NOTE: Whether the authorization check is a specific check of the requesting MC
service user or is a general policy check is outside the scope of this
solution.
5\. The location management server in the partner MC system sends the location
reporting temporary configuration message to the location management client at
the partner MC system.
6\. The location management client in the partner MC system applies the
request configuration.
7\. The location management client in the partner MC system is providing the
full status report on all configuration parameters, even if only one parameter
has received a request of adaptation.
8\. The location management server in the partner MC system sends the status
response to the location management server in the primary MC system.
9\. The location management server in the primary MC system sends the status
response to the location management client in the primary MC system.
### 6.15.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution depends on changes to the functional model as proposed in
solution 14.
This solution provides a set of information flows and procedures to allow
location reporting from an interconnected partner MC system.
The interconnection architecture in 3GPP TS 23.280 does not permit
configuration of a server or client in a partner system due to security
concerns. Additional authorization checks would be required in case of
performing location reporting configuration in interconnected MC systems under
the administration of different organizations.
## 6.16 Solution 16: Sharing of past location information
### 6.16.1 Description
This solution addresses key issue #5 -- Sharing of past location information.
The solution is to add a description to the corresponding parts of the
location management in clause 10.9 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [7], which describes
location information handling within one MC system.
### 6.16.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following solution does not have an impact on the specified architecture.
#### 6.16.2.1 Location information request
Table 6.16.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the MC service server to
the location management server and from the location management client to the
location management server for requesting an immediate location information
report together with optional past location information either defined by a
number, a period of time or based on a specific trigger.
Table 6.16.2.1-1: Location information request
* * *
Information element Status Description MC service ID M The MC service ID of
the requesting MC service user MC service ID list M List of MC service IDs of
MC service user(s) whose location information is requested Reporting start
time M Indicates the requested time stamp as start time Reporting end time M
Indicates the requested time stamp as end time Reporting triggering criteria O
Indicates to send all reports triggered by this condition
* * *
#### 6.16.2.2 Providing past location information from the location management
server
The location management client can request past location information at any
time by sending a location information request to the location management
server. Past location information are provided by the location management
server, if the location management server stores location information.
Figure 6.16.2.2-1: On-demand past location information procedure
1\. The location management client requests location information by sending a
location information request to the location management server.
2\. The location management server checks if the location management client is
authorized to receive past location information.
3\. The location management server responds with one or several location
information reports.
NOTE 1: The transmission of requested past location information reports does
not interrupt the on-network location information reports.
NOTE 2: The latest location information report is transmitted first.
A method is necessary to allow the location management client to indicate the
location management server to stop the transmission of past location
information reports (e.g. in case of channel congestion).
#### 6.16.2.3 Identifying past location information
By using the associated timestamp within each location information, the
location information is identified as past location information within each
location information report.
#### 6.16.2.4 Time period to retain past location information
A minimum time period, e.g. 24 hours, for all MC service users to store
location information received by the location management server from the
location management client should be considered. Additional requirements, e.g.
180 days for all MC service users or a subset of MC service users, should be
based on MC system operation guidelines or/and national regulations, which are
outside of the scope of this solution.
An agreement defining the storing of location information of MC service users
homed in the primary MC system but in collaboration with the partner MC system
in case of interconnected MC systems either under the same or different
organisation is outside of the scope of this solution.
#### 6.16.2.5 Authorization to request past location information
Table 6.16.2.5-1 contains the authorization part of the MCPTT user profile as
described in 3GPP TS 23.379 Annex A.3.
Table 6.16.2.5-1: MCPTT user profile data (on and off network)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | P | MCPTT UE | MCPTT | Confi | MCPTT | | eference | arameter | | Server | guration | user | | | des | | | ma | database | | | cription | | | nagement | | | | | | | server | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | [R-5.1 | List of | | | | | | 1-004], | MCPTT | | | | | | | IDs, by | | | | | | [R-6.17 | whom | | | | | | .2-001] | past | | | | | | of | location | | | | | | 3GPP | inf | | | | | | TS 22.2 | ormation | | | | | | 80 [3] | can be | | | | | | | queried | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | > MCPTT | N | Y | Y | Y | | | ID | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.16.2.5-2 contains the authorization part of the MCData user profile as
described in 3GPP TS 23.282 Annex A.3.
Table 6.16.2.5-2: MCData user profile data (on and off network)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | P | MCData | MCData | Confi | MCData | | eference | arameter | UE | Server | guration | user | | | des | | | ma | database | | | cription | | | nagement | | | | | | | server | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | [R-5.1 | List of | | | | | | 1-004], | MCData | | | | | | | IDs, by | | | | | | [R-6.17 | whom | | | | | | .2-001] | past | | | | | | of | location | | | | | | 3GPP | inf | | | | | | TS 22.2 | ormation | | | | | | 80 [3] | can be | | | | | | | queried | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | > | N | Y | Y | Y | | | MCData | | | | | | | ID | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6.16.2.5-3 contains the authorization part of the MCVideo user profile
as described in 3GPP TS 23.281 Annex A.3.
Table 6.16.2.5-3: MCVideo user profile data (on and off network)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | R | P | MCVideo | MCVideo | Confi | MCVideo | | eference | arameter | UE | Server | guration | user | | | des | | | ma | database | | | cription | | | nagement | | | | | | | server | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | [R-5.1 | List of | | | | | | 1-004], | MCVideo | | | | | | | IDs, by | | | | | | [R-6.17 | whom | | | | | | .2-001] | past | | | | | | of | location | | | | | | 3GPP | inf | | | | | | TS 22.2 | ormation | | | | | | 80 [3] | can be | | | | | | | queried | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | > | N | Y | Y | Y | | | MCVideo | | | | | | | ID | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 6.16.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution provides means to share past location information within one MC
system stored on the location management server.
A new functionality to the location management server is introduced, which
requires the location management server to store past location reports for the
necessary period of time, for all users for who past reports might be
requested.
## 6.17 Solution 17: Location information in off-network mode operation
### 6.17.1 Description
This solution addresses use case #11: Location information in off-network
operation key issue at clause 4.11 as well as key issue #8: Location
information in off-network operation at clause 5.8.
The MC service UE / MC user does not have to be, prior to the off-network mode
of operation, authenticated and authorized in order to use the MC UE label as
described in this document in clause 6.9.
The introduced MC UE label to the initial MC service UE configuration data
(on-network) of this document in clause 6.9 is also used for off-network mode
of operation. Together with solution #11 from of this document in clause 6.10,
which describes the usage of the MC UE ID with each location information
report and request, information flows are required for the location management
during off-network mode of operation.
### 6.17.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
#### 6.17.2.1 Location information report (off-network mode)
Table 6.17.2.1-1 describes the information flow from the location management
client to one or more location management clients for the location information
reporting during off-network mode of operation.
Table 6.17.2.1-1: Location information report (off-network mode)
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | List of MC service IDs (see | M | List of MC service IDs | | NOTE 1 and NOTE 2) | | (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, | | | | MCVideo ID) of the | | | | reporting MC user | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC UE ID (see NOTE 2) | O | MC UE ID of the reporting | | | | MC service UE | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Triggering event | M | Identity of the event that | | | | triggered the sending of | | | | the report | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Location Information | M | Location information | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Only present, if | | | | the MC user has been | | | | authenticated and | | | | authorized during | | | | on-network operation. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: At least one shall | | | | be present. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 6.17.2.2 Location information report procedure (off-network mode)
Figure 6.17.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure of location information report for
MC service UEs being in off-network mode of operation.
Pre-condition:
\- All required MC service UEs are able to use off-network mode communication.
Figure 6.17.2.2-1: Location information report procedure (off-network mode)
1\. A location information triggers occurs, which is maybe part of the
periodic location information update process.
2\. Location information client 1 is providing a location information report
to all location management clients in the range of the location management
client 1. The receiving location management clients could filter the location
information on the basis of the selected MC service group to which the
location management client 1 belongs.
#### 6.17.2.3 Location information request (off-network mode)
Table 6.17.2.3-1 describes the information flow from one location management
client to another location management client for the location information
requesting during off-network mode of operation.
Table 6.17.2.3-1: Location information request (off-network mode)
+-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | List of MC service IDs (see | M | List of MC service IDs | | NOTE 1 and NOTE 2) | | (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, | | | | MCVideo ID) of the | | | | requesting MC user | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC UE ID (see NOTE 2) | O | MC UE ID of the requesting | | | | MC service UE | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | List of MC service IDs (see | O | List of MC service IDs | | NOTE 1 and NOTE 3) | | (e.g. MCPTT ID, MCData ID, | | | | MCVideo ID) from who the | | | | location information is | | | | requested | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | MC UE ID (see NOTE 3) | O | MC UE ID from who the | | | | location information is | | | | requested | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Only present, if | | | | the MC user has been | | | | authenticated and | | | | authorized during | | | | on-network operation. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: At least one shall | | | | be present. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: At least one shall | | | | be present. | | | +-----------------------------+--------+-----------------------------+
#### 6.17.2.4 Location information request procedure (off-network mode)
Figure 6.17.2.4-1 illustrates the procedure of location information request
for MC service UEs being in off-network mode of operation communication.
Pre-condition:
\- All required MC service UEs are able to use off-network mode of operation
communication.
\- Location management client 1 may does not know, that the location
information client 2 is reachable.
Figure 6.17.2.4-1: Location information request (off-network mode)
1\. Location information client 1 is requesting from location information
client 2 the latest location information, by sending the location information
request to all location information clients in the range of the location
information client 1.
2\. Location information client 2 is responding to the request with the latest
location information, by sending the location information request to all
location information clients in the range of the location information client
2.
### 6.17.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution adds the capability to handle location information while being
in off-network state, by using the MC service ID, which has to be stored on
the MC service UE.
Additional authorization checks may be required to provide and request
location information while in off-network operation.
This solution also solves the issue of providing the required information for
the authorization check.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
## 7.1 General
The following clauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions presented
in this technical report, and their applicability to the key issues raised.
Clause 7.2 provides the mapping of key issues and described solutions as well
as the solution evaluation. Clause 7.3 lists the key issues with security
implications that will need consideration in 3GPP SA WG3.
## 7.2 Solution evaluation
Table 7.2-1 below shows the mapping of key issues to solutions.
Table 7.2-1: Mapping of key issues to solutions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Key issue | Solution | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.1 Key Issue 1: Information in | 6.1 Solution 1: Additional | | the location report | details within the location | | | information report | | | | | | 6.2 Solution 2: Additional | | | details within the location | | | information notification | | | | | | 6.3 Solution 3: Adjusting the | | | location reporting procedure | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.2 Key Issue 2: Location | 6.6 Solution 6: Off-network | | History Reporting | storing of event-triggered | | | location information | | | | | | 6.7 Solution 7: On-demand | | | location history reporting | | | | | | 6.8 Solution 8: Triggered | | | location history reporting | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.3 Key Issue 3: Handling of | 6.4 Solution 4: Handling of | | triggering criteria in emergency | triggering criteria in emergency | | cases | cases | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.4 Key Issue 4: Location | 6.5 Solution 5: Location | | mechanism compatibility for | management mechanism backward | | MCPTT | compatibility for MCPTT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.5 Key Issue 5: Sharing of | 6.13 Solution 13: Sharing | | location information | location information across MC | | | service UEs | | | | | | 6.14 Solution 14: Functional | | | model for sharing location | | | information across MC systems | | | | | | 6.15 Solution 15: Sharing | | | location information for | | | interconnected MC system | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.6 Key Issue 6: Individual UE | 6.9 Solution 9: Adding a UE | | addressing | label to Initial MC service UE | | | configuration | | | | | | 6.10 Solution 10: Associate a | | | user profile per MC service UE | | | | | | 6.11 Solution 11: MC UE identity | | | (new ID) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.7 Key Issue 7: Location | 6.12 Solution 12: Obtaining | | information of unauthenticated | location of UE in \"limited MC | | user | service\" state | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.8 Key Issue 8: Location | 6.17 Solution 17: Location | | information in off-network | information in off-network mode | | operation | operation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 5.9 Key Issue 9: Sharing of past | 6.16 Solution 16: Sharing of | | location information | past location information | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 7.2-2 below shows the correlation of each solution and associated key
issue(s).
Table 7.2-2: Solution evaluations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution | Applicable key | Solution | Impact on | | | issues | evaluation | other entities | | | | | and working | | | | | groups | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 1: | Key Issue 1: | This solution | Impact on | | Additional | Information in | provides | downstream | | details within | the location | additional | groups to add | | the location | report | details about | attributes to | | information | | location | location | | report | | information | information. | | | | elements | | | | | contained in | | | | | the location | | | | | information | | | | | report in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | cl | | | | | ause 10.9.2.2. | | | | | Currently | | | | | identified | | | | | elements are: | | | | | timestamp, | | | | | accuracy, | | | | | speed, | | | | | bearing, | | | | | altitude, | | | | | measurement | | | | | code. Other | | | | | elements that | | | | | are already | | | | | described in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | c | | | | | lause 10.9.3.1 | | | | | may be | | | | | considered as | | | | | well. | | | | | Definitions of | | | | | all these | | | | | elements may | | | | | have to be | | | | | provided in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | clause 3.1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 2: | Key Issue 1: | This solution | Impact on | | Additional | Information in | provides | downstream | | details within | the location | additional | groups to add | | the location | report | details about | attributes to | | information | | location | location | | notification | | information | information. | | | | elements | | | | | contained in | | | | | the location | | | | | information | | | | | notification | | | | | in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | cl | | | | | ause 10.9.2.7. | | | | | Currently | | | | | identified | | | | | elements are: | | | | | timestamp, | | | | | accuracy, | | | | | speed, | | | | | bearing, | | | | | altitude, | | | | | measurement | | | | | code. Other | | | | | elements that | | | | | are already | | | | | described in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | c | | | | | lause 10.9.3.1 | | | | | may be | | | | | considered as | | | | | well. | | | | | Definitions of | | | | | all these | | | | | elements may | | | | | have to be | | | | | provided in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | clause 3.1. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 3: | Key Issue 1: | The current | Impact on | | Adjusting the | Information in | set of | downstream | | location | the location | elements which | groups to add | | reporting | report | describe | attributes to | | procedure | | triggers for | location | | | | the location | information. | | | | information | | | | | reporting in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | c | | | | | lause 10.9.3.1 | | | | | are extended | | | | | to add the | | | | | conditions | | | | | provided in | | | | | solution 1 and | | | | | solution 2. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 4: | Key Issue 3: | This solution | No impact on | | Handling of | Handling of | provides an | downstream | | triggering | triggering | additional | groups (see | | criteria in | criteria in | information | CR0469 to | | emergency | emergency | element to | 3GPP TS 24.379 | | cases | cases | ensure that | and CR0070 to | | | | triggering | 3G | | | | criteria can | PP TS 24.281). | | | | be adjusted | | | | | separately for | | | | | the emergency | | | | | and | | | | | non-emergency | | | | | case. | | | | | | | | | | As location | | | | | information of | | | | | a specific | | | | | client may be | | | | | needed, using | | | | | an individual | | | | | identity to | | | | | address a | | | | | specific | | | | | client, should | | | | | be taken into | | | | | c | | | | | onsiderations. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 5: | Key Issue 4: | This solution | No impact on | | Location | Location | solves the | downstream | | management | management | location | groups. | | mechanism | mechanism | management | | | backward | backward | mechanism | | | compatibility | compatibility | backward | | | for MCPTT | for MCPTT | compatibility | | | | | for MCPTT by | | | | | enhancing the | | | | | MCPTT server | | | | | to determine | | | | | the location | | | | | management | | | | | mechanism | | | | | based on its | | | | | capability | | | | | (i.e., release | | | | | version) and | | | | | policy. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 6: | Key Issue 2: | The solution | Impact on | | Off-network | Location | adds a | downstream | | storing of | History | mechanism for | groups to a | | e | Reporting | configuring | new trigger | | vent-triggered | | events, which | event as well | | location | | will cause the | as the | | information | | location | capability to | | | | management | store location | | | | client to | information. | | | | store location | | | | | reports while | | | | | operating | | | | | off-network. | | | | | This does not | | | | | affect any of | | | | | the existing | | | | | location | | | | | management | | | | | procedures. A | | | | | separate set | | | | | of off-network | | | | | trigger | | | | | criteria | | | | | besides the | | | | | on-network | | | | | trigger | | | | | criteria may | | | | | be required. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | configuration | | | | | aspects may | | | | | have to be | | | | | defined for | | | | | each location | | | | | management | | | | | client | | | | | separately: | | | | | | | | | | - Activation | | | | | and | | | | | de-activation | | | | | to locally | | | | | store location | | | | | reports; | | | | | | | | | | - Activation | | | | | of automatic | | | | | transmission | | | | | of triggered | | | | | events after | | | | | the location | | | | | management | | | | | client returns | | | | | from | | | | | off-network | | | | | operation; and | | | | | | | | | | - Amount of | | | | | location | | | | | reports | | | | | locally stored | | | | | before the | | | | | first location | | | | | report while | | | | | operating | | | | | off-network | | | | | will be | | | | | overwritten. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 7: | Key Issue 2: | The solution | Impact on | | On-demand | Location | provides | downstream | | location | History | information | groups to | | history | Reporting | flows and | request and | | reporting | | procedures for | receive stored | | | | on-demand | location | | | | location | information | | | | information | from a UE. | | | | history | | | | | reporting, | | | | | after the | | | | | location | | | | | management | | | | | client returns | | | | | from | | | | | off-network | | | | | operation. The | | | | | described | | | | | solution does | | | | | not affect any | | | | | of the | | | | | existing | | | | | information | | | | | flows and | | | | | procedures for | | | | | on-network | | | | | operation. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 8: | Key Issue 2: | The solution | Impact on | | Triggered | Location | provides a | downstream | | location | History | procedure for | groups to | | history | Reporting | triggered | receive stored | | reporting | | location | location | | | | history | information | | | | reporting on | from a UE. | | | | returning to | | | | | on-network | | | | | operation | | | | | after the | | | | | location | | | | | management | | | | | client has | | | | | stored | | | | | location | | | | | reports while | | | | | operating | | | | | off-network, | | | | | which does not | | | | | affect any of | | | | | the existing | | | | | procedures. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 9: | Key Issue 6: | This solution | Unknown impact | | Adding a UE | Individual UE | adds a new | on downstream | | label to | addressing | entry to the | groups. | | Initial MC | | existing | | | service UE | | Initial MC | | | configuration | | service UE | | | | | configuration | | | | | data | | | | | (on-network) | | | | | table, in | | | | | order to | | | | | identify a | | | | | specific UE. | | | | | | | | | | A solution is | | | | | needed for how | | | | | to transfer | | | | | the MC UE | | | | | label from the | | | | | MC service | | | | | client to the | | | | | MC service | | | | | server, and | | | | | how the MC UE | | | | | label is sent | | | | | in conjunction | | | | | with the MC | | | | | service ID in | | | | | delivery | | | | | reports to MC | | | | | service | | | | | clients | | | | | consuming | | | | | these location | | | | | reports. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 10: | Key Issue 6: | The solution | Unknown impact | | Associate a | Individual UE | has to be | on downstream | | user profile | addressing | evaluated from | groups. | | per MC service | | the | | | UE | | oper | | | | | ative-tactical | | | | | point of view. | | | | | | | | | | The manual | | | | | mapping allows | | | | | meaningful MC | | | | | service UE | | | | | id | | | | | entifications, | | | | | but requires | | | | | an additional | | | | | setup step for | | | | | the MC service | | | | | user. | | | | | | | | | | The automatic | | | | | mapping does | | | | | not require an | | | | | additional | | | | | setup step for | | | | | the MC service | | | | | user, but | | | | | requires | | | | | additional | | | | | impact to the | | | | | existing | | | | | architecture. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 11: | Key Issue 6: | Depending on | Impact on | | MC UE identity | Individual UE | the size of | downstream | | (new ID) | addressing | the MC UE | groups to | | | | identity, | extend the | | | | including the | existing | | | | MC UE identity | information | | | | in the | flows. | | | | location | | | | | report may | | | | | have a large | | | | | impact on | | | | | message size. | | | | | As location | | | | | reports may be | | | | | sent | | | | | frequently | | | | | this will | | | | | decrease | | | | | efficiency. | | | | | | | | | | A mechanism | | | | | may be needed | | | | | to allow an MC | | | | | service server | | | | | to query the | | | | | association of | | | | | MC UE ID to a | | | | | MC service | | | | | user. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 12: | Key Issue 7: | FFS | FFS | | Obtaining | Location | | | | location of UE | information of | | | | in \"limited | u | | | | MC service\" | nauthenticated | | | | state | user | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 13: | Key Issue 5: | This solution | Minor impact | | Sharing | Sharing of | depends on the | on downstream | | location | location | MC UE ID | groups to add | | information | information | proposed in | functionality | | across MC | | solution 11. | to existing | | service UEs | | The procedures | functional | | | | and | entities and | | | | information | reference | | | | flows have to | points. | | | | be adapted | | | | | after the | | | | | overall | | | | | evaluation of | | | | | identifying | | | | | location | | | | | information of | | | | | a specific MC | | | | | UE ID have | | | | | been | | | | | completed. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 14: | Key Issue 5: | The functional | Impact on | | Functional | Sharing of | model needs to | downstream | | model for | location | be enhanced, | groups to add | | sharing | information | as a new | new | | location | | reference | information | | information | | point between | flows and | | across MC | | the location | procedures. | | systems | | management | | | | | servers in the | | | | | primary and | | | | | partner MC | | | | | systems is | | | | | needed. | | | | | | | | | | A mechanism | | | | | may be | | | | | required in | | | | | order to | | | | | terminate a | | | | | subscription | | | | | for location | | | | | information | | | | | across MC | | | | | systems. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 15 | Key Issue 5: | This solution | Impact on | | Sharing | Sharing of | depends on | downstream | | location | location | changes to the | groups to add | | information | information | functional | new | | for | | model as | information | | interconnected | | proposed in | flows and | | MC system | | solution 14. | procedures. | | | | | | | | | This solution | | | | | provides a set | | | | | of information | | | | | flows and | | | | | procedures to | | | | | allow location | | | | | reporting from | | | | | an | | | | | interconnected | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | i | | | | | nterconnection | | | | | architecture | | | | | in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.280 | | | | | does not | | | | | permit | | | | | configuration | | | | | of a server or | | | | | client in a | | | | | partner system | | | | | due to | | | | | security | | | | | concerns. | | | | | Additional | | | | | authorization | | | | | checks would | | | | | be required in | | | | | case of | | | | | performing | | | | | location | | | | | reporting | | | | | configuration | | | | | in | | | | | interconnected | | | | | MC systems | | | | | under the | | | | | administration | | | | | of different | | | | | organizations. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 16: | Key Issue 9: | The solution | Impact on | | Sharing of | Sharing of | provides means | downstream | | past location | past location | to share past | groups to add | | information | information | location | one new | | | | information | information | | | | within one MC | flow and | | | | system stored | procedure. | | | | on the | | | | | location | | | | | management | | | | | server. | | | | | | | | | | A new | | | | | functionality | | | | | to the | | | | | location | | | | | management | | | | | server is | | | | | introduced, | | | | | which requires | | | | | the location | | | | | management | | | | | server to | | | | | store past | | | | | location | | | | | reports for | | | | | the necessary | | | | | period of | | | | | time, for all | | | | | users for who | | | | | past reports | | | | | might be | | | | | requested. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 17: | Key Issue 8: | This solution | Impact on | | Location | Location | adds the | downstream | | information in | information in | capability to | groups to add | | off-network | off-network | handle | new | | mode operation | operation | location | information | | | | information | flows and | | | | while being in | procedures. | | | | off-network | | | | | state, by | | | | | using the MC | | | | | service ID, | | | | | which has to | | | | | be stored on | | | | | the MC service | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | Additional | | | | | authorization | | | | | check may be | | | | | required to | | | | | provide and | | | | | request | | | | | location | | | | | information | | | | | while in | | | | | off-network | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | This solution | | | | | also solves | | | | | the issue of | | | | | providing the | | | | | required | | | | | information | | | | | for the | | | | | authorization | | | | | check. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.3 Key issues with security implications
The following key issues have security considerations that will need review
and possible solutions by SA3:
\- Key Issue 5: Sharing of location information, subpart \"e. Location
information of one MC user at home MC system is shared with an outside 3GPP
recipient.\"; and
\- Key Issue 7: Location information of unauthenticated user.
# 8 Conclusions
This technical report presents use cases, key issues and solutions for
enhancements to the location management of the mission critical architecture.
All key issues that are addressed by one or more solutions in this Technical
Report are presented in clause 7.2, and key issues with security aspects are
addressed in clause 7.3.
Solutions described in this Technical Report have impact on the functional
model for MC services. These solutions provide updates to the functional
models for MC services and enables the following enhancements:
\- Support for additional details as part of the location information;
\- Methods to handle location information during off-network;
\- Association of location information to a specific MC service UE;
\- Sharing of location information with other MC services as well as across MC
systems; and
\- Handling of past location.
A selection process should be undertaken to decide which additional identity
from solutions 9 and 11 can be progressed.
Further study is needed on mechanisms that can provide a limited service state
for the inclusion of an unauthenticated MC service user.
Handling of location information while being in IOPS mode of operation shall
be added at a later stage, after 3GPP TS 23.180 is finalized.
#