# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains deployment guidelines for the use of direct
tunnelling of user plane data between the RNC and the GGSN (earlier known as
the One Tunnel approach).
This report highlights the impacts of the 3GPP Release 7 Direct Tunnel
solution to the current UMTS system in order to guide equipment development
and network deployment.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.107: \" Quality of Service (QoS) concept and architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.106: \"Lawful interception requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.107: \"3G security; Lawful interception architecture and
functions\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.108: \"3G security; Handover interface for Lawful Interception
(LI)\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
DT Direct Tunnel
LI Lawful Interception
# 4 Direct Tunnel Feature
## 4.1 General
Direct Tunnel is an optional feature in Iu mode that allows the SGSN to
establish a direct user plane tunnel between RAN and GGSN within the PS
domain.
The SGSN handles the control plane signalling and makes the decision when to
establish a Direct Tunnel. In case of Direct Tunnel, the SGSN provides the RAN
with the TEID and user plane address of the GGSN, and provides the GGSN with
the TEID and user plane address of the RAN. The detailed procedures are
specified in TS 23.060 [1].
Figure 4-1: Direct Tunnel concept
# 5 Impacts on Functions and Characteristics
## 5.1 Charging
When a Direct Tunnel is active, the SGSN will no longer be able to count data
volumes associated with the PDP context for which the Direct Tunnel is
established. As a result of activating a Direct Tunnel for a specific PDP
context, an inconsistency in the data volumes captured by the SGSN and GGSN
will arise for that PDP context.
Hence, if Direct Tunnel is active, volume based charging can no longer operate
when relying on SGSN charging information alone (e.g. CAMEL pre-paid service
or charging only on S-CDRs).
During an upgrade phase when there exist Pre-DT GGSN or Pre-DT RNC in the
network there may in some error situations as described in clause 8 occur a
discrepancy in CDR closure time between S-CDRs and G-CDRs.
However, no impacts on flow based charging, as defined in TS 23.203 [3], are
foreseen.
## 5.2 Lawful Interception
If a Direct Tunnel is in use, the LI system can only collect the communication
content from the GGSN.
When the LI function in the GGSN is used, some control plane related
information, such as SMS and MM-related information can only be collected from
the SGSN.
Details for LI are specified in following documents: TS 33.106 [4], TS 33.107
[5], and TS 33.108 [6].
## 5.3 CAMEL
Direct Tunnel is not enabled for a subscriber that has controlling PS domain
CAMEL services active.
## 5.4 Error Handling
With the Rel-7 Direct Tunnel feature, the GTP-U related error handling has
been slightly changed in the GGSN and RNC. For the Error Handling function to
work fully correctly, the GGSN and RNC need to be upgraded to support Direct
Tunnel. During a deployment phase, the Direct Tunnel feature may however be
used without the GGSN and/or the RNC being upgraded. The shortcomings and
issues related with this are mainly that the network may experience hanging
PDP contexts or inconsistent PDP context data in some rare error cases, e.g.
at node failures or restarts. This is further explained in clause 8.
# 6 Impacts on 3GPP Network Entities, Features and Transport Network
## 6.1 SGSN
The main principle is that whenever a RAB is assigned for a PDP context (or
re-assigned) the SGSN decides whether to use a direct user plane tunnel
between RNC and GGSN, or, if it needs to handle user plane data and use two
tunnels as in earlier 3GPP releases. Further, when a Direct Tunnel was in use
and the RAB assigned for a PDP context is released (i.e. the PDP context is
preserved) the GTP-U tunnel is (re)established between the GGSN and SGSN in
order to be able to handle the downlink packets.
The SGSN needs to decide before every RAB assignment and every SRNS relocation
if direct tunnel will be used or not.
Figure 6-1: Connected mode and Idle mode handling
In the Intra SGSN Inter-system Change procedure from 3G to 2G, the SGSN needs
to perform a PDP Context Update Procedure to establish the tunnel between the
2G SGSN and the GGSN and release the Direct Tunnel between RNC and GGSN.
In the Intra SGSN Inter-system Change procedure from 2G to 3G, the SGSN
provides to the RNC the GGSN\'s Address(es) for User Plane and TEID(s) for
Uplink data in the RAB Assignment Request during the Service Request
Procedure. Then the SGSN performs a PDP Context Update Procedure to establish
the Direct Tunnel between the RNC and the GGSN and release the tunnel between
SGSN and GGSN.
Toggling between 2G and 3G might (or might not) be frequent. This may effect
the Gn signalling when Direct Tunnel is deployed. It is implementation
specific how this is addressed.
## 6.2 GGSN
In order to inform the GGSN of the IP address of the RNC and the TEID for the
active PDP context, the SGSN will send an Update PDP Context Request message
to the GGSN during every PDP Context Activation procedure for which a Direct
Tunnel is established. This message, which is an optional message in two-
tunnel system, increases the signalling load on SGSN and GGSN.
RAB release and re-establishment procedures, which become visible to the GGSN
in a Direct Tunnel system, also increase the signalling load on SGSN and GGSN.
If the radio-link is bad, and the RNC releases the Iu connection, the frequent
RAB release and re-establishment increases the signalling load on SGSN and
GGSN. One consequence is that it is useful if the RNC utilises URA-PCH state.
Some Intra SGSN procedures, such as Intra SGSN inter RNC, Intra SGSN Inter-
system change, and possibly other procedures, which are invisible to the GGSN
in two-tunnel system, will become visible to the GGSN and increase the
signalling load on both SGSN and GGSN.
Receipt of the Direct Tunnel Indicator makes the GGSN aware that the SGSN is
using a Direct Tunnel.
When using Direct Tunnel, if the GGSN receives a GTP-U Error Indication (from
the RNC) it shall not release the related PDP context locally but the GGSN
shall notify the SGSN that the RAB in RAN is invalid. This needs the GGSN to
be updated.
NOTE: During a deployment phase, the Direct Tunnel feature may however be used
without the GGSN being upgraded. This is further explained in clause 8.1.
If, when using two tunnels transport network QoS was used on Iu-PS but not on
Gn then moving to Direct Tunnel requires the GGSN to implement transport
network QoS.
## 6.3 RNC
RNCs that only support ATM transport should support IP transport for the Iu-PS
interface. Alternatively a solution as described below in clause 6.4 can be
used.
Due to this Direct Tunnel feature, the Error Handling Behaviour of Rel-7 RNC
is changed.
NOTE: During a deployment phase, the Direct Tunnel feature may however be used
without the RNC being upgraded. This is further explained in clause 8.3.
If, when using two tunnels transport network QoS was used on Gn but not on Iu-
PS then moving to Direct Tunnel requires the RNC to implement transport
network QoS.
## 6.4 IP Backbone Network
Within the network area where Direct Tunnel is used, the Iu-PS and Gn
transport networks must be made visible to each other, this is a network
configuration issue.
This is minor security drawback. The risk could be reduced by using firewall
between Iu-PS and Gn networks instead of simple router (this might impact
user-plane latency). Only IP traffic to predefined IP-addresses/ports from
predefined addresses/ports would be allowed between Iu-PS and Gn networks.
Considering network security, a firewall can be deployed between the RNC and
the IP network.
For an ATM based Iu-PS, the ATM connection needs to be terminated and
\"interworked\" to IP. The location of the interworking may be within the Iu-
PS network or at the edge of the Iu-PS network.
Figure 6-2 shows the connectivity between the Iu-PS network and the Gn
(backbone) network.
Figure 6-2: Connectivity with Iu-PS
## 6.5 IP versions
The Iu-PS and Gn transport networks need to be using the same IP version.
## 6.6 QoS Architecture
Currently, UMTS QoS architecture is defined in TS 23.107 [2], which is based
on the two tunnel architecture. However, it is believed that this QoS
architecture should be updated due to this Direct Tunnel feature.
The deployment of Direct Tunnel requires consistent QoS treatment on Iu-PS and
Gn interfaces.
# 7 Limitations of Direct Tunnel Solution
Direct Tunnel shall not be used in following traffic cases:
1) In roaming cases when the GGSN is not in the VPLMN
\- The SGSN needs to know whether the GGSN is in the same or different PLMN.
2) SGSN has received CAMEL Subscription Information in the subscriber profile.
\- If Direct Tunnel is established then volume reporting from SGSN is not
possible as the SGSN no longer has visibility of the User Plane. Since a CAMEL
server can invoke volume reporting at anytime during the life time of a PDP
Context, the use of Direct Tunnel shall be prohibited for a subscriber whose
profile contains CAMEL Subscription Information.
3) GGSN does not support GTP protocol version 1.
# 8 Upgrade considerations
## 8.1 Interworking with Pre-DT GGSN
A Pre-DT GGSN is unaware of the Direct Tunnel feature. Therefore, the Pre-DT
GGSN cannot differentiate a Direct Tunnel case from a two-tunnel case. If the
Pre-DT GGSN receives a GTP Error Indication from the RNC, it will treat this
indication as if it came from the SGSN. This means that the Pre-DT GGSN marks
the related PDP context as invalid without informing the SGSN. This may result
in the PDP Context being deleted in the GGSN and, if the PDP context is the
last context for that IP address, the release of the related IP address. When
downlink data arrives at this GGSN, the GGSN will discard the data locally if
no valid PDP context is found that is able to route the data (e.g. as dictated
by allocated UE IP address or by packets filters belonging to installed TFTs).
This means e.g. Push services will be blocked in this situation.
In the case that the GGSN marks the related PDP context as invalid, any
effected PDP contexts that use Direct Tunnel and have an invalid tunnel in the
GGSN will be recovered when the SGSN receives an Iu connection establishment
request from the MS as specified in clause \"Handling of Un-synchronous States
in the UE and the Network\" in TS 23.060 [1]. This may take a relatively long
time and lead to the services re-establishing on the effected PDP contexts.
In the case that the GGSN deletes the PDP context and releases the related IP
address, the effected PDP contexts have to be re-established, which leads to
the service re-establishing.
## 8.2 Interworking with Pre-DT SGSN
In the scenario of Inter-SGSN SRNS Relocation, if the source SGSN is a Pre-DT
SGSN, the source SGSN does not include the Direct Tunnel Flags in the Forward
Relocation Request message sent to the target SGSN. If the Direct Tunnel Flags
are absent, then the target DT enabled SGSN cannot know if a GPRS CAMEL
Subscription Information was present in the subscriber\'s profile in the old
SGSN.
How a target DT SGSN should react in this case needs to reflect the
operator\'s preferences. For example:
\- an operator using CAMEL for PS domain pre-pay might want the target SGSN to
wait for the subscriber\'s profile from the HLR before the Direct Tunnel
decisions is made; while
\- an operator that does not use CAMEL in the PS domain, might want the target
SGSN to automatically establish a Direct Tunnel (for non-roaming subscribers).
## 8.3 Interworking with Pre-Rel-7 RNC
If a Pre-Rel-7 RNC receives a GTP Error Indication from the GGSN, it will
treat it as if it came from the SGSN. This means that the RNC locally releases
the RAB without informing the SGSN. The GGSN sent the GTP Error Indication
because that PDP Context is not valid at the GGSN, so, when downlink data
arrives at the recovered GGSN, the GGSN will discard this data locally. Any
such effected PDP contexts that use Direct Tunnel and have no related RAB in
the RNC will be recovered when the SGSN receives an Iu connection
establishment request from the MS as specified in clause \"Handling of Un-
synchronous States in the UE and the Network\" in TS 23.060 [1]. This may take
a relative long time and lead to the services re-establishing on the effected
PDP contexts.
#