# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Frequency (RF) test methods and
conformance requirements for E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE Multi-Standard Radio
(MSR) Base Station (BS). These have been derived from, and are consistent with
the E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE MSR BS specification defined in [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception (FDD)
\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception (TDD)
\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[7] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545, \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[8] \"Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)\", Federal
Communications Commission.
[9] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.141: \"Base Station (BS) conformance testing (FDD) \".
[11] 3GPP TS 51.021: \"Base Station System (BSS) equipment specification;
Radio aspects\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.142: \"Base Station (BS) conformance testing (TDD) \".
[13] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329-10, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[14] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[15] ITU-R recommendation SM.328: \"Spectra and bandwidth of emissions\".
[16] IEC 60721: \"Classification of environmental conditions\".
[17] IEC 60721-3-3: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3-3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[18] IEC 60721-3-4: \"Classification of environmental conditions - Part 3:
Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
[19] ETSI EN 300 019-1-3, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-3: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at weather protected locations"
[20] ETSI EN 300 019-1-4, _European Standard (Telecommunications series)_ ,
"Environmental Engineering (EE); Environmental conditions and environmental
tests for telecommunications equipment; Part 1-4: Classification of
environmental conditions; Stationary use at non-weather protected locations".
[21] IEC 60068-2-1 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests. Tests A:
Cold\".
[22] IEC 60068-2-2 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests. Tests B:
Dry heat\".
[23] IEC 60068-2-6 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests - Test Fc:
Vibration (sinusoidal)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Band category:** A group of operating bands for which the same MSR scenarios
apply
**Base Station RF bandwidth:** The bandwidth in which a Base Station transmits
and receives multiple carriers and/or RATs simultaneously
**Base Station RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of one of the edges of the
Base Station RF bandwidth
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
physical channels**
**Carrier aggregation: aggregation of two or more E-UTRA component carriers in
order to support wider transmission bandwidths**
**Carrier aggregation band:** a set of one or more operating bands across
which multiple E-UTRA carriers are aggregated with a specific set of technical
requirements.
NOTE: Carrier aggregation band(s) for an E-UTRA BS is declared by the
manufacturer according to the designations in Tables 5.5-2 to 5.5-3 of TS
36.104 [5]
**Channel bandwidth:** The bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA, UTRA or
GSM/EDGE RF carrier with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink
or downlink of a cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as
a reference for transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Contiguous carriers:** a set of two or more carriers configured in a
spectrum block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for
un-coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Carrier power:** The power at the antenna connector in the channel bandwidth
of the carrier averaged over at least one subframe for E-UTRA, at least one
slot for UTRA and the useful part of the burst for GSM/EDGE.
**Contiguous spectrum:** Spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of spectrum
with no sub-block gaps.
**Downlink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: carrier aggregation of E-UTRA component
carriers in different operating bands.**
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
**Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation:** contiguous E-UTRA carriers
aggregated in the same operating band.
**Intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation:** non-contiguous E-UTRA
carriers aggregated in the same operating band.
**Lower RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the lower edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements
**Lower sub-block edge:** The frequency at the lower edge of one sub-block. It
is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and receiver
requirements.
**Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth:** The maximum RF bandwidth supported by a
BS within an operating band.
NOTE: The Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth for BS configured for contiguous
and non-contiguous operation is declared separately.
**Maximum carrier output power:** Carrier power **available at the antenna
connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Maximum RAT output power:** The sum of the power of all carriers of the same
RAT **available at the antenna connector for a specified reference
condition.**
**Maximum throughput: The maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.**
**Maximum total output power: The sum of the power of all carriers available
at the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.**
**Measurement bandwidth** : The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**MSR Base Station:** Base Station characterized by the ability of its
receiver and transmitter to process two or more carriers in common active RF
components simultaneously in a declared RF bandwidth, where at least one
carrier is of a different RAT than the other carrier(s).
**Non-contiguous spectrum:** Spectrum consisting of two or more sub-blocks
separated by sub-block gap(s).
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**Operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
operates (paired or unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of
technical requirements**.**
NOTE: The operating band(s) for a BS is declared by the manufacturer.
**Sub-block:** This is one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for use by
the same Base Station. There may be multiple instances of sub-blocks within an
RF bandwidth.
**Sub-block bandwidth:** The bandwidth of one sub-block.
**Sub-block gap:** A frequency gap between two consecutive sub-blocks within
an RF bandwidth, where the RF requirements in the gap are based on co-
existence for un-coordinated operation.
**Synchronized operation: Operation of TDD in two different systems, where no
simultaneous uplink and downlink occur.**
**RAT power:** The sum of all carrier powers for all carriers of the same
type.
**Rated carrier output power:** The mean power level per carrier that the
manufacturer has declared to be available at the antenna connector.
**Rated RAT output power:** The mean power level per RAT that the manufacturer
has declared to be available at the antenna connector.
**Rated total output power:** The total mean power level that the manufacturer
has declared to be available at the antenna connector.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**Throughput: The number of payload bits successfully received per second for
a reference measurement channel in a specified reference condition.**
**Total output power:** The sum of all carrier powers for all carriers
transmitted by the BS.
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous E-UTRA transmission
from a UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest E-UTRA transmission
bandwidth allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth,
measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmitter ON period: The time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols.**
**Transmitter OFF period: The time period during which the BS transmitter is
not allowed to transmit.**
**Transmitter transient period: The time period during which the transmitter
is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.**
**Unsynchronized operation:** Operation of TDD in two different systems, where
the conditions for synchronized operation are not met.
**Uplink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
uplink.
**Upper RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the upper edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements.
**Upper sub-block edge:** The frequency at the upper edge of one sub-block. It
is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and receiver
requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
α Roll-off factor
β Percentage of the mean transmitted power emitted outside the occupied
bandwidth on the assigned channel
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA)
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration (for E-UTRA), expressed in
MHz, where BW~Config~ = _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the uplink and BW~Config~ = 15
kHz + _N_ ~RB~ x 180 kHz in the downlink.
BW~RF~ Base Station RF bandwidth, where BW~RF~ = F~BW\ RF,high~ -- F~BW\
RF,low~
BW~RF,max~ Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth
CA_X CA for band X where X is the applicable E-UTRA operating band
CA_X-Y CA for band X and Band Y where X and Y are the applicable E-UTRA
operating band
DwPTS Downlink part of the special subframe (for E-UTRA TDD operation
f Frequency
∆f Separation between the Base Station RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
F~filter~ Filter centre frequency
f_offset Separation between the Base Station RF bandwidth edge frequency and
the centre of the measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
F~block,high~ Upper sub-block edge, where F~block,high~ = F~C,block,high~ +
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~block,low~ Lower sub-block edge, where F~block,low~ = F~C,block,low~ -
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,high~ Upper RF bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,high~ = F~C,high~ \+
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~BW\ RF,low~ Lower RF bandwidth edge, where F~BW\ RF,low~ = F~C,low~ -
F~offset,\ RAT~
F~C,block,\ high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,block,\ low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier
in a sub-block.
F~C,high~ Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received carrier.
F~C,low~ Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received carrier.
F~offset,\ RAT~ Frequency offset from the centre frequency of the _highest_
transmitted/received carrier to the _upper_ RF bandwidth edge or sub-block
edge, or from the centre frequency of the _lowest_ transmitted/received
carrier to the _lower_ RF bandwidth edge or sub-block edge for a specific RAT.
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks (for E-UTRA)
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
W~gap~ Sub-block gap size
Figure 3.2-1: Illustration of RF bandwidth related symbols and definitions for
Multi-standard Radio.
Figure 3.2-2: Illustration of RF bandwidth related non-contiguous Multi-
standard Radio.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACK Acknowledgement (in HARQ protocols)
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
BC Band Category
BER Bit Error Ratio
BS Base Station
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CACLR Cumulative Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
CP Cyclic prefix
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CW Continuous Wave
DC Direct Current
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
GP Guard Period (for E-UTRA TDD operation)
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
MCL Minimum Coupling Loss
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MS Mobile Station
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
OOB Out-Of-band
PA Power Amplifier
PHS Personal Handyphone System
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Resource Block
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RS Reference Symbol
RX Receiver
RRC Root Raised Cosine
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TT Test Tolerance
TX Transmitter
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UEM operating band Unwanted Emissions Mask
# 4 General test conditions and declarations
## 4.1 Measurement uncertainties and test requirements
### 4.1.1 General
The requirements of this clause apply to all applicable tests in this
specification.
The minimum requirements are given in TS 37.104 [2] and the references
therein. Test requirements are given in this specification or are included by
reference to TS 25.141 [10], TS 25.142 [12], TS 36.141 [9] or TS 51.021 [11].
Test Tolerances for the test requirements explicitly stated in the present
specification are defined in Annex C of this specification. Test Tolerances
for test requirements included by reference are defined in the respective
referred test specification.
Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test. The Test Tolerances
are used to relax the minimum requirements to create test requirements.
When a test requirement differs from the corresponding minimum requirement,
then the Test Tolerance applied for the test is non-zero. The Test Tolerance
for the test and the explanation of how the minimum requirement has been
relaxed by the Test Tolerance are given in Annex C.
### 4.1.2 Acceptable uncertainty of Test System
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System is specified below for
each test defined explicitly in the present specification, where appropriate.
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System for test requirements
included by reference is defined in the respective referred test
specification.
The Test System shall enable the stimulus signals in the test case to be
adjusted to within the specified tolerance and the equipment under test to be
measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the specified values. All
tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and are valid for a
confidence level of 95 %, unless otherwise stated.
A confidence level of 95% is the measurement uncertainty tolerance interval
for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance of a
population of test equipment.
For RF tests, it should be noted that the uncertainties in subclause 4.1.2
apply to the Test System operating into a nominal 50 ohm load and do not
include system effects due to mismatch between the DUT and the Test System.
#### 4.1.2.1 Measurement of transmitter
Table 4.1.2-1: Maximum Test System uncertainty for transmitter tests
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Subclause | Maximum Test System | Derivation of Test | | | Uncertainty | System Uncertainty | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2.1 Base Station | ±0.7 dB, f ≤ 3.0 GHz | | | maximum output power | | | | | ±1.0 dB, 3.0 GHz \ | | | Transmitter spurious | -60dBm, f ≤ 3.0 GHz | | | emissions, | | | | Additional spurious | ±2.5 dB, 3.0 GHz \ BS | BC1 | BC2 | BC3 | BC2 | BC2 | BC2 | | > test | | | | | | | | > case | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **6.2 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > Base | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Station | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | power** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Base | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | > | | | | | | | | Station | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | > | TC3a | TC3a\ | | TC4a\ | TC4b\ | TC4c\ | | maximum | | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | > | C/NC: | TC3a, | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | output | TC3a, | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | > power | NTC3a | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | Com | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | pliance | | | | | r | | | stated | | | | | egional | | | by | | | | | requi | | | manuf | | | | | rement\ | | | acturer | | | | | (only | | | decl | | | | | for | | | aration | | | | | band | | | | | | | | 34) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | E-UTRA | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | | > for | | | | | | | | > DL RS | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | > FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | > | | | | | | | | primary | | | | | | | | > CPICH | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | > FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | > se | | | | | | | | condary | | | | | | | | > CPICH | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | | > | | | | | | | | primary | | | | | | | | > CCPCH | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **6.3 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > | | | | | | | | Output | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | | > dyn | | | | | | | | amics** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | E-UTRA | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | > FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | SM/EDGE | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **6.4 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > T | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | ON/OFF | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | power** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Tran | N/A | N/A | C: TC3b | N/A | N/A | N/A | | smitter | | | | | | | | > OFF | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Tran | N/A | N/A | C: TC3b | N/A | N/A | N/A | | smitter | | | | | | | | > tr | | | | | | | | ansient | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | period | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **6.5 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > Tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | > qu | | | | | | | | ality** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.5.1 | | | | | | | | > Mod | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | > qu | | | | | | | | ality** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | C: TC3a | C: | C: TC3b | N/A | C: | C: TC4c | | E-UTRA | | TC3a\ | | | TC4b\ | | | | CNC: | CNC: | | | CNC: | CNC: | | | TC3a\ | TC3a\ | | | TC4b\ | TC4c\ | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | | TC4b, | TC4c, | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | C: TC3a | C: | N/A | C: TC4a | N/A | C: | | > FDD | | TC3a\ | | | | TC4c\ | | | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | | CNC: | | | TC3a\ | TC3a\ | | TC4a\ | | TC4c\ | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC4a, | | TC4c, | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | C: TC3b | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > G | N/A | N/A | N/A | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | | | | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | | | | TC4a\ | TC4b\ | TC4c\ | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | | | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.5.2 | | | | | | | | > Fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | error** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | N/A | Same TC | Same TC | | E-UTRA | as used | as used | as used | | as used | as used | | | in | in | in | | in | in | | | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | Same TC | Same TC | N/A | Same TC | N/A | Same TC | | > FDD | as used | as used | | as used | | as used | | | in | in | | in | | in | | | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | | 6.5.1 | | 6.5.1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | Same TC | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | as used | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | 6.5.1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > G | N/A | N/A | N/A | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | | SM/EDGE | | | | as used | as used | as used | | | | | | in | in | in | | | | | | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.5.3 | | | | | | | | > Time | | | | | | | | > al | | | | | | | | ignment | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | error** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | E-UTRA | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | > FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **6.6 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > U | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | > emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.6.1 | | | | | | | | > Tran | | | | | | | | smitter | | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | | purious | | | | | | | | > emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | (C | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | ategory | | | | | | | | A) | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC3a\ | NTC3a | | NTC4a\ | NTC4b\ | NTC4c\ | | | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | C/NC: | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | | NTC3a | TC3a, | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | | | NTC3a | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | (C | C: TC3a | C: | C: TC3b | C: | C: TC4b | C: | | ategory | | TC3a\ | | TC4a\ | | TC4c\ | | B) | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC3a\ | NTC3a\ | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | | | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | C: | C: TC4b | C: | | itional | | | | TC4a\ | | TC4c\ | | requ | | | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | irement | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | for BC2 | | | | | | | | (C | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | ategory | | | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | B) | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Pro | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | tection | | | | | | | | of the | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | BS | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | of own | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | or | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | di | | | | | | | | fferent | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | itional | | | | | | | | s | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | purious | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | em | | | | | | | | issions | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | requi | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | rements | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Co-l | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC4a | C: | C: TC4c | | ocation | | | | | TC4b\ | | | with | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | other | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | Base | | | | | | | | S | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | tations | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.6.2 | | | | | | | | > Op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | > band | | | | | | | | > u | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | > emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | requ | 2 | | 2 | | | | | irement | 5.141)\ | | 5.142)\ | | | | | for | (TS | | (TS | | | | | Band | 36.141) | | 36.141) | | | | | Cat | | | | | | | | egories | C: TC3a | | C: TC3a | | | | | 1 and 3 | | | | | | | | | CNC: | | | | | | | | TC3a, | | | | | | | | NTC3a | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | | | | | | | | TC3a, | | | | | | | | NTC3a | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | requ | | 2 | | 25.141) | 36.141) | 2 | | irement | | 5.141)\ | | | | 5.141)\ | | for | | (TS | | C: | C: | (TS | | Band | | 36.141) | | TC4a, | TC4b,\ | 36.141) | | C | | | | TC4d | TC4e | | | ategory | | C: TC3a | | ( | (note1) | C: | | 2 | | | | note1)\ | | TC4c,\ | | | | CNC: | | CN | CN | TC4e | | | | TC3a, | | C:TC4a, | C:TC4b, | (note1) | | | | NTC3a | | TC4d( | TC4e( | | | | | | | note1), | note1), | CNC: | | | | C/NC: | | NTC4a | NTC4b | TC4c,\ | | | | TC3a, | | | | TC4e | | | | NTC3a | | C/NC: | C/NC: | ( | | | | | | TC4a, | TC4b, | note1), | | | | | | TC4d( | TC4e( | NTC4c | | | | | | note1), | note1), | | | | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | C/NC: | | | | | | | | TC4c,\ | | | | | | | | TC4e | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | note1), | | | | | | | | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | SM/EDGE | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | | sin | | | | | | | | gle-RAT | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | Com | Com | Com | Com | Com | Com | | itional | pliance | pliance | pliance | pliance | pliance | pliance | | requi | stated | stated | stated | stated | stated | stated | | rements | by | by | by | by | by | by | | | manuf | manuf | manuf | manuf | manuf | manuf | | | acturer | acturer | acturer | acturer | acturer | acturer | | | decl | decl | decl | decl | decl | decl | | | aration | aration | aration | aration | aration | aration | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.6.3 | | | | | | | | > O | | | | | | | | ccupied | | | | | | | | > band | | | | | | | | width** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | (TS | (TS | (TS | | Minimum | 25.141) | 25.141) | 25.142) | 25.141) | 36.141) | 25.141) | | > requ | (TS | (TS | (TS | | | (TS | | irement | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | - | - | - | - | - | - | | **6.6.4 | | | | | | | | > A | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Leakage | | | | | | | | > power | | | | | | | | > Ratio | | | | | | | | > ( | | | | | | | | ACLR)** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E- UTRA | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cum | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | ulative | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC1a | NTC2 | NTC3a | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | C/N | C/N | | C/N | C/ | C/N | | | C:NTC3a | C:NTC3a | | C:NTC1a | NC:NTC2 | C:NTC3a | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **6.7 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > Tran | | | | | | | | smitter | | | | | | | | > int | | | | | | | | ermodul | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | | requ | as used | as used | as used | as used | as used | as used | | irement | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | CNC: | Same TC | N/A | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | | itional | NTC3a | as used | | as used | as used | as used | | requ | | in 6.6 | | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | | irement | C/N | | | | | | | (BC1 | C:NTC3a | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | BC2) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Add | N/A | N/A | Same TC | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | as used | | | | | > requ | | | in 6.6 | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | > (BC3) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **7.2 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > Re | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | | > sens | | | | | | | | itivity | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | level** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | E-UTRA | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | > FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > G | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | SM/EDGE | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **7.3 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > | | | | | | | | Dynamic | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | range** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | E-UTRA | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | N/A | (TS | | > FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | 25.141) | | 25.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | > TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > G | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | SM/EDGE | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.4 | - | - | - | | | - | | In- | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | sele | | | | | | | | ctivity | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | cking** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC5a | C: TC5b | C: TC5b | | General | | | | | | | | > b | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | locking | NTC3a\ | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | NTC5c | | > requ | C/NC: | | | | | | | irement | TC3a, | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | NTC3a | TC3a, | | TC5a, | TC5b, | TC5b, | | | | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | NTC5c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | C: | C: | C: | C: | C:TC5b, | C: | | General | TC3a, | TC3a, | TC3b, | TC5a, | TC6b | TC5b, | | > nar | TC6b | TC6b | TC6b | TC6a | | TC6a | | rowband | | | | | CNC | | | > b | CNC | CNC | | CNC | :NTC5b, | CNC | | locking | :NTC3a, | :NTC3a, | | :NTC5a, | TC6b | :NTC5c, | | > requ | TC6b | TC6b | | TC6a | | TC6a | | irement | | | | | C/NC: | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | TC5b, | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC5a. | NTC | TC5b, | | | NTC | NTC | | NTC | 5b,TC6b | NTC | | | 3a,TC6b | 3a,TC6b | | 5a,TC6a | | 5c,TC6a | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | itional | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | | > nar | | | | | | | | rowband | | | | | | | | > b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | > requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | > for | | | | | | | | > G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > G | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | SM/EDGE | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | | > requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | > for | | | | | | | | > AM | | | | | | | | > supp | | | | | | | | ression | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Add | N/A | N/A | C: TC3b | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | | | | | | > BC3 | | | | | | | | > b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | > requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **7.5 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > Out- | | | | | | | | of-band | | | | | | | | > blo | | | | | | | | cking** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC5a | C: TC5b | C: TC5b | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | NTC5c, | | | | | | | | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | TC5b, | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC5a, | TC5b, | NTC5c | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Co-l | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC5a | C: TC5b | C: TC5b | | ocation | | | | | | | | requ | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | irement | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | NTC5c | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC5a, | TC5b, | TC5b, | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | NTC5c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **7.6 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > R | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | | purious | | | | | | | | > emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | TC3a, | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | C: TC4a | C: TC4b | C: TC4c | | itional | | | | | | | | > requ | | | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | irement | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | > for | | | | | | | | > BC2 | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | > (C | | | | TC4a, | TC4b, | TC4c, | | ategory | | | | NTC4a | NTC4b | NTC4c | | > B) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **7.7 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > R | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | > int | | | | | | | | ermodul | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | C: TC3a | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC5a | C: TC5b | C: TC5b | | General | | | | | | | | > i | CNC: | CNC | | CNC: | CNC | CNC: | | ntermod | NTC3a | NTC3a | | NTC5a | NTC5b | NTC5c | | ulation | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | | | | > requ | TC3a , | C/NC: | | TC5a, | C/NC: | C/NC: | | irement | NTC3a | TC3a , | | NTC5a | TC5b, | TC5b, | | | | NTC3a | | | NTC5b | NTC5c | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | C: | C: TC3a | C: TC3b | C: TC5a | C: | C: | | General | TC3a, | TC6b | , TC6b | , TC6a | TC5b, | TC5b, | | > nar | TC6b | | | | TC6b | TC6a | | rowband | | CNC:NTC | | CNC | | | | > i | CNC | 3a,TC6b | | :NTC5a, | CNC | CNC | | ntermod | :NTC3a, | | | TC6a | :NTC5b, | :NTC5c, | | ulation | TC6b | C/NC: | | | TC6b | TC6a | | > requ | | TC3a, | | C/NC: | | | | irement | C/NC: | NTC | | TC5a | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC3a, | 3a;TC6b | | NTC | TC5b, | TC5b, | | | NTC | | | 5a,TC6a | NTC | NTC | | | 3a,TC6b | | | | 5b,TC6b | 5c,TC6a | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | itional | | | | 51.021) | 51.021) | 51.021) | | > nar | | | | | | | | rowband | | | | | | | | > i | | | | | | | | ntermod | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | > requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | > for | | | | | | | | > G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > **7.8 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | > In- | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | select | | | | | | | | ivity** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | (TS | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | | E-UTRA | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | 36.141) | | > requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The TC | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | forming | | | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | [the | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | eclared | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | for GSM | | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | eclared | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | mu | | | | | | | | lti-RAT | | | | | | | | ope | | | | | | | | rations | | | | | | | | and] | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | BS is a | | | | | | | | subset | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band, | | | | | | | | or when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | covers | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | entire | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 5.2 Single-RAT Multi-carrier capable Base Stations
Table 5.2-1: Test configurations for capability sets for Single-RAT capable BS
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cap | UTRA | E-UTRA | | | | | | ability | (MC) | (MC) | | | | | | Set | capable | capable | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | (CS1) | (CS2) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | BS test | BC1 | BC2 | BC3 | BC1 | BC2 | BC3 | | case | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.2 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Base | | | | | | | | Station | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | power** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Base | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | Station | | | | | | | | maximum | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | output | TC1a | TC1a | | TC2 | TC2 | TC2 | | power | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | Com | | itional | | | | | | pliance | | r | | | | | | stated | | egional | | | | | | by | | requi | | | | | | manuf | | rement\ | | | | | | acturer | | (only | | | | | | decl | | for | | | | | | aration | | band | | | | | | | | 34) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | DL RS | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | | primary | | | | | | | | CPICH | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | condary | | | | | | | | CPICH | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | | primary | | | | | | | | CCPCH | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.3 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Output | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | dyn | | | | | | | | amics** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.4 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | T | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | | | | ON/OFF | | | | | | | | power** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Tran | N/A | N/A | C: TC1b | N/A | N/A | C: TC2 | | smitter | | | | | | | | OFF | | | | | | CNC: | | power | | | | | | TC2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | | | | | | | | TC2, | | | | | | | | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Tran | N/A | N/A | C: TC1b | N/A | N/A | C: TC2 | | smitter | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | CNC: | | ansient | | | | | | TC2 | | period | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | | | | | | | | TC2, | | | | | | | | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.5 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Tran | | | | | | | | smitted | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | qu | | | | | | | | ality** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.5.1 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Mod | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | qu | | | | | | | | ality** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | | | | TC2 | TC2 | TC2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | | | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | | | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | | | | | | | | | CNC: | CNC: | | | | | | | TC1a | TC1a | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | | | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | | | | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | C: TC1b | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.5.2 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | error** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | | | | | | as used | as used | as used | | | | | | in | in | in | | | | | | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | Same TC | Same TC | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | as used | as used | | | | | | | in | in | | | | | | | 6.5.1 | 6.5.1 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | Same TC | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | as used | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | 6.5.1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.5.3 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Time | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | ignment | | | | | | | | error** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.6 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | U | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.6.1 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Tran | | | | | | | | smitter | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | purious | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | (C | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | ategory | | | | | | | | A) | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | (C | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | ategory | | | | | | | | B) | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for BC2 | | | | | | | | (C | | | | | | | | ategory | | | | | | | | B) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Pro | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | tection | | | | | | | | of the | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | BS | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | of own | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | or | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | di | | | | | | | | fferent | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | itional | | | | | | | | s | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | purious | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | em | | | | | | | | issions | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | requi | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | rements | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Co-l | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | ocation | | | | | | | | with | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | other | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | Base | | | | | | | | S | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | tations | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.6.2 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | (TS | N/A | (TS | (TS | N/A | (TS | | requ | 25.141) | | 25.142) | 36.141) | | 36.141) | | irement | | | C: TC1b | | | | | for | C: TC1a | | | C: TC2 | | C: TC2 | | Band | | | | | | | | Cat | CNC: | | | CNC: | | CNC: | | egories | TC1a, | | | TC2, | | TC2, | | 1 and 3 | NTC1a | | | NTC2 | | NTC2 | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | | | TC2, | | TC2, | | | NTC1a | | | NTC2 | | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | | requ | | 25.141) | | | 36.141) | | | irement | | | | | | | | for | | C: TC1a | | | C: TC2\ | | | Band | | | | | CNC: | | | C | | CNC: | | | TC2, | | | ategory | | TC1a, | | | NTC2 | | | 2 | | NTC1a | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | | | | | C/NC: | | | TC2, | | | | | TC1a, | | | NTC2 | | | | | NTC1a | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | sin | | | | | | | | gle-RAT | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | Com | Com | Com | Com | Com | Com | | itional | pliance | pliance | pliance | pliance | pliance | pliance | | requi | stated | stated | stated | stated | stated | stated | | rements | by | by | by | by | by | by | | | manuf | manuf | manuf | manuf | manuf | manuf | | | acturer | acturer | acturer | acturer | acturer | acturer | | | decl | decl | decl | decl | decl | decl | | | aration | aration | aration | aration | aration | aration | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.6.3 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | O | | | | | | | | ccupied | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | width** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Minimum | (TS | (TS | (TS | (TS | (TS | (TS | | requ | 25.141) | 25.141) | 25.142) | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.6.4 | | - | - | - | - | - | | A | | | | | | | | djacent | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | Leakage | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | Ratio | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | ACLR)** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cum | CNC: | CNC: | - | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | ulative | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | ACLR | | | | | | | | | C/N | C/N | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | C:NTC1a | C:NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **6.7 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Tran | | | | | | | | smitter | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | ermodul | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | Same TC | | requ | as used | as used | as used | as used | as used | as used | | irement | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | in 6.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | CNC: | Same TC | N/A | CNC: | Same TC | N/A | | itional | NTC1a | as used | | NTC2 | as used | | | requ | | in 6.6 | | | in 6.6 | | | irement | C/N | | | C/ | | | | (BC1 | C:NTC1a | | | NC:NTC2 | | | | and | | | | | | | | BC2) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | Same TC | N/A | N/A | Same TC | | itional | | | as used | | | as used | | requ | | | in 6.6 | | | in 6.6 | | irement | | | | | | | | (BC3) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.2 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Re | | | | | | | | ference | | | | | | | | sens | | | | | | | | itivity | | | | | | | | level** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | requ | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.3 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Dynamic | | | | | | | | range** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | (TS | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | FDD | 25.141) | 25.141) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UTRA | N/A | N/A | (TS | N/A | N/A | N/A | | TDD | | | 25.142) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.4 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | In-band | | | | | | | | sele | | | | | | | | ctivity | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | cking** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | b | | | | | | | | locking | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | requ | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | irement | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a , | TC1a , | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2, | C: TC2, | C: TC2, | | nar | TC1a, | , TC6a | TC6c | | TC6b | TC6b | | rowband | | | | TC6b | | | | b | TC6a | CNC | | | CNC: | CNC: | | locking | | :NTC1a, | | CN | NTC2, | NTC2, | | requ | CNC: | TC6a | | C:NTC2, | TC6b | TC6b | | irement | NTC1a, | | | TC6b | | | | | TC6a | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | | TC1a, | | C/NC: | TC2, | TC2, | | | C/NC: | NTC | | TC2, | | | | | TC1a, | 1a,TC6a | | | NTC2, | NTC2, | | | NTC | | | NTC2, | TC6b | TC6b | | | 1a,TC6a | | | TC6b | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | | | | | | nar | | | | | | | | rowband | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | G | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | for AM | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | ression | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | C: TC1b | N/A | N/A | C: TC2 | | itional | | | | | | | | BC3 | | | | | | CNC: | | b | | | | | | NTC2 | | locking | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | C/NC: | | requ | | | | | | TC2, | | irement | | | | | | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.5 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Out- | | | | | | | | of-band | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | cking** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Co-l | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | ocation | | | | | | | | requ | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | irement | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.6 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | R | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | purious | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | | | | | | | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for BC2 | | | | | | | | (C | | | | | | | | ategory | | | | | | | | B) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.7 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | R | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | ermodul | | | | | | | | ation** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: TC1a | C: TC1a | C: TC1b | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | C: TC2 | | i | | | | | | | | ntermod | CNC: | CNC: | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | ulation | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | C/NC: | C/NC: | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | TC1a , | TC1a , | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | NTC1a | NTC1a | | NTC2 | NTC2 | NTC2 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | General | C: | C: | C: | C: TC2, | C: TC2, | C: TC2, | | nar | TC1a, | TC1a, | TC1b, | TC6b | TC6b | TC6b | | rowband | TC6a | TC6a | TC6c | | | | | i | | | | CNC: | CNC: | CNC: | | ntermod | CNC: | CNC | | NTC2, | NTC2, | NTC2, | | ulation | NTC1a, | :NTC1a, | | TC6b | TC6b | TC6b | | requ | TC6a | TC6a | | | | | | irement | | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | C/NC: | | | C/NC: | C/NC: | | TC2, | TC2, | TC2, | | | TC1a, | TC1a, | | NTC2, | NTC2, | NTC2, | | | NTC | NTC | | TC6b | TC6b | TC6b | | | 1a,TC6a | 1a,TC6a | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Add | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | itional | | | | | | | | nar | | | | | | | | rowband | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | ntermod | | | | | | | | ulation | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **7.8 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | In- | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | select | | | | | | | | ivity** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | N/A | (TS | (TS | (TS | | requ | | | | 36.141) | 36.141) | 36.141) | | irement | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
General test conditions for transmitter tests are given in clause 4, including
interpretation of measurement results and configurations for testing. BS
configurations for the tests are defined in subclause 4.10.
## 6.2 Base Station output power
### 6.2.1 Base Station maximum output power
#### 6.2.1.1 Definition and applicability
Output power of the Base Station is the mean power delivered to a load with
resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the transmitter.
The maximum total output power, P~max~, of the Base Station is the mean power
level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in a
specified reference condition.
The maximum RAT output power, P~max,RAT~, of the Base Station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific RAT in a specified reference condition.
The maximum carrier output power, P~max,c~ of the Base Station is the mean
power level measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period
for a specific carrier in a specified reference condition.
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the ranges defined for the Normal test
environment in Annex B.
#### 6.2.1.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclause 6.2.1.
#### 6.2.1.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the accuracy of the maximum carrier output power
across the frequency range and under normal and extreme conditions for all
transmitters in the BS.
#### 6.2.1.4 Method of test
##### 6.2.1.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex B.2.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~; see
subclause 4.9.1.
In addition, a single test shall be performed under extreme power supply
conditions as defined in Annex B.3. In this case, it is sufficient to test on
a single combination of one ARFCN, UARFCN or E-ARFCN, one RF bandwidth
position and with only one applicable test configuration defined in clause 5.
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the power measuring equipment to the MSR Base Station antenna
connector as shown in Annex D.1.1.
##### 6.2.1.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the Base Station to transmit at maximum power according to the
applicable test configuration in clause 5 using the corresponding test models
or set of physical channels in subclause 4.9.2.
2) Measure the mean power for each carrier at the Base Station antenna
connector.
#### 6.2.1.5 Test requirements
In normal conditions, the measurement result in step 2 of subclause 6.2.1.4.2
shall for UTRA and E-UTRA remain:
within +2.7 dB and --2.7 dB of the manufacturer\'s rated carrier output power
for carrier frequency f ≤ 3.0 GHz,
within +3.0 dB and --3.0 dB of the manufacturer\'s rated output power for
carrier frequency 3.0 GHz \ 3) Detection mode: True RMS.
>
> 4) Configure the BS with transmitters active at their maximum total output
> power.
##### 6.6.1.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the Base Station to transmit at maximum power according to the
applicable test configuration in clause 5 using the corresponding test models
or set of physical channels in subclause 4.9.2.
2) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
measurement bandwidth and note that the measured value does not exceed the
specified value.
#### 6.6.1.5 Test requirements
The measurement result in step 2 of 6.6.1.4.2 shall not exceed the maximum
level specified in Table 6.6.1.5.1-1 to Table 6.6.1.5.6-1 if applicable for
the BS under test.
The test requirements of either subclause 6.6.1.5.1 (Category A limits) or
subclause 6.6.1.5.2 (Category B limits) shall apply. In addition for a BS
operating in Band Category 2, the test requirements of 6.6.1.5.3 shall apply
in case of Category B limits.
##### 6.6.1.5.1 Spurious emissions (Category A)
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.5.1-1
Table 6.6.1.5.1-1: BS Spurious emission limits, Category A
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9kHz ‑ 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150kHz ‑ 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30MHz ‑ 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1GHz ‑ 12.75 | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz -- | | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [13], | | | | | s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [13], | | | | | s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [13], | | | | | s2.5 table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3; | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42 and 43. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.6.1.5.2 Spurious emissions (Category B)
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.5.2-1
Table 6.6.1.5.2-1: BS Spurious emissions limits, Category B
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 kHz ↔ 150 | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | | kHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150 kHz ↔ 30 | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | | MHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30 MHz ↔ 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ↔ | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [13], | | | | | s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [13], | | | | | s4.1. Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [13], | | | | | s2.5 table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3; | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42 and 43. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 6.6.1.5.3 Additional test requirement for BC2 (category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured, the power
of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table 6.6.1.5.3-1.
Table 6.6.1.5.3-1: Additional BS Spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
* * *
Frequency range Frequency offset from transmitter operating band edge Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth 500 MHz ↔ 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -36 dBm 300 kHz 20 --
30 MHz -36 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30 MHz -36 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 GHz ≥ 30 MHz -30 dBm
3 MHz
* * *
##### 6.6.1.5.4 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS
This requirement shall be applied for FDD operation in order to prevent the
receivers of Base Stations being desensitised by emissions from the BS
transmitter. It is measured at the transmit antenna port for any type of BS
which has common or separate Tx/Rx antenna ports.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits in Table
6.6.1.5.4-1.
Table 6.6.1.5.4-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for protection of the BS
receiver
* * *
Band category Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note BC1
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -96 dBm 100 kHz  
BC2 F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ -98 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
##### 6.6.1.5.5 Additional spurious emission requirements
These requirements may be applied for the protection of system operating in
frequency ranges other than the BS downlink operating band. The limits may
apply as an optional protection of such systems that are deployed in the same
geographical area as the BS, or they may be set by local or regional
regulation as a mandatory requirement for an operating band. It is in some
cases not stated in the present document whether a requirement is mandatory or
under what exact circumstances that a limit applies, since this is set by
local or regional regulation. An overview of regional requirements in the
present document is given in subclause 4.4.
Some requirements may apply for the protection of specific equipment (UE, MS
and/or BS) or equipment operating in specific systems (GSM/EDGE, CDMA, UTRA,
E-UTRA, etc.) as listed below. The power of any spurious emission shall not
exceed the limits of Table 6.6.1.5.5-1 for a BS where requirements for co-
existence with the system listed in the first column apply.
Table 6.6.1.5.5-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with systems
operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | to co-exist | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | with | c | | | | | | o-existence | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM900 | 921 ‑ 960 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 876 - 915 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | For the | | | MHz | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 880-915 | | | | | | MHz, this | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DCS1800\ | 1805 ‑ 1880 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | (Note 3) | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1785 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 ‑ 1990 | -47 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | 25 or band | | | | | | 36. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 ‑ 1910 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 35. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | GSM850 or | 869 - 894 | -57 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | CDMA850 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 ‑ 849 | -61 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2170 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band I or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 1 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1920 - 1980 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 1, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band II or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 2 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 - 1910 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1805 - 1880 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band III or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 3\ | | | | operating | | (Note 3) | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1785 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | | | | | | | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 9, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for | | | | | | 1710 MHz to | | | | | | 1749.9 MHz | | | | | | and 1784.9 | | | | | | MHz to 1785 | | | | | | MHz, while | | | | | | the rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2155 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IV or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 4 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1755 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 869 - 894 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band V or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 5 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 824 - 849 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 5, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 860 - 890 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VI, | MHz | | | requirement | | XIX or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 6, 18, 19 | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | 18, 19 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 815 - 830 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 18 | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 830 - 845 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 6, | | | | | | 19, since | | | | | | it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2620 - 2690 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 7 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2500 - 2570 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 7, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 925 - 960 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band VIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 8 | | | | in band 8. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 880 - 915 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 8, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1844.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band IX or | 1879.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 9 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1749.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1784.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 3 | | | | | | or 9, since | | | | | | it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 - 2170 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band X or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 10 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4 | | | | | | or 10. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1710 - 1770 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 10, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 4, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for 1755 | | | | | | MHz to 1770 | | | | | | MHz, while | | | | | | the rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 - | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XI or | 1510.9 MHz | | | requirement | | XXI or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 11 or 21 | | | | in band 11 | | | | | | or 21. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1427.9 - | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1447.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 11, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1447.9 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1462.9 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 21, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 729 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 12 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 699 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 - 756 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIII | MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 13 | | | | in band 13. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 777 - 787 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 - 768 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 14 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 788 - 798 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 14, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 734 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 17 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 704 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 17, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 791 - 821 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XX or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to BS | | 20 | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 832 - 862 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 20, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 3510 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXII | 3590 MHz | | | requirement | | or | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | E-UTRA Band | | | | operating | | 22 | | | | in band 22 | | | | | | or 42. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 3410 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 3490 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 22, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | Band 42 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2180 ‑ 2200 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 23 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 23. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2000 - 2020 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 23, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Bands 2 | | | | | | or 25, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | limits are | | | | | | defined | | | | | | separately. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2000 -- | **-30** dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 2010 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | only | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2 | | | | | | or Band 25. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | applies | | | | | | starting 5 | | | | | | MHz above | | | | | | the Band 25 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band. (Note | | | | | | 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2010 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | | | | 2020 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1525 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 24 | 1559 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 24. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1626.5 -- | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | 1660.5 MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 24, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 - 1995 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XXV or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 25 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2 | | | | | | or 25. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1850 - 1915 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 25, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 2, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | for 1910 | | | | | | MHz to 1915 | | | | | | MHz, while | | | | | | the rest is | | | | | | covered in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.1.5.4. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 - 1920 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 33 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 - 2025 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band a) or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 34 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 34 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1850 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or | 1910 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 35 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 35 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1930 - 1990 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band b) or | MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 36 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2, | | | | | | 25 or 36 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD in | 1910 - 1930 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band c) or | MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 37 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 37. | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2570 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band d) or | 2620 MHz | | | requirement | | E-UTRA Band | | | | does not | | 38 | | | | apply to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 38. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band f) or | 1920MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 39 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 39 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | Band e) or | 2400MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 40 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 40 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2496 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 41 | 2690MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 41 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3400 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 42 | 3600 MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | | | | | | or 43 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3600 -- | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This is not | | 43 | 3800 MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | | | | | | or 43 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 5: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to a | | | | | | Band 2 BS | | | | | | of an | | | | | | earlier | | | | | | release. In | | | | | | addition, | | | | | | it does not | | | | | | apply to an | | | | | | Band 2 BS | | | | | | from an | | | | | | earlier | | | | | | release | | | | | | m | | | | | | anufactured | | | | | | before 31 | | | | | | December, | | | | | | 2012, which | | | | | | is upgraded | | | | | | to support | | | | | | Rel-10 | | | | | | features, | | | | | | where the | | | | | | upgrade | | | | | | does not | | | | | | affect | | | | | | existing RF | | | | | | parts of | | | | | | the radio | | | | | | unit | | | | | | related to | | | | | | this | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirement. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this subclause,
except for Band 25, the co-existence requirements in Table 6.6.1.5.5-1 do not
apply for the 10 MHz frequency range immediately outside the downlink
operating band (see Tables 4.4-1 and 4.4-2). Emission limits for this excluded
frequency range may be covered by local or regional requirements.
NOTE 2: Table 6.6.1.5.5-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
frequency ranges in Table 4.4-1 or Table 4.4-2 would be overlapping, are not
deployed in the same geographical area. For such a case of operation with
overlapping frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-
existence requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 3: For the protection of DCS1800, UTRA Band III or E-UTRA Band 3 in
China, the frequency ranges of the downlink and uplink protection requirements
are 1805 -- 1850 MHz and 1710 -- 1755 MHz respectively.
NOTE 4: TDD base stations deployed in the same geographical area, that are
synchronized and use the same or adjacent operating bands can transmit without
additional co-existence requirements. For unsynchronized base stations,
special co-existence requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP
specifications.
The following requirement may be applied for the protection of PHS. This
requirement is also applicable at specified frequencies falling between 10 MHz
below the lowest BS transmitter frequency of the downlink operating band and
10 MHz above the highest BS transmitter frequency of the downlink operating
band.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 6.6.1.5.5-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for BS for co-existence with
PHS
* * *
Frequency range Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1884.5 ‑ 1915.7 MHz
-41 dBm 300 kHz Applicable for co-existence with PHS system operating in
1884.5-1915.7MHz NOTE: The requirement is not applicable in China.
* * *
In addition to the requirements in subclauses 6.6.1.5.1 to 6.6.1.5.4 and above
in the present subclause, the BS may have to comply with the applicable
emission limits established by FCC Title 47 [8], when deployed in regions
where those limits are applied, and under the conditions declared by the
manufacturer.
##### 6.6.1.5.6 Co-location with other Base Stations
These requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers
when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, CDMA850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or
E-UTRA BS are co-located with a BS.
The requirements assume a 30 dB coupling loss between transmitter and
receiver.
NOTE: For co-location with UTRA, the requirements are based on co-location
with Wide Area UTRA FDD or TDD Base Stations.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
6.6.1.5.6-1 for a BS where requirements for co-location with a BS type listed
in the first column apply.
Table 6.6.1.5.6-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for BS co-located with another
BS
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | co-located | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | BS | co-location | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 876-915 MHz | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | GSM900 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1710 - 1785 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | DCS1800 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1850 - 1910 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | PCS1900 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 824 - 849 | -98 dBm | 100 kHz | | | GSM850 or | MHz | | | | | CDMA850 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1920 - 1980 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band I or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1850 - 1910 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band II or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1785 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band III or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1755 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band IV or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 824 - 849 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band V or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 830 - 845 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band VI, | MHz | | | | | XIX or | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 6, 19 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2500 - 2570 | -96 dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band VII or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 7 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 880 - 915 | -96 dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band VIII | MHz | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1749.9 - | -96 dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band IX or | 1784.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1770 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band X or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 10 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1427.9 - | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XI or | 1447.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 11 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 699 - 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XII or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 777 - 787 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XIII | MHz | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 788 - 798 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 14 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 704 - 716 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 17 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 815 - 830 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 18 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 832 - 862 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XX or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 20 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1447.9 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XXI or | 1462.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 21 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | WA UTRA FDD | 3410 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band XXII | 3490 MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to BS | | Band 22 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2000 - 2020 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 23 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1626.5 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | 24 | 1660.5 MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1850 - 1915 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XXV or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 25 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 - 1920 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band a) or | MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 33 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 - 2025 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band a) or | MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 34 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 34 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1850 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band b) or | 1910 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 35 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 35 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1930 - 1990 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band b) or | MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 36 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2 | | | | | | and 36 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1910 - 1930 | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band c) or | MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 37 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 37. | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2570 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band d) or | 2620 MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 38 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 38. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band f) or | 1920MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 39 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | | | | | | and 39 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band e) or | 2400MHz | | | applicable | | E-UTRA Band | | | | to BS | | 40 | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 40 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2496 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 41 | 2690MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 41 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3400 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 42 | 3600 MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | | | | | | or 43 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3600 -- | -96 dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | 43 | 3800 MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | | | | | | or 43 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: As defined in the scope for spurious emissions in this subclause, the
co-location requirements in Table 6.6.1.5.6-1 do not apply for the 10 MHz
frequency range immediately outside the BS transmit frequency range of a
downlink operating band (see Tables 4.4-1 and 4.4-2). The current state-of-
the-art technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-location
with other system on adjacent frequencies for 30 dB BS-BS minimum coupling
loss. However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used.
These techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [14].
NOTE 2: Table 6.6.1.5.6-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the
corresponding BS transmit and receive frequency ranges in Table 4.4-1 or Table
4.4-2 would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area.
For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the
same geographical area, special co-location requirements may apply that are
not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
NOTE 3: Co-located TDD Base Stations that are synchronized and using the same
or adjacent operating band can transmit without special co-locations
requirements. For unsynchronized Base Stations, special co-location
requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
### 6.6.2 Operating band unwanted emissions
#### 6.6.2.1 Definition and applicability
The Operating band unwanted emission limits are defined from 10 MHz below the
lowest frequency of the downlink operating band to the lower RF bandwidth edge
located at F~BW\ RF,low~ and from the upper RF bandwidth edge located at F~BW\
RF,high~ up to 10 MHz above the highest frequency of the downlink operating
band. In addition, for a BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies
inside any sub-block gap.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered and
for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification,
except for GSM/EDGE single RAT operation. The requirements in TS 45.005 [6] as
defined in subclause 6.6.2.3 apply to an MSR Base Station for GSM/EDGE single
RAT operation in Band Category 2.
#### 6.6.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclause 6.6.2.1, 6.6.2.2,
6.6.2.3 and 6.6.2.4.
#### 6.6.2.3 Test purpose
This test measures the emissions of the MSR BS, close to the assigned channel
bandwidth of the wanted signal, while the transmitter is in operation.
#### 6.6.2.4 Method of test
For some of the test cases Tables 5.1-1 and 5.2-1 refer to single-RAT
specifications; see clause 5. In this case the following shall apply:
\- For references to TS 25.141 [10], the method of test is specified in TS
25.141 [10], subclause 6.5.2.1.4.
\- For references to TS 25.142 [12], the method of test is specified in TS
25.142 [12], subclause 6.6.2.1.4.
\- For references to TS 36.141 [9], the method of test is specified in TS
36.141 [9], subclause 6.6.3.4.
NOTE: In this case the test requirements of the present document defined in
subclause 6.6.2.5 apply.
For GSM/EDGE single-RAT requirements, the method of test is specified in TS
51.021 [11], applicable parts of subclause 6.5.1, 6.5.2, 6.6.2 and 6.12.
For test requirements of operating band unwanted emissions using the MSR test
configurations defined in subclause 4.8, the, method of test described in
subclauses 6.6.2.4.1 and 6.6.2.4.2 applies.
##### 6.6.2.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex B.2.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~; see
subclause 4.9.1.
1) Connect the signal analyzer to the Base Station antenna connector as shown
in Annex D.1.1.
> As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
> should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve
> measurement accuracy, sensitivity, efficiency and to avoid e.g. carrier
> leakage, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller than the measurement
> bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than the measurement
> bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the measurement bandwidth in
> order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.
2) Detection mode: True RMS.
##### 6.6.2.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the Base Station to transmit at maximum power according to the
applicable test configuration in clause 5 using the corresponding test models
or set of physical channels in subclause 4.9.2.
2) Step the centre frequency of the measurement filter in contiguous steps and
measure the emission within the specified frequency ranges with the specified
measurement bandwidth.
3) Repeat the test for the remaining test cases with channel set-up according
to clause 5 and subclause 4.9.2.
#### 6.6.2.5 Test requirement
##### 6.6.2.5.1 Test requirements for Band Categories 1 and 3
For a BS operating in Band Category 1 or Band Category 3, the requirement
applies outside the RF bandwidth edges. In addition, for a BS operating in
non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any sub-block gap.
Outside the RF bandwidth edges, emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in Table 6.6.2.5.1-1 below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
nominal -3 dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the RF bandwidth edge frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency 10 MHz outside the downlink
operating band.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
Inside any sub-block gap for a BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum,
emissions shall not exceed the cumulative sum of the test requirements
specified for the adjacent sub blocks on each side of the sub block gap. The
test requirement for each sub block is specified in Table 6.6.2.5.1-1 below,
where in this case:
\- ∆f is the separation between the sub block edge frequency and the nominal
-3 dB point of the measuring filter closest to the sub block edge frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the sub block edge frequency and the
centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is equal to the sub block gap bandwidth divided by two.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
Table 6.6.2.5.1-1: Operating band unwanted emission mask (UEM) for BC1 and BC3
for bands ≤ 3GHz
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Test | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1) | (Note 3) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ 3GHz
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Frequency | Test | Measurement | | offset of | offset of | requirement | bandwidth | | measurement | measurement | (Note 1) | (Note 3) | | filter ‑3dB | filter centre | | | | point, ∆f | frequency, | | | | | f_offset | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \ where BW~F1~ represents the test signal RF bandwidth, or channel bandwidth
> in case of single carrier, or sub-block bandwidth in case of the interfering
> signal is located inside the sub-block gap.
##### 6.7.4.2.2 Additional minimum requirement (BC1 and BC2) test procedure
1) Set the BS to transmit the test signal according to clause 5 at maximum
output power according to the applicable test configuration.
2) Generate a CW signal as the interfering signal with a centre frequency
offset of 0.8 MHz, but exclude interference frequencies that are outside of
the allocated downlink operating band or interfering frequencies in a sub-
block gap, in case the gap is smaller than two times the interfering signal
centre frequency offset.
3) Adjust ATT1 so that level of the interfering signal is as defined in Table
6.7.2-1 in TS 37.104 [2].
4) If the test signal is applicable according to clause 5, perform the Out-of-
band emission tests as specified in subclauses 6.6.2 and 6.6.4, for all third
and fifth order intermodulation products which appear in the frequency ranges
defined in subclauses 6.6.2 and 6.6.4.
5) If the test signal is applicable according to clause 5, perform the
Transmitter spurious emissions test as specified in subclause 6.6.1, for all
third and fifth order intermodulation products which appear in the frequency
ranges defined in subclause 6.6.1.
6) Verify that the emission level does not exceed the required level with the
exception of interfering signal frequencies.
7) Repeat the test for interfering signal centre frequency offsets of 2.0 MHz,
3.2MHz and 6.2 MHz.
8) Repeat the test for the remaining test signals defined in clause 5 for
requirements 6.6.1, 6.6.2 and 6.6.4.
NOTE: The third order intermodulation products are centred at 2F1±F2 and
2F2±F1. The fifth order intermodulation products are centred at 3F1±2F2,
3F2±2F1, 4F1±F2, and 4F2±F1 where F1 represents the test signal centre
frequency or centre frequency of each sub-block in case of the interfering
signal is located inside the sub-block gap and F2 represents the interfering
signal centre frequency. The widths of intermodulation products are
● (n*BW~F1~) for the nF1±mF2 products
● (m* BW~F1~) for the nF2±mF1 products
> where BW~F1~ represents the test signal RF bandwidth or channel bandwidth in
> case of single carrier, or sub-block bandwidth in case of the interfering
> signal is located inside the sub-block gap.
##### 6.7.4.2.3 Additional minimum requirement (BC3) test procedure
1) Set the BS to transmit the test signal according to clause 5 at maximum
output power according to the applicable test configuration.
2) Generate the interfering signal according to Table 6.38A in TS 25.142 [12]
at a centre frequency offset according to the conditions in Table 6.7.3-1 in
TS 37.104 [2], but exclude interference frequencies that are outside of the
allocated downlink operating band.
3) Adjust ATT1 so that level of the modulated interfering signal is as defined
in Table 6.7.3-1 in TS 37.104 [2].
4) If the test signal is applicable according to clause 5, perform the Out-of-
band emission tests as specified in subclauses 6.6.2 and 6.6.4, for all third
and fifth order intermodulation products which appear in the frequency ranges
defined in subclauses 6.6.2 and 6.6.4. The width of the intermodulation
products shall be taken into account.
5) If the test signal is applicable according to clause 5, perform the
Transmitter spurious emissions test as specified in subclause 6.6.1, for all
third and fifth order intermodulation products which appear in the frequency
ranges defined in subclause 6.6.1. The width of the intermodulation products
shall be taken into account.
6) Verify that the emission level does not exceed the required level with the
exception of interfering signal frequencies.
7) Repeat the test for the remaining interfering signal centre frequency
offsets according to the conditions of Table 6.7.3-1 in TS 37.104 [2].
8) Repeat the test for the remaining test signals and physical channels in
Table 4.9.2-1.
NOTE: The third order intermodulation products are centred at 2F1±F2 and
2F2±F1. The fifth order intermodulation products are centred at 3F1±2F2,
3F2±2F1, 4F1±F2, and 4F2±F1 where F1 represents the test signal centre
frequency and F2 represents the interfering signal centre frequency. The
widths of intermodulation products are
● (n*BW~F1~ + m*1.6MHz) for the nF1±mF2 products
● (n*1.6MHz + m* BW~F1~) for the nF2±mF1 products
> where BW~F1~ represents the test signal RF bandwidth or channel bandwidth in
> case of single carrier.
### 6.7.5 Test requirements
#### 6.7.5.1 General test requirement
In the frequency range relevant for this test, the transmitter intermodulation
level shall not exceed the unwanted emission limits in subclause 6.6.1, 6.6.2
and 6.6.4 in the presence of a wanted signal and an interfering signal
according to Table 6.7.1‑1 in TS 37.104 [2] for BS operation in BC1, BC2 and
BC3. The measurement may be limited to frequencies on which third and fifth
order intermodulation products appear, considering the width of these
products.
The requirement is always applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement is also
applicable inside a sub-block gap for interfering signal offsets where the
interfering signal falls completely within the sub-block gap. The interfering
signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block edges.
#### 6.7.5.2 Additional test requirement (BC1 and BC2)
In the frequency range relevant for this test, the transmitter intermodulation
level shall not exceed the unwanted emission limits in subclause 6.6.1, 6.6.2
and 6.6.4 in the presence of a wanted signal and an interfering signal
according to Table 6.7.2-1 in TS 37.104 [2] for BS operation in BC2. The
measurement may be limited to frequencies on which third and fifth order
intermodulation products appear, considering the width of these products.
The requirement is always applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth for
BC2. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth
edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum in BC1 or BC2, the requirement is
also applicable inside a sub-block gap larger than or equal to two times the
interfering signal centre frequency offset. For BS operating in non-contiguous
spectrum in BC1, the requirement is not applicable inside a sub-block gap with
a gap size equal or larger than 5 MHz. The interfering signal offset is
defined relative to the sub-block edges.
#### 6.7.5.3 Additional test requirement (BC3)
In the frequency range relevant for this test, the transmitter intermodulation
level shall not exceed the unwanted emission limits in subclause 6.6.1, 6.6.2
and 6.6.4 in the presence of a wanted signal and an interfering signal
according to Table 6.7.3-1 in TS 37.104 [2] for BS operation in BC3. The
measurement may be limited to frequencies on which third and fifth order
intermodulation products appear, considering the width of these products.
# 7 Receiver characteristics
## 7.1 General
General test conditions for receiver tests are given in clause 4, including
interpretation of measurement results and configurations for testing. BS
configurations for the tests are defined in subclause 4.10.
Unless otherwise stated the requirements in clause 7 apply during the Base
Station receive period.
## 7.2 Reference sensitivity level
### 7.2.1 Definition and applicability
The reference sensitivity power level PREFSENS is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a reference performance requirement
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
Additional details are in TS 36.141 [9] subclause 7.2, TS 25.141 [10]
subclause 7.2, TS 25.142 [12] subclause 7.2, and TS 51.021 [11] subclauses 7.3
and 7.4.
### 7.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclauses 7.2.1, 7.2.2, 7.2.3,
and 7.2.4.
### 7.2.3 Test purpose
To verify that at the BS Reference sensitivity level the performance
requirements shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
### 7.2.4 Method of test
For this requirement Tables 5.1-1 and 5.2-1 refer to single-RAT
specifications; see clause 5. The following shall apply:
\- For references to TS 51.021 [11], the method of test is specified in TS
51.021 [11], subclauses 7.3 and 7.4.
\- For references to TS 25.141 [10], the method of test is specified in TS
25.141 [10], subclause 7.2.4.
\- For references to TS 25.142 [12], the method of test is specified in TS
25.142 [12], subclause 7.2.4.
\- For references to TS 36.141 [9], the method of test is specified in TS
36.141 [9], subclause 7.2.4.
### 7.2.5 Test requirements
For E-UTRA the test requirement is in TS 36.141 [9] subclause 7.2.5.
For UTRA-FDD the test requirement is in TS 25.141 [10] subclause 7.2.5.
For UTRA-TDD the test requirement is in TS 25.142 [12] subclause 7.2.5.
For GSM-EDGE the test requirement is in TS 51.021 [11] subclauses 7.3 and 7.4.
## 7.3 Dynamic range
### 7.3.1 Definition and applicability
The dynamic range is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the received
channel bandwidth or the capability of receiving high level of the wanted
signal.
### 7.3.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclauses 7.3.1, 7.3.2, 7.3.3,
and 7.3.4.
### 7.3.3 Test purpose
To verify that at the BS receiver dynamic range, the receiver performance
shall fulfil the specified limit.
### 7.3.4 Method of test
For this requirement Tables 5.1-1 and 5.2-1 refer to single-RAT
specifications; see clause 5. The following shall apply:
\- For references to TS 51.021 [11], the method of test is specified in TS
51.021 [11], subclause 7.1.
\- For references to TS 25.141 [10], the method of test is specified in TS
25.141 [10], subclause 7.3.4.
\- For references to TS 25.142 [12], the method of test is specified in TS
25.142 [12], subclause 7.3.4.
\- For references to TS 36.141 [9], the method of test is specified in TS
36.141 [9], subclause 7.3.4.
### 7.3.5 Test requirements
For E-UTRA the test requirement is in TS 36.141 [9] subclause 7.3.5.
For UTRA-FDD the test requirement is in TS 25.141 [10] subclause 7.3.5.
For UTRA-TDD the test requirement is in TS 25.142 [12] subclause 7.3.5.
For GSM-EDGE the test requirement is in TS 51.021 [11] subclause 7.1.
## 7.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
### 7.4.1 Definition and applicability
The in-band selectivity and blocking characteristics are measures of the
receiver ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the
presence of an unwanted interferer inside the operating band and are defined
by a wideband and a narrowband blocking requirement.
### 7.4.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclauses 7.4.1, 7.4.2, 7.4.3,
7.4.4, and 7.4.5.
### 7.4.3 Test purpose
The test stresses the ability of the BS receiver to withstand high-level
interference from unwanted signals at specified frequency offsets without
undue degradation of its sensitivity.
### 7.4.4 Method of test
#### 7.4.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: Normal; see Annex B.2.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: M~RFBW~, see subclause 4.9.1.
1) Set up the equipment as shown in Annex D.2.1.
2) Start to transmit according to the applicable test configuration in clause
5 using applicable reference measurement channel to the BS under test as
follows:
\- For E-UTRA see Annex A.1 in TS 36.141 [9].
\- For UTRA FDD see Annex A.2 in TS 25.141 [10].
\- For UTRA TDD see Annex A.2.1 in TS 25.142 [12].
\- For GSM see subclause 7.6.2 in TS 51.021 [11] and Annex P in TS 45.005 [6]
for reference channels to test.
#### 7.4.4.2 Procedure for general blocking
1) Start BS transmission with the same carrier locations used in step 2) in
7.4.4.1 at Pmax.
2) Adjust the signal generators to the type of interfering signal, levels and
the frequency offsets as specified in Table 7.4.5.1-1.
3) The interfering signal shall be swept with a step size of 1 MHz starting
from the minimum offset to the channel edges of the wanted signals as
specified in Table 7.4.5.1-1
4) Measure the performance of the wanted signal at the BS receiver, as defined
in subclause 7.4.5, for the relevant carriers specified by the test
configuration in subclause 4.8.
#### 7.4.4.3 Procedure for narrowband blocking
1) Start BS transmission with the same carrier locations used in step 2) in
7.4.4.1 at Pmax.
2) Adjust the signal generators to the type of interfering signal, levels and
the frequency offsets as specified in Table 7.4.5.2-1
3) Set-up and sweep the interfering RB centre frequency offset to the channel
edge of the wanted signal according to Table 7.4.5.2-1.
4) Measure the performance of the wanted signal at the BS receiver, as defined
in subclause 7.4.5, for the relevant carriers specified by the test
configuration in subclause 4.8.
#### 7.4.4.4 Procedure for additional narrowband blocking for GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking method of test is stated in TS 51.021 [11],
applicable parts of subclause 7.6.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [6], Annex P.2.1 apply for GSM/EDGE in-
band narrowband blocking.
#### 7.4.4.5 Procedure for GSM/EDGE AM suppression
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking method of test is stated in TS 51.021 [11],
applicable parts of subclause 7.8.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [6], Annex P.2.3 apply for GSM/EDGE AM
suppression.
#### 7.4.4.6 Procedure for additional BC3 blocking requirement
1) Adjust the signal generators to the type of interfering signal, levels and
the frequency offsets as specified in Table 7.4.5.5-1
2) Measure the performance of the wanted signal at the BS receiver, as defined
in subclause 7.4.5, for the relevant carriers specified by the test
configuration in subclause 4.8.
### 7.4.5 Test requirements
#### 7.4.5.1 General blocking test requirement
For the general blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall be a UTRA
FDD signal as specified in Annex A.1.
The requirement is always applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap, in case the sub-block gap size is at least
15 MHz. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the Base Station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.5.1-1, the following requirements
shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS
45.005 [6], Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.4.5.1-1: General blocking test requirement
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | Op | Centre | Inte | Wanted | Inte | | | | erating | Fr | rfering | Signal | rfering | | | | Band | equency | Signal | mean | signal | | | | Number | of | mean | power | centre | | | | | Inte | power | [dBm] | fr | | | | | rfering | [dBm] | | equency | | | | | Signal | | | minimum | | | | | [MHz] | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | the RF | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | edge or | | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | b-block | | | | | | | | inside | | | | | | | | a gap | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 1-7, | (F~U | to | (F~UL | -40 | P~R | ±7.5 | | 9-11, | L_low~ | | _high~ | | EFSENS~ | | | 13, 14, | -20) | | +20) | | + | | | 18, 19, | | | | | x dB* | | | 21-23, | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | 33-43 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 8 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +10) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 12 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +13) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 17 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +18) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 20 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -11) | | +20) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | 25 | (F~U | to | (F~UL | | | | | | L_low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | -20) | | +15) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT and | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | TE**: | | | | | | | | \"x\" | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signals | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------+
NOTE: Table 7.4.5.1-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the downlink
operating band (see Table 4.4-1 and Table 4.4-2) of one band would be within
the in-band blocking region of the other band, are not deployed in the same
geographical area.
#### 7.4.5.2 General narrowband blocking test requirement
For the narrowband blocking requirement, the interfering signal shall be an
E-UTRA 1RB signal as specified in Annex A.3.
The requirement is always applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap, in case the sub-block gap size is at least
3 MHz wide. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the Base Station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.5.2-1 the following requirements
shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS
45.005 [6], Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.4.5.2-1: Narrowband blocking requirement
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RAT of the | Wanted signal | Interfering | Interfering RB | | carrier | mean power | signal mean | centre | | | [dBm] | power [dBm] | frequency | | | | | offset from | | | | | the RF | | | | | bandwidth edge | | | | | or edge of | | | | | sub-block | | | | | inside a gap | | | | | [kHz] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E-UTRA, UTRA | PREFSENS + | -49 | ±(240 | | and GSM/EDGE | x dB* | | +m*180), | | | | | | | | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, | | | | | 4, 9, 14 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | depends on the | | | | | RAT and on the | | | | | channel | | | | | bandwidth, see | | | | | subclause 7.2. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE**: | | | | | \"x\" is equal | | | | | to 6 in case | | | | | of E-UTRA or | | | | | UTRA wanted | | | | | signals and | | | | | equal to 3 in | | | | | case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | wanted signal. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE***: | | | | | Interfering | | | | | signal (E-UTRA | | | | | 3MHz) | | | | | consisting of | | | | | one resource | | | | | block | | | | | positioned at | | | | | the stated | | | | | offset, the | | | | | channel | | | | | bandwidth of | | | | | the | | | | | interfering | | | | | signal is | | | | | located | | | | | adjacently to | | | | | the RF | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | edge. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 7.4.5.3 Additional narrowband blocking test requirement for GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking test requirements are stated in TS 51.021 [11],
applicable parts of subclause 7.6.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [6], Annex P.2.1 apply for GSM/EDGE in-
band narrowband blocking.
#### 7.4.5.4 GSM/EDGE test requirements for AM suppression
The GSM/EDGE in-band blocking test requirements are stated in TS 51.021 [11],
applicable parts of subclause 7.8.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [6], Annex P.2.3 apply for GSM/EDGE AM
suppression.
#### 7.4.5.5 Additional BC3 blocking test requirement
The interfering signal is a 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD modulated signal as specified
in Annex A.2.
The requirement is always applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth.
The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth edges.
For the wanted and interfering signal coupled to the Base Station antenna
input, using the parameters in Table 7.4.5.5-1, the following requirements
shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA TDD carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
Table 7.4.5.5-1: Additional blocking requirement for Band Category 3
* * *
Operating Band Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal [MHz] Interfering Signal
mean power [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal centre
frequency minimum frequency offset from the RF bandwidth edge [MHz]  
33 - 40 (F~UL_low~ - 20) to (F~UL_high~ + 20) -40, P~REFSENS~ + 6 dB* ±2.4
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see section
7.2.
* * *
## 7.5 Out-of-band blocking
### 7.5.1 Definition and applicability
The Out-of-band blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver ability
to receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an
unwanted interferer outside the uplink operating band.
The blocking performance requirement applies as specified in the Table
7.5.5.1-1 and Table 7.5.5.2-1.
### 7.5.2 Minimum requirement
The general minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclause 7.5.1. The co-
location minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclause 7.5.2.
### 7.5.3 Test purpose
The test stresses the ability of the BS receiver to withstand high-level
interference from unwanted signals at specified frequency bands, without undue
degradation of its sensitivity.
### 7.5.4 Method of test
#### 7.5.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex B.2.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: M~RFBW~ see subclause 4.9.1.
1) Set up the equipment as shown in Annex D.2.1.
2) Start to transmit according to the applicable test configuration in clause
5 using reference measurement channel to the BS under test as follows:
\- For E-UTRA see Annex A.1 in TS 36.141 [9].
\- For UTRA FDD see Annex A.2 in TS 25.141 [10].
\- For UTRA TDD see Annex A.2.1 in TS 25.142 [12].
\- For GSM see subclause 7.6.2 in TS 51.021 [11] and Annex P in TS 45.005 [6]
for reference channels to test.
#### 7.5.4.2 Procedure
1) Start BS transmission with the same carrier locations used in step 2) in
7.5.4.1 at Pmax.
The transmitter may be turned off for the out-of-band blocker tests when the
frequency of the blocker is such that no IM2 or IM3 products fall inside the
bandwidth of the wanted signal.
2) Adjust the signal generators to the type of interfering signals, levels and
the frequency offsets as specified for general test requirements in Table
7.5.5.1-1 and, when applicable, for co-location test requirements in Table
7.5.5.2-1.
3) The CW interfering signal shall be swept with a step size of 1 MHz within
the specified range.
4) Measure the performance of the wanted signal at the BS receiver, as defined
in the subclause 7.5.5, for the relevant carriers specified by the test
configuration in subclause 4.8.
### 7.5.5 Test requirements
#### 7.5.5.1 General out-of-band blocking test requirements
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.5.1-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS
45.005 [6], Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.5.5.1-1: Blocking performance requirement
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Op | Centre | Inte | Wanted | Type of | | | | erating | Fr | rfering | Signal | Inte | | | | Band | equency | Signal | mean | rfering | | | | Number | of | mean | power | Signal | | | | | Inte | power | [dBm] | | | | | | rfering | [dBm] | | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1-7, | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | 9-11, | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | 13, 14, | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | 18, 19, | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | 21-23, | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | 33-43 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +10) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +13) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +18) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -11) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | 1 | to | (F~U | -15 | P~R | CW | | | | | L_low~ | | EFSENS~ | carrier | | | (F~UL | to | -20) | | + x | | | | _high~ | | | | dB* | | | | +15) | | 12750 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE*: | | | | | | | | P~R | | | | | | | | EFSENS~ | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | RAT and | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | bclause | | | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | | | \"x\" | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 6 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | or UTRA | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signals | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | to 3 in | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | SM/EDGE | | | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | | | signal. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 7.5.5.2 Co-location test requirements
This additional blocking requirement may be applied for the protection of BS
receivers when E-UTRA BS, UTRA, CDMA or GSM/EDGE operating in a different
frequency band are co-located with a BS.
The requirements in this subclause assume a 30 dB coupling loss between the
interfering transmitter and the BS receiver.
NOTE: For co-location with UTRA, the requirements are based on co-location
with Wide Area UTRA FDD or TDD Base Stations.
For a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using the
parameters in Table 7.5.5.2-1, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS
45.005 [6], Annex P.2.1.
Table 7.5.5.2-1: Blocking requirement for when co-located with BS in other
frequency bands.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | co-located | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | BS | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 869 -- 894 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | GSM850 or | | | + x dB* | | | CDMA850 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 921 -- 960 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | GSM900 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1805 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | DCS1800 | 1880 | | + x dB* | | | | | | | | | | (Note 4) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Macro | 1930 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | PCS1900 | 1990 | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band I or | 2170 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band II or | 1990 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1805 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band III or | 1880 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 3 | (Note 4) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band IV or | 2155 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 869 -- 894 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band V or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 875 -- 885 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VI or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 6 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2620 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VII or | 2690 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 7 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 925 -- 960 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VIII | | | + x dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1844.9 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band IX or | 1879.9 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band X or | 2170 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 10 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1475.9 - | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XI or | 1495.9 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 11 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 729 - 746 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XII or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 - 756 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIIII | | | + x dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 - 768 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIV or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 14 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 734 - 746 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 17 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 860 - 875 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 18 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 875 - 890 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIX or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 19 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 791 - 821 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XX or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 20 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1495.9 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XXI or | 1510.9 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 21 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 3510 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XXII | 3590 | | + x dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 22 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2180 - 2200 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 23 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 1525 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 24 | 1559 | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 1930 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XXV or | 1995 | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 25 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900-1920 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band a) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 33 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010-2025 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band a) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 34 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1850-1910 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band b) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 35 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1930-1990 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band b) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 36 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1910-1930 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band c) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 37 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2570-2620 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band d) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 38 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880-1920 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band f) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 39 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300-2400 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band e) or | | | + x dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 40 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 2496 - 2690 | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 41 | | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3400 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 42 | 3600 | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 3600 -- | +16 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | 43 | 3800 | | + x dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1 | | | | | | (*) | | | | | | :P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the RAT and | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | | see | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 7.2.\ | | | | | | \"x\" is | | | | | | equal to 3 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | GSM/EDGE | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal and | | | | | | equal to 6 | | | | | | in case of | | | | | | UTRA or | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signals. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Except for | | | | | | a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 13, | | | | | | these | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band or in | | | | | | the 10 MHz | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | outside the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band.\ | | | | | | For a BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 13 | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 768-797 | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | For BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 42 | | | | | | or 43, the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | do not | | | | | | apply when | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | falls | | | | | | within the | | | | | | Band 42 or | | | | | | 43 uplink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands and | | | | | | the Base | | | | | | Stations | | | | | | are | | | | | | sy | | | | | | nchronized. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Some | | | | | | c | | | | | | ombinations | | | | | | of bands | | | | | | may not be | | | | | | possible to | | | | | | co-site | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | above. The | | | | | | current | | | | | | state | | | | | | -of-the-art | | | | | | technology | | | | | | does not | | | | | | allow a | | | | | | single | | | | | | generic | | | | | | solution | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | of UTRA TDD | | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | TDD with | | | | | | E-UTRA FDD | | | | | | on adjacent | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for 30dB | | | | | | BS-BS | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | loss. | | | | | | However, | | | | | | there are | | | | | | certain | | | | | | site- | | | | | | engineering | | | | | | solutions | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used. These | | | | | | techniques | | | | | | are | | | | | | addressed | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | 25.942 | | | | | | [14]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: In | | | | | | China, the | | | | | | blocking | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | for | | | | | | co-location | | | | | | with | | | | | | DCS1800 and | | | | | | Band III BS | | | | | | is only | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | in the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range | | | | | | 18 | | | | | | 05-1850MHz. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 7.6 Receiver spurious emissions
### 7.6.1 Definition and applicability
The receiver spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or
amplified in a receiver that appear at the BS receiver antenna connector. The
requirements apply to all BS with separate RX and TX antenna ports. In this
case for FDD BS the test shall be performed when both TX and RX are on, with
the TX port terminated.
For TDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the requirement applies during
the Transmitter OFF period. For FDD BS with common RX and TX antenna port the
transmitter spurious emission limits as specified in subclause 6.6.1 are
valid.
### 7.6.2 Minimum requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclause 7.6.1.
### 7.6.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the BS to limit the interference
caused by receiver spurious emissions to other systems.
### 7.6.4 Method of test
#### 7.6.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: Normal; see Annex B.2.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: M~RFBW~, see subclause 4.9.1.
1) Set up the equipment as shown in Annex D.2.1.
#### 7.6.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the measurement equipment parameters as specified in Table 7.6.5.1-1.
For BC2, the parameters in Table 7.6.5.2-1 apply in addition.
2) Start BS transmission according to the applicable test configuration in
clause 5 at Pmax.
3) Measure the spurious emissions over each frequency range described in
subclause 7.6.5.
### 7.6.5 Test requirements
#### 7.6.5.1 General test requirements
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
7.6.5.1-1.
Table 7.6.5.1-1: General spurious emission test requirement
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note 30 MHz ‑ 1 GHz -57
dBm 100 kHz  
1 GHz ‑ 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
12.75 GHz - 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating
band in GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz Applies only for Bands 22, 42 and 43. NOTE: The
frequency range from F~BW\ RF,DL,low~ -10 MHz to F~BW\ RF,_,DLhigh~ + 10 MHz
may be excluded from the requirement.
* * *
In addition to the requirements in Table 7.6.5.1-1, the power of any spurious
emission shall not exceed the additional spurious emissions requirements in
subclause 6.6.1.5.5 and in case of FDD BS (for BC1 and BC2) emission shall not
exceed the levels specified for protection of the BS receivers of own or
different BS in subclause 6.6.1.5.4. In addition, the requirements for co-
location with other Base Stations specified in subclause 6.6.1.5.6 may also be
applied.
#### 7.6.5.2 Additional test requirement for BC2 (Category B)
For a BS operating in Band Category 2 when GSM/EDGE is configured and where
Category B spurious emissions apply, the power of any spurious emissions shall
not exceed the limits in Table 7.6.5.2-1.
Table 7.6.5.2-1: Additional BS spurious emissions limits for BC2, Category B
* * *
Frequency range Frequency offset from transmitter operating band edge Maximum
level Measurement Bandwidth 500 MHz -- 1 GHz 10 -- 20 MHz -57 dBm 300 kHz 20
-- 30 MHz -57 dBm 1 MHz ≥ 30 MHz -57 dBm 3 MHz 1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz ≥ 30 MHz -47
dBm 3 MHz
* * *
## 7.7 Receiver intermodulation
### 7.7.1 Definition and applicability
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
### 7.7.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2], subclauses 7.7.1, 7.7.2 and
7.7.3.
### 7.7.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the BS receiver to inhibit the
generation of intermodulation products in its non-linear elements caused by
the presence of two high-level interfering signals at frequencies with a
specific relationship to the frequency of the wanted signal.
### 7.7.4 Method of test
#### 7.7.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: Normal; see Annex B.2.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: M~RFBW~ if TC6 is applicable; B~RFBW~ and
T~RFBW~ for other TC, see subclause 4.9.1.
1) Set-up the measurement system as shown in Annex D.2.3.
2) Start to transmit according to the applicable test configuration in clause
5 using reference measurement channel to the BS under test as follows:
\- For E-UTRA see Annex A.1 in TS 36.141 [9].
\- For UTRA FDD see Annex A.2 in TS 25.141 [10].
\- For UTRA TDD see Annex A.2.1 in TS 25.142 [12].
\- For GSM see subclause 7.7.2 in TS 51.021 [11] and Annex P in TS 45.005 [6]
for reference channels to test.
#### 7.7.4.2 Procedure for general and narrowband intermodulation
1) Adjust the signal generators to the type of interfering signals, levels and
the frequency offsets as specified in Table 7.7.5.1-1 and Table 7.7.5.1-2 for
general intermodulation requirement, and Table 7.7.5.2-1 and Table 7.7.5.2-2
for narrowband intermodulation requirement.
2) Measure the performance of the wanted signal at the BS receiver, as defined
in subclause 7.7.5.1 and 7.7.5.2, for the relevant carriers specified by the
test configuration in subclause 4.8.
#### 7.7.4.3 Procedure for additional narrowband intermodulation for GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE MC-BTS receiver intermodulation method of test is stated in TS
51.021 [11], applicable parts of subclause 7.7, shall apply for GSM/EDGE
carriers.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [6], Annex P.2.2 apply for the GSM/EDGE
intermodulation requirement.
### 7.7.5 Test requirements
#### 7.7.5.1 General intermodulation test requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA or UTRA signal, as
specified in Annex A.
The requirement is only applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth. The
interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth edges.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the Base Station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.5.1-1 and 7.7.5.1-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS
45.005 [6], Annex P.2.2.
Table 7.7.5.1-1: General intermodulation requirement
* * *
Mean power of interfering signals [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal
-48 P~REFSENS~ +x dB* See Table 7.7.5.1-2
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see
subclause 7.2 in TS 37.104 [2]. For E-UTRA channel bandwidths 10, 15 and 20
MHz this requirement shall apply only for a FRC A1-3 mapped to the frequency
range at the channel edge adjacent to the interfering signals.\  
\"x\" is equal to 6 in case of E-UTRA or UTRA wanted signals and equal to 3 in
case of GSM/EDGE wanted signal.
* * *
Table 7.7.5.1-2: Interfering signals for intermodulation requirement
* * *
RAT of the carrier adjacent to the high (low) edge of the RF bandwidth
Interfering signal centre frequency offset from the RF bandwidth edge [MHz]
Type of interfering signal
E-UTRA 1.4 MHz ±2.0 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±2.1 (BC2)
                                                                           ±4.9                                                                            1.4MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 3 MHz ±4.4 (BC1 and BC3) /\ CW ±4.5 (BC2)
                                                                           ±10.5                                                                           3MHz E-UTRA signal
UTRA FDD and\ ±7.5 CW E-UTRA 5 MHz
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 10 MHz ±7.375 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 15 MHz ±7.25 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
E-UTRA 20 MHz ±7.125 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
GSM/EDGE ±7.575 CW
                                                                           ±17.5                                                                           5MHz E-UTRA signal
1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD ±2.3 (BC3) CW
                                                                           ±5.6 (BC3)                                                                      1.28Mcps UTRA TDD signal
* * *
#### 7.7.5.2 General narrowband intermodulation test requirement
Interfering signals shall be a CW signal and an E-UTRA 1RB signal, as
specified in Annex A.
The requirement is applicable outside the edges of the RF bandwidth. The
interfering signal offset is defined relative to the RF bandwidth edges.
For BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, the requirement applies in
addition inside any sub-block gap in case the sub-block gap is at least as
wide as the channel bandwidth of the E-UTRA interfering signal in Table
7.7.5.2-2. The interfering signal offset is defined relative to the sub-block
edges inside the sub-block gap.
For the wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency and two interfering
signals coupled to the Base Station antenna input, using the parameters in
Table 7.7.5.2-1 and 7.7.5.2-2, the following requirements shall be met:
\- For any measured E-UTRA carrier, the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the
maximum throughput of the reference measurement channel defined in TS 36.104
[5], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA FDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.104 [3], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured UTRA TDD carrier, the BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the
reference measurement channel defined in TS 25.105 [4], subclause 7.2.
\- For any measured GSM/EDGE carrier, the conditions are specified in TS
45.005 [6], Annex P.2.2.
Table 7.7.5.2-1: General narrowband intermodulation requirement
* * *
Mean power of interfering signals [dBm] Wanted Signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal
-52 P~REFSENS~ +x dB* See Table 7.7.5.2-2
NOTE*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the RAT and on the channel bandwidth, see
subclause 7.2 in TS 37.104 [2].\  
\"x\" is equal to 6 in case of E-UTRA or UTRA wanted signals and equal to 3 in
case of GSM/EDGE wanted signal.
* * *
Table 7.7.5.2-2: Interfering signals for narrowband intermodulation
requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAT of the carrier | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | adjacent to the high | centre frequency | signal | | (low) edge of the RF | offset from the RF | | | bandwidth or edge of | bandwidth edge or | | | sub-block inside a | edge of sub-block | | | gap | inside a gap [kHz] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 1.4 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC1 and BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB* | | | ±790 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 3 MHz | ±260 (BC1 and BC3) | CW | | | /\ | | | | ±270 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±960 (BC1 and BC3) | 3.0 MHz E-UTRA | | | /\ | signal, 1 RB* | | | ±780 (BC2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 5 MHz | ±360 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1060 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 10 MHz | ±325 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1240 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 15 MHz | ±380 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1600 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA 20 MHz | ±345 | CW | | | | | | (**) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UTRA FDD | ±345 (BC1 and BC2) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±1780 (BC1 and BC2) | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | GSM/EDGE | ±340 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±880 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.28Mcps UTRA TDD | ±190 (BC3) | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±970 (BC3) | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 1 RB* | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE*: Interfering | | | | signal consisting of | | | | one resource block | | | | positioned at the | | | | stated offset, the | | | | channel bandwidth of | | | | the interfering | | | | signal is located | | | | adjacently to the RF | | | | bandwidth edge or | | | | edge of sub-block | | | | inside a gap. | | | | | | | | NOTE**: This | | | | requirement shall | | | | apply only for an | | | | E-UTRA FRC A1-3 | | | | mapped to the | | | | frequency range at | | | | the channel edge | | | | adjacent to the | | | | interfering signals. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 7.7.5.3 Additional narrowband intermodulation test requirement for
GSM/EDGE
The GSM/EDGE MC-BTS receiver intermodulation test requirements are stated in
TS 51.021 [11], applicable parts of subclause 7.7, shall apply for GSM/EDGE
carriers.
The conditions specified in TS 45.005 [6], Annex P.2.2 apply for the GSM/EDGE
intermodulation requirement.
## 7.8 In-channel selectivity
### 7.8.1 Definition and applicability
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. In this
condition a throughput requirement shall be met for a specified reference
measurement channel. This requirement is applicable for E-UTRA carriers only.
### 7.8.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 37.104 [2] subclause 7.8.1.
### 7.8.3 Test purpose
The purpose of this test is to verify the BS receiver ability to suppress the
IQ leakage.
### 7.8.4 Method of testing
For this requirement Tables 5.1-1 and 5.2-1 refer to single-RAT
specifications; see clause 5. The following shall apply:
\- For references to TS 36.141 [9], the method of test is specified in TS
36.141 [9], subclause 7.4.4.
### 7.8.5 Test requirements
The test requirements are in TS 36.141 [9], subclause 7.4.5.
# 8 Performance requirements
Void
###### ## Annex A (normative): Characteristics of interfering signals
# A.1 UTRA FDD interfering signal
The UTRA FDD interfering signal shall be a DPCH containing the DPCCH and one
DPDCH. The data content for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated
with each other and to the wanted signal and spread and modulated according to
clause 4 of TS 25.213. Further characteristics of DPDCH and DPCCH are
specified in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: Characteristics of UTRA FDD interfering signal
* * *
Channel Bit Rate Spreading Factor Channelization Code Relative Power DPDCH 240
kbps 16 4 0 dB DPCCH 15 kbps 256 0 -5.46 dB NOTE: The DPDCH and DPCCH settings
are chosen to simulate a signal with realistic Peak to Average Ratio.
* * *
# A.2 UTRA TDD interfering signal
The UTRA TDD interfering signal shall be 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD signal with one
code. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal. They are
specified in Table A.2-1.
Table A.2-1: Characteristics of UTRA TDD interfering signal
* * *
UTRA TDD option Type of Interfering Signal 1.28 Mcps UTRA TDD 1,28 Mcps UTRA
TDD signal with one code*
* NOTE: The channelisation code ID and Midamble shift shall be different with the wanted signal's. 
* * *
# A.3 E-UTRA interfering signal
The E-UTRA interfering signal shall be a PUSCH containing data and reference
symbols. Normal CP is used. The data content shall be uncorrelated to the
wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5 of TS 36.211. Mapping of
PUSCH modulation to receiver requirement are specified in Table A.3-1.
Table A.3-1: Modulation of the E-UTRA interfering signal
* * *
Receiver requirement Modulation Narrowband blocking QPSK Receiver
intermodulation QPSK
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
# B.1 General
For each test in the present document, the environmental conditions under
which the BS is to be tested are defined. The environmental conditions and
class shall be from the relevant IEC specifications or the corresponding ETSI
specifications.
# B.2 Normal test environment
When a normal test environment is specified for a test, the test should be
performed within the minimum and maximum limits of the conditions stated in
Table B.1.
Table B.1: Limits of conditions for Normal Test Environment
* * *
Condition Minimum Maximum Barometric pressure 86 kPa 106 kPa Temperature 15°C
30°C Relative Humidity 20 % 85 % Power supply Nominal, as declared by the
manufacturer  
Vibration Negligible
* * *
The ranges of barometric pressure, temperature and humidity represent the
maximum variation expected in the uncontrolled environment of a test
laboratory. If it is not possible to maintain these parameters within the
specified limits, the actual values shall be recorded in the test report.
# B.3 Extreme test environment
The manufacturer shall declare one of the following:
1) The equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in the IEC
60721-3-3 [17] or ETSI EN 300 019-1-3 [19] (\"Stationary use at weather
protected locations\");
2) The equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in the IEC
60721-3-4 [18] or ETSI EN 300 019-1-4 [20] (\"Stationary use at non weather
protected locations\");
3) The equipment that does not comply to the mentioned classes, the relevant
classes from IEC 60721 [16] documentation for Temperature, Humidity and
Vibration shall be declared.
NOTE: Reduced functionality for conditions that fall out side of the standard
operational conditions are not tested in the present document. These may be
stated and tested separately.
## B.3.1 Extreme temperature
When an extreme temperature test environment is specified for a test, the test
shall be performed at the standard minimum and maximum operating temperatures
defined by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Minimum temperature:**
The test shall be performed with the environment test equipment and methods
including the required environmental phenomena into the equipment, conforming
to the test procedure of IEC 60068-2-1 [21].
**Maximum temperature:**
The test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and methods
including the required environmental phenomena into the equipment, conforming
to the test procedure of IEC 60068-2-2 [22].
NOTE: It is recommended that the equipment is made fully operational prior to
the equipment being taken to its lower operating temperature.
# B.4 Vibration
When vibration conditions are specified for a test, the test shall be
performed while the equipment is subjected to a vibration sequence as defined
by the manufacturer's declaration for the equipment under test. This shall use
the environmental test equipment and methods of inducing the required
environmental phenomena in to the equipment, conforming to the test procedure
of IEC 60068-2-6 [23]. Other environmental conditions shall be within the
ranges specified in clause B.2.
NOTE: The higher levels of vibration may induce undue physical stress in to
equipment after a prolonged series of tests. The testing body should only
vibrate the equipment during the RF measurement process.
# B.5 Power supply
When extreme power supply conditions are specified for a test, the test shall
be performed at the standard upper and lower limits of operating voltage
defined by manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Upper voltage limit:**
The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the upper limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at the steady state minimum and
maximum temperature limits declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to
the methods described in IEC 60068-2-1 [21] Test Ab/Ad and IEC 60068-2-2 [22]
Test Bb/Bd: Dry Heat.
**Lower voltage limit:**
The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the lower limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at the steady state minimum and
maximum temperature limits declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to
the methods described in IEC 60068-2-1 [21] Test Ab/Ad and IEC 60068-2-2 [22]
Test Bb/Bd: Dry Heat.
# B.6 Measurement of test environments
The measurement accuracy of the BS test environments shall be.
> Pressure: ±5 kPa.
>
> Temperature: ±2 degrees.
>
> Relative Humidity: ±5 %.
>
> DC Voltage: ±1,0 %.
>
> AC Voltage: ±1,5 %.
>
> Vibration: 10 %.
>
> Vibration frequency: 0,1 Hz.
The above values shall apply unless the test environment is otherwise
controlled and the specification for the control of the test environment
specifies the uncertainty for the parameter.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Test Tolerances and Derivation of test
requirements
The test requirements explicitly defined in this specification have been
calculated by relaxing the minimum requirements of the core specification
using the Test Tolerances defined here. When the Test Tolerance is zero, the
test requirement will be the same as the minimum requirement. When the Test
Tolerance is non-zero, the test requirements will differ from the minimum
requirements, and the formula used for this relaxation is given in the
following tables.
Test requirements which are included by reference to TS 25.141 [10], TS
25.142[12], TS 36.141[9] or TS 51.021[11] have been calculated within the
referred test specification using the Test Tolerances defined therein.
The Test Tolerances are derived from Test System uncertainties, regulatory
requirements and criticality to system performance. As a result, the Test
Tolerances may sometimes be set to zero.
The test tolerances should not be modified for any reason e.g. to take account
of commonly known test system errors (such as mismatch, cable loss, etc.).
Note that a formula for applying Test Tolerances is provided for all tests,
even those with a test tolerance of zero. This is necessary in the case where
the Test System uncertainty is greater than that allowed in subclause 4.1.2.
In this event, the excess error shall be subtracted from the defined test
tolerance in order to generate the correct tightened test requirements as
defined in this Annex.
# C.1 Measurement of transmitter
Table C.1-1: Derivation of test requirements (Transmitter tests)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Test | Minimum | Test | Test | | | requirement in | Tolerance\ | requirement | | | TS 37.104 | (TT) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.2.1 Base | UTRA and | 0.7 dB , f ≤ | Formula: Upper | | Station | E-UTRA | 3.0 GHz | limit + TT, | | maximum output | | | Lower limit - | | power | In normal | 1.0 dB, 3.0 | TT | | | conditions: | GHz \< f ≤ 4.2 | | | | | GHz | In normal | | | within ±2 dB | | conditions: | | | of | 0.7 dB , f ≤ | | | | m | 3.0 GHz | within +2.7 dB | | | anufacturer\'s | | and -2.7 dB of | | | rated output | 1.0 dB, 3.0 | the | | | power | GHz \< f ≤ 4.2 | m | | | | GHz | anufacturer\'s | | | In extreme | | rated output | | | conditions: | 1.0 dB | power , f ≤ | | | | | 3.0 GHz; | | | within ±2.5 dB | 1.0 dB | | | | of | | within +3 dB | | | m | | and -3 dB of | | | anufacturer\'s | | the | | | rated output | | m | | | power | | anufacturer\'s | | | | | rated output | | | GSM/EDGE | | power, 3.0 GHz | | | | | \< f ≤ 4.2 GHz | | | In normal | | | | | conditions: | | In extreme | | | | | conditions: | | | within ±2 dB | | | | | of | | within +3.2 dB | | | m | | and -3.2 dB of | | | anufacturer\'s | | the | | | rated output | | m | | | power | | anufacturer\'s | | | | | rated output | | | In extreme | | power , f ≤ | | | conditions: | | 3.0 GHz; | | | | | | | | within ±2.5 dB | | within +3.5 dB | | | of | | and -3.5 dB of | | | m | | the | | | anufacturer\'s | | m | | | rated output | | anufacturer\'s | | | power | | rated output | | | | | power, 3.0 GHz | | | | | \< f ≤ 4.2 GHz | | | | | | | | | | In normal | | | | | conditions: | | | | | | | | | | within +3.0 dB | | | | | and -3.0 dB of | | | | | the | | | | | m | | | | | anufacturer\'s | | | | | rated output | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | In extreme | | | | | conditions: | | | | | | | | | | within +3.5 dB | | | | | and -3.5 dB of | | | | | the | | | | | m | | | | | anufacturer\'s | | | | | rated output | | | | | power | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.4 Transmit | -85 dBm/MHz. | 2 dB, f ≤ 3.0 | Formula: | | ON/OFF power | | GHz | Minimum | | | | | Requirement + | | | | 2.5 dB, 3.0 | TT | | | | GHz \< f ≤ 4.2 | | | | | GHz | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.1.5.1 | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | Transmitter | defined in | | Minimum | | spurious | Table | | Requirement + | | emissions, | 6.6.1.1.1-1 of | | TT | | Mandatory | TS 37.104 | | | | Requirements | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.1.5.2 | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | Transmitter | defined in | | Minimum | | spurious | Table | | Requirement + | | emissions, | 6.6.1.1.2-1 of | | TT | | Mandatory | TS 37.104 | | | | Requirements | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.1.5.3 | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | Transmitter | defined in | | Minimum | | spurious | Table | | Requirement + | | emissions, | 6.6.1.1.3-1 of | | TT | | Additional BC2 | TS 37.104 | | | | Requirement | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.1.5.4 | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | Transmitter | defined in | | Minimum | | spurious | Table | | Requirement + | | emissions, | 6.6.1.2.1-1 of | | TT | | Protection of | TS 37.104 | | | | BS receiver | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.1.5.5 | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | Transmitter | defined in | | Minimum | | spurious | Tables | | Requirement + | | emissions, | 6.6.1.3.1-1 | | TT | | Additional | and | | | | spurious | 6.6.1.3.1-2 of | | | | emission | TS 37.104 | | | | requirements | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.1.5.6 | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | Transmitter | defined in | | Minimum | | spurious | Table | | Requirement + | | emissions,\ | 6.6.1.4.1-1 of | | TT | | Co-location | TS 37.104 | | | | | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.2 | [For BC1 and | 1.5 dB , f ≤ | Formula: | | Operating band | BC2 | 3.0 GHz | Minimum | | unwanted | :]{.underline} | | requirement + | | emissions | | 1.8dB, 3.0 GHz | TT | | | []{.underline} | \< f ≤ 4.2 GHz | | | | | | -12.5 | | | Offset \< 1 | 1.5 dB , f ≤ | dBm/30kHz to\ | | | MHz | 3.0 GHz | -24.5 | | | | | dBm/30kHz , f | | | -14dBm/30kHz | 1.8 dB, 3.0 | ≤ 3.0 GHz; | | | to | GHz \< f ≤ 4.2 | | | | -26dBm/30kHz | GHz | -12.2 | | | | | dBm/30kHz to\ | | | 1 MHz ≤ Offset | 0 dB | -24.2 | | | \<10 MHz\ | | dBm/30kHz, 3.0 | | | -13 dBm/1 MHz | 1.5 dB | GHz \< f ≤ 4.2 | | | | | GHz | | | 10 MHz ≤ | 1.5 dB | | | | Offsets\ | | -11.5 dBm/1 | | | -15 dBm/1 MHz | | MHz, f ≤ 3.0 | | | | | GHz; | | | [For BC2 with | | | | | adjacent | | -11.2 dBm/1 | | | GSM/EDGE or | | MHz, 3.0 GHz | | | E-UTRA 1.4 and | | \< f ≤ 4.2 GHz | | | 3 MHz | | | | | carriers | | -15 dBm/1 MHz | | | :]{.underline} | | | | | | | 3.5 dBm/30kHz | | | []{.underline} | | to | | | | | | | | Offset \< 0.05 | | 6.5 dBm/30 kHz | | | MHz | | | | | | | -12.5 | | | 2 dBm/30kHz | | dBm/30kHz to\ | | | to\ | | 3.5 dBm/30 kHz | | | 5 dBm/30 kHz | | | | | | | | | | 0.05 MHz ≤ | | | | | Offset | | | | | | | | | | -14 dBm/30kHz | | | | | to\ | | | | | 2 dBm/30 kHz | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.3 Occupied | BW~Channel~ | 0 kHz | Formula: | | bandwidth | for E-UTRA | | Minimum | | | | | Requirement + | | | 5 MHz for UTRA | | TT | | | FDD | | | | | | | | | | 1.6 MHz for | | | | | UTRA TDD | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.6.4 Adjacent | CACLR: | 0.8 dB | Formula:\ | | Channel | | | CACLR Minimum | | Leakage power | 45 dB for | 0.8 dB | Requirement - | | Ratio (ACLR) | E-UTRA | | TT | | | | 0 dB\ | | | | 45 dB for UTRA | 0 dB | 44.2 dB | | | | | | | | Absolute limit | | 44.2 dB | | | -13 dBm/MHz | | | | | | | Absolute limit | | | Absolute limit | | -13 dBm/MHz | | | -15 dBm/MHz | | | | | | | Absolute limit | | | | | -15 dBm/MHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.7 | Wanted signal | 0 dB | Formula: Ratio | | Transmitter | level - | | + TT | | in | interferer | | | | termodulation\ | level = 30 dB | | Wanted signal | | (interferer | | | level - | | requirements) | | | interferer | | | | | level = 30 + 0 | | This tolerance | | | dB | | applies to the | | | | | stimulus and | | | | | not the | | | | | measurements | | | | | defined in | | | | | 6.6.1, 6.6.2 | | | | | and 6.6.4. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# C.2 Measurement of receiver
Table C.2-1: Derivation of test requirements (Receiver tests)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Test | Minimum | Test | Test | | | Requirement in | Tolerance\ | Requirement | | | TS 37.104 | (TT) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.4.5.1 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | In-band | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | selectivity | P~REFSENS~ + | | power + TT. | | and blocking, | x dB, where x | | | | General | is equal to 6 | | Interferer | | blocking | in case of | | signal power | | requirement | E-UTRA or UTRA | | unchanged. | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE. | | | | | | | | | | Interferer | | | | | signal mean | | | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | -40 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.4.5.2 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | In-band | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | selectivity | P~REFSENS~ + | | power + TT. | | and blocking, | x dB, where x | | | | General | is equal to 6 | | Interferer | | narrowband | in case of | | signal power | | blocking | E-UTRA or UTRA | | unchanged. | | requirement | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE. | | | | | | | | | | Interferer | | | | | signal mean | | | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | -49 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.4.5.5 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | In-band | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | selectivity | P~REFSENS~ + | | power + TT. | | and blocking, | x dB, where x | | | | Additional BC3 | is equal to 6 | | Interferer | | requirement | in case of | | signal power | | | E-UTRA or | | unchanged. | | | UTRA. | | | | | | | | | | Interferer | | | | | signal mean | | | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | -40 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.5.5.1 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | Out-of-band | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | blocking, | P~REFSENS~ + | | power + TT. | | General | x dB, where x | | | | requirement | is equal to 6 | | Interferer | | | in case of | | signal power | | | E-UTRA or UTRA | | unchanged. | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE. | | | | | | | | | | Interferer | | | | | signal mean | | | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | -15 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.5.5.2 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | Out-of-band | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | blocking, | P~REFSENS~ + | | power + TT. | | Co-location | x dB, where x | | | | | is equal to 6 | | Interferer | | | in case of | | signal power | | | E-UTRA or UTRA | | unchanged. | | | and equal to 3 | | | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE. | | | | | | | | | | Interferer | | | | | signal mean | | | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | +16 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.6.5 Receiver | Maximum level | 0 dB | Formula: | | spurious | defined in | | Maximum level | | emissions | Tables | | + TT | | | 7.6.5.1-1 and | | | | | 7.6.5.2-1 of | | | | | TS 37.104 | | | | | [2]. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.7.5.1 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | Receiver | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | in | P~REFSENS~ + | | mean power + | | termodulation, | x dB, where x | | TT. | | General | is equal to 6 | | | | requirement | in case of | | CW interferer | | | E-UTRA or UTRA | | signal power | | | and equal to 3 | | unchanged. | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE. | | Modulated | | | | | interferer | | | Interferer | | signal power | | | signal mean | | unchanged. | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | -48 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7.7.5.2 | Wanted Signal | 0 dB | Formula: | | Receiver | mean power = | | Wanted signal | | in | P~REFSENS~ + | | mean power + | | termodulation, | x dB, where x | | TT. | | General | is equal to 6 | | | | narrowband | in case of | | CW interferer | | requirement | E-UTRA or UTRA | | signal power | | | and equal to 3 | | unchanged. | | | in case of | | | | | GSM/EDGE. | | Modulated | | | | | interferer | | | Interferer | | signal power | | | signal mean | | unchanged. | | | power: | | | | | | | | | | -52 dBm. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex D (informative): Measurement system set-up
Example of measurement system set-ups are attached below as an informative
annex.
# D.1 Transmitter
## D.1.1 Base station output power, transmitter ON/OFF power, modulation
quality, transmitter spurious emissions and operating band unwanted emissions
Figure D.1-1: Measuring system set-up for base station output power,
transmitter ON/OFF power, modulation quality, transmitter spurious emissions
and operating band unwanted emissions
## D.1.2 Transmitter intermodulation
Figure D.1-2: Measuring system set-up for transmitter intermodulation
# D.2 Receiver
## D.2.1 Blocking characteristics
Figure D.2-1: Measuring system set-up for blocking characteristics
## D.2.2 Receiver spurious emissions
Figure D.2-2: Measuring system set-up for receiver spurious emissions
## D.2.3 Receiver intermodulation
Figure D.2-3: Measuring system set-up for receiver intermodulation
###### ## Annex E (normative): E-UTRA Test model for BC3 CS3 BS
# E.0 BC3 CS3 Test model description
The set-up of physical channels for E-UTRA TDD in part of BC3 CS3 BS
transmitter tests shall be according to the applicable test models shown
below. A detailed reference to the applicable test model is made in subclause
4.9.2.
The parameters in 36.141 subclause 6.1.1 shall be reused by the test models in
E.1 to E.6 with the following exceptions,
  * Duration is 30 subframes (30ms), e.g. number of frames for the test model is 3.
  * Uplink/downlink configuration 1 and special subframe configuration 7 shall be used as shown in talbe E-1.
Table E-1: Configurations
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+----+-------+---+ | D | Number of UL/DL | DwPTS | GP | UpPTS | | | ownlink-to-Uplink | sub-frames per | | | | | | | half frame (10 | | | | | | Switch-point | ms) | | | | | | periodicity | | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+----+-------+---+ | | DL | UL | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+----+-------+---+ | 5ms | 2 | 2 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+----+-------+---+
The test models in E.1 to E.6 shall be constructed based on the corresponding
test model in 36.141 along with the principles on data mapping between the
test models in E.1 to E.6 and the test models in 36.141 Subclause 6.1.1.1 to
6.1.1.6 as shown in Table E-2.
Table E-2: Numbers ($n_{\text{PRB}}$) of the boosted PRBs
* * *
**Frame1** **Subframe 0** **Subframe 1** **Subframe 4** **Subframe 5**
**Subframe 6** **Subframe 9** **Note** NOTE 1 NOTE 1 NOTE 2 NOTE 1 NOTE 3 NOTE
1
* * *
* * *
**Frame2** **Subframe 0** **Subframe 1** **Subframe 4** **Subframe 5**
**Subframe 6** **Subframe 9** **Note** NOTE 1 NOTE 1 NOTE 4 NOTE 1 NOTE 3 NOTE
1
* * *
* * *
**Frame3** **Subframe 0** **Subframe 1** **Subframe 4** **Subframe 5**
**Subframe 6** **Subframe 9** **Note** NOTE 5 NOTE 3 NOTE 6 NOTE 7 NOTE 3 NOTE
8
* * *
NOTE 1: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specified in
the corresponding subframe of the corresponding test models in 36.141
subclause 6.1.1.
NOTE 2: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specified in
subframe 7 of Frame 1 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
NOTE 3: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specified in
subframe 1 of Frame 1 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
NOTE 4: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specifiedin
subframe 8 of Frame 1 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
NOTE 5: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specifiedin
subframe 7 of Frame 2 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
NOTE 6: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specified in
subframe 8 of Frame 2 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
NOTE 7: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specified in
subframe 6 of Frame 1 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
NOTE 8: The data in this subframe shall re-use the same data as specified in
subframe 6 of Frame 2 in the corresponding test model in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.
# E.1 E-UTRA Test Model 1.1 (E-TM1.1_BC3CS3)
This test model shall be constructed based on E-TM 1.1 in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.1 according to the data mapping principals elaborated in Table E-2.
# E.2 E-UTRA Test Model 1.2 (E-TM1.2_BC3CS3)
This test model shall be constructed based on E-TM 1.2 in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.2 according to the data mapping principles elaborated in Talbe E-2.
# E.3 E-UTRA Test Model 2 (E-TM2_BC3CS3)
This test model shall be constructed based on E-TM 2 in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.3 according to the data mapping principles elaborated in Talbe E-2.
# E.4 E-UTRA Test Model 3.1 (E-TM3.1_BC3CS3)
This test model shall be constructed based on E-TM 3.1 in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.4 according to the data mapping principles elaborated in Talbe E-2.
# E.5 E-UTRA Test Model 3.2 (E-TM3.2_BC3CS3)
This test model shall be constructed based on E-TM 3.2 in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.5 according to the data mapping principles elaborated in Talbe E-2.
# E.6 E-UTRA Test Model 3.3 (E-TM3.3_BC3CS3)
This test model shall be constructed based on E-TM 3.3 in 36.141 subclause
6.1.1.6 according to the data mapping principles elaborated in Talbe E-2.
#