# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overview and overall description of the
**minimization of drive tests functionality**.
The document describes functions and procedures to support collection of UE-
specific measurements for MDT using Control Plane architecture, for both UTRAN
and E-UTRAN.
Details of the signalling procedures for single-RAT operation are specified in
**the appropriate** radio interface protocol specification. Network operation
and overall control of MDT is described in OAM specifications.
NOTE: The focus is on conventional macro cellular network deployments. In the
current release no specific support is provided for H(e)NB deployments or
MBMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.133: "Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)"
[3] 3GPP TS 36.133: "Requirements for support of radio resource management
(FDD)"
[4] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.422: "Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace control and
configuration management"
[7] 3GPP TS 25.215: "Physical Layer; Measurements (FDD)"
[8] 3GPP TS 25.225: "Physical Layer; Measurements (TDD)"
[9] 3GPP TS 36.214: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Layer; Measurements"
[10] 3GPP TS 36.321: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC); Protocol Specification"
[11] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures"
[12] 3GPP TS 36.300: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
**Immediate MDT:** MDT functionality involving measurements performed by the
UE in CONNECTED state and reporting of the measurements to eNB/RNC available
at the time of reporting condition as well as measurements by the network for
MDT purposes.
**Logged MDT:** MDT functionality involving measurement logging by UE in IDLE
mode, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states (when UE is in UTRA) for reporting to
eNB/RNC at a later point in time.
**MDT measurements:** Measurements determined for MDT.
**MDT PLMN:** A PLMN that is the RPLMN for the UE at the point of receiving
logged MDT measurement configuration.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MDT Minimization of Drive-Tests
TCE Trace Collection Entity
# 4 Main concept and requirements
## 4.1 General
The general principles and requirements guiding the definition of functions
for Minimization of drive tests are the following:
**1\. MDT mode\** There are two modes for the MDT measurements: Logged MDT and
Immediate MDT.
**2\. UE measurement configuration\** It is possible to configure MDT
measurements for the UE logging purpose independently from the network
configurations for normal RRM purposes. However, in most cases, the
availability of measurement results is conditionally dependent on the UE RRM
configuration.
**3\. UE measurement collection and reporting\ UE MDT** measurement logs
consist of multiple events and measurements taken over time. The time interval
for measurement collection and reporting is decoupled in order to limit the
impact on the UE battery consumption and network signalling load.
**4\. Geographical scope of measurement logging\** It is possible to configure
the geographical area where the defined set of measurements shall be
collected.
**5\. Location information\** The measurements shall be linked to available
location information and/or other information or measurements that can be used
to derive location information.
**6\. Time information\** The measurements in measurement logs shall be linked
to a time stamp.
**7\. UE capability information\** The network may use UE capabilities to
select terminals for MDT measurements.
**8\. Dependency on SON\** The solutions for MDT are able to work
independently from SON support in the network. Relation between
measurements/solution for MDT and UE side SON functions shall be established
in a way that re-use of functions is achieved where possible.
**9\. Dependency on TRACE\** The subscriber/cell trace functionality is reused
and extended to support MDT. If the MDT is initiated toward to a specific UE
(e.g. based on IMSI, IMEI-SV, etc.), the signalling based trace procedure is
used, otherwise the management based trace procedure (or cell traffic trace
procedure) is used. Network signalling and overall control of MDT is described
in TS 32.422 [6].
The solutions for MDT shall take into account the following constraints:
**1\. UE measurements\** The UE measurement logging mechanism is an optional
feature. In order to limit the impact on UE power consumption and processing,
the UE measurement logging should as much as possible rely on the measurements
that are available in the UE according to radio resource management enforced
by the access network.
**2\. Location information\** The availability of location information is
subject to UE capability and/or UE implementation. Solutions requiring
location information shall take into account power consumption of the UE due
to the need to run its positioning components.
# 5 Functions and procedures
## 5.1 General procedures
### 5.1.1 Logged MDT procedures
Support of Logged MDT complies with the principles for idle mode measurements
in the UE specified in TS 25.133[2] and TS 36.133 [3].
NOTE: It should be noted the established principles may result in different
logged information in different UEs.
Furthermore, measurement logging is differentiated based on UE states in idle
mode i.e. camped normally, any cell selection or camped on any cell. The UE
shall perform measurement logging in \"camped normally\" state. In \"any cell
selection\" and \"camped on any cell\" state the UE is not required to perform
MDT measurement logging (including time and location information).
For Logged MDT, the configuration, measurement collection and reporting of the
concerning measurement will always be done in cells of the same RAT type.
#### 5.1.1.1 Measurement configuration
Logged MDT measurements are configured with a MDT Measurement Configuration
procedure, as shown in Figure 5.1.1.1-1.
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: MDT measurement configuration for Logged MDT
Network initiates the procedure to UE in RRC Connected by sending
_LoggedMeasurementConfiguration_ message, which is used to transfer
configuration parameters for Logged MDT. This is a unidirectional RRC
signalling procedure.
A release operation for logged measurement configuration in the UE is realized
only by configuration replacement when the configuration is overwritten or by
configuration clearance in case a duration timer stopping or expiration
condition is met.
##### 5.1.1.1.1 Configuration parameters
The logged measurement configuration consists of:
\- configuration of the triggering of logging events. Only periodic downlink
pilot strength measurement trigger is supported, for which the logging
interval is configurable. The parameter specifies the periodicity for storing
MDT measurement results. It should be configured in seconds in multiples of
the applied IDLE mode DRX, i.e. multiples of 1.28s which is either a factor or
multiple of the IDLE mode DRX. The UE behaviour is unspecified when the UE is
configured with a DRX cycle larger than the logging interval.
  * configuration of the logging duration. This configuration parameter > defines a timer activated at the moment of configuration, that > continues independent of state changes, RAT or RPLMN change. When > the timer expires the logging is stopped and the configuration is > cleared (except for the parameters that are required for further > reporting e.g.network absolute time stamp, trace reference, trace > recording session reference and TCE Id).
  * network absolute time stamp to be used as a time reference to UE
  * Trace Reference parameter as indicated by the OAM configuration as > specified in TS 32.422 [6]
  * Trace Recording Session Reference as indicated by the OAM > configuration as specified in TS 32.422 [6]
  * TCE Id as indicated by the OAM configuration as specified in TS > 32.422 [6]
\- (optionally) configuration of a logging area. A UE will log measurements as
long as it is within the configured logging area. The scope of the logging
area may consist of one of:
\- a list of up to 32 global cell identities. If this list is configured, the
UE will only log measurements when camping in any of these cells
\- a list of up to 8 TAs or 8 LAs or 8 RAs. If this list is configured, the UE
will only log measurements when camping in any cell belonging to the
preconfigured TA/LA/RAs.
If no area scope is configured, the configuration is valid in the entire MDT
PLMN of the UE, i.e. the UE will log measurements throughout the MDT PLMN.
##### 5.1.1.1.2 Configuration effectiveness
The logged measurement configuration is provided in a cell by dedicated
control while UE is in CONNECTED and implies:
\- logged measurement configuration is active
\- in IDLE UE state in E-UTRAN, or
\- in IDLE mode, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states in UTRAN
\- until logging duration timer expires or stops
\- logged measurement configuration and logs are maintained when the UE is in
any state as described above, despite multiple periods interrupted by UE state
transitions, i.e. when the UE is in CONNECTED state for E-UTRAN and CELL_DCH,
CELL_FACH state in UTRAN
\- logged measurement configuration and logs are maintained when the UE is in
any state as described above in that RAT, despite multiple periods interrupted
by UE presence in another RAT
There is only one RAT-specific logged measurement configuration for Logged MDT
in the UE. When the network provides a configuration, any previously
configured logged measurement configuration will be entirely replaced by the
new one. Moreover, logged measurements corresponding to the previous
configuration will be cleared at the same time. It is left up to the network
to retrieve any relevant data before providing a new configuration.
NOTE: The network may have to do inter-RAT coordination
The logged measurement configuration is valid only in the MDT PLMN. Logged MDT
measurements are performed as long as the RPLMN is the MDT PLMN. At PLMN
change which results in a new RPLMN (RPLMN≠MDT PLMN), the logging is
suspended, i.e. the logged measurement configuration and the log are kept but
measurement results are not logged.
NOTE: The logging duration timer continues.
In case the new RPLMN provides a logged measurement configuration any
previously configured logged measurement configuration and corresponding log
are cleared and overwritten without being retrieved.
#### 5.1.1.2 Measurement collection
In \"camp normally\" state, a UE shall perform logging as per the logged
measurement configuration. This state includes a period between cell selection
criteria not being met and UE entering "any cell selection" state, i.e. 10 s
for E-UTRA (See TS 36.133 [3]) or 12 s for UTRA (See TS 25.133 [2]). In \"any
cell selection\" or \"camped on any cell\" state, the periodic logging stops.
However, it should be noted that the duration timer is kept running. When the
UE re-enters "camped normally" state and the duration timer has not expired,
the periodic logging is restarted based on new DRX and logging resumes
automatically (with a leap in time stamp).
The measurement quantity is fixed for Logged MDT (i.e. not configurable) and
consists of both RSRP and RSRQ for EUTRA, both RSCP and Ec/No for UTRA,
P-CCPCH RSCP for UTRA 1.28 TDD, Rxlev for GERAN, and Pilot Pn Phase and Pilot
Strength for CDMA2000 if the serving cell is EUTRAN cell.
UE collects MDT measurements and continues logging according to the logged
measurement configuration until UE memory reserved for MDT is full. In this
case the UE stops logging, stops the log duration timer and starts the 48 hour
timer.
#### 5.1.1.3 Measurement reporting
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Availability Indicator
A UE configured to perform Logged MDT measurements indicates the availability
of Logged MDT measurements, by means of an indicator, in
_RRCConnectionSetupComplete_ message during connection establishment.
Furthermore, the indicator (possibly updated) shall be provided within E-UTRAN
handover and re-establishment, and UTRAN procedures involving the change of
SRNC (SRNC relocation), CELL UPDATE, URA UPDATE messages as well as
MEASUREMENT REPORT message in case of state transition to CELL_FACH without
CELL UPDATE. The UE includes the indication in one of these messages at every
transition to RRC Connected mode even though the logging period has not ended,
upon connection to RAT which configured the UE to perform Logged MDT
measurements and RPLMN which is equal to the MDT PLMN.
The indicator shall be also provided in _UEInformationResponse_ message during
MDT report retrieval in case the UE has not transferred the total log in one
RRC message in order to indicate the remaining data availability.
The UE will not indicate the availability of MDT measurements in another RAT
or in another RPLMN.
The network may decide to retrieve the logged measurements based on this
indication. In case Logged MDT measurements are retrieved before the
completion of the pre-defined logging duration, the reported measurement
results are deleted, but MDT measurement logging will continue according to
ongoing logged measurement configuration.
In case the network does not retrieve Logged MDT measurements, UE should store
non-retrieved measurements for 48 hours from the moment the duration timer for
logging expired. There is no requirement to store non-retrieved data beyond 48
hours. In addition, all logged measurement configuration and the log shall be
removed by the UE at switch off or detach.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Report retrieval
For Logged MDT the measurement reporting is triggered by an on-demand
mechanism, i.e. the UE is asked by the network to send the collected
measurement logs via RRC signalling. UE Information procedure defined in TS
25.331 [4] and TS 36.331 [5] is used to request UE to send the collected
measurement logs. The reporting may occur in different cells than which the
logged measurement configuration is signalled.
Transport of Logged MDT reports in multiple RRC messages is supported. With
every request, the network may receive a part of the total UE log. To indicate
the reported data is a segment, the UE shall include data availability
indicator as specified in 5.1.1.3.1. In multiple RRC transmissions for
segmented Logged MDT reporting, FIFO order is followed, i.e. the UE should
provide oldest available measurement entries in earliest message. There is no
requirement specified on the size of particular reporting parts. However, each
reported part should be "self-decodable", i.e. interpretable even in case all
the other parts are not available.
Logged MDT measurements can be retrieved only if the RPLMN is the MDT PLMN.
The UE shall send an empty report when retrieval is attempted in other cases.
##### 5.1.1.3.3 Reporting parameters
The logged measurement report consists of measurement results for the serving
cell (the measurement quantity), available UE measurements performed in idle
for intra-frequency/inter-frequency/inter-RAT, time stamp and location
information.
The number of neighbouring cells to be logged is limited by a fixed upper
limit per frequency for each category below. The UE should log the measurement
results for the neighbouring cells, if available, up to:
\- 6 for intra-frequency neighbouring cells
\- 3 for inter-frequency neighbouring cells
\- 3 for GERAN neighbouring cells
\- 3 for UTRAN (if non-serving) neighbouring cells
\- 3 for E-UTRAN (if non-serving) neighbouring cells
\- 3 for CDMA2000 (if serving is E-UTRA) neighbouring cells
The measurement reports for neighbour cells consist of:
\- Physical cell identity of the logged cell
\- Carrier frequency
\- RSRP and RSRQ for EUTRA
\- RSCP and Ec/No for UTRA,
**\- P-CCPCH RSCP for UTRA 1.28 TDD,** and
\- Rxlev for GERAN
\- Pilot Pn Phase and Pilot Strength for CDMA2000
For any logged cell (serving or neighbour), latest available measurement
result made for cell reselection purposes is included in the log only if it
has not already been reported. Measurements are performed in accordance with
requirements defined in TS 25.133 [2] and TS 36.133 [3].
While logging neighbour cells measurements, the UE shall determine a fixed
number of best cells based on the measurement quantity used for ranking during
cell reselection per frequency or RAT.
The measurement report is self contained, i.e. the RAN node is able to
interpret the Logged MDT reporting results even if it does not have access to
the logged measurement configuration. Each measurement report also contains
the necessary parameters for the network to be able to route the reports to
the correct TCE and for OAM to identify what is reported. The parameters are
sent to the UE in the logged configuration message, see subclause 5.1.1.1.1.
For each MDT measurement the UE includes a relative time stamp. The base unit
for time information in the Logged MDT reports is the second. In the log, the
time stamp indicates the point in time when periodic logging timer expires.
The time stamp is counted in seconds from the moment the logged measurement
configuration is received at the UE, relative to the absolute time stamp
received within the configuration. The absolute time stamp is the current
network time at the point when Logged MDT is configured to the UE. The UE
echoes back this absolute reference time. The time format for Logged MDT
report is: _YY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS_.
Location information is based on available location information in the UE.
Thus, the Logged MDT measurements are tagged by the UE with location data in
the following manner:
\- ECGI or Cell-Id of the serving cell when the measurement was taken is
always included in E-UTRAN or UTRAN respectively
\- Detailed location information (e.g. GNSS location information) is included
if available in the UE when the measurement was taken. If detailed location
information is available the reporting shall consist of latitude and
longitude. Depending on availability, altitude may be also additionally
included. UE tags available detailed location information only once with
upcoming measurement sample, and then the detailed location information is
discarded, i.e. the validity of detailed location information is implicitly
assumed to be one logging interval.
NOTE: The neighbour cell measurement information that is provided by the UE
may be used to determine the UE location (RF fingerprint).
Depending on location information, measurement log/report consists of:
\- time information, RF measurements, RF fingerprints, or
\- time information, RF measurements, detailed location information (e.g. GNSS
location information)
#### 5.1.1.4 MDT context handling during handover
For Logged MDT in IDLE, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH, no need is identified to
transfer an MDT context (any related configuration information about
measurement and reporting) between (e)NBs/RNCs. In addition, MDT context is
assumed to be released in the RAN nodes when the UE is in IDLE.
### 5.1.2 Immediate MDT procedures
### 5.1.2.1 Measurement configuration
For Immediate MDT, the configuration is based on the existing RRC measurement
procedures for configuration and reporting with some extensions for location
information.
NOTE: No extensions related to time stamp are expected for Immediate MDT i.e.
time stamp is expected to be provided by eNB/RNC.
No MDT specific support has been provided for initiation of positioning.
If area scope is included in the MDT configuration provided to the eNB, the UE
is configured with respective measurement when the UE is connected to a cell
that is part of the configured area scope.
#### 5.1.2.2 Measurement reporting
For Immediate MDT, measurement results should provide detailed location
information (e.g. GNSS location information) if available. The UE can also
provide neighbour cell measurement information that may be used to determine
the UE location (RF fingerprint). ECGI or Cell-Id of the serving cell when the
measurement was taken is always assumed known in E-UTRAN or UTRAN
respectively.
#### 5.1.2.3 MDT context handling during handover
The measurements configured in the UE for Immediate MDT should fully comply
with the transferring and reconfiguration principles for the current
measurements configured in the UE for RRM purpose during handover (including
conformance with Rel-8 and Rel-9).
All the measurements configured in the UE for immediate MDT should be released
if the serving PLMN changes. The target node releases the measurements
configured in the UE for immediate MDT which are no longer needed based on any
MDT trace configuration it receives or does not receive.
In addition, MDT configuration handling during handover depends on MDT
initiation from OAM defined in section 5.1.3:
\- The MDT configuration configured by management based trace function will
not propagate during handover.
\- For LTE, the MDT configuration received by signalling based trace messages
for a specific UE will propagate during intra-PLMN handover. This behaviour
applies also for MDT configuration that includes area scope, regardless of
whether the source or target cell is part of the configured area scope.
\- For UMTS, the MDT configuration received by signalling based trace messages
for a specific UE will propagate during intra-PLMN handover except for the
case of SRNS relocation.
Note: In the case of SRNS relocation, MDT may be reactivated by the Core
Network following a successful relocation.
### 5.1.3 MDT Initiation
There are two cases that RAN should initiate a MDT measurements collection
task. One is that the MDT task is initiated towards a PLMN or a limited region
within a PLMN (limited by a cell list, a TA list, a LA list or a RA list)
without targeting a specific UE by the cell traffic trace, i.e. management
based trace function from OAM. The other is that the MDT task is initiated
towards a specific UE and a PLMN or a limited region within a PLMN (limited by
cell list, a TA list, a LA list or a RA list) by the signaling trace
activation messages from CN nodes, i.e. the Initial Context Setup message and
the Trace Start message in E-UTRAN, the CN Invoke Trace message in UTRAN. The
detailed procedures to transfer the MDT configurations to RAN are specified in
TS 32.422 [6].
The CN indicates to the RAN whether MDT is allowed to be configured for this
user considering e.g. user consent and roaming status (see TS 32.422 [6]).
### 5.1.4 UE capabilities
MDT relevant UE capabilities are component of radio access UE capabilities.
Thus the procedures used for handling UE radio capabilities over (E-)UTRAN
apply.
The UE indicates one capability bit for MDT support, which indicates support
for Logged MDT. The UE may also indicate capability for stand-alone GNSS
positioning.
### 5.1.5 UE measurements
## 5.2 E-UTRAN solutions
### 5.2.1 RRC_CONNECTED
UE in RRC Connected does not support Logged MDT in this release of the
specification. In order to support Immediate MDT, the existing RRC measurement
configuration and reporting procedures apply. Some extensions are used to
carry location information.
#### 5.2.1.1 Measurements and reporting triggers for Immediate MDT
Measurements to be performed for Immediate MDT purposes involve E-UTRAN
reporting triggers and criteria utilized for RRM. In particular, the following
measurements shall be supported for Immediate MDT performance:
Measurements:
  * M1: RSRP and RSRQ measurement by UE, see TS 36.214 [9].
  * M2: Power Headroom (PH) measurement by UE, see TS 36.213 [11].
RRC reporting triggers:
  * For M1:
\- Periodic
\- Serving cell becomes worse than threshold; event A2
  * For M2:
\- N/A
NOTE: PHR is carried by MAC signalling. Thus, the existing mechanism of PHR
transmission applies, see TS 36.321 [10].
#### 5.2.1.2 Enhancement to Radio Link Failure report
The Radio Link Failure report contains information related to the latest
connection failure experienced by the UE. The connection failure can be Radio
Link Failure (RLF) or Handover Failure (HOF). The contents of the RLF report
and the procedure for retrieving it by an eNB are described in TS 36.300 [12].
RLF reports can be collected by OAM. Upon RLF/HOF detection in the UE,
_rlfReport_ defined in TS 36.331 [5] also includes available location
information on where RLF occurred, i.e. if detailed location information (e.g.
GNSS location information) is available the reported location information in
_rlfReport_ consists of:
\- Latitude, longitude (mandatory)
\- Altitude (conditional on availability)
\- Velocity (conditional on availability)
\- Direction (conditional on availability).
#### 5.2.1.3 Detailed Location Information
For Immediate MDT, measurement results provides available location information
in the same way as for Logged MDT in Idle mode specified in 5.1.1.3.3, i.e.
location information is based on available location information in the UE.
Immediate MDT measurements are tagged by the UE with location data in the
following manner:
\- Detailed location information (e.g. GNSS location information) is included
if available in the UE when the measurement was taken. If detailed location
information is available the reporting shall consist of latitude and
longitude. Depending on availability, altitude may be also additionally
included. The UE should include the available detailed location information
only once. If the detailed location information is obtained by GNSS
positioning method, GNSS time information shall be included. For both event
based and periodic reporting (see 5.2.1.1), the detailed location information
is included if the report is transmitted within the validity time after the
detailed location information was obtained. The validity evaluation of
detailed location information is left to UE implementation.
RRC signalling in E-UTRA is enhanced to support the reporting of detailed
location information.
### 5.2.2 RRC_IDLE
For UE in RRC_IDLE state Logged MDT procedures as described in 5.1.1 apply.
Logged MDT measurements are sent on Signalling Radio Bearer SRB2 in
RRC_CONNECTED state.
## 5.3 UTRAN solutions
### 5.3.1 UTRA RRC Connected
In CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states UE supports Logged MDT as described in 5.1.1.
In CELL_DCH state UE supports Immediate MDT as described in 5.1.2. In
CELL_FACH state MDT is not supported in the current release.
#### 5.3.1.1 Measurements and reporting events for Immediate MDT
The solutions for Immediate MDT in UTRAN are only applicable for UEs in
CELL_DCH state. Measurements to be performed for Immediate MDT purposes
involve normal UTRAN reporting triggers and criteria utilized for controlling
the RRC connection. In particular, the following measurements shall be
supported for Immediate MDT:
Measurements:
  * M1: CPICH RSCP and CPICH Ec/No measurement by UE, see TS 25.215 [7], TS 25.225 [8].
  * M2: **P-CCPCH RSCP and Timeslot ISCP for UTRA 1.28 TDD** , see TS 25.225 [8].
  * M3: SIR and SIR error (FDD) by NodeB, see TS 25.215 [7] and TS 25.225 [8].
RRC reporting triggers, see TS 25.331 [4]:
  * For M1:
\- Periodic
\- Primary CPICH becomes worse than an absolute threshold; event 1F
\- For M2:
\- Periodic
\- Timeslot ISCP above a certain threshold (TDD); event 1I
\- For M3:
\- N/A
#### 5.3.1.2 Detailed Location Information
For Immediate MDT, existing RRC procedures for UE Location information are
used to obtain detailed location information.
### 5.3.2 UTRA Idle
For UEs in UTRA Idle mode Logged MDT procedures as described in 5.1.1 apply.
Logged MDT measurements are sent on Signalling Radio Bearer SRB4 in RRC
Connected mode.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Coverage use cases
The MDT data reported from UEs may be used to monitor and detect coverage
problems in the network. Some examples of use cases of coverage problem
monitoring and detection are described in the following:
**\- Coverage hole:** A coverage hole is an area where the signal level SNR
(or SINR) of both serving and allowed neighbor cells is below the level needed
to maintain basic service (SRB & DL common channels), i.e. coverage of PDCCH.
Coverage holes are usually caused by physical obstructions such as new
buildings, hills, or by unsuitable antenna parameters, or just inadequate RF
planning. UE in coverage hole will suffer from call drop and radio link
failure. Multi-band and/or Multi-RAT UEs may go to other network layer
instead.
**\- Weak coverage:** Weak coverage occurs when the signal level SNR (or SINR)
of serving cell is below the level needed to maintain a planned performance
requirement (e.g. cell edge bit-rate).
**\- Pilot Pollution:** In areas where coverage of different cells overlap a
lot, interference levels are high, power levels are high, energy consumption
is high and cell performance may be low. This problem phenomenon has been
called "pilot pollution", and the problem can be addressed by reducing
coverage of cells. Typically in this situation UEs may experience high SNR to
more than one cell and high interference levels.
**\- Overshoot coverage:** Overshoot occurs when coverage of a cell reaches
far beyond what is planned. It can occur as an "island" of coverage in the
interior of another cell, which may not be a direct neighbor. Reasons for
overshoot may be reflections in buildings or across open water, lakes etc. UEs
in this area may suffer call drops or high interference. Possible actions to
improve the situation include changing the coverage of certain cells and
mobility blacklisting of certain cells.
**\- Coverage mapping:** There should be knowledge about the signal levels in
the cell areas in order to get a complete view for the coverage and be able to
assess the signal levels that can be provided in the network. This means that
there should be measurements collected in all parts of the network, and not
just in the areas where there are potential coverage issues.
**\- UL coverage: Poor UL coverage might impact user experience** in terms of
call setup failure / call drop / poor UL voice quality. Therefore, coverage
should be balanced between uplink and downlink connections. Possible UL
coverage optimization comprises adapting the cellular coverage by changing the
site configuration (antennas) but also about adjusting the UL related
parameters in the way that they allow optimized usage of UL powers in
different environments.
#