# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 1 of a multi-parts TS:
> **3GPP TS 37. 571-1: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.571-2: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-3: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 3: Implementation
> Conformance Statement (ICS).**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-4: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 4: Test suites.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-5: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 5: Test scenarios and
> assistance data.**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures for the conformance test of the
measurement requirements for FDD mode of UTRA and FDD or TDD mode of E-UTRA
for the User Equipment (UE) that supports one or more of the defined
positioning methods. These positioning methods are for UTRA: Assisted Global
Positioning System (A-GPS), Assisted Global Navigation Satellite Systems
(A-GNSS) and for E-UTRA: Assisted Global Navigation Satellite System (A-GNSS),
Observed Time Difference of Arrival (OTDOA), Enhanced Cell ID (ECID).
Tests are only applicable to those mobiles that are intended to support the
appropriate functionality. To indicate the circumstances in which tests apply,
this is noted in the "Test applicability \" part of the test.
The Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) pro-forma could be found in the
3^rd^ part of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [34] (void)
[35] 3GPP TS 37.571-1 Release 11: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA)
and Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test
specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General test conditions
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 37.571-1
Release 11 [35].
# 5 to 10 Void
###### ## Annex A to G: Void
#