# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overview of the Iur-g interface. It describes
the motivation, principles and functionality of this interface. It does not
contain the detailed description, which it is included in the stage 3
Technical Specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905, "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.236, "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Intra-domain connection of
Radio Access Network (RAN) nodes to multiple Core Network (CN) nodes".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.331, "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; RRC Protocol Specification".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.420, "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; UTRAN Iur Interface General Aspects
and Principles".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.423, "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; UTRAN Iur Interface RNSAP
Signalling".
[6] 3GPP TS 43.051, "Technical Specification 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Overall
description - Stage 2; (Release 5)".
[7] Void.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following ones apply:
**A/Gb mode:** mode of operation of the MS when connected to the Core Network
via GERAN and the A and/or Gb interfaces.
**MS:** Unless stated otherwise, this refers with no distinction to both MS
and UE.
**Iu mode:** mode of operation of the MS when connected to the Core Network
via GERAN or UTRAN and the Iu interface.
**RAN node** : a BSS or a RNC.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
A Interface between a BSS and an MSC
Gb Interface between a BSS and an SGSN
Iu Interface between a BSS/RNC and the CN
Iur Interface between two RNSs
Iur-g Interface between two BSSs or between a BSS and an RNS
Um Interface between a GERAN MS and a BSS
Uu Interface between a UE and the RNS
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BSC Base Station Controller
BSS Base Station Sub-system
CBSS Controlling Base Station Sub-system
CN Core Network
CRNC Controlling Radio Network Controller
GERAN [Gsm]{.smallcaps}/[Edge]{.smallcaps} Radio Access Network
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GRA [Geran]{.smallcaps} Registration Area
LA Location Area
MS Mobile Station
MSC Mobile Switching Centre
NACC Network Assisted Cell Change
NNSF NAS Node Selection Function
RA Routeing Area
RAN Radio Access Network
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNS Radio Network Sub-system
RNSAP Radio Network Subsystem Application Part
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identity
RRA [Ran]{.smallcaps} Registration Area
RRM Radio Resource Management
SBSC Serving [Bsc]{.smallcaps}
SBSS Serving [Bss]{.smallcaps}
SGSN Serving [Gprs]{.smallcaps} Support Node
SRNC Serving [Rnc]{.smallcaps}
[TBSS]{.smallcaps} Target BSS
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telephony System
URA [Utran]{.smallcaps} Registration Area
UTRAN [Umts]{.smallcaps} Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Motivation, principles and assumptions
## 4.1 Motivation
As part of the work to connect GERAN via the Iu interface to the CN, the GRA
and RNTI concepts have also been adopted for the GERAN. With these concepts,
an inactive mobile in the RRC-GRA_PCH state will perform signalling to the
network whenever it changes the GRA. Since GRAs need not be constrained by BSC
coverage areas, it is possible that the MS reselects a cell on a different BSC
but on the same GRA. In order maintain the ability to page the mobile in the
GRA with the correct RNTI, as well as to enable a path for a GRA update
procedure with the serving BSC, it is necessary to have an Iur-g interface
between the BSSs.
The same principle applies for dual-RAN capable mobiles. The architecture
specifications permit network operators to design networks that alleviate the
potential problem caused by dual mode mobiles frequently toggling between
UTRAN and GERAN coverage areas (e.g. in indoor coverage situations): for
instance, common LAIs and RAIs for GERAN and UTRAN cells in the same
geographical area. Defining GERAN and UTRAN cells in common LAs and RAs
permits an inactive mobile to change from GERAN to UTRAN coverage or, vice
versa, without any signalling to the network. Prior to Release 5, this is
possible because GSM/GPRS is does not use the connection oriented Iu
interface. From Release 5 on, an _inactive_ MS would signal to the network
when a cell change involving change of RAN takes place. To prevent this,
operators may configure GRA IDs and URA IDs to indicate the same registration
area. To enable paging across these registration areas, as well as to enable
the possibility to perform GRA/URA update procedures with the serving BSC/RNC,
it is necessary to have an Iur-g interface between the BSS and the RNC.
The definition of GRAs/URAs has the following benefits:
\- It increases the MT call success rate: by reducing the frequency of
updates, it reduces the time during which the MS is believed by the RAN to be
in the old registration area, when paging requests would fail.
\- It reduces the amount of signalling on the radio interface, since the
mobile does not need to indicate cell changes when moving within a GRA/URA.
\- For the same reason, it reduces the amount of signalling in the network,
thus decreasing the number of updates and of SRNC/SBSC relocation procedures.
The Iur-g may bring other benefits:
\- Support for the SRNC/SBSC relocation procedure: the current SRNS relocation
procedure defined for UTRAN using the Iur interface could be reused, improving
the performance of the procedure. The Cell Update and Relocation Commit
messages could be transferred over this interface.
## 4.2 Principles
The Iur-g interface shall be designed based on the following principles:
\- The Iur-g interface shall be open.
\- From a logical standpoint, this interface is a point to point interface
between one BSS and one BSS or RNC within a PLMN. From a physical point of
view, the interface could share Iu or other transmission resources.
\- The Iur-g interface is optional. The presence of the Iur-g shall be
transparent to the MS: the 3GPP specifications shall ensure that all mobiles
function correctly irrespective of the presence or absence of the Iur-g
interface.
\- This interface shall support the exchange of signalling information between
a BSS and a BSC/RNC. The Iur-g interface shall not carry user information.
\- A GRA contains one or more GERAN cells and zero or more UTRAN cells. A URA
contains one or more UTRAN cells and zero or more GERAN cells.
NOTE: The term RAN Registration Area (RRA) is used in this document to refer
to a registration area irrespective of whether it contains GERAN cells, UTRAN
cells or both types of cells. The terms GRA and URA will be used in GERAN and
UTRAN specifications, respectively, where GRAs may contain UTRAN cells and
URAs may contain GERAN cells.
\- In _Iu mode_ , the BSC has been allocated an identifier (BSC-Id) from the
same pool of numbers as the RNC-Id.
## 4.3 Void
# 5 General aspects
## 5.1 Network architecture
### 5.1.1 General
The Iur-g interface is the logical interface between two BSSs in _Iu mode_ or
between an RNS and a BSS in _Iu mode_ or between a BSS in _A/Gb mode_ and a
UTRA-NTDD RNS. The different Iur-g interface combinations are depicted in
Figure 1 and Figure 1a.
Figure 1: Reference architecture for the Iur-g interface (BSS in Iu mode).
Figure 1a: Reference architecture for the Iur-g interface (BSS in _A/Gb_ mode)
### 5.1.2 MS Identifiers in Iu mode
The Radio Network Temporary Identities (RNTI) are used as MS/UE identifiers
within the GERAN/UTRAN and in signalling messages between MS/UE and GERAN.
Four types of RNTI exist:
1) Serving BSS/RNC RNTI (S-RNTI);
2) Drift BSS/RNC RNTI (D-RNTI);
3) Cell RNTI (C-RNTI);
4) UTRAN RNTI (U-RNTI) or GERAN RNTI (G-RNTI);
The S-RNTI is used:
\- by the MS/UE to identify itself to the Serving BSS/RNC;
\- by the SBSS/SRNC to address the MS/UE; and
\- by the DBSS/DRNC to identify the MS/UE to serving BSS/RNC.
The S-RNTI is allocated for all MSs/UEs having an RRC connection. It is
allocated by the serving BSS/RNC and it is unique within the serving BSS/RNC.
The S-RNTI is reallocated always when the serving BSS/RNC for the RRC
connection is changed.
The D-RNTI is used by the serving BSS/RNC to identify the MS/UE to the drift
BSS/RNC.
NOTE: The D-RNTI is never used on the Um/Uu interface.
The D-RNTI is allocated by the drift BSS/RNC upon drift MS/UE contexts
establishment and it shall be unique within the drift BSS/RNC. Serving BSS/RNC
shall know the mapping between the S-RNTI and the D-RNTIs allocated in the
drift BSS for the same MS/UE. The drift BSS/RNC shall know the S-RNTI and
SBSS-ID/RNC-ID related to the existing D-RNTI within the drift BSS/RNC.
The C-RNTI is used this identifier is used only in UTRAN:
\- in case of the Iur-g interface between UTRAN and GERAN (specifically the
case of a SBSS and DRNC);
\- by the UE to identify itself to the controlling RNC; and
\- by the controlling RNC to address the UE.
The C-RNTI is allocated by the controlling RNC upon UE accessing a new cell.
The C-RNTI shall be unique within the accessed cell. The controlling RNC shall
know the D-RNTI associated to the C-RNTI within the same logical RNC (if any).
The G-RNTI/U-RNTI is allocated to an MS/UE having an RRC connection and it
identifies the MS/UE within GERAN/UTRAN. The G-RNTI/U-RNTI is composed of:
\- SBSS/SRNC identity; and
\- S-RNTI.
Each BSS/RNC has a unique identifier within the GERAN/UTRAN part of the PLMN,
denoted by BSS/RNC identifier (BSS-ID/RNC-ID). This identifier is used to
route GERAN/UTRAN interface messages to the correct BSS/RNC. The BSS-ID/RNC-ID
of the serving BSS/RNC together with the S-RNTI is a unique identifier of the
MS/UE in the GERAN/UTRAN part of the PLMN.
From this architecture, there are three possible scenarios for a particular
MS/UE:
a) Both the serving and the controlling RAN nodes are BSCs.
b) The serving RAN node is a BSC and the controlling RAN node is an RNC.
c) The serving RAN node is an RNC and the controlling RAN node is a BSC.
These scenarios are shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Scenarios using the Iur-g interface (BSS in _Iu mode_)
### 5.1.3 MS Identifiers in A/Gb mode
The Radio Network Temporary Identity (RNTI) is used as a MS/UE identifier
within the GERAN/UTRAN. One type of RNTI exists:
> \- Drift RNTI (D-RNTI)
The D-RNTI is allocated by the TBSS and is used to identify the MS/UE during a
handover via the Iur-g interface.
There is one possible scenario in which the D- RNTI is used:
a) The serving RAN node is a UTRA-NTDD RNC and the target RAN node is a BSS
Figure 2a: Scenario using the Iur-g interface (BSS in _A/Gb mode_)
## 5.2 Iur-g interface capabilities
The Iur-g interface provides capability to support radio interface mobility
between BSSs or between a BSS and an RNS of UEs having a connection with the
GERAN or the UTRAN. This capability includes the support of paging, cell
update, registration area update and handover between BSSs or between a BSS
and an RNS. Further, Iur-g interface provides capability to support
information exchange between two BSSs or between a BSS and RNS.
# 6 I~ur~ Interface Protocols
## 6.1 General
There shall exist a clear separation between the Radio Network Layer and the
Transport Layer. Therefore, the radio network signalling is separated from the
data transport resource and traffic handling as shown in Figure 3. This
separation is also present in the Iur interface (see 3GPP TS 25.420 [4]).
Since the Iur-g does not carry user data information, neither data transport
resources nor Transport Signalling are present on this interface. These
elements, present in the Iur interface but not in the Iur-g, are shown in
dotted lines in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Separation of Radio Network Protocols and transport over Iur-g.
The following Table lists all stage 3 specifications that are used for Iur-g
interface:
Table 1: Stage 3 Iur-g interface specifications
* * *
Spec. No Spec. Name TS 25.401 UTRAN Overall Description TS 25.420 UTRAN Iur
Interface: General Aspects and Principles TS 25.421 UTRAN Iur interface Layer
1 TS 25.422 UTRAN Iur Interface Signalling Transport TS 25.423 UTRAN Iur
Interface RNSAP Signalling
* * *
## 6.2 Functions of the Iur-g interface protocols
The list of functions on the Iur-g interface is the following:
\- **Paging**. This function allows the SBSS/SRNC to page a MS/UE in a GRA/URA
or a cell in the DBSS/DRNS;
\- **Relocation Execution**. This function allows the SBSS/SRNC to finalise a
Relocation previously prepared via other interfaces;
\- **Reporting of General Error Situations**. This function allows reporting
of general error situations, for which function specific error messages have
not been defined.
\- **Measurements on Common Resources**. This function allows an BSS/RNC to
request from another BSS/RNC to initiate measurements on Common Resources. The
function also allows the requested BSS/RNC to report the result of the
measurements.
**Radio Resource Reserve Handover**. This function allows the SRNC to request
allocation of radio resources in the TBSS prior to the HANDOVER REQUEST
message is received from the Core Network.
## 6.3 Iur-g Interface protocol structure
The Iur interface protocol architecture consists of two functional layers:
\- **Radio Network Layer** : it defines the procedures related to the
interaction of two BSSs or between a BSS and an RNC within a PLMN. The radio
network layer consists of a Radio Network Control Plane and a Radio Network
User Plane. The functionality of the Radio Network User Plane of the Iur-g
interface is null.
\- **Transport Layer** : it consists of two planes:
a) **Transport Network Control Plane** : it defines procedures for
establishing physical connections between two BSSs or between a BSS and an RNC
within a PLMN. The functionality of the Transport Network Control Plane of the
Iur-g interface is null.
b) **Transport Network User Plane** : it provides means for the transport of
the Radio Network Layer information.
Figure 4: Iur-g interface protocol structure.
## 6.4 Radio signalling protocols
The protocol responsible for providing signalling information across the Iur-g
interface is a sub-set of the Radio Network Subsystem Application Part (RNSAP)
(see 3GPP TS 25.423 [5]). This subset of RNSAP is terminated by two BSSs or by
the BSS and RNC inter-connected via the Iur-g interface.
The subset of RNSAP procedures applicable to the Iur-g interface are divided
into two modules as follows:
1\. **RNSAP Basic Mobility Procedures** : these procedures are used to handle
the mobility within GERAN or between GERAN and UTRAN.
2\. **RNSAP Global Procedures** : these procedures are not related to a
specific MS. The procedures in this module are in contrast to the above module
involving two peer CBSSs or a CBSS and a CRNC.
# 7 Radio Network Layer: RNSAP protocol
## 7.1 General
The following sub-clauses describe the applicability of the procedures that
are supported on the Iur-g interface. The actual Iur-g interface procedures
are further described in 3GPP TS 25.423 [5]. These sub-clauses show those
procedures integrated with procedures on other interfaces and/or events in
other network entities than the BSS or the RNC.
## 7.2 Basic mobility procedures
### 7.2.1 General
The Iur-g interface has no Radio Network User Plane functionality.
In Iu mode, SBSS/SRNS relocation is performed during every Cell Update
procedure. Therefore, the only state when the MS is simultaneously known by
two BSSs or one BSS and one RNC is in GERAN RRC-GRA_PCH state and UTRAN
URA_PCH state.
In the GERAN RRC-GRA_PCH and UTRAN URA_PCH states, the following procedures
related to the mobility of the MS are supported over the Iur-g interface:
\- Paging;
\- Cell Update;
\- Registration Area Update; and
\- RRC Connection Release.
In _A/Gb mode_ , the following procedure related to the mobility of the MS is
supported over the Iur-g interface:
\- Radio Resource Reserve Handover.
The following sub-clauses describe how these procedures are performed over the
Iur-g interface.
Elementary procedures over the Iur-g interface that support above mentioned
mobility procedures are specified in 3GPP TS 25.423 [5] and are listed in the
table below categorized by _Iu mode_ and _A/Gb mode_ respectively:
Table 2: Iur-g basic mobility procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Allowed Operating Mode for BSS Uplink
Signalling Transfer GERAN UPLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER INDICATION Iu mode only
Downlink Signalling Transfer DOWNLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER REQUEST Iu mode only
Relocation Commit RELOCATION COMMIT Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode Paging PAGING
REQUEST Iu mode only Enhanced Relocation Resource Reserve ENHANCED RELOCATION
RESOURCE REQUEST A/Gb mode only Enhanced Relocation Resource Release ENHANCED
RELOCATION RESOURCE RELEASE COMMAND A/Gb mode only
* * *
### 7.2.2 Paging
The MS/UE in the RRC-GRA_PCH and URA-PCH states may receive a CN initiated
paging message. The Paging Request message received by the serving node (BSS
or RNC) shall trigger paging over the registration area. In case registration
area consists of cells belonging to different BSS/RNC, then the RNSAP Paging
procedure over the Iur-g interface is used.. This procedure is used by the
SBSS/SRNC to indicate to a CBSS/CRNC that an MS shall be paged in a cell or
GRA/URA that is under the control of the CBSS/CRNC.
To illustrate further the usage of this procedure the following figure
describes a scenario when the MS/UE has a context active towards PS domain and
paging request is issued by the CS domain.
Figure 5: Example of Paging over Iur-g
### 7.2.3 Cell Update
In the RRC-GRA_PCH or URA_PCH states the MS/UE may initiate the Cell Update
procedure for reasons of uplink activity, whether that is an answer to a page,
periodic cell update or uplink data transfer. As explained in sub-clause 4.3,
a Cell Update procedure shall always trigger the SRNC/SBSS relocation. The
following figure describes the signalling flow for Cell Update procedure.
Figure 6: Cell Update with Relocation (Simplified)
1\. MS/UE in RRC-GRA_PCH and URA_PCH states triggers the Cell Update procedure
by sending RRC CELL UPDATE message to the DBSS/DRNC.
\- DBSS/DRNC will use RNSAP Uplink Signalling Transfer procedure to forward
the Cell Update message to the SBSS/SRNC. The message that is used for this is
GERAN Uplink Signalling Transfer Indication. The procedure and the contents of
the message are described in 3GPP TS 25.423 [5]. There are two messages
already defined one for FDD and one for TDD. In case of the Iur-g interface,
RNSAP GERAN UPLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER INDICATION message (GERAN message) is
used.
2\. Upon reception of CELL UPDATE message, the SBSS/SRNC shall trigger the
SBB/SRNC relocation. Steps 4, 5, and 6 are not relevant for this discussion so
they are omitted.
7\. The Relocation Commit procedure is used by the source BSS/RNC to execute
the relocation. This procedure is described in 3GPP TS 25.423 [5]. The
procedure is triggered by the RELOCATION COMMIT message.
9\. Assuming a successful relocation the former DBSS/DRNC, the SBSS/SRNC shall
send the CELL UPDATE CONFIRM message to the UE/MS.
### 7.2.4 Registration Area Update
The MS/UE shall trigger the GRA/URA Update Procedure when there is a change in
registration area, or based on the timers related to the periodic GRA/URA
update. The following figure shows an example of a successful GRA/URA Update.
This example assumes no SBSS/SRNC relocation.
Figure 7: GRA Update, no relocation (Simplified)
1\. The MS/UE in RRC-GRA or URA_PCH states triggers the GRA/URA Update
procedure by sending RRC GRA/URA UPDATE message to the DBSS/DRNC.
\- The DBSS/DRNC uses RNSAP Uplink Signalling Transfer procedure to forward
the GRA/URA UPDATE message to the SBSS/SRNC. The GERAN UPLINK SIGNALLING
TRANSFER INDICATION message is used for this. The procedure and the contents
of the message are described in 3GPP TS 25.423 [5].
2\. Upon reception of the GERAN UPLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER INDICATION message
containing the RRC GRA/URA UPDATE message, the SBSS/SRNC shall include the
GRA/URA UPDATE CONFIRM message and use the Downlink Signalling Transfer
procedure to request the DRNC/DBSS the transfer of the message to the MS/UE.
The Downlink Signalling Transfer procedure is specified in 3GPP TS 25.423
[5]and it is triggered by DOWNLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER REQUEST message. The
content of this message is specified in 3GPP TS 25.423 [5]. The content of the
message should be the same in case of the Iur-g interface, except for C-Id IE.
In case of a DRNC, the C-Id is used, while in case of a DBSS, the CI IE shall
be used.
3\. The DBSS/DRNC shall send the GRA/URA UPDATE CONFIRM message to the UE/MS.
### 7.2.5 RRC Connection Release
The SBSS/SRNC may trigger the RRC Connection Release procedure for an MS/UE in
RRC-GRA_PCH or URA_PCH states. In order to release the RRC connection, the
SBSS/SRNC shall first trigger the paging procedure. The SBSS/SRNC, in response
to the Cell Update procedure, may then use the DOWNLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER
INDICATION message to relay the RRC CONNECTION RELEASE message to the MS/UE.
In addition, the SBSS/SRNC, in response to any Cell Update or GRA/URA Update
procedures, may decide to trigger the release of RRC Connection. In that case
the SBSS/SRNC shall use the DOWNLINK SIGNALLING TRANSFER INDICATION message to
relay the RRC CONNECTION RELEASE message to the MS/UE.
### 7.2.6 Radio Resource Reserve Handover
#### 7.2.6.1 General
This procedure applies to intra and inter-MSC handover in case of CS domain
handover/relocation from UTRA-NTDD RNS to GERAN BSS operating in A/Gb mode and
it is used on purpose to reduce the handover preparation time when an inter-
system CS handover is triggered from an RNS to a BSS.
This procedure allows the SRNS to request allocation of radio resources in the
TBSS for an inter-system CS handover prior to the HANDOVER REQUEST message is
received from the Core Network, allowing the SRNS to start the handover
command process towards the MS/UE before the reception of the RELOCATION
COMMAND message from the Core Network.
#### 7.2.6.2 Successful operation
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="6.441666666666666in"}
Figure 8: Iur-g HO with radio resource reservation in the TBSS
1) After receiving the measurement report from the MS/UE and having considered
the GSM neighbor cells capacity and load information, the SRNS decides to
handover the MS/UE to a neighbor GSM cell.
2) An Iur-g connection is established by the SRNS towards the BSS serving the
targeted neighbour GSM cell. The SRNS sends the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE
REQUEST message to the TBSS in order to reserve radio resources for the MS/UE.
3) At reception of the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE REQUEST message the TBSS
allocates a D-RNTI (Drift-Radio Network Temporary Identity) for the MS/UE and
reserves the radio resources according to the Speech Version parameter (the
MS/UE preferences for GSM). The TBSS builds the _L3 Information Container_ IE
(containing the (RR) HANDOVER COMMAND message) and sends it together with the
_D-RNTI_ IE in the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE RESPONSE message to the SRNS.
4) Receiving the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE RESPONSE message the SRNS sends
the (RR) HANDOVER COMMAND message included in the _L3 information container_
IE to the MS/UE encapsulated in the HANDOVER FROM UTRAN COMMAND message.
5) SRNS sends the RELOCATION REQUIRED message to the CN with the D-RNTI
encapsulated in the _Old BSS_ _to New BSS_ IE.
6) The CN sends the HANDOVER REQUEST message to the TBSS with the D-RNTI
encapsulated in the _Old BSS_ _to New BSS_ IE. The TBSS correlates the
received D-RNTI in the HANDOVER REQUEST message with the D-RNTI identifying
the previously reserved radio resources.
7) The TBSS sends the HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message to the CN.
8) The CN sends the RELOCATION COMMAND message to the SRNS.
9) The SRNS sends the RELOCATION COMMIT message to the TBSS for the concerned
MS/UE (and D-RNTI).
10) The MS/UE is accessing the target GSM cell by sending the HANDOVER ACCESS
message to the TBSS.
11) The TBSS sends the HANDOVER DETECT message to the CN since it has already
received the RELOCATION COMMIT message from the SRNS. Otherwise if the
RELOCATION COMMIT message for concerned MS/UE is not received in the TBSS,
then the TBSS shall not send the HANDOVER DETECT message to the CN. In this
case the TBSS shall wait for the RELOCATION COMMIT message before sending the
HANDOVER DETECT message to the CN.
12) The MS/UE sends the HANDOVER COMPLETE message to the TBSS.
13) The TBSS forwards the message to the CN.
14) The CN sends the IU RELEASE COMMAND message to the SRNS after receiving
the HANDOVER COMPLETE message.
15) After releasing the UTRAN resources and the Iur-g connection towards the
TBSS, the SRNC sends the IU RELEASE COMPLETE message to the CN.
#### 7.2.6.3 Abnormal conditions
##### 7.2.6.3.1 BSS Radio Resource Reservation Failure
{width="4.2625in" height="2.3131944444444446in"}
Figure 9: BSS Radio Resource Reservation Failure
1\. SRNS sends the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE REQUEST message to the TBSS in
order to reserve radio resources for the MS/UE.
2\. If the TBSS can not reserve the requested radio resources, then the TBSS
returns the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE FAILURE message to the SRNS with
appropriate Cause value included in the message.
3\. Upon reception of the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE FAILURE message the
SRNS starts releasing the dedicated Iur-g connection towards the TBSS.
##### 7.2.6.3.2 Handover failure from MS/UE
{width="6.557638888888889in" height="3.370138888888889in"}
Figure 10: MS/UE Handover Failure
1\. In case the handover process fails in the MS/UE, the MS/UE sends the
HANDOVER FROM UTRAN FAILURE message to the SRNS.
2\. The SRNS informs the TBSS of the handover failure by sending the ENHANCED
RELOCATION RESOURCE RELEASE COMMAND message on the dedicated Iur-g connection.
Upon reception of the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE RELEASE COMMAND message,
the TBSS starts releasing the radio resources related to the MS/UE and returns
the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE RELEASE COMPLETE message to the SRNS.
3\. Upon reception of the ENHANCED RELOCATION RESOURCE RELEASE COMPLETE
message, the SRNS starts releasing the dedicated Iur-g connection towards the
TBSS.
## 7.3 Void
## 7.4 Global procedures
### 7.4.1 General
Table 3: Global procedures list
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Allowed Operating Mode for BSS Error
Indication ERROR INDICATION Iu mode only Common Measurement Initiation COMMON
MEASUREMENT INITIATION REQUEST Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode Common Measurement
Reporting COMMON MEASUREMENT REPORT Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode Common
Measurement Termination COMMON MEASUREMENT TERMINATION REQUEST Both Iu mode
and A/Gb mode Common Measurement Failure COMMON MEASUREMENT FAILURE INDICATION
Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode Information Exchange Initiation INFORMATION
EXCHANGE INITIATION Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode Information Reporting
INFORMATION REPORT Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode Information Exchange Termination
INFORMATION EXCHANGE TERMINATION REQUEST Both Iu mode and A/Gb mode
Information Exchange Failure INFORMATION EXCHANGE FAILURE INDICATION Both Iu
mode and A/Gb mode
* * *
### 7.4.2 Error Indication
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by a node to report detected
errors in a received message, provided they cannot be reported by an
appropriate response message.
### 7.4.3 Common Measurement Functions
The Common Measurement function in the Iur-g interface is used to support the
Improved RRM across BSS and BSS/RNC. This functionality is supported by
adopting the Iur procedures for Common Measurements:
\- **Common Measurement Initiation** : This procedure is used by an RNC/BSS to
request the initiation of measurements of common resources to another RNC/BSS.
For measurements made in GERAN cells, only the following measurement types are
applicable:
\- Load
\- RT load
\- NRT load information
\- **Common Measurement Reporting** : This procedure is used by an RNC/BSS to
report the result of measurements requested by another RNC using the Common
Measurement Initiation.
\- **Common Measurement Termination** : This procedure is used by an RNC/BSS
to terminate a measurement previously requested by the Common Measurement
Initiation procedure.
\- **Common Measurement Failure** : This procedure is used by an RNC/BSS to
notify another RNC/BSS that a measurement previously requested by the Common
Measurement Initiation procedure can no longer be reported.
### 7.4.4 Information Exchange Functions
This Information Exchange functions are used to initiate, maintain and
terminate information exchange between two RNC/BSS nodes. This functionality
is supported by adopting the Iur procedures for Information Exchange:
**\- Information Exchange Initiation:** This procedure is used by a BSS/RNC to
request the initiation of an information exchange with another BSS/RNC. The
procedure is initiated with an INFORMATION EXCHANGE INITIATION REQUEST message
sent from BSS1 to BSS2/RNC2 or by RNC1 to BSS2. Upon reception, the BSS2/RNC2
shall provide the requested information according to the parameters given in
the request.
**\- Information Reporting:** This procedure is used by a BSS/RNC to report
the result of information requested by another BSS/RNC using the Information
Exchange Initiation.
**\- Information Exchange Termination:** This procedure is used by a BSS/RNC
to terminate the information exchange requested using the Information Exchange
Initiation.
**\- Information Exchange Failure:** This procedure is used by a BSS/RNC to
notify another that the information exchange it previously requested using the
Information Exchange Initiation can no longer be reported.
The information which can be requested on the Iur and Iur-g interfaces is
shown in the table below marked with "X". For information which is not
applicable on the Iur-g interface, the BSS shall regard the Information
Exchange Initiation procedure as failed.
Table 4: Allowed Information types on Iur and Iur-g interfaces
* * *
**Information Type** **Interface**  
**Iur** **Iur-g** IPDL Parameters X  
DGPS Corrections X  
GPS Information X  
Cell Capacity Class X X
* * *
Cell capacity class for GERAN cells is defined by the number of configured
carriers in specific GERAN cells which ranges from integer 1 to 100. The value
1 shall indicate the minimum cell capacity and the value 100 shall indicate
the maximum cell capacity.
#