# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
_The present document captures the results of the feasibility study on MTC
power saving for GERAN._
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results from the feasibility study on power
saving for Machine Type Communication (MTC) devices in GERAN.
The study should cover the following aspects:
\- Identification of use cases and traffic models that the study should
target.
\- Identification of a set of attributes to be used for identifying specific
use case scenarios of prime interest.
\- Identification of candidate GERAN enhancements to reduce the energy
consumption of MTC devices for use case scenarios of prime interest.
\- Energy consumption evaluation of the identified candidate GERAN
enhancements for scenarios of prime interest.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Specification set\".
[3] TD GP-131136: \"New SI proposal: Study of Power saving for MTC Devices
(uPoD)\".
[4] TD GP-140361: \"MS energy consumption model\", source Ericsson, GERAN#62.
[5] 3GPP TSG GERAN Telco#2 on uPod, \"Reference case definition\", Huawei
Technologies Co., Ltd., HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
[6] TD GP-140324: \"Proposed Working Assumptions on power consumption
evaluation in idle mode for MTC devices\", Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.,
HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd., GERAN#62.
[7] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[8] TD GP-150241: \"pCR for Event-triggered Neighbour Cell Measurement\",
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd., GERAN#65.
[9] TD GP-150273, \"Consolidated Ericsson uPoD pCRs\", Ericsson LM, GERAN#65.
[10] TD GP-130473: \"Long Paging Cycle for MTC use case\", source Telefon AB
LM Ericson, ST-Ericsson SA. GERAN#58.
[11] TD GP-140363: \"Short and long sync up procedure\", source Ericsson.
GERAN#62.
[12] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[13] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
[14] 3GPP TS 51 010: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.\ A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Objectives
The general objectives of the study, is summarized in the following [3].
\- Identify MTC scenarios of prime interest and traffic models where MTC
devices would benefit from power savings.
\- Identify a set of traffic model attributes required for analysing use case
scenarios of prime interest.
\- Investigate possible GERAN enhancements to reduce the power consumption of
MTC devices for the use case scenarios of prime interest.
\- Evaluate the possible gains of GERAN enhancements in terms of energy
savings.
\- Evaluate the possible impacts of GERAN enhancements on device performance.
\- Avoid any negative impact on legacy voice and data services.
\- Avoid any hardware impact on infrastructure equipment.
\- Avoid any hardware impact on BTS and MTC devices.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.0 General
The study is targeting MTC devices and services that are expected to be widely
used in GSM networks, and which could benefit from power saving studies. Smart
gas meter is one important example for this kind of MTC device. To facilitate
the study and to make the candidate GERAN enhancements general enough and
future proof, general use cases are summarized.
## 5.1 Use Case 1 - Network triggered reporting
For this use case, the MTC device is triggered to send a report to the network
entity, e.g. metering devices (sensors) that are monitored and controlled by
entities outside or inside the operator\'s network wherein a device normally
only sends a report when triggered to do so by the network. Such use case
requires MTC device that can be reached (triggered) as a result of network
paging. After sending a report a device will remain reachable at least during
a time interval determined by the Ready timer (i.e. during the first part of
this interval when non-DRX timer is running it continuously monitors AGCH/PCH
blocks. After the non-DRX timer expires it then monitors its nominal paging
block according to legacy DRX operation for the remainder of this interval).
After expiration of the Ready timer, reachability will be supported based on
monitoring the nominal PCH block within the context of a power savings state.
MTC devices that support this use case will make use of a power saving
mechanism that introduces limitations on device reachability (e.g. either eDRX
or PSM). In addition, these devices will go into a power saving state between
each triggered report where the longer the device remains in the power saving
state the larger the power savings.
## 5.2 Use Case 2 - Mobile originated autonomous reporting
For this use case, the MTC device will autonomously detect the need to send a
report, e.g. in a periodic manner or the report is sent in specified time
period. The network may want to dynamically adjust the periodicity based on
the actual network traffic load at a specific time. Reachability will be
possible using either paging or reporting events as opportunities to send
messages to these types of devices (determined based on use case attribute
settings). After sending a report a device will remain reachable at least
during a time interval determined by the Ready timer (i.e. during the first
part of this interval it continuously monitors AGCH/PCH blocks according to
the Non-DRX timer and it then monitors its nominal paging block according to
legacy DRX operation for the remainder of this interval). After expiration of
the Ready timer, reachability will not be possible until the next reporting
event.
The class of devices operate according to this use case would benefit from
being able to go into a power saving state between each report transmission --
the longer time between the mobile originated reports the larger the power
savings.
For both use cases the reachability of devices will therefore be possible
during actual reporting events (i.e. while transmitting a report) and while
the Ready timer is running. The option of using an Active timer (started
immediately following expiration of the Ready timer) for a period of
additional reachability is not seen to be needed.
# 6 Common Assumptions
## 6.1 Traffic model Attributes and Scenarios
For traffic model definitions the following attributes are to be used to
identify specific use case scenarios of interest:
Mobility: this attribute defines the mobility behaviour of the MS which may
have no mobility (stationary), medium mobility or high mobility (use case 1
and 2).
MO Data frequency: the frequency at which mobile originated packet data
transmissions are to be made for a mobile station (use case 2).
MT triggering frequency: the frequency at which triggers are sent for a mobile
station that operates according to use case 1 (i.e. page reception triggers
the transmission of a report, a downlink TBF is not established). This may
occur less frequently than allowed for by the periodicity of paging group
monitoring.
Latency: determines the minimum time length required from the point where
uplink data becomes available in a MTC device to the point where uplink data
transmission begins (use case 2), or how much time it takes for a MTC device
to receive a page (trigger) from the point where a SGSN first determines a
report is to be triggered (use case 1)
UL/DL data size: Uplink or downlink packet data size transmitted or received
by MTC devices where it is assumed the packet data is to be
transmitted/received in consecutive radio blocks with MCS-2 (use case 1 and
2).
Ready timer: Used in the MS and the network to control the cell updating
procedure. While Ready timer is running the MS will monitor the CCCH as well
as do necessary cell and/or routing area updates (T3314) (use case 1 and 2).
Non-DRX timer: Time duration where MS needs to continuously monitor AGCH/PCH
blocks immediately after completing the transmission of a report (part of
ready timer period) (use case 1 and 2).
Based on the use cases defined in clause 5, and the above considered
attributes, traffic model specific attributes are shown in Table 6.1-1 for the
Network Triggered Traffic Model and in Table 6.1-2 for the Autonomous
Reporting traffic model:
Table 6.1-1: Network Triggered traffic model
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute | Value | Comment | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RA update periodic | 1 day | Time between | | reporting interval | | periodic RA updates | | | | (for the stationary | | | | case). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MT triggering | 5 min | The frequency at | | frequency: | | which triggers are | | | 1 hour | sent for a mobile | | | | station that | | | 10 hours | operates according | | | | to use case 1 | | | 1 day | (Network triggered | | | | reporting) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packet trigger size | 60 byte (radio | Size of the | | | interface) | application payload | | | | used to trigger | | | | report | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobility | Stationary | No cell change while | | | | in power saving | | | | state (i.e. only | | | | periodic RAU). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Medium mobility | Not part of study | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | High mobility | Not part of study | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink data size | 120 byte (radio | Report to server | | | interface) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink data size | 80 byte (radio | Report Ack (TCP or | | | interface) | application Ack) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Ready timer | 20 sec | Used in the MS and | | | | the network to | | | | control the cell | | | | updating procedure. | | | | While Ready timer is | | | | running the MS will | | | | monitor the CCCH as | | | | well as do necessary | | | | cell and/or routing | | | | area updates (T3314) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Non-DRX timer | 2 sec | Time duration where | | | | MS needs to | | | | continuously monitor | | | | CCCH\'s (part of | | | | ready timer period) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Active timer | 0 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note that the packet size for the trigger sent in the NTR traffic model is
based on the assumption that UDP is used.
Table 6.1-2: Autonomous Reporting traffic model
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute | Value | Comment | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RA update periodic | N/A | Not applicable to | | reporting interval | | this traffic model | | | | with the assumption | | | | of periodic | | | | reporting and | | | | corresponding | | | | reporting interval | | | | shorter than | | | | Periodic RAU timer. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MO Data frequency: | 5 min | Periodic reporting | | | | is assumed and | | | 1 hour | defines the time | | | | between reports to | | | 10 hours | the network | | | | | | | 1 day | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobility | Stationary | No cell change while | | | | in power saving | | | | state | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Medium mobility | Not part of study | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | High mobility | Not part of study | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink data size | 120 byte (radio | Report to server | | | interface) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink data size | 80 byte (radio | Report Ack (TCP or | | | interface) | application Ack) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Ready timer | 20 sec | Used in the MS and | | | | the network to | | | | control the cell | | | | updating procedure. | | | | While Ready timer is | | | | running the MS will | | | | monitor the CCCH as | | | | well as do necessary | | | | cell and/or routing | | | | area updates (T3314) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Non-DRX timer | 2 sec | Time duration where | | | | MS needs to | | | | continuously monitor | | | | CCCH\'s (part of | | | | ready timer period) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Active timer | 0 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.2 Evaluation Assumptions
### 6.2.1 Operating voltage and current
Typical values of average current at different operational modes (procedures)
are tabulated in Table 6.2.1-1. It has been assumed that the same operating
voltage is used in all operational modes and that it is the operating current
that is varying based on the specific mode of operation in effect. The
operating voltage is assumed to be 3,3 V.
Any use-case can be broken down into one or several instances of variable
length intervals of the different operational modes:
Transmission (Tx) - baseband and RF are engaged in data transmission.
Reception (Rx) - baseband and RF are engaged in data reception.
Monitoring - RSSI measurements are performed for serving/neighbour cells.
Light sleep - MS is in wakeup state and waiting to perform impending tasks.
This mode may be employed by applying Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling
(DVFS) schemes.
Deep sleep - there is no activity for a long duration, modem enters into
prolonged sleep (instead of staying in light sleep) by cutting down voltages
and clocks to all modem sub-modules except RAM memory (for refreshment) and
timer management (for interrupt generation).
Table 6.2.1-1: Typical values of average current during different Modem
operations in an MS
* * *
Operation Specification Operating current (µA) Transmission (Tx) Tx (GMSK)
(_33 dBm_) 1 393,528 Tx (8-PSK) (_27 dBm_) 350,000 Reception (Rx) Rx with
Baseband processing 30,000 Monitoring (RSSI with 32 I,Q samples) 20,000 Power
Saving States Light sleep 1,000 Deep sleep 1 Power off ^(Note)^ 0.01
* * *
Note _:_ It should be noted that in this state the modem is completely
switched off, however some energy is consumed by the application running that
is able to wake the modem up.
### 6.2.2 Operating time
The typical time values for different operations are provided in Table
6.2.2-1.
Table 6.2.2-1: Typical time values of energy consumption during different MS
operations [4]
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operation | Operation time | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RACH access | 1 burst transmitted | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Rx - One radio block | 4 bursts received + 28 bursts | | | (in light sleep or BCCH | | | measurement) | | | | | | (Applies also to for example | | | BCCH, PCH blocks) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Tx - One radio block (@ 33 dBm | 4 bursts transmitted (in Tx | | output power, GMSK) | GMSK) + 28 bursts (in light | | | sleep or BCCH measurement) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Monitor BCCH carrier - one BCCH | 32 symbols duration received. | | carrier measurement | | | | (In case X neighbours are | | | monitored the figure need to be | | | multiplied by X) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BSIC Reconfirmation (Rx) - One | a single SCH burst is read | | BSIC reconfirmation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BSIC Identification (Rx + Idle) | an average of 32 bursts in light | | -- One BSIC identification | sleep + 1 FCH burst read + 1 SCH | | | burst read | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Deep sleep | 1000 bursts | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 6.2.3 Default parameters
The default parameters defined here should be applied in the evaluation of any
candidate solutions, except the ones impacted in the optimization, where the
proposed values will be applied instead [6].
Table 6.2.3-1: Typical value for common parameters
+--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | Parameters | Value | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | The number of RF channels or BCCH carriers | 124 (see note 1) or 8\ | | searching for cell selection | (see note 2) | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | The number of RF channels or BCCH carriers | 10 | | to be identified before a suitable cell is | | | selected | | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | The number of full set of System | 4 (see note 3) | | Information to be read | | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | the number of non‑serving cell BCCH | 16 | | carriers maintained in BA list | | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | The number of new BCCH carriers which | 1 | | become one of the 6 strongest non‑serving | | | cell BCCH carriers (performed as part the | | | task of maintaining the BA list) | | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+ | NOTE 1: For frequency scanning, only 900M | | | band is considered. | | | | | | NOTE 2: For stored list. | | | | | | NOTE 3: SI1, SI2, SI3 and SI 13 are | | | included and only one radio block is | | | assumed to be occupied by each SI. | | +--------------------------------------------+------------------------+
## 6.3 Evaluation Metrics
Energy consumption is the primary issue in the uPoD evaluation, which is
calculated by Voltage * Current * Operating Time. In order to evaluate the
benefit brought by any candidate solutions on GERAN network, both the energy
consumption of reference case and candidate solution should be provided for
comparison.
The reference case in clause 6.4 is defined to be used for the calculation as
a baseline in the evaluation.
In the evaluation, the network configuration based on different scenarios
should be the same for both candidate solution and reference case, except the
optimization part which should be highlighted.
## 6.4 Reference Case Assumptions
In this clause, reference case and corresponding typical values are defined.
For clarification, the reference case will be used for calculation the energy
consumption for the typical MS today. That is the baseline to evaluate energy
consumption. When developing the solutions, the reference case will be rebuilt
[5]. The same reference case should be used when evaluating both use cases
defined in clause 5.
### 6.4.1 Packet Idle Mode
#### 6.4.1.1 Typical procedures and sub procedures
The procedures and sub-procedures of idle mode tasks are described as
following:
  * Measurements for cell selection: Measurement for cell selection can be based on either frequency scanning or stored list. It is depending on if the MS has prior knowledge of BCCH carriers.
```{=html}
``` \- Frequency scanning:
\- Receive RF signal and calculate the average receive level for each
frequency in the operation bands supported.
\- Identify the BCCH carrier by reading frequency correction bursts.
\- Read full set of BCCH data of the cell selected.
  * Stored list:
\- Receive RF signal and calculate the signal level for each frequency in the
stored BCCH carrier information (BCCH list)
\- Identify the BCCH carrier by reading frequency correction bursts.
\- Read full set of BCCH data of the cell selected.
\- If stored list cell selection is not successful, the MS is expected to
perform the frequency scanning.
\- Measurements for cell re-selection:
  * Measurements and data reading of servicing cell:
\- Monitor of received signal level of serving cell
\- Monitor BCCH data of the serving cell at least every 30 seconds
  * Measurements and data reading of neighbour cells:
  * Monitor all BCCH carriers as indicated by the BA list
  * Identify BSIC for 6 strongest neighbor cells
  * Reconfirmation BSIC for 6 strongest neighbor cells at least every 30 > seconds
  * Identify new 6 strongest cells BSIC and BCCH data
  * Read BCCH data for 6 strongest neighbor cells at least every 5 > minutes
\- PCH reading:
  * PCH data reading in every DRX cycle
#### 6.4.1.2 Energy consumptions as per procedure
The calculation for total reference case energy consumption is based on
different MS operations. The energy consumption for every procedure listed in
Table 6.4.1.2-1 can be calculated as follows based on clause 6.2.
Table 6.4.1.2-1: Energy consumptions for MS in idle mode
* * *
Procedure Sub-procedure Operation Occurrence Energy consumption for each sub-
procedure\ Energy consumption for procedure (uJ) (uJ)
Measurements for cell selection RF signal receiving Monitor BCCH carrier
Switch on or from non-service area into the service area 8184 (see note)
11063.00
                                                                Identify BCCH carriers in the list                                                                           BSIC Identification                                                                                       1751.77
                                                                Decode the full set of BCCH data of the serving cell                                                         Rx - 4 radio block                                                                                        1127.23
Measurements for cell re-selection Monitor of received signal level of serving
cell Monitor BCCH carrier DRX cycle 66 (see note) 4945.43
                                                                Monitor BCCH data of the serving cell                                                                        Rx - One radio block                           Once every 30s                                             281.81
                                                                Monitor all BCCH carriers as indicated by the BA list                                                        Monitor BCCH carrier                           DRX cycle                                                  1056 (see note)
                                                                Identify BSIC of 6 strongest                                                                                 BSIC Identification                            Once                                                       1051.06
                                                                Reconfirm BSIC of 6 strongest                                                                                BSIC Reconfirmation                            Once every 30s                                             342.74
                                                                Identify BSIC and decode BCCH data (only SI3) for the new BCCH carrier which become one of the 6 strongest   BSIC Identification and Rx - One radio block   Once every 1h                                              456.98
                                                                Decode BCCH data of 6 strongest (only SI3)                                                                   Rx - One radio block                           Once every 5min                                            1690.84
PCH reading Read PCH Rx - One radio block in serving cell DRX cycle 278.51
278.51
Note: The time of RSSI with 32 I.Q samples is assumed 1 ms.
* * *
### 6.4.2 Energy Consumption for Data Transfer
#### 6.4.2.1 Energy Consumption for Network triggered Traffic model
In Table 6.1-1 the assumptions on the data traffic for the network triggered
reporting Traffic model are summarized. To transmit one UL Report, 120 bytes
of UL and 80 bytes DL Data are used. In addition to this a DL trigger of size
60 bytes is used, all as in Table 6.1-1.
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Data exchanges for a network triggered Report
Details of the energy consumed for individual sub process with time taken for
each is depicted in Table 6.4.2.1-1 below. The calculated energy consumption
in Table 6.4.2.1-1 assumes the max TX power for transmission (33 dBm) and
MCS-1 being used throughout.
Table 6.4.2.1-1: Energy Consumption for Data Transmission Network triggered
USE Case
+----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | **Sub Procedure** | **Energy Consumed |** Time Taken | | | | (uJ)**| (ms)** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | PAGE | 228.492 | 2.308 | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | Idle time in | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | between monitoring | | | | | page (28 bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | Idle Light sleep | 52.67 | 15.96 | | | (for 15.96 ms) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 4 | RACH | 2653.417 | 0.577 | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | AGCH Idle (Full | 148.5 | 45 | | | CCCH) (light sleep | | | | | for 80 bursts). | | | | | Note: practical | | | | | BSS response time | | | | | is no faster than | | | | | 50ms. | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 6 | Immediate | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | Assignment (4 | | | | | bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 7 | AGCH Idle (Light | 53.301 | 16.152 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 | | | | | AGCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 8 | PDCH Idle (light | 53.301 | 16.152 | | | sleep for 28 | | | | | bursts of TS not | | | | | used to receive | | | | | 1^st^ USF) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 9 | USF Monitoring for | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | sending page | | | | | Response using 4 | | | | | bursts | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 10 | Page Response | 10613.667 | 2.308 | | | (Dummy LLC) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 11 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep Light sleep | | | | | for 7 bursts after | | | | | each of 4 PDCH | | | | | bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 12 | Idle for 10 ms | 33 | 10 | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 12 | Packet TS | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | Reconfigure | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 13 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep for 28 | | | | | bursts of TS not | | | | | used for the | | | | | reception of PTR) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 14 | Trigger Packet DL | 685.476 | 6.924 | | | (3 RLC PDU\'s) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 15 | PDCH Idle (Light | 159.936 | 48.468 | | | sleep in between | | | | | receiving these 3 | | | | | RLC PDU\'s) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 16 | PDCH Idle (Light | 175.1739 | 53.083 | | | sleep while | | | | | waiting to send UL | | | | | L2 Ack after 13 | | | | | TDMA frames as | | | | | indicated by the | | | | | RRBP field). Note: | | | | | MS in light sleep | | | | | for 7 of 8 DL TS | | | | | over 12 TDMA | | | | | frames and for all | | | | | 8 TS on the 13^th^ | | | | | TDMA frame) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 17 | TFI monitoring | 685.476 | 6.924 | | | during this time. | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 18 | UL L2 ACK (4 | 10613.667 | 2.308 | | | bursts Tx). | | | | | | | | | | Note: PDAN sent | | | | | according to RRBP. | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 19 | PDCH Idle (Light | 45.7 | 13.848 | | | sleep for 6 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 UL | | | | | PACCH bursts = 24 | | | | | bursts). 1 TS used | | | | | for USF decoding | | | | | and 1 TS used for | | | | | MS transmission | | | | | per TDMA frame | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 20 | TFI monitoring. | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | TFI/USF monitoring | | | | | during UL L2 ack | | | | | transmission | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 21 | UL RLC PDUs (6 RLC | 63682 | 13.8848 | | | PDU\'s for entire | | | | | report) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 22 | PDCH Idle (Light | 274.19 | 83.088 | | | sleep for 6 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 | | | | | PDCH burst | | | | | transmissions = 24 | | | | | bursts for each UL | | | | | RLC PDU, applies | | | | | to each of the 6 | | | | | UL RLC PDUs) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 23 | DL TFI/USF | 1370.95 | 13.848 | | | monitoring during | | | | | the transmission | | | | | of 6 UL PDU\'s (1 | | | | | slot per frame) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 24 | PDCH Idle for | 133.254 | 40.38 | | | around 10 TDMA | | | | | frames after | | | | | transmission of | | | | | 6^th^ RL PDU | | | | | (until reception | | | | | of PUAN excluding | | | | | the time for | | | | | TFI/USF | | | | | monitoring) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 25 | TFI/USF monitoring | 571.23 | 5.77 | | | till the reception | | | | | of DL L2 ACK on | | | | | PACCH | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 26 | DL L2 ACK (4 | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | bursts Rx) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 27 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 DL | | | | | PACCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 28 | Idle (light sleep | 1332.54 | 403.8 | | | 7 of 8 TS for 100 | | | | | TDMA frames until | | | | | the DL Application | | | | | Ack/TCP Ack) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 29 | All USF/TFI | 5712.3 | 57.7 | | | monitoring for 1 | | | | | of 8 TS for 100 | | | | | TDMA frames until | | | | | the DL Application | | | | | Ack/TCP Ack | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 30 | DL TCP | 913.968 | 9.232 | | | Ack/Application | | | | | Ack (4 DL RLC | | | | | PDU\'s) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 31 | PDCH Idle (Light | 213.248 | 64.624 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 | | | | | PDCH burst | | | | | receptions for | | | | | each DL RLC PDU = | | | | | 28 bursts) * 4 | | | | | occurrences | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 32 | PDCH Idle (Light | 175.1739 | 53.083 | | | sleep while | | | | | waiting to send UL | | | | | L2 Ack after 13 | | | | | TDMA frames as | | | | | indicated by the | | | | | RRBP field). Note: | | | | | MS in light sleep | | | | | for 7 of 8 DL TS | | | | | over 12 TDMA | | | | | frames and for all | | | | | 8 TS on the 13^th^ | | | | | TDMA frame) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 33 | TFI monitoring | 685.476 | 6.924 | | | during this time. | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 34 | UL L2 ACK (4 | 10613.667 | 2.308 | | | bursts Tx) | | | | | | | | | | Note: PDAN sent | | | | | according to RRBP. | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 35 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 UL | | | | | PACCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
Total Energy Consumed for the sending a network triggered report (completed in
around 1.1 s) is 113.2 mJ. The configuration assumption for the energy
consumption assumes the following:
\- The UL transfer rate is 120 bytes and DL is 80 bytes per report in addition
to 60 bytes of trigger.
\- UE would never move out of Packet transfer state throughout the duration of
procedure and T3192 value=0.
\- No UL or DL dummy control block sent or received.
\- MCS-1 used for all data transfer UL and DL.
\- The DL trigger uses UDP or similar connectionless protocol.
\- During the Idle time of 100 TDMA frames after sending the TCP Packets, it
is assumed that DL PACCH is monitored every frame, but for practical
simplicity the power consumption is shown at the end of sleep period
continuously.
The resources assigned by an Immediate Assignment message are only sufficient
for sending a page response and as such a subsequent Packet Timeslot
Reconfigure message is sent to provide DL TBF resources appropriate for
sending a trigger to a MTC device and UL TBF resources appropriate for
receiving a report from a MTC device.
The plot of Power consumed vs. Time is depicted in Figure 6.4.2.1-2 below.
{width="9.872222222222222in" height="4.020833333333333in"}
Figure 6.4.2.1-2: Power Consumption sequence for Data Transfer (Network
triggered use case)
The energy consumption for measurements is ignored as per 3GPP TS 45.002 [15].
Measurements are done only when MS is doing some activity (TX or RX). The
rationale is that the energy/power consumed for measurements during this
procedure in Packet transfer mode is not that significant.
#### 6.4.2.2 Energy Consumption for Mobile Autonomous Reporting
In Table 6.1-2 the assumptions on the data traffic for the Mobile Autonomous
Traffic model are summarized. For Mobile Autonomous report, report gets
reported either periodically or based on an internal trigger.
The sequence of steps is explained in figure below.
Figure 6.4.2.2-1: Mobile Autonomous reporting procedure
One data transfer procedure using Mobile Autonomous reporting can be broken
down into several basic operations as specified in Table 6.4.2.2-1 with the
assumption of 120 bytes UL data and 80 Bytes DL data (For TCP ACK or
application level Acks). Details of the Energy Consumed for individual sub
process with time taken for each are also included in the table. The below
table assumes the max TX power for transmission (33 dBm) and MCS-1 being used
throughout.
Table 6.4.2.2-1: Energy Consumption for Mobile Autonomous Reporting
+----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | | **Sub Procedure** | **Energy Consumed |** Time Taken | | | | (µJ)**| (ms)** | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 1 | RACH | 2653.417 | 0.577 | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 2 | AGCH Idle (Full | 148.5 | 45 | | | CCCH) (light sleep | | | | | for 80 bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 3 | Immediate | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | Assignment (4 | | | | | bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 4 | AGCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 | | | | | AGCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 5 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.152 | | | sleep for 1 frame | | | | | 28 in between | | | | | monitoring 1st | | | | | USF) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 6 | USF Monitoring for | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | sending 1st UL PDU | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 7 | Packet TS | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | Reconfigure | | | | | (establishing 1 TS | | | | | in both UL and DL | | | | | TBF) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 8 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep in between | | | | | reception of PTR) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 9 | UL PDU (6 PDU\'s) | 63682 | 13.8848 | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 10 | PDCH Idle (Light | 274.19 | 83.088 | | | sleep for 6 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 | | | | | PDCH burst | | | | | transmissions = 24 | | | | | bursts for each UL | | | | | RLC PDU, applies | | | | | to each of the 6 | | | | | UL RLC PDUs) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 11 | DL TFI monitoring | 1370.95 | 13.848 | | | during the | | | | | transmission of 6 | | | | | UL PDU\'s | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 12 | PDCH Idle for | 133.254 | 40.38 | | | around 10 TDMA | | | | | frames after | | | | | transmission of | | | | | 6th RLC PDU (until | | | | | reception of PUAN | | | | | excluding the time | | | | | for TFI/USF | | | | | monitoring) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 13 | TFI/USF monitoring | 571.23 | 5.77 | | | till the reception | | | | | of DL L2 ACK on | | | | | PACCH | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 14 | DL PACCH ACK (4 | 228.492 | 2.308 | | | bursts Rx) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 15 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 DL | | | | | PACCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts)* 3 | | | | | Occurrences | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 16 | Idle (light sleep | 1332.54 | 403.8 | | | for 100 TDMA | | | | | frames till | | | | | getting | | | | | Application/TCP | | | | | Acks) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 17 | All USF/TFI | 5712.3 | 57.7 | | | monitoring till | | | | | the DL | | | | | Application/TCP | | | | | acks | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 18 | DL TCP ACK | 913.968 | 9.232 | | | /Application Acks | | | | | 4 RLC PDU\'s) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 19 | PDCH Idle (Light | 213.248 | 64.624 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 | | | | | PACCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts) * 4 | | | | | occurrences | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 20 | PDCH Idle (Light | 175.1739 | 53.083 | | | sleep while | | | | | waiting to send UL | | | | | L2 Ack after 13 | | | | | TDMA frames as | | | | | indicated by the | | | | | RRBP field). Note: | | | | | MS in light sleep | | | | | for 7 of 8 DL TS | | | | | over 12 TDMA | | | | | frames and for all | | | | | 8 TS on the 13th | | | | | TDMA frame) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 21 | TFI monitoring for | 685.476 | 6.924 | | | 12 frames | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 22 | UL L2ACK (4 bursts | 10613.417 | 2.308 | | | Tx) | | | | | | | | | | Note: PDAN sent | | | | | according to RRBP | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 23 | PDCH Idle (Light | 53.312 | 16.156 | | | sleep for 7 bursts | | | | | after each of 4 DL | | | | | PACCH bursts = 28 | | | | | bursts) | | | +----+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------+
Total Energy Consumed for the sending a Mobile Autonomous report (completed in
around 880 ms) is 89.6 mJ. The configuration assumption for the figure below
is same as that reported for Network triggered reporting.
{width="9.858333333333333in" height="4.0152777777777775in"}
Figure 6.4.2.2-2: Power Consumption for Mobile Autonomous Reporting
### 6.4.3 Energy Consumption for RAU procedure
One RAU can be broken down into several basic operations as specified in Table
6.4.3-1. For practical reasons a 33 dBM transmit power is assumed in these
calculations.
Figure 6.4.3-1 provides a sequence of message exchanges for RAU procedure for
the case where a one phase access is used for the initial access.
Figure 6.4.3-1: RAU procedure
Details of the energy consumed for individual sub process with time taken for
each is depicted in Table 6.4.3-1 below. The below table assumes the max TX
power for transmission (33 dBm)
Table 6.4.3-1: Energy Consumption for RAU
* * *
**Sub Procedure** **Energy Consumed (uJ)** **Time Taken (ms)**
RACH 2652.411 0.577
AGCH Idle (Full CCCH) (light sleep for 80 bursts)\ 148.5 45 Note: practical
BSS response time is no faster than 50 ms.
Immediate Assignment (4 AGCH bursts) 228.492 2.308
AGCH Idle (Light sleep for 7 bursts after each of 4 AGCH bursts = 28 bursts)
53.312 16.156
PDCH Idle (light sleep for 28 bursts of TS not used to receive 1^st^ USF)
53.312 16.156
USF Monitoring for sending RAU Req (1^st^ block) using 4 bursts 228.492 2.308
RAU Req (1^st^ RLC data block) 10609.65 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 6 bursts after each of the 4 PDCH burst
transmissions = 24 bursts). 1 TS is used for USF reception and 1 TS used for
MS transmission every DL frame. 45.7 13.848
USF monitoring for RAU Req (2^nd^ block) 228.492 2.308
RAU Req (2^nd^ RLC data block) 10609.65 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 6 bursts after each of the 4 PDCH burst
transmissions) 45.7 13.848
USF monitoring for RAU Req (3^rd^ block) 228.492 2.308
RAU Req (3^rd^ RLC data block) 10609.65 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 6 bursts after each of the 4 PDCH burst
transmissions) 45.7 13.848
USF monitoring for RAU Req (4^th^ block) 228.492 2.308
RAU Req (4^th^ RLC data block) 10609.65 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 6 bursts after each of the 4 PDCH burst
transmissions) 45.7 13.848
DL L2 ACK on PACCH (4 bursts Rx) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 7 bursts after each of 4 PACCH burst receptions =
28 bursts) Note: PUAN is assumed to Ack all 4 data blocks. 53.312 16.156
Idle (light sleep on 7 TS per frame for 100 TDMA frames after sending the RAU
Request until the DL Assignment on PACCH) Note: Allows \~462ms for RAU Accept
to arrive at BSS. 1332.54 403.9
DL PACCH monitoring on DL TS corresponding to assigned UL TS until beginning
of the DL Assignment (100 bursts) 5712.3 57.7
DL PACCH DL Assignment (4 bursts Rx) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 7 bursts after each of 4 PACCH burst receptions =
28 bursts) 53.312 16.156
RAU Accept (1^st^ RLC data block) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 7 bursts after each of 4 PDCH burst receptions = 28
bursts) 53.312 16.156
RAU Accept (2^nd^ RLC data block) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep) 53.312 16.156
RAU Accept (3^rd^ RLC data block) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep) 53.312 16.156
RAU Accept (4^th^ RLC data block) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep) 53.312 16.156
PDCH Idle (Light sleep while waiting to send UL L2 Ack after RRBP=13). Note:
MS in light sleep for 7 of 8 DL TS over 12 TDMA frames and for all 8 TS on the
13^th^ TDMA frame) 175.177 53.084
USF/TFI monitoring during this time. 685.476 6.924
UL L2 ACK on PACCH (4 bursts Tx). Note: PDAN sent according to RRBP. 10609.65
2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 6 bursts after each of 4 UL PACCH burst
transmissions = 24 bursts). 1 TS used for USF decoding and 1 TS used for MS
transmission per TDMA frame 45.7 13.848
USF Monitoring for RAU Complete Note: USF assumed to be received while sending
PDAN. 228.492 2.308
RAU Complete (4 bursts TX) 10609.65 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 6 bursts after each of 4 PDCH burst transmissions =
24 bursts) 45.7 13.848
PDCH Idle for around 10 TDMA frames after transmission of 4^th^ RAU Complete
burst (until reception of PUAN excluding the time for TFI/USF monitoring)
133.254 40.38
TFI/USF monitoring till the reception of DL L2 ACK on PACCH 571.23 5.77
DL L2 ACK on PACCH (4 bursts Rx) 228.492 2.308
PDCH Idle (Light sleep for 7 bursts after each of 4 PACCH burst receptions =
28 bursts) 53.312 16.156
* * *
Total Energy Consumed for the whole procedure (completed in around 890 ms) is
78.7 mJ. It should be noted that cell reselection measurements are not
included.
The above data is taken from a network log and the configuration is as
follows.
\- MS would never move out of Packet transfer state throughout the duration of
RAU procedure.
\- No UL or DL dummy control block sent or received. In addition it is assumed
that Release 6 Extended UL TBF is used both by MS and network (i.e. after CV=0
is acknowledged by network, MS would not send any UL Dummy control block for
matching USF).
\- CS1 used for the NAS messages sent and received.
The plot of Power consumed vs. Time is depicted in Figure 6.4.3-2 below.
{width="9.511805555555556in" height="3.8743055555555554in"}
Figure 6.4.3-2: Power Consumption sequence for RAU
The energy consumption for measurements is ignored as per 3GPP TS 45.002 [15]
since measurements are done only when MS is doing some activity (TX or RX).
The rationale is that the energy/power consumed for measurements during this
procedure in Packet transfer mode is not that significant.
# 7 Candidate Technologies and Evaluations
## 7.1 Extended DRX
Support for uPoD Use Case 1 (Network Triggered Reporting) requires that MTC
devices support a power saving mechanism for which reachability can be based
on either eDRX or PSM. The desired periodicity of reachability along with the
expected rate of device triggering will be used to determine the method of
reachability used. The use of eDRX based reachability is intended to target
operational scenarios for which battery lifetimes can be extended beyond what
would be possible using PSM based reachability.
### 7.1.1 Paging Group Determination
When sending a paging request to a BSS, the SGSN includes an indication of the
eDRX cycle and IMSI associated with the target device thereby allowing the BSS
to determine the next occurrence of the nominal paging group for that device
within its eDRX cycle as follows:
  * N is the number of paging groups within a given eDRX cycle and is determined based on EXTENDED_DRX_MFRMS and PCH_BLKS_MFRM where:
```{=html}
``` \- EXTENDED_DRX_MFRMS is the number of 51-multiframes per eDRX cycle >
determined as per Table 7.1-1 below.
  * PCH_BLKS_MFRM indicates the number of PCH blocks (i.e. the number > of 4 bursts blocks) per 51-multiframe.
  * The number of PCH blocks per 51-multiframe can be set to 8 by > requiring all cells in a paging area where uPoD is supported to > either (a) use BCCH Ext and set BS-AG-BLKS-RES = 0 (in the Control > Channel Description IE) or (b) not use BCCH Ext and set > BS-AG-BLKS-RES = 1.
  * N = (PCH_BLKS_MFRM x EXTENDED_DRX_MFRMS) = 8 * > EXTENDED_DRX_MFRMS.
```{=html}
``` \- The set of eDRX cycle lengths identified by Table 7.1-1 is selected
such that each member of the set occurs an integral number of times within the
full TDMA FN space.
  * Nominal paging block = mod (IMSI, N).
Table 7.1.1-1: Set of eDRX Cycles Supported
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | eDRX Cycle | Target eDRX | Number of | eDRX Cycles | | Value | Cycle Length | 51-MF per eDRX | per TDMA FN | | ( | | Cycle | Space | | EXTENDED_DRX) | | (EXTENDE | | | | | D_DRX_MFRMS) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0000 | \~1.9 seconds | 8 | 6656 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0001 | \~3.8 seconds | 16 | 3328 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0010 | \~7.5 seconds | 32 | 1664 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0011 | \~12.2 seconds | 52 | 1024 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0100 | \~24.5 seconds | 104 | 512 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0101 | \~49 seconds | 208 | 256 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0110 | \~1.63 minutes | 416 | 128 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 0111 | \~3.25 minutes | 832 | 64 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1000 | \~6.5 minutes | 1664 | 32 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1001 | \~13 minutes | 3328 | 16 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1010 | \~26 minutes | 6656 | 8 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1011 | \~52 minutes | 13312 | 4 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: 53248 | | | | | 51-multiframes | | | | | occur with the | | | | | TDMA FN space | | | | | (2715648 TDMA | | | | | frames). | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: All | | | | | remaining | | | | | EXTENDED_DRX | | | | | values are | | | | | reserved. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.1.2 eDRX vs. PSM evaluation
The eDRX functionality will for a given reachability almost always consume
less than the energy consumed by using PSM. This due to the energy saved when
the device only needs to listen to paging instead of transmitting a keep-alive
message or transmitting a RAU on a periodic basis.
In Figure 7.1.2-1 battery lifetime versus reachability is plotted when the
shorter sync procedure is used. It can be seen that the lowest possible
reachability periodicity for PSM that allows for realizing target battery
lifetime of 10 years is 45 minutes when at the same time only sending a report
at a maximum rate of approximately once per hour. Longer battery lifetime can
be achieved in the PSM case by increasing the reachability periodicity and
increasing the triggering interval. As can be seen for PSM in Figure 7.1.2-1
the lowest reachability periodicity allowed to still meet the target battery
lifetime of 10 years is approximately 45 minutes irrespective of how much the
triggering interval is increased beyond approximately 45 minutes. However,
when using eDRX it is possible to achieve 10 years battery lifetime with a
reachability periodicity down to approximately 90 seconds by increasing the
triggering interval (see Figure 7.1.2-1). As an example, when using eDRX it is
possible to use a reachability periodicity of every 5 minutes with a
triggering interval of once every other hour and still meet the target of 10
years battery lifetime (green dashed curve).
{width="6.3875in" height="3.4291666666666667in"}
Figure 7.1.2-1: Battery lifetime versus reachability using the short sync\
(100% short sync success rate)
To evaluate the robustness of the shorter sync procedure a failure of the
shorter synchronization procedure is taken into account. The evaluation is
done for a failure rate of five percent. When the shorter sync fails the long
sync procedure will have to be used and more energy is consumed before the
device can receive a page (eDRX) or transmit an access request (PSM). It can
be seen that both power saving modes are affected by the failure rate. For PSM
most energy is consumed by its reachability, i.e. sending \"keep alive\" or
RAU updates, to trigger the Ready State procedure and the curves in Figure
7.1.2-2 gives slightly worse performance than without sync failure as can be
seen in Figure 7.1.2-1. For eDRX a small degradation in battery lifetime can
be seen when comparing between Figure 7.1.2-1 and Figure 7.1.2-2. In the eDRX
case the energy consumed by being reachable is due to sync and listening for a
page. The failure rate of the shorter sync procedure will therefore have a
greater impact on eDRX when compared to PSM. Nevertheless, in the case it is
desired to reach the device more often than its triggering interval, eDRX will
always outperform PSM even when a failure rate of the sync procedure is added,
see Figure 7.1.2-2.
{width="5.979166666666667in" height="3.2159722222222222in"}
Figure 7.1.2-2: Battery lifetime versus reachability using the short sync\
(95% short sync success rate)
### 7.1.3 Realizing Extended DRX Cycle Lengths
#### 7.1.3.1 Time Coordinated Cells -- Radio Interface
Realizing extended DRX (eDRX) requires the coordination of paging occasions
across the radio interface of multiple cells thus mitigating the potential for
missed pages. This means that each paging occasion of a device needs to occur
at approximately the same time over the radio interface for each cell in the
set of cells used for paging that device. As such, the largest difference in
radio interface synchronization between any two cells in the set cells used
for paging (e.g. the cells in a routing area) is expected not to exceed 4
seconds.
#### 7.1.3.2 Realizing Time Coordinated Cells -- SGSN (subject to ongoing SA2
investigation)
Realizing eDRX requires the SGSN to have knowledge of when the paging occasion
of a device is approaching within the set of cells comprising its paging area.
This can be realized as follows:
\- A BSS should send the SGSN information that can be used for determining the
\"time remaining until the next paging occasion\".
\- The legacy Routing Area Update (RAU) procedure can be modified so that it
can be used as an opportunity for the SGSN to provide the BSS with the
information it needs to calculate the \"time remaining until the next paging
occasion\":
\- The SGSN includes IMSI, eDRX cycle and Coverage Class information within
the BSSGP PDU used to send the RAU Accept from the SGSN to the BSS.
\- The BSS retains these TLLI specific parameters (IMSI, eDRX cycle and
Coverage Class) for a certain minimum amount of time (e.g. 10 seconds).
\- If it receives an uplink LLC PDU (containing a RAU Complete) having a TLLI
for which it still has these TLLI specific parameters it will calculate the
\"time remaining until the next paging occasion\" and include it along with
the received uplink LLC PDU within the BSSGP PDU it sends to the SGSN.
\- The SGSN uses the negotiated eDRX cycle length and \"time remaining until
the next paging occasion\" to determine the occurrence of ongoing paging
occasions for that device.
\- The value of the eDRX cycle timer remains valid for the device (unless
modified due to reception of new eDRX cycle information or a new value for
\"time remaining until the next paging occasion\") regardless of whether an
SGSN actually triggers the transmission of a page to that device using any of
the ongoing paging occasions.
\- Paging requests are buffered in the SGSN until shortly before expiration of
the device specific eDRX cycle timer or the device enters the Ready state.
i.e. The SGSN needs to take into account the largest difference in radio
interface synchronization between the cells used for paging.
Upon receiving a paging request the BSS calculates the precise paging occasion
on the radio interface using IMSI + eDRX cycle length information included
within paging request.
### 7.1.4 Reachability in Idle Mode
After completing an uplink packet transfer and entering packet idle mode a
device remains reachable according to a DRX cycle known as iDRX for the
duration of the Ready timer as follows:
  * If a value for \'X\' was indicated by the PUAN received in packet transfer mode it will be used to determine the length of the iDRX where the value of \'X\' indicates one of the first 4 values of Table 7.1.1-1. Otherwise the device will default to using an iDRX cycle length of 8 51-multiframes (\~ 1.9 sec).
After completing a downlink packet transfer and entering packet idle mode a
device remains reachable using an iDRX cycle length of 32 51-multiframes (\~
7.5 sec).
The length of the Ready timer is indicated using the GPRS Timer IE of the
Routing Area Update Accept message as per legacy operation. A device starts
the Ready timer upon completing the transmission of an LLC PDU and as such,
upon entering packet idle mode it makes use of the iDRX mode for whatever time
remains for the Ready timer.
### 7.1.5 Reachability in Extended Uplink TBF mode
Upon completing an uplink transmission a device may enter Extended Uplink TBF
mode (according to legacy operation) where it monitors the DL PACCH
corresponding to its assigned PDTCH resources.
\- While in Extended Uplink TBF mode it monitors the downlink PACCH once every
8th instance of a 52-MF starting with the first 52-multiframe after the
52-multiframe in which it received the PUAN + mod (IMSI, 8) 52-multiframes.
\- If a value for \'X\' is indicated by the PUAN it will be used to determine
the number of downlink PACCH blocks to monitor while in Extended Uplink TBF
mode where \'X\' can indicate a value in the set {1, 2, 3, 4}. Otherwise the
device will default to using \'X\' = 1.
\- If there is a response to its uplink transmission (e.g. an application
layer ack) it receives a Packet Downlink Assignment message on the PACCH and
receives the application layer ack on the corresponding downlink TBF. When a
PDAN has been sent confirming reception of all downlink data blocks it will
release all TBF resources, enter packet Idle mode and remain reachable once
per iDRX cycle (see clause 2.2) for the duration of its Ready timer.
\- If it does not receive a matching PACCH message after \'X\' instances of
monitoring the PACCH then it will release the uplink TBF (using legacy
operation), enter packet Idle mode and remain reachable once per iDRX cycle
(see clause 2.2) for the duration of its Ready timer.
\- The network may initiate the release of the uplink TBF at any point during
Extended Uplink TBF mode as per legacy procedures. If this occurs prior to
\'X\' instances of monitoring the PACCH then it will release the uplink TBF
(using legacy operation), enter packet Idle mode and remain reachable once per
iDRX cycle (see clause 2.2) for the duration of its Ready timer.
## 7.2 One Phase Access Requests from MTC Devices
A MTC device attempting system access in a cell that supports power efficient
operationwill send an EGPRS Packet Channel Request using the code point
\'100\' as shown, for example, in Table 7.2-1 below. This allows the BSS to
manage such devices with the knowledge that they may support a different set
of features compared to legacy devices or even other types of MTC devices. In
addition, the use of this code point allows the BSS to realize it has received
an access request from a device requiring power efficient operation in which
case uplink TBF establishment will be performed using a one phase access (i.e.
the use of the legacy One Phase Access Request code does not mandate that the
BSS make use of a one phase access).
Table 7.2-1: EGPRS PACKET CHANNEL REQUEST message content
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \ ::= | | | | \ | | | | \ | | | | \ > | | | | \| \ | | | | \ | | | | \ > | | | | \| \ | | | | \ | | | | \ > | | | | \| \ | | | | \ > | | | | \| \ > | | | | \| \ > | | | | \| \ > | | | | \| \ > | | | | \| \ | | | | \ > | | | | \| \ > ; | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
## 7.3 Event-triggered neighbour cell measurement
### 7.3.1 Mechanism
To simplify the neighbour cells measurement in idle mode, measurements and
data reading of neighbour cells are not periodic but triggered by several
events as shown in Figure 7.3.1-1. The periodic measurements and data reading
of serving cell in measurements for cell re-selection is still performed as
legacy mechanism.
{width="6.5in" height="1.6340277777777779in"}
Figure 7.3.1-1: Optimized measurement
**_Event A:_** happens when the UE is reading PCH. The event could be PCH
decoding error (e.g. similar with the legacy Downlink Signalling Failure,
where the number of PCH decoding error will be based on an initial DSC value)
or the low signalling of serving cell.
**_Event B:_** happens when the UE is monitoring the BCCH data of serving
cell. The event could be decoding error or synchronization error for several
times.
When Event A/B happens, the neighbour cells measurement is triggered as
follows and shown in Figure 7.3.1-2.
  * Step 1: UE starts to monitor all BCCH carriers as indicated by the BA list (e.g. the frequency of monitoring could be the same as in cell selection), and get the 6 strongest neighbour cells. If it is the first time Event A/B happened, the UE identifies BSIC for 6 strongest neighbour cells. Else, the UE reconfirms BSIC for 6 strongest neighbour cells.
  * Step 2: If UE recognizes that a new BCCH carrier has become one of the 6 strongest, the UE should identify BSIC and decode BCCH data for the new BCCH carrier.
  * Step 3: If there is no new BCCH carrier of the 6 strongest, the UE tries to read the BCCH data of the 6 strongest neighbour cells. If such events have happened before and the BCCH data of part or all of the 6 strongest neighbour cells have already been stored and valid, this step can be omitted.
After the above procedures, the MS can perform the reselection algorithm as
legacy mechanism.
Figure 7.3.1-2: Event-triggered neighbour cells measurement
TS 45.008 [12] and TS 44.018 [13] might need to be updated.
7.3.2 Evaluation
5 min frequency MT report is selected as a sample, and the evaluation period
is 1 day. The power consumption is calculated base on the parameters of
network triggered traffic model.
According to the table of energy consumptions for MS in idle mode in clause
6.4.1, and the following parameters are utilized in evaluation for legacy and
optimized measurement mechanism:
\- DRX cycle is 15 sec.
\- Two triggered events happen in 1 day and 1 hour measurements for neighbour
cells for each trigger are needed for a suitable cell re-selection.
Table 7.3.2-1: Power consumption in packet idle mode per day
* * *
Procedure Sub-procedure Operation Occurrence Energy consumption for each sub-
procedure\ Legacy: occasion number in 1 day Legacy: energy consumption in 1
day\ Optimized: occasion number in 1 day Optimized: energy consumption in 1
day\ (uJ) (uJ) (uJ)
Measurements for cell selection RF signal receiving Monitor BCCH carrier
Switch on or from non-service area into the service area 8184.00 1.00 8184.00
1.00 8184.00
                                       Identify BCCH carriers in the list                                                                           BSIC Identification                                                                                       1751.77                                      1.00                               1751.77                                1.00                                  1751.77
                                       Decode the full set of BCCH data of the serving cell                                                         Rx - 4 radio block                                                                                        1127.23                                      1.00                               1127.23                                1.00                                  1127.23
Measurements for cell re-selection Monitor of received signal level of serving
cell Monitor BCCH carrier DRX cycle 66.00 5760.00 380160.00 5760.00 380160.00
                                       Monitor BCCH data of the serving cell                                                                        Rx - One radio block                           Once every 30s                                             281.81                                       2880.00                            811603.58                              2880.00                               811603.58
                                       Monitor all BCCH carriers as indicated by the BA list                                                        Monitor BCCH carrier                           DRX cycle                                                  1056.00                                      5760.00                            6082560.00                             480.00                                506880.00
                                       Identify BSIC of 6 strongest Note1                                                                           BSIC Identification                            Once                                                       1051.06                                      1.00                               1051.06                                1.00                                  1051.06
                                       Reconfirm BSIC of 6 strongest                                                                                BSIC Reconfirmation                            Once every 30s                                             342.74                                       2880.00                            987085.44                              240.00                                82257.12
                                       Identify BSIC and decode BCCH data (only SI3) for the new BCCH carrier which become one of the 6 strongest   BSIC Identification and Rx - One radio block   Once every 1h                                              456.98                                       24.00                              10967.62                               2.00                                  913.97
                                       Decode BCCH data of 6 strongest (only SI3)                                                                   Rx - One radio block                           Once every 5min                                            1690.84                                      288.00                             486962.15                              24.00                                 40580.18
PCH reading Read PCH Rx - One radio block in serving cell DRX cycle 278.51
5760.00 1604199.17 5760.00 1604199.17
* * *
The power consumption comparison in packet idle mode between existing
specification and optimized procedure are shown in Table 7.3.2-2. The power
saving ratio is up to 59.5%.
Table 7.3.2-2: Power consumption comparison in packet idle mode per day
* * *
**Legacy power consumption (uJ)** **Optimized power consumption (uJ)** **Power
saving ratio** 11,652,789.83 4,715,845.89 59.5%
* * *
## 7.4 Requirements on Device reachability
### 7.4.1 General
In order to enable energy saving for MTC devices with infrequent reachability
the idle mode behaviour need to be changed, and the current specification
requirements on reachability and mobility need to be relaxed [10].
To exemplify how such reduced requirements could be applied, a set of
procedures referred to as \"Short Sync\" and \"Long Sync\" [11] are described.
It can be noted that these procedures can be used to quantify potential energy
savings in the study, but in terms of specification impact no details on exact
procedures are expected to be added to future specifications in order to
maximize freedom of implementation. Rather, the potential for power savings
that can be realized by using these procedures indicate that existing
specifications need relaxations in terms of reachability and mobility.
A device that supports power efficient operation (PEO) will make use of a
power saving state wherein reachability is supported using either the power
saving mode (PSM) feature or the extended DRX (eDRX) feature. A device that
supports PEO will perform the Routing Area Update procedure according to
legacy rules but will include information in the RAU Request indicating
whether it will be reachable using PSM (i.e. the existing T3324 IE is
included) or eDRX (i.e. a new IE indicating the preferred eDRX cycle length is
included) and thereby implicitly indicating its decision to operate using the
PEO feature.
The \"Short Sync\" and \"Long Sync\" procedures can be supported by a device
that supports the PEO feature but they require the current specification be
relaxed in terms of frequency of neighbour cell measurements (or no neighbour
cell measurements) and the selection of a cell for camping.
In the following clauses \"Short Sync\" and \"Long Sync\" procedures are
described to clarify potential device behaviour for the case of relaxed
requirements on device reachability and mobility. It should be noted that for
proper operation of uPoD devices in a routing area, eDRX will be deployed in
all cells in the Routing Area.
### 7.4.2 Short Sync procedure
#### 7.4.2.1 General
A device will only need to infrequently verify that its presently camped cell
continues to be a suitable cell (this is especially true when a device is
stationary/close to stationary). This verification can consist of a device
employing a lighter and faster version of synchronization termed the \"Short
Sync\" procedure, which is performed over a period of time spanning over N
consecutive bursts (where N ≥ 6 for normal scenarios). This procedure is used
when PSM, eDRX or even legacy DRX procedure is used. The basic principle of
the \"Short Sync\" procedure is to ensure a device is synchronized and
operating on a suitable cell just before a time of active
transmission/reception.
#### 7.4.2.2 Overview of short sync
As GSM systems are TDMA and FDMA based, ongoing time and frequency
synchronizations are necessary for proper transmission and reception of
information. While sleeping, a device does not transmit/receive any bursts so
the device local time and frequency base gradually drifts from the network
clock. As such, there is a need for a device that makes use of extended
periods of sleep (deep sleep) to periodically wake up to perform a short sync
to estimate and correct the time and frequency error that builds up over time.
When considering the case of eDRX based reachability a device will wake up
periodically to perform a short sync in addition to performing a short sync a
few slots (e.g. at least \'N\' bursts) ahead of the next scheduled nominal
paging group reception according to its eDRX cycle. Also, when considering the
case of autonomous mobile originated traffic the device will not know when the
next transmission time will occur and hence it needs to maintain a sufficient
time and frequency reference (synchronization) in order to improve the
probability of successfully performing short sync at the point of waking up to
transmit.
The periodicity of performing the short sync procedure is implementation
specific, determined by a device based on its knowledge of the rate at which
its time and frequency base drifts over time and the maximum error that it
allows to accumulate prior to correction.
The time period spanned when performing a short sync procedure is termed as a
\"short sync interval\" during which the device performs the following tasks:
\- The first task performed during the short sync interval consists of the
device correcting the frequency offset accumulated during its most recent
period of sleep.
\- During the short sync interval the device may also re-confirm the BSIC by
checking the Synchronization Burst (if it appears in the set of N bursts
received during the short sync interval) or by checking the training sequence
number using a received NB (normal burst) on the BCCH TS.
\- During the short sync interval the device also receives the [I,Q] samples
from the camped cell frequency and uses them to estimate the RSSI value and
from that it also verifies the C1/C2 criteria.
\- If the C1/C2 criterion is fulfilled, and the BSIC is re-confirmed, the
device can optionally further refine the frequency and time synchronization
and then proceed as follows:
> \- If the device makes use of extended DRX based reachability and has woken
> up a few slots ahead of the next scheduled paging block reception start
> time, a CCCH reading is scheduled (i.e. it schedules the reading of its
> nominal paging block determined according to its eDRX cycle).
>
> \- If the device has woken up due to PSM timer expiration or due to an
> autonomous mobile originating access, a RACH transmission is scheduled.
Ideally the synchronization, C1/C2 criteria checking and cell identification
are all performed within short sync interval consisting of N bursts (i.e. the
short sync interval is N*577 µsec long). The length of this short sync
interval is implementation specific but is estimated to vary between 3 to 10
ms.
It should be noted that the serving cell might not be the best cell to stay
camped on, but if the device manages to successfully perform the tasks
associated with the short sync interval it will be considered as a
sufficiently good cell to stay camped on. In other words, the net effect of
performing the short sync procedure is that a device confirms that the serving
cell continues to be suitable even if the serving cell may not be the best
cell. As such, only when the short sync procedure fails (i.e. the serving cell
is no longer suitable) will the device perform the long sync procedure which
includes neighbour cell measurements and possibly a subsequent cell
reselection.
#### 7.4.2.3 Serving Cell Verification when Short sync is employed
During the short sync interval a device tries to determine if it is still in
the same serving cell since the last time it performed a short sync (i.e. it
checks for the possibility of co-channel reception). Accordingly, it checks if
the TSC value is the same as when it last performed the short sync procedure.
It does this by either reading the TSC indicated by a Normal Burst (NB)
received on TS0 of the BCCH frequency or by decoding a SCH burst on TS0 of the
BCCH frequency and examining the BSIC value carried therein (i.e. the TSC
value is indicated by the base station colour code portion of the BSIC). The
device therefore confirms the current serving cell to be the same serving cell
as when it last performed the short sync procedure by matching its last
received TSC value to the TSC value received in a NB received on TS0 of the
TDMA frame structure or to the TSC value identified by reading the BSIC from
the SCH.
In addition, if the C1/C2 criterion is fulfilled then it verifies the TSC to
confirm there has been no change of serving cell and confirms that the signal
strength of the serving cell is still good enough to be camped on to monitor
CCCH or to send a report (e.g. as per the Mobile Autonomous Reporting or
Network Triggered Reporting cases) or send a Routing Area Update (RAU)
Request.
The device over time gets an understanding of its mobility or rate of
mobility. If any tasks performed during the short sync interval fail to be
performed successfully (see clause 7.4.2.2) then a long sync procedure (see
clause 7.4.3) and, whenever necessary, also a Cell Update or a Routing Area
Update will be performed. Hence depending on the mobility expected it may be
advisable for a device that makes use of eDRX based reachability to wake up
sufficiently long before the start of its next nominal paging group to allow
for a short sync procedure (that might fail), a subsequent long sync procedure
and a Routing Area Update to be performed. If the short sync procedure is
successful the device would go back to sleep for the remaining time before its
nominal paging group occurs according to its eDRX cycle.
A device that makes use of PSM based reachability where support for low
latency alarm reporting is required will, upon experiencing failure of the
short sync procedure, perform a long sync procedure and potentially a Routing
Area Update prior to sending its pending report. This therefore impacts the
latency associated with alarm reporting but is expected to occur very
infrequently given that little if any mobility is expected for a device that
requires low latency when sending alarm reports. Note that the short sync
procedure takes very little time in comparison to the long sync procedure.
#### 7.4.2.4 Mobility in Packet Transfer Mode
The serving cell used at TBF establishment is expected to be sufficient for
completing uplink/downlink data transmission without concern for the
possibility of cell change since relatively small volumes of payload are
expected to be transferred. As such, no neighbour cell measurements need to be
performed during packet transfer mode.
\- For the Mobile Autonomous Reporting case if the uplink transmission fails
(abnormal UL TBF release mainly due to link issues) then the device performs
the long sync procedure, finds a new cell and tries to send the payload again.
\- For the Network Triggered Reporting case the corresponding page response is
so short that the likelihood of UL TBF failure when sending the page response
is very low. But if it happens the device performs the long sync procedure,
finds a new cell and tries to send the page response again.
\- For the Network Triggered Reporting case, assuming the page response is
successful but the subsequent downlink transmission (used to send the trigger)
fails because a data block with FBI=1 is not received (i.e. T3190 expires,
abnormal DL TBF release), then the device performs the long sync procedure,
typically finds a new cell, does a cell update (since the Ready timer is
likely still running) and may therefore still receive the downlink payload in
the new cell (e.g. the application layer may timeout and resend the trigger).
\- For the Network Triggered Reporting case where the Page response and the
corresponding DL transmission (containing the trigger) are both successful but
the subsequent UL data transmission (user data payload) fails due to link
layer issues (PUAN is not received), the device performs the long sync
procedure, typically finds a new cell and tries to send the user data payload
again.
### 7.4.3 Long sync procedure
The long sync procedure is performed if any of the tasks performed during the
short sync interval fail to be performed successfully as stated in clause
7.4.2.2. In addition, there are other events that can trigger a device to
perform the long sync procedure:
\- PCH decoding error (see Event A of clause 7.3.1) which can occur even when
the short sync procedure is successfully completed. However, it is
implementation specific regarding when a PCH decoding error will trigger the
long sync procedure. For example, if a device successfully read its nominal
paging group during the previous eDRX cycle but fails to do so during the
current eDRX cycle then it may simply note the PCH decoding error and try
reading its nominal paging group in the next eDRX cycle.
\- BCCH decoding error (see Event B of clause 7.3.1) which can occur whenever
a device attempts to refresh its system information. However, it is
implementation specific regarding when a BCCH decoding error will trigger the
long sync procedure. The frequency with which MTC devices attempt to perform
system information refresh is expected to be substantially less than that of
legacy devices.
When performing the long sync procedure the device performs the RSSI scan of
several carriers (which may take into account already existing knowledge of
other carriers), searches for the FCCH on a selected carrier and attempts to
read TDMA FN information from the corresponding SCH as performed during the
initial cell selection task (i.e. it follows legacy procedures), which could
take from 2 to 5 seconds. As such, it is expected that the long sync procedure
will typically result in a cell reselection though it is possible that the
same serving may be identified as the best cell.
### 7.4.4 Energy consumption for long and short sync
As shown in Table 7.4.4-1 the long sync procedure consumes approximately 600
times more energy than the short sync procedure and it is therefore always
desirable to manage the sync up process with a short sync.
Table 7.4.4-1: Estimated time of short sync up and long sync up procedures
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Short and long sync | | | | up procedures | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Short Sync^1^ | Long Sync^2^ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Execution time | \~3 to 10 ms | \~2-5 sec | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Energy consumption | \~3*10^-3^ * 3.3* | \~ 2 * 3.3* | | per execution | 30*10^-3^ = 297 µJ | 30*10^-3^ = 198 mJ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Short sync | | | | is performed with | | | | the implementation | | | | assum | | | | ptions/optimizations | | | | as discussed in | | | | clause 7.4.2. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Long sync is | | | | performed assuming | | | | device has no | | | | knowledge of | | | | existing carriers | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 7.4.5 Specification Impact
The specifications impacted due to the introduction of the reduced
requirements on reachability and mobility for device that support Power
Efficient Operation are listed in Table 7.4.5-1.
Table 7.4.5-1: Specification Impact due to Reduced Reachability/Mobility
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Specification | Description | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | 45.008 | Relaxed requirements in idle mode and packet | | | transfer mode: | | | | | | > \- Continue to camp on the current serving cell | | | > as long as it remains suitable (TSC value | | | > confirmed, C1/C2 criterion is fulfilled) i.e. no | | | > neighbour cell measurements performed in packet | | | > idle mode as long as the serving cell remains | | | > suitable. | | | | | | - Serving cell used at TBF establishment expected | | | to be sufficient for completing uplink/downlink | | | data transmission i.e. no neighbour cell | | | measurements performed during packet transfer mode. | | | | | | - The periodicity for verifying the suitability of | | | the current serving cell is implementation | | | specific. It is determined by a device based on its | | | knowledge of the rate at which its time and | | | frequency base drifts over time and the maximum | | | error that it allows to accumulate prior to | | | correction. | | | | | | - Performing neighbour cell measurements only when | | | the current serving cell is no longer considered to | | | be suitable. | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | 51.010 [14] | Mobile Station conformance specification | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
# 8 Conclusions
MTC device energy consumption has been analysed for the Packet Idle mode, Data
Transfer (MAR and NTR) and the RAU procedures as described in clauses 6.4.1,
6.4.2 and 6.4.3 respectively. The energy consumption values for these
procedures have been used as building blocks for evaluating battery lifetime
for different reporting intervals and data volumes per report. It has been
concluded that eDRX based device reachability provides a definite advantage
over PSM based reachability in the range of approximately 30 seconds to 45
minutes as shown in Figures 7.1.2-1 and 7.1.2-2 whereas either form of
reachability would be suitable beyond 45 minutes. As such, it can be concluded
that substantial device energy savings can be realized for MTC devices,
compared to legacy mobile station operation, using eDRX (in the 30 second to
45 minute range of reachability) along with optimized idle mode behaviour and
relaxed mobility requirements described in clauses 7.4.1 and 7.4.2. A
corresponding work item for introducing an eDRX feature for GSM is therefore
proposed as a follow up to this study item.
#