# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies speech and audio media capabilities, operation
points and media profiles for 5G Media Streaming in the context of 3GPP
services and deployments. Speech and audio media capabilities, operation
points and media profiles are also provided for usage in other streaming
applications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.501: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); General description and
architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.071: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions; AMR
Speech CODEC; General description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.090: \"Mandatory Speech Codec speech processing functions;
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.073: \"ANSI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate (AMR) speech
codec\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.104: \"ANSI‑C code for the floating-point Adaptive Multi Rate
(AMR) speech codec\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.093: \"Mandatory speech codec speech processing functions;
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec; Source controlled rate operation\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.171: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; General description\".
[9] 3GPP TS 26.190: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Transcoding functions\".
[10] 3GPP TS 26.173: \"ANCI-C code for the Adaptive Multi Rate - Wideband
(AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.204: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; ANSI-C code\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.193: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Source controlled rate
operation\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.441: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); General
Overview\".
[14] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 26.445: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Detailed
Algorithmic Description\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.446: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) backward compatible functions\".
[18] 3GPP TS 26.450: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Discontinuous
Transmission (DTX)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 26.401: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; General description\".
[20] 3GPP TS 26.402: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Additional decoder tools\".
[21] 3GPP TS 26.403: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder specification; Advanced Audio
Coding (AAC) part\".
[22] 3GPP TS 26.404: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Enhanced aacPlus encoder Spectral Band
Replication (SBR) part\".
[23] 3GPP TS 26.405: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Encoder specification parametric stereo
part\".
[24] 3GPP TS 26.410: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Floating-point ANSI-C code\".
[25] 3GPP TS 26.411: \"General audio codec audio processing functions;
Enhanced aacPlus general audio codec; Fixed-point ANSI-C code\".
[26] 3GPP TS 26.290: \"Audio codec processing functions; Extended Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB+) codec; Transcoding functions\".
[27] 3GPP TS 26.304: \"Extended Adaptive Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB+)
codec; Floating-point ANSI-C code\".
[28] 3GPP TS 26.273: \"ANSI-C code for the fixed-point Extended Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB+) speech codec\".
[29] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end streaming service; 3GPP file
format (3GP)\".
[30] ISO/IEC 23000-19:2019 \"Information Technology Multimedia Application
Format (MPEG-A) -- Part 19: Common Media Application Format (CMAF) for
segmented media\".
[31] ISO/IEC 23009-1:2019/Amd.1:2020: \"Information technology -- Dynamic
adaptive streaming over HTTP (DASH) -- Part 1: Media presentation description
and segment formats.\"
[32] CTA-5003: \"Web Application Video Ecosystem (WAVE): Device Playback
Capabilities Specification\" available here
https://cdn.cta.tech/cta/media/media/resources/standards/pdfs/cta-5003-final.pdf.
[33] 3GPP TS 26.244: \"Transparent end-to-end streaming service; 3GPP file
format (3GP)\".
[34] 3GPP TS 26.452: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code;
Alternative fixed-point using updated basic operators\".
[35] 3GPP TS 26.447: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Error
concealment of lost packets\".
[36] 3GPP TS 26.511: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Profiles, Codecs and
Formats\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Bitstream:** A media bitstream that conforms to an audio/speech encoding
format and certain Operation Point.
**Media Profile** : A combination of a Bitstream encapsulated into a media
container suitable for 5G Media Streaming Delivery.
**Operation Point:** A collection of discrete combinations of different
content formats and the encoding format.
**Receiver:** A receiver that can decode and render any bitstream that is
conforming to a certain Operation Point.
**Sender:** An entity that can process and encode formats associated to an
Operation Point.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AAC Advanced Audio Coding
ABR Adaptive BitRate
AMR Adaptive MultiRate
CMAF Common Media Application Format
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
ISO BMFF ISO Based Media File Format
HTTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
SBR Spectral Band Replication
URN Universal Resource Name
WAVE Web Application Video Ecosystem
# 4 Overview
The speech and audio media capabilities defined in this specification are
primarily introduced in order to be used as content format in the context of
5G Media Streaming, but not restricted to this use case. Parameters for audio
encoder/decoder, content format and transport are defined.
The present document defines:
\- Media decoding capabilities: the requirements for a receiver in terms of
decoding
\- Media encoding capabilities: the requirements for a sender in terms of
encoding
\- Operation Points: A collection of discrete combinations of different
content formats and the encoding formats. Operation Points are supported by
\- Bitstream Requirements: A media bitstream that conforms to an audio or
speech encoding format and certain Operation Point.
\- Receiver Requirements: A function that can decode and playback any
Bitstream that is conforming to a certain Operation Point in real-time.
\- Sender Requirements: A function that can process and encode any Bitstream
that is conforming to a certain Operation Point in real-time.
**\- The integration of each Operation Point in 5G Media Streaming as defined
in TS 26.501 [2] and TS 26.511 [36].**
# 5 Media Capabilities
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause documents speech and audio media capabilities in terms of decoding
capabilities.
## 5.2 Decoding Capabilities
The following speech media decoding capabilities are defined:
\- _AMR_ : All decoding requirements for the AMR speech codec as specified in
3GPP TS 26.071 [3], 3GPP TS 26.090 [4], 3GPP TS 26.073 [5] and 3GPP TS 26.104
[6]) including all 8 modes and source-controlled rate operation ‎3GPP TS
26.093 [7].
\- _AMR-WB_ : All decoding requirements for the AMR-WB codec as specified in
3GPP TS 26.171 ‎‎[8], 3GPP TS 26.190 ‎[9], 3GPP TS 26.173 ‎[10] and 3GPP TS
26.204 [11] including all 9 modes and source-controlled rate operation ‎3GPP
TS 26.193 [12].
\- _EVS_ : All decoding requirements for the EVS codec as specified in 3GPP TS
26.441 [13], 3GPP TS 26.445 [16], 3GPP TS 26.442 [14] and 3GPP TS 26.443 [15]
as described below including functions for backwards compatibility with AMR-WB
(3GPP TS 26.446 [17]) and discontinuous transmission (3GPP TS 26.450 [18]).
The following audio media decoding capabilities are defined:
\- _eAAC+_ : All decoding requirements for the eAAC+ audio codec as specified
in 3GPP TS 26.401 [19], 3GPP TS 26.402 [20], 3GPP TS 26.410 [24] and 3GPP TS
26.411 [25].
\- _AMR-WB+_ : All decoding requirements for the AMR-WB+ audio codec as
specified in 3GPP TS 26.290 ‎‎[26], 3GPP TS 26.304 ‎[27] and 3GPP TS 26.273
[28].
## 5.3 Encoding Capabilities
The following speech media encoding capabilities are defined:
\- _AMR_ : The encoding requirements for the AMR speech codec as specified in
3GPP TS 26.401 [19], clause 7, as well as 3GPP TS 26.403 [21], 3GPP TS 26.404
[22] and 3GPP TS 26.405 [23].
\- _AMR-WB_ : The encoding requirements for the AMR-WB by one of the following
methods:
\- according to 3GPP TS 26.173 ‎[10]
\- according to 3GPP TS 26.204 [11];
\- the AMR-WB IO mode according to TS 26.442 [14] and TS 26.443 [15],
> \- the AMR-WB IO mode according to TS 26.452 [34].
\- _EVS_ : The encoding requirements for the EVS codec by one of the following
methods:
> \- TS 26.442 [14] and TS 26.443 [15] encoding functions; or
>
> \- TS 26.452 [34] encoding functions.
The following audio media encoding capabilities are defined:
\- _eAAC+_ : The encoding requirements for the AAC+ audio codec as specified
3GPP TS 26.401 [19], clause 7, as well as 3GPP TS 26.403 [21], 3GPP TS 26.404
[22] and 3GPP TS 26.405 [23].
\- _AMR-WB+_ : The encoding requirements for the AMR-WB+ audio codec by one of
the following methods
> \- according to 3GPP TS 26.273 [28]; or
>
> \- according to 3GPP TS 26.304 [27].
# 6 Operation Points
## 6.1 Introduction
The speech and audio Operation Points defined in this clause are primarily
introduced in order to be used as content format in the context of 5G Media
Streaming, but not restricted to this use case.
An operation point is a combination of rendering formats and media decoding
capabilities.
For each Operation Point, Bitstream and Receiver requirements are detailed in
the remainder of clause 6.
Table 6.1 provides an overview of the Operation Points defined in the present
document.
Table 6.1: Speech and Audio Operation Points
* * *
Operation Point name Format Properties Decoding and Encoding Capabilities
Reference AMR speech Sampling frequency: 8 kHz _AMR_ 6.2.2 AMR-WB speech
Sampling frequency: 16 kHz _AMR-WB_ 6.2.3 EVS mono Sampling frequency: 8, 16,
32, 48 kHz _EVS_ 6.2.4 eAAC+ stereo Sampling frequency: 32, 44.1, 48 kHz
_eAAC+_ 6.3.2 AMR-WB+ Sampling frequency: 8, 16, 32, 48 kHz _AMR-WB+_ 6.3.3
* * *
## 6.2 Speech Operation Points
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines speech operation points. For each operation point, the
requirements for the bitstream as well as for the receiver are defined.
### 6.2.2 AMR
#### 6.2.2.1 Bitstream Encoding Requirements
The following requirements apply to the **AMR** Operation Point.
\- The sampling frequency shall be 8 kHz.
\- The bitstream shall be encoded according to either 3GPP TS 26.073 [5] or
3GPP TS 26.104 [6].
Note that the bitstream produced by the AMR encoder consists of 20ms encoded
speech frames.
#### 6.2.2.2 Receiver Requirements
Receivers conforming to the **AMR** Operation Point shall support the _AMR
speech media decoding capability according to clause 5.2 and shall support
playback of the decoded signal_.
#### 6.2.2.3 Sender Requirements
Senders conforming to the **AMR** Operation Point shall support the _AMR
speech media encoding capability according to clause 5.3 in real-time for any
speech source format with sampling frequency 8kHz_.
### 6.2.3 AMR-WB
#### 6.2.3.1 Bitstream Requirements
The following requirements apply to the **AMR-WB** Operation Point.
\- The sampling frequency shall be 16 kHz.
\- The bitstream shall be encoded by one of the following methods:
\- according to 3GPP TS 26.173 ‎[10]
\- according to 3GPP TS 26.204 [11];
\- the AMR-WB IO mode according to TS 26.442 [14] and TS 26.443 [15],
\- the AMR-WB IO mode according to TS 26.452 [34].
Note that the bitstream produced by the AMR-WB encoder consists of 20 ms
encoded speech frames.
#### 6.2.3.2 Receiver Requirements
Receivers conforming to the **AMR-WB** Operation Point shall support the _AMR-
WB speech media decoding capability according to clause 5.2 and shall support
playback of the decoded signal_.
#### 6.2.3.3 Sender Requirements
Senders conforming to the **AMR-WB** Operation Point shall support the _AMR-WB
speech media encoding capability according to clause 5.3 in real-time for any
speech source format with sampling frequency 16kHz_.
### 6.2.4 EVS
#### 6.2.4.1 Bitstream Encoding Requirements
The following requirements apply to the **EVS** Operation Point:
\- The sampling frequency shall be one of the following: 8, 16, 32, 48 kHz.
\- The bitstream shall be encoded according to one of the following methods
> \- TS 26.442 [14] and TS 26.443 [15] encoding functions; or
>
> \- TS 26.452 [34] encoding functions.
Note that the bitstream produced by the EVS encoder consists of 20ms encoded
speech frames.
#### 6.2.4.2 Receiver Requirements
Receivers conforming to the **EVS** Operation Point shall support the _EVS
speech media decoding capability according to clause 5.2 and shall support
playback of the decoded signal_.
#### 6.2.4.3 Sender Requirements
Senders conforming to the **EVS** Operation Point shall support the _EVS
speech media encoding capability according to clause 5.3 in real-time for any
speech source format with sampling frequency_ 8, 16, 32, 48 kHz.
## 6.3 Audio Operation Points
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This clause defines audio operation points. For each operation point, the
requirements for the bitstream as well as for the receiver are defined.
### 6.3.2 eAAC+ stereo
#### 6.3.2.1 Bitstream Encoding Requirements
The following requirements apply to the **eAAC+ stereo** Operation Point.
\- The sampling frequency shall be either 32 kHz, 44.1 kHz or 48 kHz.
\- The bitstream shall be encoded according to 3GPP TS 26.401 [19], clause 7,
as well as 3GPP TS 26.403 [21], 3GPP TS 26.404 [22] and 3GPP TS 26.405 [23].
NOTE: The specified eAAC+ encoder consists of AAC-LC with additional tools
that can be enabled (SBR, PS and more), see [19].
#### 6.3.2.2 Receiver Requirements
Receivers conforming to the **eAAC+ stereo** Operation Point shall support the
_**eAAC+** media decoding capability according to clause 5.2 and shall support
playback of the decoded signal_.
> NOTE: The eAAC+ decoder supports decoding of streams encoded with AAC-LC or
> aacPlus, see [19].
#### 6.3.2.3 Sender Requirements
Senders conforming to the **eAAC+ stereo** Operation Point shall support the
_eAAC+ stereo audio media encoding capability according to clause 5.3 in real-
time for any stereo audio source format with sampling frequency_ 32kHz,
44.1kHz, 48kHz.
### 6.3.3 AMR-WB+
#### 6.3.3.1 Bitstream Encoding Requirements
The following requirements apply to the **AMR-WB+** Operation Point.
\- The sampling frequency shall be either 8, 16, 32 or 48 kHz.
\- The bitstream shall be encoded by one of the following methods
> \- according to 3GPP TS 26.273 [28]; or
>
> \- according to 3GPP TS 26.304 [27].
#### 6.3.3.2 Receiver Requirements
Receivers conforming to the **AMR-WB+** Operation Point shall support the
_**AMR-WB+** media decoding capability according to clause 5.2 and shall
support playback of the decoded signal_.
#### 6.3.3.3 Sender Requirements
Senders conforming to the **AMR-WB+** Operation Point shall support the _AMR-
WB+ audio media encoding capability according to clause 5.3 in real-time for
any stereo audio source format with sampling frequency_ 8, 16, 32 or 48 kHz.
# 7 Mapping to 5GMS delivery
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause defines the mapping of the Operation Points as defined in clause 6
to 5G Media Streaming delivery. In particular the following aspects are
addressed:
\- Encapsulation of a bitstream into an ISO BMFF track.
\- Definition of media content and receivers conforming to media profile
including:
\- Encapsulation of a bitstream into a CMAF track
\- Providing the content in a CMAF Switching Set
\- Mapping to DASH-based distribution
\- Playback Requirements for a receiver conforming to this media profile
## 7.2 AMR Media Profile
### 7.2.1 Mapping to ISO BMFF
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR** and is encapsulated
in the ISO BMFF, then the file format track shall conform to the requirements
of the codec entry \'samr\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29].
### 7.2.2 Media Profile Definition
#### 7.2.2.1 CMAF Track Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR** and is encapsulated
in a CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall conform to the requirements of the
codec entry \'samr\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29], the general CMAF Track
constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 7 as well as the general audio
track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10.
#### 7.2.2.2 CMAF Switching Set and Media Profile Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR** and is provided in
a CMAF Switching Set, then every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall
conform to the requirements of the codec entry \'samr\' as defined in TS
26.244 [29], the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19
[30], clause 7 as well as the general CMAF audio track Switching Set
constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10. A CMAF Switching Set
following these requirements is defined as the CMAF AMR media profile
\'camr\'.
#### 7.2.2.3 Mapping to DASH Adaptation Set
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR** and is provided in
a DASH Media Presentation in an Adaptation Set, then the Adaptation Set shall
conform to the DASH profile for CMAF as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1 [31]. The
following parameters shall be present on Adaptation Set level and set:
\- \@codecs is set to \'samr\'
\- \@mimeType is set to be compatible with \"audio/mp4 profiles=\'camr\'\"
\- \@audioSamplingRate is set to \'8000\'
If the Adaptation Set conforms to the constraints for the **AMR** Operation
Point as defined in this clause, then the \@profiles parameter in the
Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Media Profile by using
\"urn:3GPP:audio:mp:amr\".
#### 7.2.2.4 Playback Requirements
For a receiver supporting the **AMR** media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the receiver requirements as documented in clause 6.2.2.2
for any CMAF Track conforming to the CMAF **AMR** media profile \'camr\' as
defined in clause 7.2.2.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF **AMR** media profile \'camr\' as defined in clause
7.2.2.2, namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [29] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF AMR media profile \'camr\' as defined in clause 7.2.2.2,
namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
#### 7.2.2.5 Content Generation Requirements
For a transmitter supporting the AMR media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support all media encoding capabilities for AMR as defined in
clause 5.3.
\- It shall support the sender requirements for AMR as defined in clause
6.2.2.3.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track as defined in clause
7.2.2.2 that conforms to the CMAF Media Profile \'camr\' as defined in clause
7.2.2.3.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 7.2.2.4.
## 7.3 AMR-WB Media Profile
### 7.3.1 Mapping to ISO BMFF
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB** and is
encapsulated in the ISO BMFF, then the file format track shall conform to the
requirements of the codec entry \'sawb\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29].
### 7.3.2 Media Profile Definition
#### 7.3.2.1 CMAF Track Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB** and is
encapsulated in a CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall conform to the
requirements of the codec entry \'sawb\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29], the
general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7 as well as the
general audio track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10.
#### 7.3.2.2 CMAF Switching Set and Media Profile Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB** and is provided
in a CMAF Switching Set, then every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall
conform to the requirements of the codec entry \'sawb\' as defined in TS
26.244 [29], the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19
[30], clause 7 as well as the general CMAF audio track Switching Set
constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10. A CMAF Switching Set
following these requirements is defined as the CMAF AMR-WB media profile
\'camw\'.
#### 7.3.2.3 Mapping to DASH Adaptation Set
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB** and is provided
in a DASH Media Presentation in an Adaptation Set, then the Adaptation Set
shall conform to the DASH profile for CMAF as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1 [31].
The following parameters shall be present on Adaptation Set level and set:
\- \@codecs is set to \'sawb\'
\- \@mimeType is set to be compatible with \"audio/mp4 profiles=\'camw\'\"
\- \@audioSamplingRate is set to \'16000\'
If the Adaptation Set conforms to the constraints for the **AMR-WB** Operation
Point as defined in this clause, then the \@profiles parameter in the
Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Media Profile by using
\"urn:3GPP:audio:mp:amr-wb\".
#### 7.3.2.4 Playback Requirements
For a receiver supporting the AMR-WB media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the receiver requirements as documented in clause 6.2.3.2
for any CMAF Track conforming to the CMAF AMR-WB media profile \'camw\' as
defined in clause 7.3.2.2.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF AMR-WB media profile \'camw\' as defined in clause
7.3.2.2, namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF AMR-WB media profile \'camw\' as defined in clause
7.3.2.2, namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
#### 7.3.2.5 Content Generation Requirements
For a transmitter supporting the AMR-WB media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support all media encoding capabilities for AMR-WB as defined in
clause 5.3.
\- It shall support the sender requirements for AMR-WB as defined in clause
6.2.3.3.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track as defined in clause
7.3.2.2 that conforms to the CMAF Media Profile \'camw\' as defined in clause
7.3.2.3.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 7.3.2.4.
## 7.4 EVS Media Profile
### 7.4.1 Mapping to ISO BMFF
If media is provided following the operation point **EVS** and is encapsulated
in the ISO BMFF, then the file format track shall conform to the requirements
of the codec entry \'sevs\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29].
### 7.4.2 Media Profile Definition
#### 7.4.2.1 CMAF Track Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **EVS** and is encapsulated
in a CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall conform to the requirements of the
codec entry \'sevs\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29], the general CMAF Track
constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 7 as well as the general audio
track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10.
#### 7.4.2.2 CMAF Switching Set and Media Profile Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **EVS** and is provided in
a CMAF Switching Set, then every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall
conform to the requirements of the codec entry \'sevs\' as defined in TS
26.244 [29], the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19
[30], clause 7 as well as the general CMAF audio track Switching Set
constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10. A CMAF Switching Set
following these requirements is defined as the CMAF EVS media profile
\'cevs\'.
#### 7.4.2.3 Mapping to DASH Adaptation Set
If media is provided following the operation point **EVS** and is provided in
a DASH Media Presentation in an Adaptation Set, then the Adaptation Set shall
conform to the DASH profile for CMAF as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1 [31]. The
following parameters shall be present on Adaptation Set level and set:
\- \@codecs is set to \'sevs\'
\- \@mimeType is set to be compatible with \"audio/mp4 profiles=\'cevs\'\"
\- \@audioSamplingRate is set to one of the following: \'8000\', \'16000\',
\'24000\', \'32000\'
If the Adaptation Set conforms to the constraints for the **EVS** Operation
Point as defined in this clause, then the \@profiles parameter in the
Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Media Profile by using
\"urn:3GPP:audio:mp:evs.
#### 7.4.2.4 Playback Requirements
For a receiver supporting the EVS media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the receiver requirements as documented in clause 6.2.4.2
for any CMAF Track conforming to the CMAF EVS media profile \'cevs\' as
defined in clause 7.4.2.2.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF EVS media profile \'cevs\' as defined in clause 7.4.2.2,
namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF EVS media profile \'cevs\' as defined in clause 7.2.2.2,
namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
#### 7.4.2.5 Content Generation Requirements
For a transmitter supporting the EVS media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support all media encoding capabilities for EVS as defined in
clause 5.3.
\- It shall support the sender requirements for EVS as defined in clause
6.2.4.3.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track as defined in clause
7.4.2.1 that conforms to the CMAF Media Profile \'cevs\' as defined in clause
7.4.2.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 7.4.2.4.
## 7.5 void
## 7.6 eAAC+ stereo Media Profile
#### 7.6.2.1 CMAF Track Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **eAAC+ stereo** and is
encapsulated in a CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall conform to the
requirements of the codec entry \'mp4a\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29], the
general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 7, the general
audio track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10 as well as
AAC core constraints in clause 10 of ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30].
#### 7.6.2.2 CMAF Switching Set and Media Profile Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **eAAC+ stereo** and is
provided in a CMAF Switching Set, then every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching
Set shall conform to the requirements of the codec entry \'mp4a\' as defined
in TS 26.244 [29], the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [30], clause 7, the general CMAF audio track Switching Set
constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10 as well as the AAC
core Switching Set constraints in clause 10 of ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30]. A CMAF
Switching Set following these requirements is defined as the CMAF eAAC+ stereo
media profile \'ceac\'.
#### 7.6.2.3 Mapping to DASH Adaptation Set
If media is provided following the operation point **eAAC+ stereo** and is
provided in a DASH Media Presentation in an Adaptation Set, then the
Adaptation Set shall conform to the DASH profile for CMAF as defined in
ISO/IEC 23009-1 [31]. The following parameters shall be present on Adaptation
Set level and set:
\- \@codecs is set to \'mp4a\'
\- \@mimeType is set to be compatible with \"audio/mp4 profiles=\'ceac\'\"
\- \@audioSamplingRate is set to \'32000\',\'44100\', or \'48000\'
If the Adaptation Set conforms to the constraints for the **eAAC+ stereo**
Operation Point as defined in this clause, then the \@profiles parameter in
the Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Media Profile by using
\"urn:3GPP:audio:mp:eAAC+ \".
#### 7.6.2.4 Playback Requirements
For a receiver supporting the **eAAC+ stereo** media profile the following
applies:
\- It shall support the receiver requirements as documented in clause 6.3.1.2
for any CMAF Track conforming to the CMAF eAAC+ stereo media profile \'ceac\'
as defined in clause 7.6.2.2.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF eAAC+ media profile \'ceac\' as defined in clause
7.6.2.2, namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF AMR-WB media profile \'ceac\' as defined in clause
7.6.2.2, namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
#### 7.6.2.5 Content Generation Requirements
For a transmitter supporting the eAAC+ stereo media profile the following
applies:
\- It shall support all media encoding capabilities for eAAC+ stereo as
defined in clause 5.3.
\- It shall support the sender requirements for eAAC+ stereo as defined in
clause 6.6.2.3.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track as defined in clause
7.6.2.2 that conforms to the CMAF Media Profile \'ceac\' as defined in clause
7.6.2.3.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 7.6.2.4.
## 7.7 AMR-WB+ Media Profiles
### 7.7.1 Mapping to ISO BMFF
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB+** and is
encapsulated in the ISO BMFF, then the file format track shall conform to the
requirements of the codec entry \'sawp\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29].
### 7.7.2 Media Profile Definition
#### 7.7.2.1 CMAF Track Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB+** and is
encapsulated in a CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall conform to the
requirements of the codec entry \'sawp\' as defined in TS 26.244 [29], the
general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 7 as well as
the general audio track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 10.
#### 7.7.2.2 CMAF Switching Set and Media Profile Definition
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB+** and is provided
in a CMAF Switching Set, then every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall
conform to the requirements of the codec entry \'sawp\' as defined in TS
26.244 [29], the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19
[30], clause 7 as well as the general CMAF audio track Switching Set
constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [30], clause 10. A CMAF Switching Set
following these requirements is defined as the CMAF AMR-WB+ media profile
\'camp\'.
#### 7.7.2.3 Mapping to DASH Adaptation Set
If media is provided following the operation point **AMR-WB+** and is provided
in a DASH Media Presentation in an Adaptation Set, then the Adaptation Set
shall conform to the DASH profile for CMAF as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1 [31].
The following parameters shall be present on Adaptation Set level and set:
\- \@codecs is set to \'sawp\'
\- \@mimeType is set to be compatible with \"audio/mp4 profiles=\'camp\'\"
\- \@audioSamplingRate is set to any of the following values: \'8000\',
\'16000\', \'32000\', or \'38400\'
If the Adaptation Set conforms to the constraints for the **AMR-WB+**
Operation Point as defined in this clause, then the \@profiles parameter in
the Adaptation Set may signal conformance to this Media Profile by using
\"urn:3GPP:audio:mp:amr-wb+\".
#### 7.7.2.4 Playback Requirements
For a receiver supporting the AMR-WB+ media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the receiver requirements as documented in clause 6.3.2.2
for any CMAF Track conforming to the CMAF AMR-WB+ stereo media profile
\'camp\' as defined in clause 7.7.2.2.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF AMR-WB media profile \'camp\' as defined in clause
7.7.2.2, namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [32] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set according to CMAF AMR-WB media profile \'camp\' as defined in clause
7.7.2.2, namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
#### 7.7.2.5 Content Generation Requirements
For a transmitter supporting the AMR-WB+ media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support all media encoding capabilities for AMR-WB+ stereo as
defined in clause 5.3.
\- It shall support the sender requirements for AMR-WB+ as defined in clause
6.3.3.3.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track as defined in clause
7.7.2.2 that conforms to the CMAF Media Profile \'cawp\' as defined in clause
7.7.2.3.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 7.7.2.4.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Registration Information
# A.1 3GPP Registered URIs
The clause documents the registered URIs in the present document following the
process in http://www.3gpp.org/specifications-groups/34-uniform-resource-name-
urn-list
Table A-1 lists all registered URN values as well as:
\- a brief description of its functionality;
\- a reference to the specification or other publicly available document (if
any) containing the definition;
\- the name and email address of the person making the application; and
\- any supplementary information considered necessary to support the
application.
> Table A-1: 3GPP Registered URNs
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | URN | Description | Reference | Contact | Remarks | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | urn:3GPP: | AMR Media | TS 26.117, | Thomas | none | | audio:mp:amr | Profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | | | 7.2.2.3 | | | | | | | tsto\@qti. | | | | | | qualcomm.com | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | urn:3GPP:aud | AMR-WB Media | TS 26.117, | Thomas | none | | io:mp:amr-wb | Profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | | | 7.3.2.3 | | | | | | | tsto\@qti. | | | | | | qualcomm.com | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | urn:3GPP: | EVS Media | TS 26.117, | Thomas | none | | audio:mp:evs | Profile | clause | Stockhammer | | | | | 7.4.2.3 | | | | | | | tsto\@qti. | | | | | | qualcomm.com | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | urn:3GPP:au | eAAC+ stereo | TS 26.117, | Thomas | none | | dio:mp:eAAC+ | Media | clause | Stockhammer | | | | Profile | 7.6.2.3 | | | | | | | tsto\@qti. | | | | | | qualcomm.com | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+ | u | AMR-WB+ | TS 26.117, | Thomas | none | | rn:3GPP:audi | Media | clause | Stockhammer | | | o:mp:amr-wb+ | Profile | 7.7.2.3 | | | | | | | tsto\@qti. | | | | | | qualcomm.com | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+---------+
#