# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document specifies minimum performance requirements for the
transmission planning aspects of 3G speech and multi-media services.
The objective is to reach a quality as close as possible to ITU‑T standards
for PSTN circuits. However, due to technical and economic factors, there
cannot be full compliance with the general characteristics of international
telephone connections and circuits recommended by the ITU‑T.
The performance requirements are specified the main body of the text; the test
methods and considerations are described in [tbd].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies minimum performance requirements for the
gateway echo control of 3G speech and multi-media services. The present
document is applicable to any narrow band speech telephony or multimedia
service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU‑T Recommendation G.114 (2000): \"One-way transmission time\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation G.168 (2000): \"Digital network echo cancellers\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation G.131 (1996): \"Control of talker echo\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.703 (1998): \"Physical/electrical characteristics
of hierarchical digital interfaces\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation G.711 (1988): \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ADC Analogue to Digital Converter
DAC Digital to Analogue Converter
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
EC Echo Canceller
EEC Electrical Echo Control
EL Echo Loss
ERL Echo Return Loss
ERLE Echo Return Loss Enhancement
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
POI Point of Interconnection (with PSTN)
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
TCL Terminal Coupling Loss
TX Transmission
# 4 Interfaces
The POI with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) will generally be at
the 2 048 kbits/ level at an interface in accordance with ITU‑T Recommendation
G.703 [4]/G.704 or STM1 155Mbit/s. At this point, which is considered to have
a relative level of 0 dBr, the analogue signals will be represented by 8‑bit
A‑law or μ-law according to ITU‑T Recommendation G.711 [5]. Analogue
measurements may be made at this point using a standard send and receive side,
as defined in ITU‑T Recommendations.
# 5 Narrow Band Speech Telephony Network Echo Control
## 5.1 GSTN Network Echo Cancellation
Narrow band speech calls from the 3G mobile system to the public GSTN are
terminated on local switch line cards where two to four wire conversion takes
place. The hybrid used to carry out this function is never perfect and echo is
generated which degrades the speech call quality for the 3G mobile user. To
overcome this situation an echo cancellation device should be used at the
gateway from the 3G mobile network to the GSTN. This echo control device shall
conform to ITU-T G.168 [2].
NOTE: Acoustic Echo Control: Narrow band speech calls from the 3G mobile
network to the public GSTN involve a high delay. The only echo path that is
audible to the GSTN user is the acoustic echo path in the UE. To overcome this
echo a Terminal Coupling Loss (TCL) of 46dB should be achieved by the
terminal. This provides adequate echo protection for calls up to a delay of
300ms as defined by ITU-T Recommendation G.131 [3].
#