# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The present document is an introduction to the speech processing parts of the
wideband telephony speech service employing the Adaptive Multi-Rate Wideband
(AMR-WB) speech coder within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
> Version x.y.z
>
> where:
>
> x the first digit:
>
> 1 presented to TSG for information;
>
> 2 presented to TSG for approval;
>
> 3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
>
> y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
> technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
>
> z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
> incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the adaptive
multi-rate wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec. These sequences test for a bit-
exact implementation of the adaptive multi-rate wideband (AMR-WB) speech
transcoder (TS 26.190 [2]), voice activity detection (TS 26.194 [5]), comfort
noise (TS 26.192 [3]), and source controlled rate operation (TS 26.193 [4]).
# 2 Normative references
This TS incorporates by dated and undated reference, provisions from other
publications. These normative references are cited at the appropriate places
in the text and the publications are listed hereafter. For dated references,
subsequent amendments to or revisions of any of these publications apply to
this TS only when incorporated in it by amendment or revision. For undated
references, the latest edition of the publication referred to applies.
> [1] 3GPP TS 26.201: \"AMR wideband speech codec; Frame structure\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 26.202: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Interface to RAN\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 26.190 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Transcoding functions\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 26.193: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
> operation\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 26.194: \"AMR wideband speech codec; Voice Activity Detection
> (VAD)\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 26.201: \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Frame structure\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 26.173 : \"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; ANSI‑C code\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 26.190 [2], TS 26.091 [6], TS 26.192 [3], TS 26.193 [4] and TS 26.194 [5]
apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
# 4 General
Digital test sequences are necessary to test for a bit exact implementation of
the adaptive multi-rate wideband (AMR-WB) speech transcoder (TS 26.190 [2]),
voice activity detection (TS 26.194 [5]), comfort noise generation (TS 26.192
[3]), and source controlled rate operation (TS 26.193 [4]).
The test sequences may also be used to verify installations of the ANSI C code
in TS 26.173 [7].
Clause 5 describes the format of the files which contain the digital test
sequences. Clause 6 describes the test sequences for the speech transcoder.
Clause 7 describes the test sequences for the VAD, comfort noise and source
controlled rate operation.
Clause 8 describes the method by which synchronisation is obtained between the
test sequences and the speech codec under test.
# 5 Test sequence format
This clause provides information on the format of the digital test sequences
for the adaptive multi-rate wideband (AMR-WB) speech transcoder (TS 26.190
[3]), voice activity detection (TS 26.194 [5]), comfort noise generation (TS
26.192 [3]), and source controlled rate operation (TS 26.193 [4]).
## 5.1 File format
The test sequence files in PC (little-endian) byte order are provided in
archive files (ZIP format) which accompany the present document.
Following decompression, three types of file are provided:
> \- Files for input to the speech encoder: *.INP
>
> \- Files for comparison with the encoder output and for input to the speech
> decoder: *.COD
>
> \- Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
>
> \- One mode control file for the mode switching test T22.MOD
All file formats are described in TS 26.173 [7].
## 5.2 Codec homing
Each *.INP file includes two homing frames (see TS 26.173 [7]) at the start of
the test sequence. The function of these frames is to reset the speech encoder
state variables to their initial value. In the case of a correct installation
of the ANSI-C simulation (TS 26.173 [7]), all speech encoder output frames
shall be identical to the corresponding frame in the *.COD file. In the case
of a correct hardware implementation undergoing testing, the first speech
encoder output frame is undefined and need not be identical to the first frame
in the *.COD file, but all remaining speech encoder output frames shall be
identical to the corresponding frames in the *.COD file.
The function of the two homing frames in the *.COD files is to reset the
speech decoder state variables to their initial value. In the case of a
correct installation of the ANSI-C simulation (TS 26.173 [7]), all speech
decoder output frames shall be identical to the corresponding frame in the
*.OUT file. In the case of a correct hardware implementation undergoing
testing, the first speech decoder output frame is undefined and need not be
identical to first frame in the *.OUT file, but all remaining speech decoder
output frames shall be identical to the corresponding frames in the *.OUT
file.
# 6 Speech codec test sequences
This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the adaptive
multi-rate wideband (AMR-WB) speech transcoder (TS 26.190 [3]).
## 6.1 Codec configuration
The speech encoder shall be configured not to operate in the source controlled
rate mode.
## 6.2 Speech codec test sequences
### 6.2.1 Speech encoder test sequences
Twenty-three encoder input sequences are provided. Note that for the input
sequences T00.INP to T03.INP, the amplitude figures are given in 14-bit
precision. The active speech levels are given in dBov.
> \- T00.INP - Synthetic harmonic signal. The pitch delay varies slowly from
> 34 to 231 samples. The minimum and maximum amplitudes are -1475 and +5952.
>
> \- T01.INP - Synthetic harmonic signal. The pitch delay varies slowly from
> 231 down to 34 samples. Amplitudes at saturation point -5386 and +21707.
>
> \- T02.INP - Square sweep varying from 50 Hz to 7000 Hz. Amplitudes ± 32767.
>
> \- T03.INP - Sinusoidal sweep varying from 50 Hz to 7000 Hz. Amplitudes ±
> 6217.
>
> \- T04.INP - Female speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -22.5 dBov,
> P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T05.INP - Male speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -29.9 dBov,
> P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T06.INP -- Female and male speech, ambient noise, active speech level:
> -36.1 dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T07.INP - Female and male speech, ambient noise, active speech level:
> -45.8 dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T08.INP - Female and male speech, ambient noise, active speech level:
> -7.7 dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T09.INP - Female and male speech, Hoth noise, active speech level: -37.4
> dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T10.INP - Female and male speech, Hoth noise, active speech level: -27.3
> dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T11.INP - Female and male speech, Hoth noise, active speech level: -16.9
> dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T12.INP - Female and male speech, ambient noise, active speech level:
> -46.0 dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T13.INP - Speech, very high and low car noise, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T14.INP - Female and male speech, ambient noise, active speech level:
> -26.0 dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T15.INP - Female and male speech, rain noise, active speech level: -37.2
> dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T16.INP - Female and male speech, rain noise, active speech level: -26.5
> dBov, P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T17.INP - Female and male speech, rain noise, active speech level: -16.4
> dBov, P.341 filtered. This file includes homing frame test.
>
> \- T18.INP - Male speech, active speech level: -29.7 dBov, P.341 filtered,
> with many zero frames.
>
> \- T19.INP - Child speech, ambient noise, active speech level: -34.7 dBov,
> P.341 filtered.
>
> \- T20.INP - Sequence for exercising the LPC vector quantisation codebooks
> and ROM tables of the codec.
>
> \- T21.INP - Zero signal sequence.
>
> \- T22.INP - Speech sequence for mode switching test.
The output using these input sequences will be different depending on the
tested adaptive multi-rate mode. In the notation used below \ should be
changed to the number of the tested mode, i.e. one of 2385, 2305, 1985, 1825,
1585, 1425, 1265, 885 or 660.
The T00.INP and T01.INP sequences were designed to test the pitch lag of the
adaptive multi-rate wideband speech encoder. In a correct implementation, the
resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be identical to those
specified in the T00_\.COD and T01_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T02.INP and T03.INP sequences are particularly suited for testing the LPC
analysis, as well as for finding saturation problems. In a correct
implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be
identical to those specified in the T02_\.COD and T03_\.COD
sequences, respectively.
The T04.INP and T05.INP sequences contain a lot of low-frequency components.
In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters
shall be identical to those specified in the T04_\.COD and
T05_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T18.INP and T21.INP sequences contain \"all zeros\" frames (silence) in
between segments of speech. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech
encoder output parameters shall be identical to those specified in the
T18_\.COD and T21_\.COD sequences, respectively.
The T20.INP sequence was designed to exercise the LPC code indices and the ROM
table indices of the codec.
The sequences T06.INP to T17.INP and T19.INP were selected on the basis of
bringing various input characteristics (background noise) and levels to the
test sequence set. Homing frame test is also included in T17.INP. T17.INP has
homing frames with length 320 smp, 640 smp and 960 smp starting from 32000
smp, 16000 smp and 48000 smp in a respective order. In a correct
implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be
identical to those specified in the T06_\.COD to T17_\.COD
sequences, respectively.
The T22.INP sequence was designed to test mode switching in the encoder. For
testing mode switching this sequence is used together with the mode control
file T22.MOD. See TS 26.173 [7] for the format of the mode control file. In a
correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall
be identical to those specified in the sequence T22.COD. Note that T22.COD
contains parameter frames in different codec modes.
### 6.2.2 Speech decoder test sequences
Twenty-two times nine speech decoder input sequences TXX_\.COD (XX =
00..21, \ = {2385, 2305, 1985, 1825, 1585, 1425, 1265, 885 or 660}) are
provided for the static mode tests. These are the output of the corresponding
TXX.INP sequences, one set per mode. In a correct implementation, the
resulting speech decoder output shall be identical to the corresponding
TXX_\.OUT sequences.
The switching test decoder input T22.COD shall result in decoder output
identical to the T22.OUT sequence. For the decoder switching test no special
mode control file is needed since the mode information is included in the .COD
file according to the file format (see TS 26.173 [7]).
### 6.2.3 Codec homing sequence
In addition to the test sequences described above, the homing sequences are
provided to assist in codec testing. T23.INP contains one encoder-homing-
frame. The sequences T23_\.COD (\ = {2385, 2305, 1985, 1825, 1585,
1425, 1265, 885 or 660}) contain one decoder-homing-frame each for the
corresponding mode. The use of these sequences is described in TS 26.171 [1].
All files are contained in the archive T.zip which accompanies the present
document.
# 7 Test sequences for source controlled rate operation
This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the VAD
algorithm (TS 26.194 [5]), comfort noise (TS 26.192 [3]), and source
controlled rate operation (TS 26.193 [4]).
Test sequences DTX1.*, DT2.*, DTX4.* and DTX5.* shall be run only with speech
codec 23.85 kbit/s. Test sequence DTX3.* shall be run for all the speech codec
modes.
## 7.1 Codec configuration
The VAD, comfort noise and source controlled rate operation shall be tested in
conjunction with the speech coder (TS 26.190 [2]). The speech encoder shall be
configured to operate in the source controlled rate mode, with VAD.
## 7.2 Test Sequences
Each DTX test sequence consists of three files:
> \- Files for input to the speech encoder: *.INP
>
> \- Files for comparison with the encoder output and input to the speech
> decoder: *.COD
>
> \- Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
The *.COD and *.OUT file names has the format DTXA_\.*, \"A\" is the
test case number (1, 2, 3, 4 or 5) and \ is the speech codec mode.
In a correct implementation, the speech encoder parameters generated by the
*.INP file shall be identical to those specified in the *.COD file; and the
speech decoder output generated by the *.COD file shall be identical to that
specified in the *.OUT file.
### 7.2.1 Test sequences for background noise estimation
Background noise estimation algorithm is tested by the following test
sequences:
> DTX1.*
>
> DTX2.*
### 7.2.2 Test sequences for tone signal detection
Tone signal detection algorithm is tested by the following test sequence:
> DTX3.*
### 7.2.3 Real speech and tones
This test sequence consists of very clean speech, barely detectable speech and
a swept frequency tone.
> DTX4.*
### 7.2.4 Test sequence for signal-to-noise ratio estimation
The full range of SNR estimates are tested by the following test sequence:
> DTX5.*
# 8 Sequences for finding the 20 ms framing of the adaptive multi-rate speech
encoder
When testing the decoder, alignment of the test sequences used to the decoder
framing is achieved by the air interface (testing of MS) or can be reached
easily on the Abis-interface (testing on network side).
When testing the encoder, usually there is no information available about
where the encoder starts its 20 ms segments of speech input to the encoder.
In the following, a procedure is described to find the 20 ms framing of the
encoder using special synchronisation sequences. This procedure can be used
for MS as well as for network side.
Synchronisation can be achieved in two steps. First, bit synchronisation has
to be found. In a second step, frame synchronisation can be determined. This
procedure takes advantage of the codec homing feature of the adaptive multi-
rate codec, which puts the codec in a defined home state after the reception
of the first homing frame. On the reception of further homing frames, the
output of the codec is predefined and can be triggered to.
## 8.1 Bit synchronisation
The input to the speech encoder is a series of 14 bit long words (224 kbit/s,
14 bit linear PCM). When starting to test the speech encoder, no knowledge is
available on bit synchronisation, i.e., where the encoder expects its least
significant bits, and where it expects the most significant bits.
The encoder homing frame consists of 320 samples, all set to 0x0008 hex. If
two such encoder homing frames are input to the encoder consecutively, the
corresponding decoder homing frame of the used codec mode is expected at the
output as a reaction of the second encoder homing frame.
Since there are only 14 possibilities for bit synchronisation, after a maximum
of 14 trials bit synchronisation can be reached for each codec mode. In each
trial three consecutive encoder homing frames are input to the encoder. If the
corresponding decoder homing frame is not detected at the output, the relative
bit position of the three input frames is shifted by one and another trial is
performed. As soon as the decoder homing frame of the used codec mode is
detected at the output, bit synchronisation is found, and the first step can
be terminated.
The reason why three consecutive encoder homing frames are needed is that
frame synchronisation is not known at this stage. To be sure that the encoder
reads two complete homing frames, three frames have to be input. Wherever the
encoder has its 20 ms segmentation, it will always read at least two complete
encoder homing frames.
An example of the 14 different frame triplets is given in sequence
BITSYNC.INP.
## 8.2 Frame synchronisation
Once bit synchronisation is found, frame synchronisation can be found by
inputting two identical frames consecutively to the encoder. There exist 320
different output sequences depending on the 320 different positions that the
beginning of this sequence of frames can possibly have with respect to the
encoder framing.
Before inputting this special synchronisation sequence to the encoder, again
the encoder has to be reset by one encoder homing frame. A second encoder
homing frame is needed to provoke a decoder homing frame at the output that
can be triggered to. And since the framing of the encoder is not known at that
stage, three encoder homing frames have to precede the special synchronisation
sequence to ensure that the encoder reads at least two homing frames, and at
least one decoder homing frame is produced at the output, serving as a trigger
for recording.
After the last decoder homing frame of the used codec mode it is required to
detect two consecutive output frames that are different from the preceding
decoder homing frame.
The special synchronisation sequence preceded by three encoder homing frames
are given in SEQSYNC.INP.
Generally, the output sequences will be different depending on the tested
adaptive multi-rate wideband mode. In the notation below \ should be
changed to the number of the tested mode, i.e. one of 2385, 2305, 1985, 1825,
1585, 1425, 1265, 885 or 660.
In all 320 output sequences only the second frame after the last decoder
homing frame is given in SYNC000_\.COD through SYNC319_\.COD.
These output frames were calculated by shifting the sequence SEQSYNC.INP
through the positions 0 to 319, where the samples at the beginning were set to
zero. For each codec mode it was finally verified that the last frame in each
of the 320 output sequences is different to all other last frames.
The three digit number in the filenames above indicates the number of samples
by which the input was retarded with respect to the encoder framing. By a
corresponding shift in the opposite direction, alignment with the encoder
framing for the used codec mode can be reached.
## 8.3 Formats and sizes of the synchronisation sequences
BITSYNC.INP:
This sequence consists of 14 frame triplets. It has the format of the speech
encoder input test sequences.
The size of it is therefore:
> SIZE (BITSYNC.INP) = 14 * 3 * 320 * 2 bytes = 26880 bytes
SYNCXXX_\.COD:
These sequences consists of 1 encoder output frame each. They have the format
of the speech encoder output test sequences. In these frames the values of the
TX/RX_TYPE is fixed to indicate transmit frame type and FRAME_TYPE and
MODE_INFO fields are set to the transmit frame type and to the corresponding
encoding mode information [3].
The sizes of them are therefore:
> SIZE (SYNCXXX_2385.COD) = (477 + 3) * 2 bytes = 960 bytes\ SIZE
> (SYNCXXX_2305.COD) = (461 + 3) * 2 bytes = 928 bytes\ SIZE
> (SYNCXXX_1985.COD) = (397 + 3) * 2 bytes = 800 bytes\ SIZE
> (SYNCXXX_1825.COD) = (365 + 3) * 2 bytes = 736 bytes\ SIZE
> (SYNCXXX_1585.COD) = (317 + 3) * 2 bytes = 640 bytes\ SIZE
> (SYNCXXX_1425.COD) = (285 + 3) * 2 bytes = 576 bytes\ SIZE
> (SYNCXXX_1265.COD) = (253 + 3) * 2 bytes = 512 bytes\ SIZE (SYNCXXX_885.COD)
> = (177 + 3) * 2 bytes = 360 bytes\ SIZE (SYNCXXX_660.COD) = (132 + 3) * 2
> bytes = 270 bytes
All files are contained in the archive S.zip which accompanies the present
document.
###### ##
#