# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The present document defines an error concealment procedure, also termed frame
substitution and muting procedure, of the wideband telephony speech service
employing the Adaptive Multi-Rate -- Wideband (AMR-WB) speech coder within the
3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This specification defines an error concealment procedure, also termed frame
substitution and muting procedure, which shall be used by the AMR-WB speech
codec receiving end when one or more erroneous/lost speech or lost Silence
Descriptor (SID) frames are received.
The requirements of this document are mandatory for implementation in all
networks and User Equipment (UE)s capable of supporting the AMR-WB speech
codec. It is not mandatory to follow the bit exact implementation outlined in
this document and the corresponding C source code.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 26.202\"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Interface to RAN\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.190\"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Transcoding functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.193\"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Source Controlled Rate
operation\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.201\"AMR Wideband Speech Codec; Frame structure\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this document, the following definition applies:
**N-point median operation:** Consists of sorting the N elements belonging to
the set for which the median operation is to be performed in an ascending
order according to their values, and selecting the (int (N/2) + 1) -th largest
value of the sorted set as the median value.
Further definitions of terms used in this document can be found in the
references.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document, the following abbreviations apply:
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate - WideBand
AN Access Network
BFI Bad Frame Indication from AN
BSI_netw Bad Sub-block Indication obtained from AN interface CRC checks
prevBFI Bad Frame Indication of previous frame
RX Receive
SCR Source Controlled Rate (operation)
SID Silence Descriptor frame (Background noise)
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
ECU Error Concealment Unit
BFH Bad Frame Handling
medianN N-point median operation
# 4 General
The purpose of the error concealment procedure is to conceal the effect of
erroneous/lost AMR-WB speech frames. The purpose of muting the output in the
case of several erroneous/lost frames is to indicate the breakdown of the
channel to the user and to avoid generating possible annoying sounds as a
result from the error concealment procedure.
The network shall indicate erroneous/lost speech or lost SID frames by setting
the RX_TYPE values [3] to SPEECH_BAD, SID_BAD or SPEECH_LOST. If these flags
are set, the speech decoder shall perform parameter substitution to conceal
errors.
The example solution provided in paragraph 6 apply only to bad frame handling
on a complete speech frame basis. Sub-frame based error concealment may be
derived using similar methods.
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 Error detection
If the most sensitive bits of the AMR-WB speech data (class A in [4]) are
received in error, the network shall indicate RX_TYPE = SPEECH_BAD in which
case the BFI flag is set. When the frame is not received, the network shall
indicate RX_TYPE = RX_SPEECH_LOST in which case the BFI flag is set as well.
If a SID frame is received in error, the network shall indicate RX_TYPE =
SID_BAD..
## 5.2 Erroneous or lost speech frames
Normal decoding of erroneous/lost speech frames would result in very
unpleasant noise effects. In order to improve the subjective quality,
erroneous/lost speech frames shall be substituted with either a repetition or
an extrapolation of the previous good speech frame(s). This substitution is
done so that it gradually will decrease the output level, resulting in silence
at the output. Subclause 6 provides example solution.
## 5.3 First lost SID frame
A lost SID frame shall be substituted by using the SID information from
earlier received valid SID frames and the procedure for valid SID frames be
applied as described in [3].
## 5.4 Subsequent lost SID frames
For many subsequent lost SID frames, a muting technique shall be applied to
the comfort noise that will gradually decrease the output level. For
subsequent lost SID frames, the muting of the output shall be maintained.
Subclause 6 provides example solutions.
# 6 Example ECU/BFH Solution
## 6.1 State Machine
This example solution for substitution and muting is based on a state machine
with seven states (Figure 1).
The system starts in state 0. Each time a bad frame is detected, the state
counter is incremented by one and is saturated when it reaches 6. Each time a
good speech frame is detected, the state counter is right-shifted by one. The
state indicates the quality of the channel: the larger the value of the state
counter, the worse the channel quality is. The control flow of the state
machine can be described by the following C code (**BFI** = bad frame
indicator, **State** = state variable):
**if(BFI != 0 )**
**State = State + 1;**
**if(State > 6)**
**State = 6;**
**else**
**State = State >> 1;**
In addition to this state machine, the **Bad Frame Flag** from the previous
frame is checked (**prevBFI**). The processing depends on the value of the
**State** -variable. In states 0 and 6, the processing depends on the **BFI**
flag.
The procedure can be described as follows:
{width="3.6069444444444443in" height="7.753472222222222in"}
Figure 1: State machine for controlling the bad frame substitution
## 6.2 Substitution and muting of erroneous/lost speech frames
### 6.2.1 BFI = 0, prevBFI = 0, State = 0 or 1
No error is detected in the received or in the previous received speech frame.
The received speech parameters are used normally in the speech synthesis. The
current frame of speech parameters is saved.
### 6.2.2 BFI = 0, prevBFI = 1, State = 0 to3
No error is detected in the received speech frame but the previous received
speech frame was bad. The LTP gain is used normally in the speech synthesis
and fixed codebook gain are limited below the values used for the last
received good subframe:
$g^{c}(n) = \begin{matrix} \left{
g_{\text{received}}^{c},g_{\text{received}}^{c} \leq
\text{100}\text{or}g_{\text{received}}^{c} \leq g^{c}(n - 1) \times
1\text{.}\text{25} \middle| \right.\ \ \end{matrix}$ (1)
where
$g_{\text{received}}^{c}$ = current decoded fixed codebook-gain\ $g^{c}(n -
1)$ = fixed codebook gain used for the last good subframe (BFI = 0)\
$g^{c}(n)$ = fixed codebook gain to be used for the current frame.
The rest of the received speech parameters are used normally in the speech
synthesis. The current frame of speech parameters is saved.
### 6.2.3 BFI = 1, prevBFI = 0 or 1, State = 1...6
An error is detected in the received speech frame and the substitution and
muting procedure is started.
#### 6.2.3.1 LTP gain & fixed codebook gain concealment when RX_FRAMETYPE =
SPEECH_BAD
The LTP gain $g^{p}$ and fixed codebook gain $g^{c}$ are replaced by
attenuated values from the previous subframes:
$g^{p} = P^{p}(\text{state}) \ast \text{median}5(g^{p}(n -
1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}(n - 5))$ (2)
$g^{c} = \begin{matrix} \left{ P^{c}(\text{state}) \ast \text{median}5(g^{c}(n
- 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}(n - 5))\text{,VAD_HIST} \leq 2 \middle|
\right.\ \ \end{matrix}$ (3)
where:
$g^{p}$= current decoded LTP gain,\ $g^{c}$= current decoded fixed codebook
gain,\ $g^{p}(n - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}(n - 5)$= LTP gains used
for the last 5 subframes,\ $g^{c}(n - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}(n -
5)$= fixed codebook gains used for the last 5 subframes,\ _median5()_ =
5-point median operation,\ $P^{p}(\text{state})$ = attenuation factor
(_P^p^(1)_ = 0.98, _P^p^ (2)_ = 0.96, _P^p^ (3)_ = 0.75, _P^p^ (4)_ = 0.23,
_P^p^ (5)_ = 0.05,\ _P^p^(6)_ = 0.01),\ $P^{c}(\text{state})$ = attenuation
factor (_P^c^ (1)_ = 0.98, _P^c^ (2)_ = 0.98, _P^c^ (3)_ = 0.98, _P^c^ (4)_ =
0.98, _P^c^ (5)_ = 0.98,\ _P^c^ (6)_ = 0.70),\ _state_ = state number {0..6},\
VAD_HIST is number of consecutive VAD=0 decisions.
The higher the state value is, the more the gains are attenuated. Also the
memory of the predictive fixed codebook gain is updated by using the average
value of the past four values in the memory:
$\text{ener}\left( 0 \right) = \frac{1}{4}\left\lbrack \sum_{i =
1}^{4}{\text{ener}\left( n - i \right)} \right\rbrack - 3$ (4)
#### 6.2.3.2 LTP gain & fixed codebook gain concealment when RX_FRAMETYPE =
SPEECH_LOST
The LTP gain $g^{p}$ and fixed codebook gain $g^{c}$ are replaced by
attenuated values from the previous subframes:
$g^{p} = P^{p}(\text{state}) \ast \text{median}5(g^{p}(n -
1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}(n - 5))$ (5)
$g^{c} = \begin{matrix} \left{ P^{c}(\text{state}) \ast \text{median}5(g^{c}(n
- 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}(n - 5))\text{,VAD_HIST} \leq 2 \middle|
\right.\ \ \end{matrix}$ (6)
where:
$g^{p}$= current decoded LTP gain,\ $g^{c}$= current decoded fixed codebook
gain,\ $g^{p}(n - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{p}(n - 5)$= LTP gains used
for the last 5 subframes,\ $g^{c}(n - 1),\text{.}\text{.}\text{.},g^{c}(n -
5)$= fixed codebook gains used for the last 5 subframes,\ _median5()_ =
5-point median operation,\ $P^{p}(\text{state})$ = attenuation factor
(_P^p^(1)_ = 0.95, _P^p^ (2)_ = 0.90, _P^p^ (3 )_ = 0.75, _P^p^ (4)_ = 0.23,
_P^p^ (5)_ = 0.05,\ _P^p^ (6)_ = 0.01),\ $P^{c}(\text{state})$ = attenuation
factor (_P^c^ (1)_ = 0.50, _P^c^ (2) =_ 0.25, _P^c^ (3)_ = 0.25, _P^c^ (4)_ =
0.25, _P^c^ (5)_ = 0.15,\ _P^c^ (6)_ = 0.01),\ _state_ = state number {0..6},\
VAD_HIST is number of consecutive VAD=0 decisions.
The higher the state value is, the more the gains are attenuated. Also the
memory of the predictive fixed codebook gain is updated by using the average
value of the past four values in the memory:
$\text{ener}\left( 0 \right) = \frac{1}{4}\left\lbrack \sum_{i =
1}^{4}{\text{ener}\left( n - i \right)} \right\rbrack - 3$ (7)
#### 6.2.3.3 ISF concealment
The past ISFs are shifted towards their partly adaptive mean:
$\text{ISF}_{q}(i) = \alpha \ast \text{past}_{\text{ISF}_{q}}(i) + (1 -
\alpha) \ast \text{ISF}_{\text{mean}}(i)$ _i = 0..16_ (8)
where
$\alpha$ = 0.9,\ $\text{ISF}_{q}(i)$ is ISF-vector for a current frame,\
$\text{past}_{\text{ISF}_{q}}(i)$ is ISF-vector from the previous frame,\
$\text{ISF}_{\text{mean}}(i)$ vector is combination of adaptive mean and
constant mean ISF-vectors in the following manner:
$\text{ISF}_{\text{mean}}(i) = \beta \ast
\text{ISF}_{\text{const}_{\text{mean}}}(i) + (1 - \beta) \ast
\text{ISF}_{\text{adaptive}_{\text{mean}}}(i)$_, i = 0..16_ (9)
_where_
$\beta$ = 0.75,\ $\text{ISF}_{\text{adaptive}_{\text{mean}}}(i) =
\frac{1}{3}\sum_{i = 0}^{2}{\text{past}_{\text{ISF}_{q}}(i)}$ and is updated
whenever BFI =0.\ $\text{ISF}_{\text{const}_{\text{mean}}}(i)$ is a vector
containing long time average of ISF-vectors.
#### 6.2.3.4 LTP-lag concealment
The histories of five last good LTP-lags and LTP-gains are used for finding
the best method to update.
##### 6.2.3.4.1 LTP-lag concealment when RX_FRAMETYPE = SPEECH_BAD
The usability of the received LTP lag ({width="0.2916666666666667in"
height="0.2638888888888889in"}) is defined as follows: (Predicts if the
received lag is most probably very close to one that was sent and therefore
its usage should not introduce any bad artifacts)
$$$Q_{\text{lag}} = \begin{matrix} \left{ 1,T_{\text{dif}}  0\text{.}5\text{\ and\ g}^{p}(n - 2) >
0\text{.}5\text{\ and\ T}(\text{n-1})\text{-10} 
0\text{.}5\text{\ and\ T}_{\text{dif}}  0\text{.}5\text{\ and\ g}^{p}(n - 2) > 0\text{.}5 \middle|
\right.\ \ \end{matrix}$ (12)
where:
$g_{\text{min}}^{p} = \text{min}(g_{\text{buffer}}^{p})$,\ $g^{p}$(n-1) is LTP
gain of the previous good frame,\ $g^{p}$(n-2) is LTP gain of the frame before
previous good frame
LPT lag value for the current frame is defined as follows:
$T = \begin{matrix} \left{ T(n - 1)\text{,Q}_{\text{lag_t-1}} = 1 \middle|
\right.\ \ \end{matrix}$ (13)
where:
$T(n - 1)$ is LTP lag from the previous good frame,\ $T_{\text{max}} =
\text{max}(T_{\text{buffer}})$,\ $T_{\text{max} - 1}$is second largest value
in $T_{\text{buffer}}$,\ $T_{\text{max} - 2}$is second largest value in
$T_{\text{buffer}}$,\ $\text{RND}(x)$is random value generated to range
$\left\lbrack - \frac{x}{2}, + \frac{x}{2} \right\rbrack$
### 6.2.4 Innovation sequence
When RX_FRAMETYPE = SPEECH_BAD, the received fixed codebook innovation pulses
from the erroneous frame are used as they are received.
When RX_FRAMETYPE = SPEECH_LOST, the received fixed codebook innovation pulses
from the erroneous frame are not used and the fixed codebook innovation vector
is filled with random signal (values limited to\ range [-1, +1]).
### 6.2.5 High-band gain (for 23.85 kbit/s mode)
When RX_FRAMETYPE = SPEECH_BAD or RX_FRAMETYPE = SPEECH_LOST the received
high-band energy parameter of the frame is not used and the estimation for the
high-band gain is used instead. This means that in case of bad/lost speech
frames, the high-band reconstruction operates in the same way for all the
modes.
## 6.3 Substitution and muting of lost SID frames
In the speech decoder a single frame classified as SID_BAD shall be
substituted by the last valid SID frame information and the procedure for
valid SID frames be applied. If the time between SID information updates
(updates are specified by SID_UPDATE arrivals and occasionally by SID_FIRST
arrivals) is greater than one second this shall lead to attenuation.
#