# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Requirements for codecs and media handling in support of the Mission Critical
Video (MCVideo) service are contained in the present document.
The MCVideo service supports video communication between several users (i.e.
group call), where each user has the ability to gain access to the permission
to talk in an arbitrated manner. The MCVideo service also supports private
calls between two users.
The MCVideo architecture is based on the functional architecture for mission
critical communication services defined in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the codecs and media handling for MCVideo. The
requirements for MCVideo are specified by SA1 in two technical specifications:
a. The requirements specific to Mission Critical Video have been specified in
3GPP TS 22.281 [3].
b. The requirements common to multiple mission critical services have been
specified in 3GPP TS 22.280 [2].
The architectural work for MCVideo is specified by SA6 in two technical
specifications:
a. architectural and feature work specific to MCVideo have been specified in
3GPP TS 23.281 [5].
b. architectural aspects common to multiple mission critical services have
been specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video over LTE\".
> [4] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
> critical services; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Codecs and media
handling\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.179: \"Security of Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over
LTE\".
[8] IETF RFC 3550 (2003): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\".
[9] IETF RFC 3711 (2004): \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[10] IETF RFC 6184 (2011): \"RTP Payload Format for H.264 Video\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**240p:** \"240 progressive\" **-** video resolution denoting the vertical
resolution; all 240 lines are drawn in each frame.
**720p:** \"720 progressive\"- video resolution denoting the vertical
resolution; all 720 lines are drawn in each frame.
**1080p:** \"1080 progressive\" -video resolution denoting the vertical
resolution; all 1080 lines are drawn in each frame.
**MCVideo client:** The MCVideo client functional entity acts as the user
agent for all MCVideo application transactions.
**MCVideo Service:** A video communication service supporting applications for
mission critical organizations and mission critical applications for other
businesses and organizations (e.g., utilities, railways) with strong security,
high availability, reliability and priority handling.
**MCVideo UE:** An MC service UE that can be used to participate in MCVideo
services.
**MCVideo User:** An MC service user who is authorized to MCVideo services via
an MCVideo UE.
**Mission Critical:** Quality or characteristic of a communication activity,
application, service or device, that requires low setup and transfer latency,
high availability and reliability, ability to handle large numbers of users
and devices, strong security and priority and pre-emption handling.
**Mission Critical Applications:** Generic communication applications with
mission critical characteristics, traditionally encompassing push-to-talk
voice (MCPTT), real-time video (MCVideo) and real-time data (MCData).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AVC Advanced Video Coding
CHP Constrained High Profile
fps frames per second
GCS Group Communication Service
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MC Mission Critical
MCPTT Mission Critical Push-To-Talk
MCVideo Mission Critical Video
RTCP Real-Time Transport Control Protocol
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
SRTCP Secure Real-Time Transport Control Protocol
SRTP Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol
UC Unicast
# 4 Codecs and media handling for MCVideo
## 4.1 MCVideo client
### 4.1.1 Codec
MCVideo clients shall support the H.264 (AVC) codec as the mandatory universal
interoperability codec.
MCVideo clients shall support video encoding and decoding of at least 240p.
MCVideo clients may support video encoding and decoding up to 720p. More
specifically:
\- Transmitting capable MCVideo clients should support video encoding via
H.264 (AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1 up to 1280x720\@30fps.
\- Receiving capable MCVideo clients should support video decoding via H.264
(AVC) Constrained High Profile (CHP) Level 3.1.
Transmitting capable MCVideo clients may also support variable rate video
encoding from 10fps to 30fps and 240p to 1080p.
Receiving capable MCVideo clients may also support H.264 (AVC) Constrained
High Profile (CHP) Level 4 with resolutions up to 1080p and framerate up to
30fps.
Based on operator / MCVideo service provider policy, the MCVideo service may
optionally and additionally support the H.265 (HEVC) codec. If MCVideo
services support the H.265 (HEVC) codec then MCVideo clients should
additionally support encoding and decoding H.265 (HEVC). More specifically:
\- Transmitting capable MCVideo clients may support video encoding via H.265
(HEVC) Main Profile, Main Tier, Level 3.1 up to 1280x720\@30fps.
\- Receiving capable MCVideo clients may support decoding of H.265 (HEVC) Main
Profile, Main Tier, Level 4 with resolutions up to 1080p and framerate up to
30fps.
\- Transmitting capable MCVideo clients may also support H.265 encoding in
lossless mode.
\- Receiving capable MCVideo clients may also support H.265 decoding in
lossless mode.
### 4.1.2 Audio codec
In cases where the MCVideo service supports combined or separate handling of
video and audio streams [3], MCVideo clients may support the same codecs as
for MCPTT in accordance with TS 26.179 [6].
### 4.1.3 User plane protocol
MCVideo clients shall support both RTP [7], [9] and SRTP [8], [10] media
transport.
#