# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the profiles, codecs and formats for 5G Media
Streaming (5GMS) services based on the 5G Media Streaming Architecture (5GMSA)
including both unicast downlink and unicast uplink. The codec and format
recommendations defined for each profile apply to the 5GMSd Client components
in the User Equipment (UE) as well as the Media Application Server (AS).
Profiles are defined to address specific service scenarios. A default profile
is defined in the case no other profile is claimed to be supported. 5G Media
Streaming protocols and formats are defined based on the Common Media
Application Format (CMAF).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation H.264 (06/2019): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.265 (02/2018): \"High efficiency video coding\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.117: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Speech and audio profiles\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.501: \"5G Media Streaming (5GMS); General description and
architecture\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.307: \"Presentation Layer for 3GPP Services\".
[7] ISO/IEC 23000-19: \"Information Technology Multimedia Application Format
(MPEG-A) -- Part 19: Common Media Application Format (CMAF) for segmented
media\".
[8] ISO/IEC 23001-7: \"MPEG systems technologies - Part 7: Common encryption
in ISO base media file format files\".
[9] CTA-5003: \"Web Application Video Ecosystem (WAVE): Device Playback
Capabilities Specification\", available at
https://cdn.cta.tech/cta/media/media/resources/standards/pdfs/cta-5003-final.pdf.
[10] 3GPP TS 26.512: \" 5G Media Streaming (5GMS); Protocols\".
[11] IETF RFC 6381: The \'Codecs\' and \'Profiles\' Parameters for \"Bucket\"
Media Types.
[12] 3GPP TS 26.116: \"Television (TV) over 3GPP Services; Video Profiles\".
[13] 3GPP TS 26.118: \"Virtual Reality (VR) profiles for streaming
applications\".
[14] ISO/IEC 14496-12: \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects -Part 12: ISO base media file format\".
[15] ISO/IEC 14496-15: \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects - Part 15: Carriage of network abstraction layer (NAL) unit structured
video in the ISO base media file format\".
[16] W3C IMSC1.1: \"TTML Profiles for Internet Media Subtitles and Captions
1.1\", available at http://www.w3.org/TR/ttml-imsc1.1.
[17] ISO/IEC 14496-30: \"Information technology - Coding of audio-visual
objects - Part 30: Timed text and other visual overlays in ISO base media file
format\".
[18] W3C Media Capabilities: \"Media Capabilities\", available at
https://w3c.github.io/media-capabilities/
[19] CTA-5000-B: \" Web Application Video Ecosystem - Web Media API Snapshot
2019\", available at
https://cdn.cta.tech/cta/media/media/resources/standards/pdfs/cta-5000-b-final_v2.pdf.
[20] ISO/IEC 23009-1: \"Information Technology - Dynamic Adaptive Streaming
Over HTTP (DASH) - Part 1: Media Presentation Description and Segment
Formats\".
[21] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
(3GP-DASH)\".
[22] IETF RFC 8216: \"HTTP Live Streaming\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**5GMS Profile** : a set of UE capability requirements associated to a media-
centric service scenario.
**HD-HDR:** the capability of a UE to present video signals with all the
following: at least Full-HD resolution, bit depth of at least 10, at least 60
frames per second, Wide Colour Gamut and High Dynamic Range.
**MPEG-H:** It is a group of international standards under development by the
ISO/IEC Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) - formally known as ISO/IEC 23008
- High efficiency coding and media delivery in heterogeneous environments
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GMS 5G Media Streaming
5GMSA 5G Media Streaming Architecture
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate -- Wide Band
API Application Programming Interface
AS Application Server
AVC Advanced Video Coding
AVC-HD Advanced Video Codec -- High Definition
CMAF Common Media Application Format
DASH Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
EVS Enhanced Voice Services
HD High Definition
HDR High Dynamic Range
HD-HDR High Definition and High Dynamic Range
HEVC High Efficiency Video Coding
HLG Hybrid Log-Gamma
HLS HTTP Live Streaming
IMSC Internet Media Subtitles and Captions
MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group
OMAF Omnidirectional Media Application Format
PSS Packet-switched Streaming Service
TTML Timed Text Markup Language
TV Television
UE User Equipment
UHD Ultra High Definition
VR Virtual Reality
VCL Video Coding Layer
# 3A Overview
## 3A.1 Introduction
This specification defines profiles, codecs and formats for 5G Media
Streaming. In this clause, the connection to 5G Media Streaming Architecture
in TS 26.501 [5] is introduced.
## 3A.2 Codecs and Formats in Downlink Media Streaming
### 3A.2.1 Architecture, Interfaces and APIs
According to TS 26.501 [5], Downlink Media Streaming provides the ability for
content to be distributed using procedures and protocols defined by 5G Media
Streaming as shown in Figure 3A.2.1-1. The detailed procedures for the
interfaces and APIs for 5G Media Streaming are defined in TS 26.512 [10].
{width="5.924305555555556in" height="3.7375in"}
Figure 3A.2.1-1: Downlink 5G Media Streaming architecture
The present document primarily deals with the segment formats delivered on M4d
and the requirements applicable to the media playback platform and content
decryption module. According to Figure 3A.2.1-1, the Access Client in the
5GMSd Client uses the manifest, typically the Media Presentation Description
(MPD) for Dynamic Streaming over HTTP (DASH) as defined in ISO/IEC 23009-1
[20] and TS 26.247 [21] or the Master Playlist for HTTP Live Streaming (HLS)
as defined in IETF RFC 8216 [22] to download Segments to initiate a media
playback session. A 5GMSd Application Provider may publish these segments
directly through M2d such that the 5GMSd AS acts as a hosting server but does
not require the media to be either transcoded or repackaged. Using these
unified formats maximizes cacheability and improves general Content Delivery
Network (CDN) operations, including usage of secure transport protocols such
as HTTPS on interface M4d.
5G Media Streaming segment formats are defined based on the Common Media
Application Format (CMAF) as specified in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7]. By using this
format, 5G Media Streaming is compatible with a broad set of segment-based
streaming protocols including Dynamic Streaming over HTTP (DASH) and HTTP Live
Streaming (HLS). For example, ISO/IEC 23009-1 [20] defines a detailed DASH
profile for delivering CMAF content within a DASH Media Presentation using a
converged format for segmented media content.
Readers of the present document are encouraged to familiarize themselves with
terms defined in CMAF such as CMAF Headers, CMAF Fragments, CMAF Tracks and
CMAF Switching Sets. CMAF defines a content model for adaptive playback of
segmented media (enabling seamless switching across tracks encoded from the
same media) and late binding of tracks from different media types, associated
with the same presentation. CMAF also defines a content protection and
encryption framework for multi-DRM support based on ISO/IEC 23001-7 [8].
Furthermore, CMAF defines media profiles, i.e. encoding constraints on a CMAF
track and its contained media samples associated with a specific codec. This
specification only uses the structural constraints of CMAF as defined in
clause 7 of ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7] and in clause 8 of ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7] for
encrypted content. Specific 5GMS media profiles for video, audio and subtitles
based on the general constraints of ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7], clauses 9, 10 and
11, respectively, are defined in the present document. However, Downlink Media
Streaming is not restricted to the media profiles defined in the present
document: any codec that defines a CMAF media profile may be used and
distributed with Downlink Media Streaming.
### 3A.2.2 Hypothetical Device Playback Model
The media playback platform is initiated and used by the Access Client to
create a streaming session and experience. The Access Client itself handles
the download of segmented media content via interface M4d. This specification
is based on a hypothetical playback model that permits an 5GMSd-Aware
Application and/or a media Access Client to play back segmented media content
streamed via 5G Media Streaming for downlink. Playback receiver requirements
for CMAF content are defined in the CTA WAVE Device Playback Specification [9]
documenting how an Access Client can use manifest information for establishing
and performing playback of CMAF content based on a CMAF Reference Player
model.
Following the details in Figure 3A.2-1, playback functionalities include:
> 1) Querying the capabilities of the device to determine if it supports the
> playback of a specific media profile. Different means exist and are
> described in CTA-5003 [9], but minimally a well-defined MIME type and a
> well-defined codecs parameter following the requirements in RFC 6381 [11] is
> needed.
>
> 2) Initializing the playback platform with the codec by providing
> appropriate initialization information. At minimum, a CMAF Header is needed
> for initializing the decoder. Initialization of content decryption, if
> needed, depends on the used DRM system.
>
> 3) Playback itself, by appending data to source and track buffers and
> providing additional instructions such as seek, accelerated playback, random
> access, etc
>
> 4) The ability to check the status of the playback platform, for example the
> size and duration of the media buffers, current playback time, etc. Relevant
> APIs exposed by the 5GMSd Client via M7d are defined in TS 26.512 [21].
>
> 5) The ability to receive notifications and and error events from the
> playback platform, for example non-conforming content, buffer unde-runs,
> etc. Relevant APIs exposed by the 5GMSd Client via M7d are defined in TS
> 26.512 [21].
### 3A.2.3 Necessary Conditions for Codecs and Formats in 5GMSd
In order to use a media codec or a specific media profile of the codec in the
context of 5G Media Streaming, the following aspects need to be defined:
> \- A CMAF media profile definition with all the requirements according to
> ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7] for a media profile.
>
> \- A definition of how capability discovery can be done, at the minimum a
> suitable and well-defined MIME type following the requirements in RFC 6381
> [11], and in particular the definition of the codecs and profiles
> parameters.
>
> \- The mapping of media profile parameters to a DASH MPD. The mapping
> includes the static information (i.e. fixed parameters in the MPD) and
> dynamic information (e.g., depending on information in the CMAF Header).
>
> \- Potential requirements and restrictions for encrypted content.
This specification defines the above information for several media codecs in
clause 4, and provides requirements and recommendations for the support of
these media profiles in specific 5G Media Streaming profiles in clause 5.
NOTE: Downlink Media Streaming is not restricted to the media profiles defined
in this specification: any CMAF media profile may be used and distributed
within Downlink Media Streaming as long as it can be used with APIs and
interfaces defined in TS 26.512 [21] and the above information is provided.
## 3A.3 Codecs and Formats in Uplink Media Streaming
Codecs and formats for uplink streaming are defined in the remainder of this
specification.
# 4 5GMS codecs and formats capabilities
## 4.1 Introduction
This clause defines codecs and formats capabilities for video, audio, speech
and subtitles for 5G Media Streaming.
For each media type, decoding and encoding capabilities are defined. These
capabilities are a combination of codecs, profiles, tiers (if applicable),
levels and format restrictions. In order to use the codecs in 5G Media
Streaming for each capability the following functionalities are defined:
\- Mapping to the ISO Base Media File Format defining a track format.
\- The definition of a CMAF Track
\- The definition of a CMAF Switching Set and the media profile
\- The playback requirements for this media profile
\- The content generation requirements for this media profile
## 4.2 Video
### 4.2.1 H.264 (AVC)
#### 4.2.1.1 Decoding
The following H.264 (AVC) media decoding capabilities are defined:
**\- AVC-HD-Dec:** the capability to decode H.264 (AVC) Progressive High
Profile Level 3.1 [2] bitstreams, for which the maximum VCL Bit Rate is
constrained to be 14 Mbps with cpbBrVclFactor and cpbBrNalFactor being fixed
to be 1,000 and 1,200, respectively.
**\- AVC-FullHD-Dec:** the capability to decode H.264 (AVC) Progressive High
Profile Level 4.0 [2] bitstreams.
**\- AVC-UHD-Dec:** the capability to decode H.264/AVC Progressive High
Profile Level 5.1 [2] bitstreams for H.264/AVC with the following additional
restrictions and requirements:
\- the maximum VCL Bit Rate is constrained to be 120 Mbps with cpbBrVclFactor
and cpbBrNalFactor being fixed to be 1250 and 1500, respectively.
\- the bitstream does not contain more than 10 slices per picture.
NOTE: High Profile for H.264/AVC excludes Flexible macro-block order,
Arbitrary slice ordering, Redundant slices, Data partition.
#### 4.2.1.2 Encoding
The following H.264 (AVC) media encoding capabilities are defined:
\- **AVC-HD-Enc:** the capability to encode a video signal with:
\- up to 108,000 macroblocks per second;
\- up to a frame size of 3,600 macroblocks;
\- up to 120 frames per second;
\- the chroma format being 4:2:0; and
\- the bit depth being 8 bit;
> to a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder that is **AVC-HD-Dec** capable
> as defined in clause 4.2.1.1.
\- **AVC-FullHD-Enc:** the capability to encode a video signal with:
\- up to 245,760 macroblocks per second;
\- up to a frame size of 8,192 macroblocks;
\- up to 240 frames per second;
\- the chroma format being 4:2:0; and
\- the bit depth being 8 bit;
> to a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder that is **AVC-FullHD-Dec**
> capable as defined in clause 4.2.1.1.
\- **AVC-UHD-Enc:** the capability to encode a video signal with:
\- up to 983,040 macroblocks per second;
\- up to a frame size of 36,864 macroblocks;
\- up to 480 frames per second;
\- the chroma format being 4:2:0; and
\- the bit depth being 8 bit;
to a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder that is **AVC-UHD-Dec** capable
as defined in clause 4.2.1.1.
#### 4.2.1.3 Media Profiles: Mapping to 5GMS Delivery
##### 4.2.1.3.1 AVC-HD
##### 4.2.1.3.1.1 ISO BMFF File Format {#iso-bmff-file-format .H6}
If AVC-HD media is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder
capable of the **AVC-HD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then the file
format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry \'avc1\'
or \'avc3\' as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [15].
##### 4.2.1.3.1.2 CMAF Track Definition {#cmaf-track-definition .H6}
If AVC-HD media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall
conform with:
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.2.1.3.1.1;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7;
\- the general video track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19; clause 9.
##### 4.2.1.3.1.3 CMAF Switching Set Definition {#cmaf-switching-set-
definition .H6}
If AVC-HD media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set; then
\- every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall conform with the
requirements of CMAF Track in clause 4.2.1.3.1.2;
\- the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7], clause
7; and
\- the general CMAF video track Switching Set constraints defined in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [7]; clause 9.
##### 4.2.1.3.1.4 Playback Requirements {#playback-requirements .H6}
For a receiver supporting the AVC-HD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **AVC-HD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.1.3 namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.1.3 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
##### 4.2.1.3.1.5 Content Generation Requirements {#content-generation-
requirements .H6}
For a transmitter supporting the AVC-HD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **AVC-HD-Enc** encoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.2.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track that conforms to the
requirements in clause 4.2.1.3.1.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.1.3.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 AVC-FullHD
##### 4.2.1.3.2.1 ISO BMFF File Format {#iso-bmff-file-format-1 .H6}
If AVC-FullHD media is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder
capable of the **AVC-FullHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then the file
format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry \'avc1\'
or \'avc3\' as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [15].
##### 4.2.1.3.2.2 CMAF Track Definition {#cmaf-track-definition-1 .H6}
If AVC-FullHD media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall
conform with
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.2.1.3.2.1;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7; and
\- the general video track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 9.
##### 4.2.1.3.2.3 CMAF Switching Set Definition {#cmaf-switching-set-
definition-1 .H6}
If AVC-FullHD media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set, then:
\- every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall conform with the
requirements of CMAF Track in clause 4.2.1.3.2.2;
\- the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [27], clause
7; and
\- the general CMAF video track Switching Set constraints defined in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [7], clause 9.
##### 4.2.1.3.2.4 Playback Requirements {#playback-requirements-1 .H6}
For a receiver supporting the AVC-FullHD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **AVC-FullHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.2.3 namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.2.3 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
##### 4.2.1.3.2.5 Content Generation Requirements {#content-generation-
requirements-1 .H6}
For a transmitter supporting the AVC-FullHD media profile the following
applies:
\- It shall support the **AVC-FullHD-Enc** encoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.2.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track that conforms to the
requirements in clause 4.2.1.3.2.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.2.3.
##### 4.2.1.3.3 AVC-UHD
##### 4.2.1.3.3.1 ISO BMFF File Format {#iso-bmff-file-format-2 .H6}
If AVC-UHD media is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder
capable of the **AVC-UHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then the file
format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry \'avc1\'
or \'avc3\' as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [15].
##### 4.2.1.3.3.2 CMAF Track Definition {#cmaf-track-definition-2 .H6}
If AVC-UHD media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall
conform with
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.2.1.3.3.1;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7; and
\- the general video track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 9.
##### 4.2.1.3.3.3 CMAF Switching Set Definition {#cmaf-switching-set-
definition-2 .H6}
If AVC-UHD media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set, then
\- every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall conform with the
requirements of CMAF Track in clause 4.2.1.3.3.2;
\- the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [27], clause
7; and
\- the general CMAF video track Switching Set constraints defined in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [7], clause 9.
##### 4.2.1.3.3.4 Playback Requirements {#playback-requirements-2 .H6}
For a receiver supporting the AVC-UHD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **AVC-UHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.3.3 namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.3.3 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
##### 4.2.1.3.3.5 Content Generation Requirements {#content-generation-
requirements-2 .H6}
For a transmitter supporting the AVC-UHD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the AVC-UHD-Enc encoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.2.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track that conforms to the
requirements in clause 4.2.1.3.3.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.3.3.
### 4.2.2 H.265 (HEVC)
#### 4.2.2.1 Decoding
The following H.265 (HEVC) media decoding capabilities are defined:
\- **HEVC-HD-Dec** : the capability to decode H.265 (HEVC) Main Profile, Main
Tier, Level 3.1[3] bitstreams that have general_progressive_source_flag equal
to 1, general interlaced_source_flag equal to 0,
general_non_packed_constraint_flag equal to 1, and
general_frame_only_constraint_flag equal to 1.
\- **HEVC-FullHD-Dec** : the capability to decode H.265 (HEVC) Main10 Profile,
Main Tier, Level 4.1[3] bitstreams that have general_progressive_source_flag
equal to 1, general interlaced_source_flag equal to 0,
general_non_packed_constraint_flag equal to 1, and
general_frame_only_constraint_flag equal to 1.
\- **HEVC-UHD-Dec** : the capability to decode H.265 (HEVC) Main10 Profile,
Main Tier, Level 5.1[3] bitstreams that have general_progressive_source_flag
equal to 1, general interlaced_source_flag equal to 0,
general_non_packed_constraint_flag equal to 1, and
general_frame_only_constraint_flag equal to 1.
#### 4.2.2.2 Encoding
The following H.265 (HEVC) media encoding capabilities are defined:
\- **HEVC-HD-Enc** : the capability to encode a video signal with
\- up to 33,177,600 luma samples per second;
\- up to a luma picture size of 983,040 samples;
\- up to 120 frames per second;
\- the Chroma format being 4:2:0; and
\- the bit depth being 8 bit;
to a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder that is **HEVC-HD-Dec** capable
as defined in clause 4.2.2.1.
\- **HEVC-FullHD-Enc** : the capability to encode a video signal with
\- up to 133,693,440 luma samples per second;
\- up to a luma picture size of 2,228,224 samples;
\- up to 240 frames per second;
\- the Chroma format being 4:2:0; and
\- the bit depth being either 8 or 10 bit;
to a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder that is **HEVC-FullHD-Dec**
capable as defined in clause 4.2.2.1.
\- **HEVC-UHD-Enc** : the capability to encode a video signal with
\- up to 534,773,760 luma samples per second;
\- up to a luma picture size of 8,912,896 samples;
\- up to 480 frames per second;
\- the Chroma format being 4:2:0; and
\- the bit depth being either 8 or 10 bit;
to a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder that is **HEVC-UHD-Dec** capable
as defined in clause 4.2.2.1.
#### 4.2.2.3 Media Profiles: Mapping to 5G Media Streaming
##### 4.2.2.3.1 HEVC-HD
##### 4.2.2.3.1.1 ISO BMFF File Format {#iso-bmff-file-format-3 .H6}
If HEVC-HD media is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder
capable of the **HEVC-HD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then the file
format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry \'hvc1\'
or \'hev1\' as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [15].
##### 4.2.2.3.1.2 CMAF Track Definition {#cmaf-track-definition-3 .H6}
If HEVC-HD media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall
conform with
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.2.2.3.1.1;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7; and
\- the general video track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19; clause 9.
##### 4.2.2.3.1.3 CMAF Switching Set Definition {#cmaf-switching-set-
definition-3 .H6}
If HEVC-HD media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set, then
\- every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall conform with the
requirements of CMAF Track in clause 4.2.2.3.1.2;
\- the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [27], clause
7; and
\- the general CMAF video track Switching Set constraints defined in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [7], clause 9.
##### 4.2.2.3.1.4 Playback Requirements {#playback-requirements-3 .H6}
For a receiver supporting the HEVC-HD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **HEVC-HD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.1.3 namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.1.3 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
##### 4.2.2.3.1.5 Content Generation Requirements {#content-generation-
requirements-3 .H6}
For a transmitter supporting the **HEVC-HD** media profile the following
applies:
\- It shall support the HEVC-HD-Enc encoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.2.2.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track that conforms to the
requirements in clause 4.2.2.3.1.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.1.3.
##### 4.2.2.3.2 HEVC-FullHD
##### 4.2.2.3.2.1 ISO BMFF File Format {#iso-bmff-file-format-4 .H6}
If HEVC-FullHD media is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder
capable of the **HEVC-FullHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then the file
format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry \'hvc1\'
or \'hev1\' as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [15].
##### 4.2.2.3.2.2 CMAF Track Definition {#cmaf-track-definition-4 .H6}
If HEVC-FullHD media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall
conform with
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.2.2.3.2.1;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7; and
\- the general video track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 9.
##### 4.2.2.3.2.3 CMAF Switching Set Definition {#cmaf-switching-set-
definition-4 .H6}
If HEVC-FullHD media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set, then
\- every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall conform with the
requirements of CMAF Track in clause 4.2.2.3.2.2,
\- the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [27], clause
7; and
\- the general CMAF video track Switching Set constraints defined in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [7], clause 9.
##### 4.2.2.3.2.4 Playback Requirements {#playback-requirements-4 .H6}
For a receiver supporting the HEVC-FullHD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **HEVC-FullHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined
in clause 4.2.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.3 namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.3 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
##### 4.2.2.3.2.5 Content Generation Requirements {#content-generation-
requirements-4 .H6}
For a transmitter supporting the HEVC-FullHD media profile the following
applies:
\- It shall support the **HEVC-FullHD-Enc** encoding capabilities as defined
in clause 4.2.2.2.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track that conforms to the
requirements in clause 4.2.2.3.2.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.3.
##### 4.2.2.3.3 HEVC-UHD
##### 4.2.2.3.3.1 ISO BMFF File Format {#iso-bmff-file-format-5 .H6}
If HEVC-UHD media is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a decoder
capable of the **HEVC-UHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in clause
4.2.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then the file
format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry \'hvc1\'
or \'hev1\' as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-15 [15].
##### 4.2.2.3.3.2 CMAF Track Definition {#cmaf-track-definition-5 .H6}
If HEVC-UHD media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track shall
conform with
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.2.2.3.3.1;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7; and
\- the general video track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 9.
##### 4.2.2.3.3.3 CMAF Switching Set Definition {#cmaf-switching-set-
definition-5 .H6}
If HEVC-UHD media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set, then
\- every CMAF track in the CMAF Switching Set shall conform with the
requirements of CMAF Track in clause 4.2.2.3.3.2;
\- the general CMAF Switching Set constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [27], clause
7; and
\- the general CMAF video track Switching Set constraints defined in ISO/IEC
23000-19 [7], clause 9.
##### 4.2.2.3.3.4 Playback Requirements {#playback-requirements-5 .H6}
For a receiver supporting the HEVC-UHD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **HEVC-UHD-Dec** decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.3 namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- 8.5 Switching Set Playback
\- 8.6 Regular Playback of Chunked Content
\- 8.7 Regular Playback of Chunked Content, non-aligned append
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.3 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
##### 4.2.2.3.3.5 Content Generation Requirements {#content-generation-
requirements-5 .H6}
For a transmitter supporting the HEVC-UHD media profile the following applies:
\- It shall support the **HEVC-UHD-Enc** encoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.2.2.2.
\- It shall support the generation of a CMAF Track that conforms to the
requirements in clause 4.2.2.3.3.2.
\- If used for Adaptive Bit Rate (ABR) distribution, it shall support the
generation of a CMAF Switching Set as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.3.
## 4.3 Audio
### 4.3.1 Decoding
Audio decoding capabilities are defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause 5.3.
### 4.3.2 Encoding
Audio encoding capabilities are defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause 5.3.
## 4.4 Speech
### 4.4.1 Decoding
Speech decoding capabilities are defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause 5.2.
### 4.4.2 Encoding
Speech encoding capabilities are defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause 5.3.4.5.
## 4.5 Subtitles
### 4.5.1 IMSC1.1. Text Track
#### 4.5.1.1 Decoding Capability
The IMSC1.1. Text Track decoding capability is defined as IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC.
Support for IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC requires the support of an IMSC1.1 text processor
as defined in W3C IMSC1.1 [16].
#### 4.5.1.2 ISO BMFF File Format
If an IMSC1.1 Text Track is provided in a bitstream that is decodable by a
decoder capable of the IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.5.1.1 and the media is encapsulated in an ISO BMFF Track [14], then
the file format track shall conform with the requirements of the codec entry
\'imt2\'as defined in ISO/IEC 14496-30 [17].
#### 4.5.1.3 CMAF Track Definition
If IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC media is provided in an CMAF track, then the CMAF track
shall conform with
\- the requirements of the ISO BMFF File format track defined in clause
4.5.1.2;
\- the general CMAF Track constraints in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause 7;
\- the general subtitle track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, clause
11; and
\- the IMSC1.1. text track constraints defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19, Annex L.2.
#### 4.5.1.4 CMAF Switching Set Definition
If IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC media is provided in an CMAF Switching Set, then:
\- only a single CMAF track according to the requirements in clause 4.5.1.3
shall be present.
#### 4.5.1.5 Playback Requirements
For a receiver supporting the IMSC1.1. Text Track media profile the following
applies:
\- It shall support the IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC decoding capabilities as defined in
clause 4.5.1.1.
\- It shall support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.5.1.4, namely:
\- 8.2 Sequential Track Playback
\- 8.3 Random Access to Fragment
\- 8.4 Random Access to Time
\- It should support the following playback requirements as documented in
clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9] for any content conforming to a CMAF Switching
Set as defined in clause 4.2.1.4 namely:
\- 8.9 Out-Of-Order Loading
\- 8.10 Overlapping Fragments
\- 8.12 Playback of Encrypted Content
# 5 5GMS Profiles
## 5.1 Introduction
A 5GMS profile describes a set of capability requirements associated to a
service scenario. A default profile is defined for minimum media requirements
to be supported in case no other profile is claimed to be supported. The
Television (TV) profile covers live and on demand streaming of audio-visual TV
services. The Virtual Reality (VR) profile covers the live and on demand
streaming of omnidirectional media including spherical video and 3D audio.
.
## 5.2 Downlink streaming default profile
### 5.2.1 Introduction
This profile defines required capabilities for UE-based 5GMSd Client
functionalities as defined in TS26.501 [5] and shown in Figure 4.2.2-1 in TS
26.501 [5]. Requirements for the following functions are defined in this
clause:
\- Media Decapsulation
\- Media Decryption
\- Media Decoding
\- Media Presentation and Rendering
### 5.2.2 Video decoding
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of video, then
**\- AVC-HD-Dec** decoding capability shall be supported as defined in clause
4.2.1.1.
\- **HEVC-HD-Dec** decoding capability should be supported as defined in
clause 4.2.2.1.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of video and HD-HDR capabilities,
then:
\- **AVC-FullHD-Dec** decoding capability shall be supported as defined in
clause 4.2.1.1.
\- **HEVC-FullHD-Dec** decoding capability shall be supported as defined in
clause 4.2.2.1.
### 5.2.3 Audio decoding
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of audio:
\- **eAAC+** decoding capability should be supported as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 5.3.
\- **AMR-WB+** decoding capability may be supported as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 5.3.
### 5.2.4 Speech decoding
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of speech:
\- the **EVS** decoding capability shall be supported as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 5.2.
**-** the **AMR-WB** decoding capability should be supported as defined in
3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause 5.2.
**\- the AMR** decoding capability may be supported as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 5.2.
### 5.2.5 Subtitles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of subtitles:
\- the IMSC1.1 Text Track decoding capabilities IMSC1.1-TEXT-DEC as defined in
clause 4.5.1.1 should be supported.
### 5.2.6 Presentation format
If 5GMSd Client supports presentation, then 3GPP HTML5 Profile as defined in
3GPP TS 26.307 [6] should be supported.
For a relevant set of media related APIs, please also take into account the
Web Media API Snapshot 2019 (CTA-5000-B) [19].
### 5.2.7 Decapsulation and decryption
#### 5.2.7.1 Introduction
This clause defines the requirements in terms of decapsulation and decryption
of media for a 5GMSd Media Player in combination with codecs. Media
Encapsulation in 5G Media Streaming for downlink is defined based on the MPEG
Common Media Application Format (CMAF) [7]. Based on this, this clause
documents the requirements and recommendations for the support of media
profiles by the definition of media player requirements.
#### 5.2.7.2 Video media profiles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of video, then the following
applies:
\- the AVC-HD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.1.4 shall be
supported.
\- the HEVC-HD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.1.4 should
be supported.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of video and HD-HDR Capabilities,
then the following applies:
\- the AVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.2.4 shall
be supported.
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4
shall be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 may be
supported.
#### 5.2.7.3 Speech media profiles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of speech, then the following shall
be supported:
\- the **EVS** playback requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause
7.4.2.4.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of speech, then the following
should be supported:
\- the **AMR-WB** playback requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.3.2.4.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of speech, then the following may
be supported:
\- the **AMR** playback requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause
7.2.2.4.
#### 5.2.7.4 Audio media profiles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of audio, then the following should
be supported:
\- the **eAAC+ stereo** playback requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.5.2.4.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of audio, then the following may be
supported:
\- the **AMR-WB+** playback requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.6.2.4.
#### 5.2.7.5 Subtitle media profiles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the reception of subtitle, then the following
should be supported:
\- the IMSC1.1 text track playback requirements as defined in clause 4.5.1.5.
#### 5.2.7.6 Encrypted content
If the 5GMSd Client supports encrypted content and any of the video playback
requirement as defined in clause 5.2.7.2, then the 5GMSd client shall support
the playback requirements for encrypted content as documented in clause 8 of
CTA-WAVE 5003 [9], clause 8.12 for either:
\- video content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cenc\' AES-
CTR subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 10.1; or
\- video content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cbcs\' AES-
CBC subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 10.4,
with the following restrictions Pattern Block length of 10 and an encrypt:skip
pattern of 1:9 as defined in clause 9.6 of [8].
If the 5GMSd Client supports decrypted content and any of the video playback
requirement in clause 5.2.7.2, then the 5GMSd client should support the
playback requirements for encrypted content as documented in clause 8 of CTA-
WAVE 5003 [9], clause 8.12 for both:
\- video content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cenc\' AES-
CTR subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 10.1; and
\- video content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cbcs\' AES-
CBC subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 10.4,
with the following restrictions Pattern Block length of 10 and an encrypt:skip
pattern of 1:9 as defined in clause 9.6 of [8].
If the 5GMSd Client supports encrypted content and any of the speech and audio
playback requirement in clause 5.2.7.3 and clause 5.2.7.4, then the 5GMSd
client shall support the playback requirements for encrypted content as
documented in clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9], clause 8.12 for either:
\- audio content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cenc\' AES-
CTR subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 10.1; or
\- audio content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cbc1\' AES-
CBC subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 9.7.
If the 5GMSd client supports encrypted content and any of the speech and audio
playback requirement in clause 5.2.7.3 and clause 5.2.7.4, then the 5GMSd
client should support the playback requirements for encrypted content as
documented in clause 8 of CTA-WAVE 5003 [9], clause 8.12 for both:
\- audio content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cenc\' AES-
CTR subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 10.1; and
\- audio content encrypted according to [7] clause 8, using the \'cbc1\' AES-
CBC subsample pattern encryption scheme, as specified in [8], clause 9.7.
Any subtitle track, if present, should not be encrypted.
### 5.2.8 Capability discovery
#### 5.2.8.1 General
A 5GMSd Client is expected to support capability discovery such that 5GMS-
Aware Applications can identify if a specific media profile is supported. In
order to identify whether a media profile is supported, the 5GMSd Client may
provide an API as defined in TS 26.512 [10] via the M7d interface, for which
the client can be queried with a specific MIME type string, if the media
profile is supported.
The MIME types follow RFC 6381 [11].
A 5GMSd Client should support at least one of the following capability
discovery mechanisms for media profiles:
\- If isTypeSupported() for the media profile with argument \
results in a yes, then the respective media profile is supported with the
requirements defined in a specific clause.
\- If isTypeSupported() for the media profile with argument \ results
in a yes, then the respective media profile is supported with the requirements
defined in a specific clause.
\- If a conforming CMAF header is provided for playback initialization and the
5GMSd Client does not throw an error response, then the respective media
profile is supported with the requirements defined in a specific clause.
For each media profile mentioned in clause 5.2.6, the \ parameter
and the \ parameter are provided in the following. These parameters
should be used in the capability exchange.
#### 5.2.8.2 Video media profiles
NOTE: In the following, \"compatible\" means either that the parameter is
identical to the value specified or, if a different value is used for the
parameter in a capability query, then it has the same positive result.
For AVC-HD:
\- the \ parameter is compatible to video/mp4 profiles=\'cmfc\'
\- the \ parameter is compatible to either \'avc1.640028\' or
\'avc3.640028\'
For AVC-FullHD:
\- the \ parameter is compatible with video/mp4 profiles=\'cmfc\'
\- the \ parameter is compatible with either \'avc1.640029\' or
\'avc3.640029\'
For AVC-UHD:
\- the \ parameter is compatible with video/mp4 profiles=\'cmfc\'
\- the \ parameter is compatible with either \'avc1.640028\' or
\'avc3.640028\'
For HEVC-HD:
\- the \ parameter is compatible with video/mp4 profiles=\'cmfc\'
\- the \ parameter is compatible with either \'hvc1.1.2.L93.B0\' or
\'hev1.1.2.L93.B0\'
For HEVC-FullHD:
\- the \ parameter is compatible with video/mp4 profiles=\'cmfc\'
\- the \ parameter is compatible with either \'hvc1.2.4.L123.B0\' or
\'hev1.2.4.L123.B0\'
For HEVC-UHD:
\- the \ parameter is compatible with video/mp4 profiles=\'cmfc\'
\- the \ parameter is compatible with either \'hvc1.2.4.L153.B0\' or
\'hev1.2.4.L153.B0\'
#### 5.2.8.3 Audio media profiles
For AMR:
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.2.2.4 as
audio/mp4 profiles=\'camr\'
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.2.2.4 as
\'samr\'
For AMR-WB:
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.3.2.4 as
audio/mp4 profiles=\'camw\'
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.3.2.4 as \'samw\'
For EVS:
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.4.2.4 as
audio/mp4 profiles=\'cevs\'
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.4.2.4 as \'sevs\'
For eAAC+ stereo:
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.6.2.4 as
audio/mp4 profiles=\'ceac\'
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS 26.117, clause 7.6.2.4 as \'mp4a\'
For AMR-WB+:
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS:26.117, clause 7.7.2.4 as
audio/mp4 profiles=\'camp\'
\- the \ parameter is defined in TS:26.117, clause 7.7.2.4 as \'sawp\'
#### 5.2.8.4 Subtitle media profiles
For IMSC1.1 Text Tracks:
\- the \ parameter is defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7], clause 11.3.3
as application/mp4 profiles=\'im2t\';
\- the \ parameter is defined in ISO/IEC 23000-19 [7], clause 11.3.3
as \'stpp.ttml.im2t\'.
#### 5.2.8.5 Encryption mode discovery
Encryption mode discovery will be studied in due course.
## 5.3 Uplink streaming default profile
### 5.3.1 Introduction
This profile defines required capabilities for UE-based 5GMS Media Streamer
functionalities as defined in TS 26.501[5] and shown in Figure 4.3.2-1 in TS
26.501 [5]. Requirements for the following functions are defined in this
clause:
\- Media Encoding
\- Media Upstream Client Encapsulation
### 5.3.2 Video encoding
If the 5GMS UE supports the transmission of video:
\- the real-time encoding capabilities for **HEVC-FullHD-Enc** as defined in
clause 4.2.2.2 defined as the sender requirements for **HEVC-FullHD-Enc**
Operation Point shall be supported.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc43296309 .anchor}
### 5.3.3 Audio encoding
If the 5GMS UE supports the transmission of audio:
\- the sender requirements for the **eAAC+ stereo** Operation Point as defined
in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4] clause 6.3.2.3 should be supported.
### 5.3.4 Speech encoding
If the 5GMS UE supports the transmission of speech:
\- the sender requirements for the EVS Operation Point as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 6.2.4.3 shall be supported;
\- the sender requirements for the AMR-WB Operation Point as defined in 3GPP
TS 26.117 [4] clause 6.2.3.3 should be supported;
\- the sender requirements for the AMR Operation Point as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 6.2.2.3 may be supported.
### 5.3.5 Encapsulation
#### 5.3.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the requirements in terms of encapsulation of media for a
5GMSu Media Streamer in combination with codecs. Media Encapsulation in 5G
Media Streaming for uplink is defined based on the MPEG Common Media
Application Format (CMAF) [7]. Based on this, this clause documents the
requirements and recommendations for the support of media profiles by the
definition of media streamer requirements.
#### 5.3.5.2 Video media profile
If the 5GMS UE supports the streaming of video, then the following shall be
supported:
\- the content generation requirements for the HEVC-FullHD Media Profile as
defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.5;
\- the sender requirements for the HEVC-FullHD Operation Point as defined in
clause 5.3.2.
#### 5.3.5.3 Speech media profile
If the 5GMSu Client supports the transmission of speech, then the following
shall be supported:
\- the EVS content generation requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.4.2.5.
If the 5GMSu Client supports the transmission of speech, then the following
should be supported:
\- the AMR-WB content generation requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.3.2.5.
If the 5GMSu Client supports the transmission of speech, then the following
may be supported:
\- the AMR content generation requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.2.2.5.
#### 5.3.5.4 Audio media profile
If the 5GMSu Client supports the transmission of audio, then the following
should be supported:
\- the eAAC+ stereo content generation requirements as defined in 3GPP TS
26.117 [4] clause 7.6.2.5.
## 5.4 Television (TV) profile
### 5.4.1 Video decoding
#### 5.4.1.1 H.264 (AVC)
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, it shall support the
_H.264/AVC 720p HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.4.2.6.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, it should support
the _H.264/AVC Full HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.4.3.6.
#### 5.4.1.2 H.265 (HEVC)
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, it should support:
_\- H.265/HEVC 720p HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.2.7;
_\- H.265/HEVC Full HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.3.7;
_\- H.265/HEVC UHD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.4.7;
_\- H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified
in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.5.8;
_\- H.265/HEVC UHD HDR_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.6.8;
\- _H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as
specified in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.7.7; and
_\- H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified
in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.8.7.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile and HD-HDR
capabilities, it shall support:
\- _H.265/HEVC Full HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.3.7.
### 5.4.2 Audio decoding
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, it /should support
_eAAC+ stereo_ Operation point as defined in 3GPP TS 26. 117 [4], clause
6.3.3.
### 5.4.3 Subtitle decoding
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, it should support
the **IMSC-1.1-TEXT-DEC** decoding capabilities as defined in clause 4.5.1.1.
### 5.4.4 Decapsulation and decryption
#### 5.4.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines the requirements in terms of decapsulation and decryption
of media for a Television (TV) Profile Media Player in combination with
codecs. Media Encapsulation in 5G Media Streaming for downlink is defined
based on the MPEG Common Media Application Format (CMAF) [7]. However, TS
26.116 [7] defines file format encapsulation and DASH Mapping in clause 5.
This clause addresses decapsulation and decryption requirements in a sense
that a 5GMSd Client supporting the Television (TV) profile requires to be able
to process content that conforms to TS26.116 [7] encapsulation and CMAF
encapsulation.
The CMAF Track and Switching Set constraints in the present document and the
Representation and Adaptation Set constraints in TS26.116 [7] are considered
almost identical, but it still needs to be checked in detail. In the absence
of both, it is expected that content offered for TV Profile receivers conform
with both specifications.
#### 5.4.4.2 Video media profiles
If the 5GMSd client supports the Television (TV) profile, then the following
applies:
\- the AVC-HD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.1.4 and the
_H.264/AVC 720p HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.4.2.6 shall be supported.
\- the AVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.1.3.1.4 and
the _H.264/AVC Full HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.4.3.6 should be supported.
\- the HEVC-HD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.1.4 and the
_H.265/HEVC 720p HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.2.7 should be supported.
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4 and
the _H.265/HEVC Full HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.3.7 should be supported.
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4 and
the _H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as
specified in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.5.7 should be supported.
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4 and
the _H.265/HEVC Full HD HLG_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as
specified in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.7.7 should be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 and the
_H.265/HEVC UHD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.4.7 may be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 and the
_H.265/HEVC UHD HDR_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.5.7 may be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 and the
_H.265/HEVC UHD HLG_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.8.7 may be supported.
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile and HD-HDR
capabilities, then the following applies:
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4 and
the _H.265/HEVC Full HD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.3.7 shall be supported.
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4 and
the _H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as
specified in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.5.7 shall be supported.
\- the HEVC-FullHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.2.4 and
the _H.265/HEVC Full HD HLG_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as
specified in TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.7.7 shall be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 and the
_H.265/HEVC UHD_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.4.7 may be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 and
_the H.265/HEVC UHD HDR_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.116 [12], clause 4.5.5.7 may be supported.
\- the HEVC-UHD playback requirements as defined in clause 4.2.2.3.3.4 and the
_H.265/HEVC UHD HLG_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in TS
26.116 [12], clause 4.5.8.7 may be supported.
#### 5.4.4.3 Audio media profiles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, then the following
should be supported:
\- the **eAAC+ stereo** playback requirements as defined in 3GPP TS 26.117 [4]
clause 7.5.2.4.
#### 5.4.4.4 Subtitle media profiles
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile, then the following
should be supported:
\- the **IMSC1.1 text track** playback requirements as defined in clause
4.5.1.5.
#### 5.4.4.5 Encrypted content
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile the same requirements
apply as in clause 5.2.7.6 for the default profile.
### 5.4.5 Capability discovery
If the 5GMSd Client supports the Television (TV) profile it is expected to
support capability discovery such that 5GMS-aware applications can identify if
a specific media profile is supported.
The same requirements apply as in clause 5.2.8 for the default profile.
A 5GMSd Client that supports the Television (TV) profile may support
additional capability methods that permits to identify additional capabilities
of media profile playback taking into account information provided in the MPD
for TV Video Profiles. Examples include the W3C Media Capability APIs [18].
## 5.5 Downlink 360 Virtual Reality (VR) profile
### 5.5.1 Video
#### 5.5.1.1 Operation Points
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video, it shall include a receiver that
complies with:
\- the _Basic H.264/AVC_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.1.4.
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video, it should include a receiver that
complies with:
\- the _Main_ _H.265/HEVC_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified
in TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.1.5.
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video, it may include a receiver that complies
with:
\- the _Flexible_ _H.265/HEVC_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as
specified in TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.1.6.
#### 5.5.1.2 DASH encapsulation
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video for DASH services, it shall include a
receiver that complies with:
\- the Basic Video Media Profile Receiver requirements for DASH as specified
in TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.2.2.3.
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video for DASH services, it should include a
receiver that complies with:
\- the Main Video Media Profile Receiver requirements for DASH as specified in
TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.2.3.3.
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video for DASH services, it may include a
receiver that complies with:
\- the Advanced Video Media Profile Receiver requirements for DASH as
specified in TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.2.3.4.
### 5.5.2 Audio
#### 5.5.2.1 Operation Points
If the 5GMS UE supports 3D/VR audio, it should include a receiver that
complies with:
\- the _3GPP MPEG-H Audio_ Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified
in TS 26.118 [13], clause 6.1.4.
#### 5.5.2.2 DASH encapsulation
If the 5GMS UE supports 3D/VR audio for DASH services, it should include a
receiver that complies with:
\- the _OMAF 3D Audio Baseline_ Media Profile Receiver requirements for file
format signalling and encapsulation as specified in TS 26.118 [13], clause
6.2.2.3.
## 5.6 Uplink 360 Virtual Reality (VR) profile
### 5.6.1 Video
#### 5.6.1.1 Operation Points
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video, it shall include an encoder that can
encode a bitstream at a minimum of 1080p resolution 60 fps that can be decoded
by a receiver that complies with:
\- the Basic H.264/AVC Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.1.4.
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video, it should include an encoder that can
encode a bitstream at a minimum of 2160p resolution 60 fps that can be decoded
by a receiver that complies with:
\- the Main H.265/HEVC Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.1.5.
If the 5GMS UE supports 360 VR video, it may include an encoder that can
encode a bitstream at a minimum of 2160p resolution 60 fps that can be decoded
by a receiver that complies with:
\- the Flexible H.265/HEVC Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified
in TS 26.118 [13], clause 5.1.6.
#### 5.6.1.2 Encapsulation
Media Encapsulation in 5G Media Streaming for uplink is defined based on the
MPEG Common Media Application Format (CMAF) [7]. A sender shall at least
support the generation of CMAF tracks.
### 5.6.2 Audio
#### 5.6.2.1 Operation Points
If the 5GMS UE supports 3D/VR audio, it should include an encoder that can
encode a bitstream that can be decoded by a receiver that complies with:
\- the 3GPP MPEG-H Audio Operation Point Receiver requirements as specified in
TS 26.118 [13], clause 6.1.4.
#### 5.6.2.2 Encapsulation
Media Encapsulation in 5G Media Streaming for uplink is defined based on the
MPEG Common Media Application Format (CMAF) [7]. A sender shall at least
support the generation of CMAF tracks.
#