# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document investigates on the suitability of 3GPP existing
specifications for testing UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces.
UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces may pose challenges for handset mode
acoustic testing. For example, a UE may exclusively use a vibrating display to
produce sound when operating in handset mode, offering no clearly identifiable
centre of an earpiece to position the headset for testing. Additionally, such
UE could have its acoustic response affected by the choice of handset
positioner mechanism.
The present document documents studies conducted and concludes with a summary
of challenges identified and gap analysis of existing 3GPP specifications.
# 1 Scope
The present document reports on investigations of testing UEs featuring non-
traditional earpieces, and identifies related gaps to existing 3GPP
specifications and recommended test equipment.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation P.57 (12/2011): \"Artificial ears\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation P.58 (05/2013): \"Head and torso simulator for
telephonometry\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation P.64 (06/2019): \"Determination of
sensitivity/frequency characteristics of local telephone Systems\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony;
Requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.132: \"Speech and video telephony terminal acoustic test
specification\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MECRP Manufacturer Ear Cap Reference Point
RFR Receive Frequency Response
RLR Receive Loudness Rating
# 4 Report on studies with UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces
## 4.1 Challenges on conducting objective tests according to 3GPP existing
specifications for UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces
### 4.1.1 Handset positioning on head and torso simulator
#### 4.1.1.1 Background
TS 26.132 [6] references ITU-T Recommendation P.64 [4] regarding handset
position on artificial ears. However, UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces
may not feature a centre of an acoustic port raising the question of how to
properly position a handset for testing. Therefore, an update to P.64 would be
required for SA4 to reference this Recommendation also for handsets with non-
traditional earpieces, if the present study is followed by normative work in
3GPP.
Such update to P.64 may describe how to specify a reference point for handsets
where there are no acoustic outlets in the earpiece area of the handset.
This sub-clause suggests an alternative method for positioning the handset
that is suitable for UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces.
#### 4.1.1.2. Definition - within the FS_HaNTE study - of handset position for
UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces
Within the context of FS_HaNTE, the MECRP is defined in terms of distance from
the upper edge of the handset (this is equivalent what is sometimes referred
to as \"end stop\" for positioning fixtures) and the distance from a
centre/symmetry line.
{width="5.602777777777778in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 4-1: Definition of MECRP for handsets in FS_HaNTE
_y~e~_ is allowed to vary significantly to cover also the following case, or
more unusual shapes:
{width="5.298611111111111in" height="1.5965277777777778in"}
Figure 4-2: Example of a handset shape where, due to a curvature,\ some extra
allowance of y~e~ is needed.
The acceptable range of offset of the MECRP should not exceed:
\- No limit of ye value.
\- ±10 mm along unit vector z~e~.
#### 4.1.1.3 Template structure - within the FS_HaNTE study - of handset
position for UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces
A template for providing handset position for UEs featuring non-traditional
earpieces is provided in Tables 4-1 to 4-3.
Table 4-1: MECRP
* * *
Axis [mm] y~e~  
z~e~
* * *
Table 4-2: Angle Settings
* * *
Angle Delta from standard angle [°] A  
B  
C
* * *
Table 4-3: Application Force
* * *
**Application force [N]**
* * *
See ITU-T P.64 for details on standard angle.
## 4.2 Reports on user studies with UEs featuring Non-traditional earpieces
and suitability of existing test equipment
### 4.2.1 On the suitability of HATS for HaNTE measurements
#### 4.2.1.1 Introduction
3GPP UE\'s Receive Frequency Response (RFR) and Receive Loudness Rating (RLR)
are measured with Head and Torso Simulators (HATS). With traditional earpiece
designs, the perceived loudness comes from acoustic radiation into the ear
canal. With non-traditional earpieces, such as vibrating displays, sound may
be transmitted to the user by other mechanisms (e.g. tissue conduction).
Because HATS primarily measure acoustic radiation through the ear canal, one
question is whether HATS is suitable for measurement of handsets featuring
non-traditional earpieces.
To compare objective and subjective assessments of loudness on devices
featuring a traditional and non-traditional earpiece (vibrating display), an
experimental methodology was developed by the source.
#### 4.2.1.2 Description of experimental apparatus
##### 4.2.1.2.1 Traditional and Non-Traditional Earpiece prototypes
Two handset prototypes were developed for this experiment. Prototype 1
incorporates a 27ohm 15x6 mm earpiece (traditional earpiece) radiating sound
through an acoustic port on the display, and Prototype 2 incorporates an 8ohm
15x6mm actuator directly attached to the prototype display. Apart from this
difference, both prototypes are identical. See Figure 4-3. Improved prototype
acoustic sealing was achieved through an added layer of material at the bottom
of the prototype screen and putty for screen fastening.
{width="3.935416666666667in" height="2.38125in"}
Figure 4-3: Prototypes produced (one with traditional earpiece, other with
vibrating display)
Handsets were positioned on two HATS models for objective frequency response
measurement. In both cases, the prototypes were positioned according to ITU-T
Rec. P.64 (A = 21.2°, B = 12.9°, C = 2.3°) [4]. HATS 1 was a Bruel & Kjaer
Type 5128 with Type 4606 Handset Positioner and Centering Fork UA-1537. HATS 2
was a Head Acoustics HMS II.3 artificial head with HHP III handset positions
system. In both cases, the prototypes were mounted with End-Stop adjustment
set to 17mm (MECRP defined as y~e~ = 17mm, y~z~ = 0mm). See Figure 4-4.
{width="3.935416666666667in" height="2.5993055555555555in"}
Figure 4-4: Handset positioned on HATS 1 and HATS 2
NOTE: The Bruel & Kjaer Type 5128 HATS does not comply with the current ITU-T
Recommendations P.58 [3] and P.64 [4].
##### 4.2.1.2.2 Playback System
To drive Prototype 1 and Prototype 2, a personal computer (PC) was connected
to an RME MADIface Pro USB digital audio interface. Prototype 1 was directly
driven by the MADIface headphone output (Analog 3). Prototype 2 was driven by
a Bruel & Kjaer Type 2716C amplifier with +12dB of gain which was in turn
connected to the MADIface Analog 1 output.
For wideband objective measurements in clause 4.2.1.3.1 and band-passed level
adjustment in clause 4.2.1.3.2, Adobe Audition was used for digital audio
playback. For level adjusted measurements in clause 4.2.1.3.2 and the
subjective loudness matching in clause 4.2.1.3.3, Max/MSP was used for digital
audio playback. A Griffin Technology PowerMate USB Volume Knob was used to
allow control of the playback level during subjective loudness matching. See
Figure 4-5 for the block diagram.
{width="4.761111111111111in" height="1.7305555555555556in"}
Figure 4-5: Block diagram of test apparatus for the experiment
#### 4.2.1.3 Description of experimental procedure
##### 4.2.1.3.1 Wideband objective measurements on HATS
The wideband pink noise responses of Prototypes 1 and 2 were objectively
measured on HATS 1 and 2, using the handset positioner settings described in
clause 4.2.1.2.1. The force was adjusted to 2N, 8N, 13N to span a range of
mounting conditions. The measurements were accomplished by playing -18dBFS
pink noise through the playback system described in clause 4.2.1.2.2 (using
Adobe Audition for digital audio playback). The system playback gain was
adjusted such that the acoustic sound pressure level was 79dBSPL at the Ear
Reference Position (ERP) for Prototype 1 (traditional earpiece) mounted on
HATS 1 (Bruel & Kjaer Type 5128) with a force of 8N. The same system gain was
then used for Prototype 2 (non-traditional earpiece), HATS 2 (Head Acoustics
HMS II.3), and all other mounting forces (2N and 13N). Figures 4-6a and 4-6b
show the ERP level measurements in 3^rd^ octave bands for all Prototype, HATS,
and force conditions.
{width="6.698611111111111in" height="3.1958333333333333in"}
Figure 4-6a: Earpiece level (Prototype 1) and Actuator level (Prototype 2)
level on HATS 1
{width="6.698611111111111in" height="3.1958333333333333in"}
Figure 4-6b: Earpiece level (Prototype 1) and Actuator level (Prototype 2)
level on HATS 2
Attenuation at low frequencies (below 1.6kHz for HATS 1 and below 2kHz for
HATS 2) is seen for both HATS and both prototypes as the application force is
decreased from 13N to 2N. Table 4-4 presents the mean attenuation
(200Hz-1.6kHz) between 13N and 2N of application force for all conditions. For
both HATS, Prototype 1 demonstrates more low frequency leakage than Prototype
2 (\~3dB). Furthermore, HATS 2 demonstrates more low frequency loss than HATS
1 independent of prototype (\~4dB).
Table 4-4: Mean attenuation (200Hz-1.6kHz) with varying application force
* * *
HATS Prototype Mean 13N to 2N Attenuation HATS 1 Earpiece (Prototype 1)
-10.57dB HATS 1 Actuator (Prototype 2) -8.11dB HATS 2 Earpiece (Prototype 1)
-15.48dB HATS 2 Actuator (Prototype 2) -11.74dB
* * *
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Band-passed objective measurements on HATS
Band-passed pink noise level calibration was accomplished by playing 1/3^rd^
octave band-passed pink noise through the playback system described in clause
4.2.1.2.2 with Adobe Audition. The level of each noise band was adjusted to
match roughly 79dBSPL at the Ear Reference Position (ERP) when Prototype 1
(traditional earpiece) was mounted with a force of 8N on HATS 1.
After calibration, band-passed pink noise responses were measured through
Max/MSP with both prototypes on both HATS using the level calibrated band-
passed pink noise as stimuli. Figure 4-7 shows the ERP level measurements in
each 1/3^rd^ octave band for both prototypes on both HATS at 8N of force.
{width="6.698611111111111in" height="3.1958333333333333in"}
Figure 4-7: Band-passed Earpiece level (Prototype 1) and Actuator level
(Prototype 2) on both HATS
Prototype 1 was successfully calibrated to +/-1dB around a nominal level of
77dBSPL for all bands from 200Hz to 12.5kHz on HATS 1. The -2dB difference
between the target level of 79dBSPL and achieved nominal level of 77dBSPL may
be due to a software switch between Audition and Max/MSP for digital audio
playback.
The relative level between Prototype 1 and Prototype 2 for each 3^rd^ octave
band is used as the objective transfer function in the following section.
Figure 4-10 includes the transfer functions ({width="1.3333333333333333in"
height="0.17708333333333334in"}) computed for both HATS, where
{width="0.4583333333333333in" height="0.17708333333333334in"} and
{width="0.4270833333333333in" height="0.17708333333333334in"} are the 3^rd^
octave band responses of Prototype 1 and 2, respectively.
##### 4.2.1.3.3 Subjective loudness matching
For the subjective loudness matching, eight participants were tasked with
comparing the perceived loudness of Prototypes 1 and 2 for each level
adjusted, band-passed pink noise stimulus. Participants were asked to hold
both handsets in a comfortable position. The test administrator ensured
consistent positioning throughout the test. Figure 4-8 demonstrates a standard
positioning for one subject.
{width="3.935416666666667in" height="2.3201388888888888in"}
Figure 4-8: Indicative handset positioning during loudness matching
Each participant completed two sessions. In each session, nineteen 3^rd^
octave bands (200Hz-12.5kHz) were assessed. Between each session the side
where Prototype 2 was held (left or right) was reversed. In each trial,
participants were asked to adjust the level of Prototype 2 to match the
perceived loudness of Prototype 1 using the Griffin Technology PowerMate USB
Volume Knob. The volume knob allowed adjustment in steps of 0.5dB and a range
of -24dB to +24dB. The starting gain of Prototype 2 was randomly adjusted
between -5dB and +5dB. The order of the frequencies presented was also
randomized.
An interface for the listening test was developed in Max/MSP and is shown in
Figure 4-9. Playback switching between the two prototypes (left and right) was
signalled by the subject (verbally or through gestures) and carried out by the
test administrator. All tests were completed in an anechoic chamber.
{width="3.15in" height="2.607638888888889in"}
Figure 4-9: Graphical User Interface for listening test
#### 4.2.1.4 Loudness Matching Results
Figure 4-10 shows the results of the listening tests (i.e. the gain that will
be applied to Prototype 2 to match Prototype 1) including mean and 95%
confidence intervals, along with the equivalent objective measurement on both
HATS at 8N. A full table of descriptive statistics can be found in Table A-1
of Annex A.
{width="5.690277777777778in" height="3.111111111111111in"}
Figure 4-10: Results of subjective loudness matching and objective transfer
functions from HATS
Generally strong agreement exists between the measured transfer function
between earpiece and actuator prototypes on HATS and the mean subjective
actuator level adjustment. There is a strong positive correlation between
subjective level matching and the HATS 1 transfer function (ρ=0.775; p\ 2dB), particularly at frequencies below
1.25kHz. Furthermore, the non-standard earpiece variability is device and
frequency dependent.
#### 4.2.2.5 Discussion
The results in clause 4.2.2.4 support the hypothesis that the receiver
frequency response of a non-standard, vibrating display (HaNTE) is subject to
mounting specific variability. Furthermore, the decoupled nature of a standard
earpiece mitigates such variability.
## 4.3 Acoustic measurements according to 3GPP TS 26.131 and TS 26.132 and
additional test cases to complement TS 26.131 and TS 26.132
### 4.3.1 Test setup
Three devices under test (DUTs), denoted A, B and C, were used for testing.
They all have the form factor of a smartphone/phablet. As described in Table
4-8, DUTs A and B use a vibrating display to produce sounds in handset mode
with no ear piece, while DUT C is a traditional handset UE with an ear piece.
Table 4-8: DUT description
* * *
DUT UE Type A Handset with vibrating display B Handset with vibrating display
C Handset with traditional ear piece
* * *
For each DUT, MECRP and mounting instructions were provided by the
manufacturer -- the positioning instructions can translated to P.64 Annex E
[3]. Each DUT was mounted on a B&K 4128C HATS placed in an acoustically
treated room complying with requirements in TS 26.132. The test simulator was
based on Head Acoustics ACQUA 4.0.100, with Head Acoustics MFE VI.1 and MFE
VIII.1, and Rohde & Schwarz CMW500 was used for LTE connections.
Measurements (in handset mode) were conducted according to TS 26.131 and
26.132 (Rel-13). For the sake of conciseness, only wideband (WB) conditions
are reported for LTE connections, using the AMR-WB (12.65 kbit/s) codec; the
NB case was also tested, and in the following some remarks are also provided
to illustrate relevant DUT behavior in NB when necessary. The default
application force of 8 N was applied. A subset of test results, mainly RLR and
RFR results, are reported hereafter.
### 4.3.2 Test results in receiving
#### 4.3.2.1 WB RLR
The measured WB RLR at all volume control setting (according to TS 26.131,
clause 6.2.2 and TS 26.132, clause 8.2.2.2) is shown in Figures 4-14a, 4-14b,
and 4-14c for DUT A, B and C, respectively. The nominal values of RLR are
constrained in the non-hashed area corresponding to the interval 2 ± 3 dB. The
nominal position \'nom.\' is chosen for each DUT such that the target RLR
value of 2 dB is met as close as possible. Note that the figures also show the
WB RLR constraints for the maximal position \'max.\' (> -13 dB, \ 7kHz) and it is even more noticeable in NB (frequencies > 4kHz).
To address these issues, the following test cases are proposed to be included
in TS 26.131 and TS 26.132.
#### 4.3.3.2 Additional test cases to complement TS 26.131 and TS 26.132
##### 4.3.3.2.1 Out-of-band energy level measurement from SWB RFR measurement
Figures 4-16a and 4-16b show the SWB RFR data measured at maximum and nominal
volume control, when using the SWB RFR test method specified in TS 26.131
clause 7.4.2.1 and TS 26.132 clause 9.4.2.1, for the WB phones under test (DUT
A to C). This measurement provides a frequency analysis range extended to the
at least [100, 16000] Hz.
NOTE 1: The SWB RFR test method in TS 26.132 specifies that a double
resolution (1/12 octaves and 1/3 octaves) is used for measurement, however the
1/12 octave band is hard-limited to a maximum frequency of about 8 kHz in the
setup used in this study. Therefore only 1/3 octave band results are reported
in Figures 4-16a and 4-16b.
NOTE 2: The SWB frequency masks in Figures 4-16a and 4-16b do not apply in the
WB case and they are only used for information.
NOTE 3: It was observed that DUT A has signal saturations (with clipped audio)
in two specific time segments in the 23-25s time interval when volume control
is set to maximum in receiving (recalling that the RFR test signal consisting
of concatenated British English single sentences is about 35s long); such
saturations were observed only for DUT A and only at maximum volume control
and it should be considered when interpreting the estimated frequency
response.
{width="4.863888888888889in" height="3.6381944444444443in"}
Figure 4-16a: RFR for DUT A, B, and C with extended frequency range and 1/3
octave band analysis (maximum volume control)
{width="4.946527777777778in" height="3.709722222222222in"}
Figure 4-16b: RFR for DUT A, B, and C with extended frequency range and 1/3
octave band analysis (nominal volume control)
It can be noted that DUT B has some out-of-band energy in the 1/3 octave bands
centered at 8 and 10 kHz. One caution is that the test signal is typically
pre-processed with a pass-band filter which does not allow conducting a
spectral analysis in the stop band region, therefore results above 12.5 kHz
are not relevant here.
To complement the 1/3 octave band analysis, the test signals recorded when
measuring SWB RFR at nominal volume control were also directly analysed. These
recorded signals are sampled at 48 kHz, and a periodogram using an FFT size of
4096 samples, with Hanning window and 75 % overlap is reported in Figure 4-17.
{width="4.402777777777778in" height="3.3069444444444445in"}
Figure 4-17: Periodogram of SWB RFR output test signal for DUT A, B, and C
(nominal volume control)
The out-of-band energy level is shown to be significantly higher for DUT B.
Test results are provided here only for WB terminals; however, it was found
that the same out-of-band energy issue is even more noticeable when the same
phone (DUT B) operates in NB.
##### 4.3.3.2.2 P.863 measurement
The measured values (using POLQA v2.4) for DUT A, B, and C, at nominal and
maximum volume control are reported in Table 4-9. It may be noted that the
MOS-LQO value measured at nominal level (\'Test Condition 0\') for delay tests
specified in TS 26.131, clause 6.11.1 and TS 26.132, clause 8.10.4 is already
part of existing test cases. In principle, no extra measurement is therefore
necessary for the nominal case; one may consider at least reporting this value
for the nominal case.
The values reported in Table 4-9 may be used to quantify quality issues
reported in user feedbacks.
Table 4-9: DUT description
+-----+------------------------+------------------------+ | DUT | MOS-LQO~TEST~ at | MOS-LQO~TEST~ at | | | | | | | nominal volume control | maximum volume control | +-----+------------------------+------------------------+ | A | 3.3 | 3.5 | +-----+------------------------+------------------------+ | B | 2.6 | 2.6 | +-----+------------------------+------------------------+ | C | 3.8 | 3.5 | +-----+------------------------+------------------------+
##### 4.3.3.2.3 WB RFR at maximum volume control
TS 26.132 clause 5.1 specifies that nominal volume control should be used for
RFR measurement. The measured WB RFR at three volume control settings
(minimum, nominal, and maximum) is shown in Figures 4-18a, 4-18b, and 4-18c
for DUT A, B and C.
It can be observed that RFR at maximum volume control is spectrally less
balanced than at nominal and minimum volume position for DUTs A and B, while
for a traditional UE such as DUT C the RFR does not vary significantly across
the volume range. This may explain the user feedback on timbre degradation
reporting for the maximum volume settings.
{width="3.942361111111111in" height="2.95625in"}
Figure 4-18a: WB RFR for DUT A at minimum, nominal and maximum volume control
{width="4.3069444444444445in" height="3.220138888888889in"}
Figure 4-18b: WB RFR for DUT B at minimum, nominal and maximum volume control
{width="4.377083333333333in" height="3.2777777777777777in"}
Figure 4-18c: WB RFR for DUT C at minimum, nominal and maximum volume control
NOTE: It was observed that DUT A has signal saturations (with clipped audio)
in two specific time segments in the 23-25s time interval when volume control
is set to maximum in receiving (recalling that the RFR test signal consisting
of concatenated British English single sentences is about 35s long); such
saturations were observed only for DUT A and only at maximum volume control
and it should be taken into account when interpreting the estimated frequency
response.
### 4.3.4 Discussion
The results presented in clause 4.3.2 show that acoustic measurements
according to 3GPP TS 26.131 and 26.132 can be conducted on handset UEs
featuring non-traditional earpieces, when MECRP and mounting position
information are provided.
## 4.4 Acoustic measurements according to 3GPP TS 26.131 and TS 26.132 with
various mounting conditions and test equipment
### 4.4.1 Introduction
3GPP handset terminal acoustic test methodologies [1] and requirements [2]
were developed for UE designs supporting traditional earpieces. However,
handset manufacturers are now selling UE\'s featuring non-traditional
earpieces (HaNTE devices) such as vibrating display handsets. In the present
study, standard acoustic terminal tests defined in [1] are performed on two
commercially available HaNTE devices to determine the applicability of such
methodologies to vibrating display handsets. The measurements are repeated
with multiple mounting positions and at several measurement points along the
handset\'s display. Variability and considerations specific to HaNTE acoustic
measurements are discussed.
### 4.4.2 Test Setup
Two measurements are made for each device:
\- Receiving Loudness Rating (RLR) defined in clause 8.2.2.2 of [1]
\- Receiving Sensitivity/Frequency Characteristics (RFR) defined in clause
8.4.2 of [1]
All measurements are conducted in an acoustically isolated anechoic chamber.
Two head and torso simulators (HATS) are used for the acoustic measurements,
each with its own handset positioning system. Figure 4-19 shows the two HATS
with their respective handset positioners.
{width="5.10625in" height="1.9229166666666666in"}
Figure 4-19: HATS 1 and 2 with handset positioners
Measurements are made with an MECRP of y~e~=17mm, z~e~=0mm for all devices.
HATS 1 measurements are made on a grid of 9 additional MECRP shifts taken from
clause 5 of [3]. Figure 4-20 demonstrates the 10 measurement points.
{width="3.6125in" height="2.3097222222222222in"}
Figure 4-20: Arbitrary MECRP (red) and all other RLR/RFR measurement points
for HATS 1
HATS 1 measurements are repeated under two handset support conditions shown in
Figure 4-21. Mounting Position 1 (MP1) is a standard device mounting with
support pins placed on the back of the handset. In Mounting Position 2 (MP2),
the supporting pins are retracted, and the bottom fork is adjusted lower on
the handset.
{width="4.722916666666666in" height="2.6590277777777778in"}
Figure 4-21: Variable handset support conditions used for HATS 1 measurements
On HATS 2, devices are mounted according to ITU-T Rec. P.64 (A = 21.2°, B =
-12.9°, C = 2.3°). Due to contact with the HATS 1 cheek in the standard
mounting position, a 5⁰ offset is added to the B angle for measurements on
HATS 2.
Device volume is set as close as possible to the nominal RLR of 2 ± 3dB at the
defined MECRP to comply with clause 6.2.2 of [2]. Test calls are established
using the AMR-WB codec at 12.65 kbps. In what follows, RLR and RFR measurement
results are provided for the two commercial HaNTE devices.
### 4.4.3 Measurement Results
#### 4.4.3.1 Device 1 on HATS 1 Measurements
##### 4.4.3.1.1 Receiver Loudness Rating Results
Device 1 was adjusted to a nominal RLR of 1.91dB at the MECRP with MP1 on HATS
1. Table 4-10 presents Device 1 RLR results for all MECRP shifts at MP1 and
MP2 on HATS 1. Figure 4-22 provides a visualization of the positions which
pass the requirements specified in [2].
Table 4-10: Device 1 RLR results (bold* = within 2±3dB tolerance [2])
* * *
Position RLR with MP 1 (dB) RLR with MP 2 (dB) Difference  
y~e~ z~e~  
17 0 **1.91*** **3.32** -1.41 10 -10 7.99 10.53 -2.54 10 0 9.79 12.00 -2.21 10
10 13.83 16.22 -2.39 20 -10 **-0.29*** **-0.20** -0.09 20 0 **1.01*** **0.98**
0.03 20 10 **3.84*** **3.75** 0.09 30 -10 **-0.86*** -3.35 2.49 30 0 **0.74***
-1.48 2.22 30 10 **3.42*** **1.01** 2.41 Mean 4.14* 4.28 -0.14
* * *
{width="4.3284722222222225in" height="1.4145833333333333in"}
Figure 4-22: Device 1 RLR results with MP1 (left) and MP2 (right) (green =
pass, red = fail)
Seven of ten tested points (including the MECRP) are within the RLR tolerance
specified in [2] for MP1 and five of ten for MP2. The average RLRs for both
MP1 (4.14dB) and MP2 (4.28dB) lie within the tolerance as well. MP1 RLR
results are on average 0.14dB louder than MP2 results with a maximum variation
of -2.54 dB at y~e~=10mm, y~z~=-10mm. For all y~e~ = 10 positions, MP1 has a
higher loudness rating than MP2. For positions with y~e~ = 30, MP1 has a lower
loudness rating. And for y~e~ = 20, the RLR is consistent between MP1 and MP2.
##### 4.4.3.1.2 Receiver Sensitivity/Frequency Response Results
Using the previously defined nominal RLR of 1.68dB at the MECRP, Device 1 RFRs
are measured on HATS 1 with two mounting positions at 10 points along the
display. Figure 4-23 shows all RFR measurements (normalized to 0dB [Pa/V]
maximum) along with the wideband tolerance from [2]. The arithmetic mean for
each mounting position is presented as well. All individual measurements fail
the wideband mask. Table 4-11 reports the maximum deviation from the tolerance
mask for each measurement.
{width="5.5159722222222225in" height="3.1166666666666667in"}
Figure 4-23: Device 1 RFR measured on HATS 1 at two mounting positions
Table 4-11: Device 1 RFR errors on HATS 1
* * *
Position MP1 Error (dB) MP2 Error (dB)  
y~e~ z~e~  
17 0 -4.12 -2.07 10 -10 -3.54 -7.34 10 0 -3.11 -6.96 10 10 -5.68 -7.55 20 -10
-3.23 -2.37 20 0 -4.27 -4.42 20 10 -6.20 -5.87 30 -10 -2.57 -1.58 30 0 -0.39
-1.34 30 10 -5.69 -4.23 Mean Error -3.88 -4.37
* * *
Variability of RFR results between MP1 and MP2 is presented in Figure 4-24. A
positive value indicates higher sensitivity with MP1. For Device 1, there is a
peak in variability (\~4dB) at 550Hz and 1.8kHz for all measurement points.
Variability never exceeds 6dB.
{width="4.722916666666666in" height="2.576388888888889in"}
Figure 4-24: Device 1 RFR mounting variability
#### 4.4.3.2 Device 1 on HATS 2 Measurements
Device 1 RFR was also measured on HATS 2 with the previously defined MECRP.
Device playback was calibrated to a nominal RLR of 0.61dB. Figure 4-25 shows
the HATS 2 results along with HATS 1 MECRP and average RFRs using MP1. Device
1 passes the RFR mask from [2] when measured on HATS 2.
{width="4.725694444444445in" height="2.609027777777778in"}
Figure 4-25: Device 1 RFR measured on HATS 2
#### 4.4.3.3 Device 2 on HATS 1 Measurements
##### 4.4.3.3.1 Receiver Loudness Rating Results
Device 2 was adjusted to a nominal RLR of -0.11dB at the MECRP with MP1. Table
4-12 presents Device 1 RLR results for all MECRP shifts at MP1 and MP2. Figure
4-26 provides a visualization of which positions pass the requirements
specified in [2].
Table 4-12: Device 2 RLR results (bold* = within 2±3dB tolerance [2])
* * *
Position RLR with MP1 (dB) RLR with MP2 (dB) Difference  
y~e~ z~e~  
17 0 **-0.11*** **0.91*** -1.02 10 -10 8.17 9.59 -1.42 10 0 7.39 8.59 -1.2 10
10 7.04 7.78 -0.74 20 -10 **0.34*** **-0.12*** 0.46 20 0 -1.09 -1.09 0.00 20
10 -1.79 -2.02 0.23 30 -10 **2.18*** **0.04*** 2.14 30 0 **0.67*** **-0.95***
1.62 30 10 **0.15*** -1.72 1.87 Mean 2.30* 2.10* 0.19
* * *
{width="4.325in" height="1.417361111111111in"}
Figure 4-26: Device 2 RLR results with MP1 (left) and MP2 (right) (green =
pass, red = fail)
Of the ten points tested, five (including the MECRP) are within the RLR
tolerance specified in [2] for MP1 and four (including the MECRP) for MP2. The
average RLRs for both MP1 (2.30) and MP2 (2.10) lie within the tolerance. MP2
RLR results are on average 0.19dB louder than MP1 with a maximum variation of
2.14dB at y~e~=30mm, y~z~=-10mm.
##### 4.4.3.3.2 Receiver Sensitivity/Frequency Response Results
Using the previously defined nominal RLR of -0.11dB at the MECRP, Device 2
RFRs are measured on HATS 1 with two mounting positions at 10 points along the
display. Figure 4-27 shows all RFR measurements (normalized to 0dB [Pa/V]
maximum) along with the wide-band tolerance from [2]. Furthermore, the
arithmetic mean for each mounting position is presented. All individual
measurements as well as the mean RFR fail the wide-band mask. Table 4-13
reports the maximum deviation from the tolerance mask for each measurement
{width="5.5055555555555555in" height="3.1333333333333333in"}
Figure 4-27: Device 2 RFR measured on HATS 1 at two mounting positions
Table 4-13: Device 2 RFR errors on HATS 1
* * *
Position MP1 Error (dB) MP2 Error (dB)  
y~e~ z~e~  
17 0 -25.43 -20.58 10 -10 -25.23 -26.30 10 0 -23.78 -24.61 10 10 -22.12 -22.49
20 -10 -26.54 -23.54 20 0 -25.95 -21.33 20 10 -25.63 -21.25 30 -10 -25.25
-26.96 30 0 -26.49 -24.07 30 10 -25.74 -22.01 Mean -25.22 -23.31
* * *
Variability of RFR results between MP1 and MP2 is presented in Figure 4-28. A
positive value indicates higher sensitivity with MP1. For Device 2, all
individual measurements demonstrate consistent and substantial (at some points
> 10dB) variability between 100Hz and 2kHz.
{width="4.722916666666666in" height="2.6180555555555554in"}
Figure 4-28: Device 2 RFR mounting variability
#### 4.4.3.4 Device 2 on HATS 2 Measurements
Device 2 RFR was also measured on HATS 2 with the previously defined MECRP.
Device playback was calibrated to a nominal RLR of 2.0dB. Figure 4-29 shows
the HATS 2 results along with HATS 1 MECRP and average RFRs using MP1. In-band
sensitivity differences between the two HATS exceed 10dB at 250Hz and reach
8dB at 2.5kHz.
{width="4.722916666666666in" height="2.6458333333333335in"}
Figure 4-29: Device 2 RFR measured on HATS 2
### 4.4.4 Discussion
In the previous clauses, acoustic measurement results for two commercial HaNTE
devices were presented. For each device the MECRP was defined as y~e~=17mm,
z~e~=0mm. Each device was measured on two HATS at the MECRP. On HATS 1, the
devices were measured at an additional 9 points in an equally spaced grid
proposed in [3]. Furthermore, HATS 1 measurements were made with a standard
mounting position and with an alternative mounting position. RLR and RFR
results for all measurements were assessed according to the requirements in
[2] and variability between HATS, measurement points, and mounting positions
was reported.
Device 1 exemplifies a relatively high performing HaNTE device. RLRs stay
within an acceptable range over a larger area of the device display when
mounted in a standard position (MP1). Although no RFR measurements on HATS 1
pass the mask defined in [2], all positions are within 8dB of passing no
matter the mounting position. Furthermore, Device 1 passes the RFR sensitivity
mask when measured on HATS 2. Finally, mounting specific variability is
limited to \20dB absolute error) or HATS.
Lastly, the Device 2 RFR is prone to high levels of mounting specific
variability at frequencies below 2kHz.
# 5 Conclusion
The present document reports on investigations of testing UEs featuring non-
traditional earpieces (\"HaNTE device\") and identifies related gaps to
existing 3GPP specifications and recommended test equipment. The feasibility
study resulted in the following main findings:
\- UEs featuring non-traditional earpieces may not feature a center of an
acoustic port, raising the question of how to properly position a handset for
testing. Therefore, an update to ITU-T Recommendation P.64 was found required
to reference this Recommendation also for handsets with non-traditional
earpieces.
\- When measured with manufacturer provided MECRP and mounting instructions,
at least one HaNTE device was found compliant to current 3GPP terminal
acoustic specifications.
\- However, even when measured with manufacturer provided MECRP and mounting
instructions, certain HaNTE devices were found not compliant to current 3GPP
terminal acoustic specifications.
\- In contrast to devices featuring a traditional earpiece, the manner of
holding the device with the handset positioner was found of significance for
the receive frequency response and receive loudness rating of certain HaNTE
devices. The mechanical contact of the handset positioner to the HaNTE device
structure may alter the device\'s acoustic radiating properties.
\- Because a significant portion of the display vibrates and radiates sound,
the listening \"sweet spot\" may be larger for certain HaNTE devices when
compared to handsets featuring a traditional earpiece.
\- Privacy was found of concern for certain HaNTE devices studied, with
audible sound radiating to areas in proximity to the user.
\- High distortion was identified as a concern with certain HaNTE devices
studied.
\- Out of band noise was identified as a concern with certain HaNTE devices
studied.
###### ### Annex A: Tables for the study on suitability of HATS for HaNTE
measurements
Table A-1: Subjective level matching descriptive statistics
* * *
Center Frequency (Hz) N Mean (dB) Std. Deviation Std. Error 200 16 -8.91 5.25
1.31 250 16 -2.75 3.92 0.98 315 16 -1.00 3.30 0.82 400 16 0.69 3.39 0.85 500
16 1.41 3.67 0.92 630 16 -2.13 3.61 0.90 800 16 -3.88 4.82 1.21 1000 16 -3.69
5.33 1.33 1250 16 -4.75 3.95 0.99 1600 16 -5.84 3.50 0.88 2000 16 -7.91 3.11
0.78 2500 16 -6.69 3.47 0.87 3150 16 -6.72 4.32 1.08 4000 16 -4.44 3.05 0.76
5000 16 -3.75 3.29 0.82 6300 16 -2.66 3.91 0.98 8000 16 -4.16 3.50 0.87 10000
16 -2.81 4.17 1.04 12500 16 -3.09 3.84 0.96
* * *
Table A-2: Objective-Subjective correlation analysis
* * *
Center Frequency (Hz) HATS 1 (dB) HATS 2 (dB) Subjective Mean (dB) 200 -6.93
-5.06 -8.91 250 -3.63 -3.04 -2.75 315 0.09 -0.58 -1.00 400 3.28 2.97 0.69 500
-1.58 0.04 1.41 630 -1.99 -4.71 -2.13 800 -0.81 -5.48 -3.88 1000 -5.93 -5.22
-3.69 1250 -5.85 -3.92 -4.75 1600 -4.39 -6.51 -5.84 2000 -5.23 -7.30 -7.91
2500 -6.44 -7.05 -6.69 3150 -6.43 -8.80 -6.72 4000 -5.80 -7.40 -4.44 5000
-4.64 -5.76 -3.75 6300 -3.94 -0.87 -2.66 8000 -3.23 -0.61 -4.16 10000 -3.21
-4.14 -2.81 12500 -0.05 5.98 -3.09 rho 0.775 0.656 - tstat 5.350 3.791 - p
0.000 0.001 -
* * *
Table A-3: SE and RMSE calculated between subjective results and HATS data
* * *
Center Frequency (Hz) HATS 1 (dB) HATS 2 (dB) 200 -6.93 -5.06 250 -3.63 -3.04
315 0.09 -0.58 400 3.28 2.97 500 -1.58 0.04 630 -1.99 -4.71 800 -0.81 -5.48
1000 -5.93 -5.22 1250 -5.85 -3.92 1600 -4.39 -6.51 2000 -5.23 -7.30 2500 -6.44
-7.05 3150 -6.43 -8.80 4000 -5.80 -7.40 5000 -4.64 -5.76 6300 -3.94 -0.87 8000
-3.23 -0.61 10000 -3.21 -4.14 12500 -0.05 5.98 RMSE 1.794 2.832
* * *
Table A-4: One-sample, two-tailed t-test with HATS 1 as reference
* * *
Center Frequency (Hz) Test Value t df Sig. (2-tailed) Mean Difference 95%
Confidence Interval  
Lower Upper 200 -6.93 -1.504 15 0.153 -1.976 -11.706 -6.106 250 -3.63 0.898 15
0.383 0.880 -4.839 -0.661 315 0.09 -1.323 15 0.206 -1.090 -2.757 0.757 400
3.28 -3.059 15 0.008* -2.593 -1.119 2.494 500 -1.58 3.258 15 0.005* 2.986
-0.547 3.360 630 -1.99 -0.150 15 0.883 -0.135 -4.047 -0.203 800 -0.81 -2.543
15 0.023* -3.065 -6.444 -1.306 1000 -5.93 1.683 15 0.113 2.243 -6.527 -0.848
1250 -5.85 1.114 15 0.283 1.100 -6.855 -2.645 1600 -4.39 -1.661 15 0.117
-1.454 -7.709 -3.978 2000 -5.23 -3.442 15 0.004* -2.676 -9.564 -6.249 2500
-6.44 -0.285 15 0.779 -0.248 -8.536 -4.839 3150 -6.43 -0.268 15 0.793 -0.289
-9.019 -4.419 4000 -5.80 1.788 15 0.094 1.363 -6.062 -2.813 5000 -4.64 1.083
15 0.296 0.890 -5.501 -1.999 6300 -3.94 1.315 15 0.208 1.284 -4.738 -0.575
8000 -3.23 -1.060 15 0.306 -0.926 -6.019 -2.293 10000 -3.21 0.382 15 0.708
0.398 -5.033 -0.592 12500 -0.05 -3.175 15 0.006* -3.044 -5.137 -1.050
* * *
Table A-5: One-sample, two-tailed t-test with HATS 2 as reference
* * *
Center Frequency (Hz) Test Value t df Sig. (2-tailed) Mean Difference 95%
Confidence Interval  
Lower Upper 200 -5.06 -2.928 15 0.010* -3.846 -11.706 -6.106 250 -3.04 0.296
15 0.771 0.290 -4.839 -0.661 315 -0.58 -0.510 15 0.618 -0.420 -2.757 0.757 400
2.97 -2.693 15 0.017* -2.283 -1.119 2.494 500 0.04 1.491 15 0.157 1.366 -0.547
3.360 630 -4.71 2.866 15 0.012* 2.585 -4.047 -0.203 800 -5.48 1.331 15 0.203
1.605 -6.444 -1.306 1000 -5.22 1.150 15 0.268 1.533 -6.527 -0.848 1250 -3.92
-0.841 15 0.414 -0.830 -6.855 -2.645 1600 -6.51 0.761 15 0.458 0.666 -7.709
-3.978 2000 -7.30 -0.780 15 0.448 -0.606 -9.564 -6.249 2500 -7.05 0.418 15
0.682 0.363 -8.536 -4.839 3150 -8.80 1.929 15 0.073 2.081 -9.019 -4.419 4000
-7.40 3.887 15 0.001* 2.963 -6.062 -2.813 5000 -5.76 2.446 15 0.027* 2.010
-5.501 -1.999 6300 -0.87 -1.829 15 0.087 -1.786 -4.738 -0.575 8000 -0.61
-4.057 15 0.001* -3.546 -6.019 -2.293 10000 -4.14 1.274 15 0.222 1.328 -5.033
-0.592 12500 5.98 -9.464 15 0.000* -9.074 -5.137 -1.050
* * *
#