# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The document presents typical media traffic characteristics (including
bandwidth and latency requirements) that are of importance for 3GPP
standardization work. This includes demands based on current services, but
also expectations for new services or emerging services, considering
developments in the industry in terms of efficiency improvements.
# 1 Scope
The present document includes following information:
\- Media centric Third-Party and Operator services currently deployed or
expected to be deployed until 2025 on 3GPP defined 4G and 5G networks.
\- Typical deployment characteristics today, such as bandwidth requirements,
client buffered and rate adaptation reception characteristics, codecs,
protocols in use and latency requirements.
\- An overview on technological developments for existing and emerging
services and their impact on typical traffic characteristics of media
services, e.g. evolution of compression technologies, new demands for high
quality, new experiences, etc.
\- A summary on typical characteristics and requirements for different media
services on 3GPP networks.
\- An identification of the applicability of existing 5QIs for such services
and potentially identify requirements for new 5QIs or QoS related parameters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.234: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Protocols and codecs\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.247: \"Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming Service
(PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP (3GP-
DASH)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs \".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.116: \"Television (TV) over 3GPP services; Video profiles\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.118: \"3GPP Virtual reality profiles for streaming
applications\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.223: \"Telepresence using the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS);
Media handling and interaction \".
[9] Recommendation ITU-R BT.1872-3 (10-2019): \" User requirements for
broadcast auxiliary services including digital television outside broadcast,
electronic/satellite news gathering and electronic field production\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System \".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.238: \"Uplink streaming\".
[12] ST 2110-10:2017 - SMPTE Standard - Professional Media Over Managed IP
Networks: System Timing and Definitions.
[13] Video Services Forum (VSF) Technical Recommendation TR-05, Essential
Formats and Descriptions for Interoperability of SMPTE ST 2110-20 Video
Signals.
[14] Recommendation ITU-T H.264 (04/2017): \"Advanced video coding for generic
audiovisual services\" \| ISO/IEC 14496-10:2014: \"Information technology -
Coding of audio-visual objects - Part 10: Advanced Video Coding\".
[15] Recommendation ITU-T H.265 (12/2016): \"High efficiency video coding\" \|
ISO/IEC 23008-2:2015: \"High Efficiency Coding and Media Delivery in
Heterogeneous Environments - Part 2: High Efficiency Video Coding\".
[16] 3GPP TR 26.949: \"Video formats for 3GPP services\".
[17] IETF RFC 793: \"TCP\"
[18] https://www.ietf.org/id/draft-ietf-quic-transport-19.txt.
[19] DVB BlueBook A176: \"Adaptive media streaming over IP multicast -
reference architecture\".
[20] CableLabs OC-TR-IP-MULTI-ARCH: \"IP Multicast Adaptive Bit Rate
Architecture Technical Report\".
[21] \"How youtube led to Google\'s cloud-gaming service\", spectrum.ieee.org
\| SEP 2019 \| 09.
[22] 3GPP TR 22.842: \"Study on Network Controlled Interactive Services
(Release 17)\".
[23] \"Cloud Gaming: Architecture and Performance\", Ryan Shea and Jiangchuan
Liu, Simon Fraser University; Edith C.-H. Ngai, Uppsala University; Yong Cui,
Tsinghua University; IEEE Network-July/August 2013.
[24] Jens-Rainer Ohm, Gary J. Sullivan, Heiko Schwarz, Thiow Keng Tan, and
Thomas Wiegand, \"Comparison of the Coding Efficiency of Video Coding
Standards---Including High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC)\" IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 22, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2012.
[25] T.K. Tan, M. Mrak, R. Weerakkody, N. Ramzan, V. Baroncini, G.J. Sullivan,
J.-R. Ohm, K.D. McCann, \"HEVC subjective video quality test results\",
IBC2014 Conference, 2014.
[26] Thiow Keng Tan ; Rajitha Weerakkody ; Marta Mrak ; Naeem Ramzan ;
Vittorio Baroncini, Jens-Rainer Ohm, Gary J. Sullivan, \"Video Quality
Evaluation Methodology and Verification Testing of HEVC Compression
Performance\" IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology,
Volume: 26, Issue: 1, Jan. 2016.
[27] Minhua Zhou, Jianle Chen, Kiho Choi and Dmytro Rusanovskyy, \"Tool
comparison between VVC (VTM3.0) and NVC\", ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11 MPEG2019/
m46554, Marrakech, Morocco, January 2019.
[28] Frank Bossen, Xiang Li, Karsten Suehring, \"AHG report: Test model
software development (AHG3)\", JVET-M0003, Joint Video Experts Team (JVET) of
ITU-T SG 16 WP 3 and ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/WG 11, 13th Meeting: Marrakech, MA,
9-18 Jan. 2019.
[29] K. Choi et al., \"Description of video coding technology proposal by
Samsung, Huawei, and Qualcomm for New Video Coding Standard\", MPEG-M46354,
Marrakech, Morocco, January 209.
[30] 3GPP TR 26.928: \"Extended Reality over 5G\".
[31] ST 297:2006 - SMPTE Standard - For Television --- Serial Digital Fiber
Transmission System for SMPTE 259M, SMPTE 344M, SMPTE 292 and SMPTE 424M
Signals.
[32] ST 2081-10:2018 - SMPTE Standard - 2160-line and 1080-line Source Image
and Ancillary Data Mapping for 6G-SDI.
[33] ST 2082-1:2015 - SMPTE Standard - 12 Gb/s Signal/Data Serial Interface
--- Electrical ST 2082-1:2015.
[34] SMPTE ST-2083, 24G-SDI, In development.
[35] 3GPP TR 22.827: \"Study on Audio-Visual Service Production\".
[36] ST 2042-1:2017 - SMPTE Standard - VC-2 Video Compression
[37] ITU-T/T.802 \| ISO/IEC 15444-3 \"Information technology - JPEG 2000 image
coding system - Part 3: Motion JPEG 2000
[38] ITU-T G.1032 \"Influence factors on gaming quality of experience\"
([https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.1032-201710-I/en]{.underline})
[39] ITU-T P.809 \"Subjective evaluation methods for gaming quality\"
([https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-P.809/en]{.underline})
[40] M. Mathis, J. Semke, J. Mahdavi, The macroscopic behavior of the TCP
congestion avoidance algorithm. Comput. Commun. Rev. (ACM SIGCOMM) **27**(3),
67--82 (1997)
[41] Yusuke Miki, Tsuyoshi Sakiyama, Kenichiro Ichikawa, Mayumi Abe, Seiji
Mitsuhashi, Masayuki Miyazaki , \"Ready for 8K UHDTV broadcasting in Japan\",
IBC 2015 Conference.
[42] Hirokazu Kamoda, \"NHK Launched World's First 8K Broadcasting in Japan\",
NAB Pilot guest blog post (https://nabpilot.org/nhk-launch-worlds-
first-8k-broadcasting/)
[43] Thierry Fautier, Eric Mazieres, France Television Lab blog post \"8K
EXPERIMENT AT ROLAND GARROS 2019\"
(https://www.francetelevisions.fr/lab/projets/8K-Experiment-at-Roland-
Garros-2019)
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**360 VR:** Virtual Reality 360° video and 3D audio content.
**720p:** a video with an image resolution of 1 280 × 720 pixels.
**4K UHD:** a video with an image resolution of 3 840 x 2 160 pixels a.k.a.
2160p.
**8K UHD:** a video with an image resolution of 7680 x 4 320 pixels a.k.a.
4320p.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
A/V Audio/Visual
FFS For Further Study
HD High Definition
PSS Packet Switched Streaming
STB Set-Top-Box
TV Television
UHD Ultra High Definition
VR Virtual Reality
# 4 Media centric Third-Party and Operator services
## 4.1 A/V Streaming - Enhanced TV
Live and on-demand audio-visual streaming and enhanced TV services are
considered according to 3GPP PSS [2], 3GP-DASH [3], MBMS [4] and the media
profiles in TS 26.116 [5].
## 4.2 VR 360° Streaming
Live and on-demand VR 360° streaming are considered according to 3GPP PSS [2],
3GP-DASH [3], MBMS [4] and the media profiles in TS 26.118 [6].
## 4.3 Conversational Multimedia Telephony and Telepresence
Conversational Multimedia Telephony and Telepresence are considered according
to MTSI [7] and IMS Telepresence [8].
## 4.4 Live uplink A/V streaming
Professional and consumer live uplink streaming contribution of A/V content
are considered according to FLUS [11].
## 4.5 Cloud gaming
Cloud gaming (a.k.a. game streaming) implies that, while the game is being
played by a user on a UE or on a device attached to a UE, game processing and
rendering is totally or partly performed in a network entity, potentially at
the edge of the network. The traffic typically consists of uplink and downlink
game status/control information traffic between a client and a server and of
downlink streaming of rendered and encoded 2D or VR360 video.
## 4.6 XR Media Services
For details on XR Services including AR and VR, refer to 3GPP TR 26.928 [30].
# 5 Typical current deployment characteristics
## 5.1 Typical streaming/broadcast video and audio bitrates
These figures are valid for both HDR/non-HDR video:
\- 720p HD: 2 - 5 Mbps
NOTE 1: Today typically 3 Mbps for HEVC [15] and 5Mbps for AVC [14], but
bitrate reductions expected with better encoding and coding tools. See Clause
6.1.2.
\- Full HD: 3 - 12 Mbps
NOTE 2: Today typically 5-7 Mbps for HEVC [15] and 10-12 Mbps for AVC [14],
but bitrate reductions expected with better encoding and coding tools. See
Clause 6.1.2.
\- 4k UHD: 5- 25Mbps
NOTE 3: today typically 8-16 Mbps for HEVC [15] and 15-25 Mbps for AVC [14],
but bitrate reductions expected with better encoding and coding tools. See
Clause 6.1.2.
\- 8k UHD: 20 - 80 Mbps
NOTE 4: Today typically up to 80 Mbps for HEVC [15], but bitrate reductions
expected with better encoding and coding tools. See Clause 6.1.2.
NOTE 5: On 8k UHD: currently not specified in 3GPP TS 26.116. Bitrate figures
are based on limited available deployment data.
These figures apply for audio:
\- Normal quality audio: mono/stereo: 24-48 kbps
\- High quality audio: mono/stereo/immersive 24-512 kbps
\- Extreme quality audio: mono/stereo/immersive 512 kbps
## 5.2 Typical streaming/broadcast 360 VR bitrates
The following bitrates apply for streaming/broadcast 360 VR.
\- Basic 360 VR: 2.5 - 25 Mbps
NOTE 1: For viewport agnostic, the 4k UHD numbers apply. For viewport
dependent, the bitrates likely can be reduced to half.
\- HD 360 VR: 10 - 80 Mbps
NOTE 2: For viewport agnostic, the 8k UHD numbers apply. For viewport
dependent, the bitrates likely can be reduced to half.
\- Retinal VR: 15 - 150 Mbps
NOTE 3: For viewport agnostic, the 8k UHD numbers multiplied by 4 apply. For
viewport dependent, the bitrates likely can be reduced to half or even on
third.
Note 4 on framerates: cinema content is usually captured and distributed at 24
fps. TV content is usually captured and distributed at 50 or 60 fps depending
on the region. The above video bitrates include frame rates of up to 60fps.
Note 5 on bitrate ranges: the bitrates are dependent on codec (e.g. AVC/H.264
[14] or HEVC/H.265 [15]), on content type and whether it is live or on-demand.
Bitrates are expected to be reduced with expected encoder implementation
enhancements and new codecs. In the past, that reduction has been observed to
be in the order of 50 % every 10 years.
## 5.3 Typical conversational speech/audio and video bitrates
The following bitrates are typical in commercial services according to clause
4.3:
\- Narrowband voice (mono): 7.2-13.2 kbps
\- Wideband voice (mono): 7.2-24.4 kbps
\- Super-wideband voice (mono): 9.6-24.4 kbps
\- Fullband voice (mono): 16.4-[TBD] kbps
NOTE: Unlike NB, WB and SWB which all are audio bandwidths used in commercial
networks, no FB usage has yet been seen for commercial conversational
services.
\- VGA video: 300 - 900 kbps
\- 720p HD video: 800 - 1500 kbps
\- Telepresence video 1080p: 1500 - 3000 kbps
## 5.4 Typical uplink A/V streaming of A/V, including 360 VR content
### 5.4.1 Professional production content bitrates
Table 5.4.1-1 lists common content formats from professional cameras that are
output in uncompressed form over the SDI interface, and their corresponding
bit rates:
NOTE 1: The formal standard references are listed in table 5.4.1-1.
NOTE 2: See also 3GPP TR 22.827 [35].
NOTE 3: The SDI rates given below are for wired connections within
professional production environments.
Table 5.4.1-1: SDI interface, and their corresponding bit rates
* * *
Standard Name Bitrates Example video formats SMPTE 259M [31] SD-SDI 270
Mbit/s, 360 Mbit/s, 143 Mbit/s, and 177 Mbit/s 480i, 576i SMPTE 344M [31] ED-
SDI 540 Mbit/s 480p, 576p SMPTE 292M [31] HD-SDI 1.485 Gbit/s, and 1.485/1.001
Gbit/s 720p, 1080i SMPTE 372M [31] Dual Link HD-SDI 2.970 Gbit/s, and
2.970/1.001 Gbit/s 1080p60 SMPTE 424M [31] 3G-SDI 2.970 Gbit/s, and
2.970/1.001 Gbit/s 1080p60 SMPTE ST-2081 [32] 6G-SDI 6 Gbit/s 2160p30 SMPTE
ST-2082 [33] 12G-SDI 12 Gbit/s 2160p60 SMPTE ST-2083 [34] 24G-SDI 24 Gbit/s
2160p/4k\@120,8k\@60
* * *
SMPTE ST 2110 [12] can support transport of compressed or uncompressed streams
from cameras with the resolutions above. According to [13], in case of
uncompressed streams, the video rates for YCbCr 4:2:2 10b format can be
derived as follows.
Table 5.4.1-2: ST 2110 Video uncompressed streams bitrates
* * *
Format Corresponding ST 2110 Video uncompressed bitrate (YCbCr 4:2:2 10b) [12]
in Gbps 480p30, 576p25 0.221 720p50/60 0.982 / 1.178 1080p50/60 2.210 / 2.650
2160p50/60 8.842 / 10.600 2160p100 (4K) 17.684 4320p50/60/100 (8K) 36.103 /
43.280 / 72.206
* * *
Audio uncompressed channels come in addition, but their bitrates are some
magnitude smaller than uncompressed video.
Light compression can also be used for such production environments using for
example VC-2 (ST 2042-1:2017 - SMPTE Standard - VC-2 Video Compression) [36]
which is typically used with a coding ratio of 4:1 and MJ2 - Motion JPEG 2000
(ISO/IEC IS 15444-3 \| ITU-T T.802)[37] which is typically used with a coding
ratio of 6:1.
Compression is used for portable cameras equipped with wireless (Wireless LAN
and 4G LTE) modules. The bitrates are 9, 6, 3, 2Mbps for up to 720p\@60fps and
9, 6, 3 Mbps for 1080\@30fps with AVC/H.264 [14].
### 5.4.2 Live uplink contribution professional content bitrates
Contribution feeds as seen in real deployed systems:
\- 80 Mbps 422 10 bits for HD \@60fps
\- 165 Mbps 422 10 bits for UHD (4K, AVC/H.264 [14]) \@60fps
\- 120 Mbps 422 10 bits for UHD (4K, HEVC/H.265 [15]) \@60fps
\- Normal quality 360 VR: [TBD 96 Mbps]
\- High quality 360 VR: [TBD 140 Mbps]
NOTE 1: The above video profiles include frame rates of up to 60fps.
\- Broadcast auxiliary services (e.g. electronic news gathering) according to
Recommendation ITU-R BT.1872-3 [9]:21-35 Mbps for HD TV (AVC/H.264 [14])
\- 18-30 Mbps for HD TV (HEVC/H.265 [15])
\- 96-145 Mbps for UHD TV (4K, HEVC/H.265 [15])
\- 140-285 Mbps for UHD TV (8K, HEVC/H.265 [15])
\- Compressed audio: 96-180 kbps per channel
\- Uncompressed audio: 768-1152 kbps per channel
NOTE 2: The lower video rates from BT.1872-3 concern a single codec while the
higher rates have headroom for 3 coding steps in tandem.
### 5.4.3 User generated content
The following bitrates are typical for user generated content:
\- 720p HD: 3 - 10 Mbps
NOTE 1: Today typically 5-10 Mbps for AVC [14] depending on frame rate and
dynamic range, but bitrate reductions expected with better encoding and coding
tools. See Clause 6.1.2.
\- Full HD: 5 - 15 Mbps
NOTE 2: Today typically 8-15 Mbps for AVC [14], but bitrate reductions
expected with better encoding and coding tools. See Clause 6.1.2.
\- 4k UHD: 10 - 85 Mbps
NOTE 3: Today typically 8-16 Mbps for HEVC [15] and 15-25 Mbps for AVC [14],
but bitrate reductions expected with better encoding and coding tools. See
Clause 6.1.2.
\- 8k UHD: 20 - 150 Mbps
NOTE 4: No information is available today, but the numbers are extrapolated
from 4K by multiplying with a factor 4.
\- Basic 360 VR: the numbers for 4k UHD apply
\- HD 360 VR: the numbers for 8k UHD apply
\- Retinal VR: this is roughly 16k as expected, so a factor 4 to 8k UHD is
applicable, i.e. 40-300 Mbps
\- Normal quality audio: 24.4kbps/channel
NOTE 5: Super-wideband 3GPP audio codecs may be used.
\- High quality audio: 128kbps/channel
NOTE 6 on user generated content: the video bitrate ranges are wide as user
generated content may have different quality expectations including semi-
professional content.
## 5.5 Typical Traffic Characteristics for Cloud gaming
For cloud gaming, the downlink streaming of 720p/1080p/4k \@60fps encoded A/V
typically consists of a 5-35Mbps bitstream. One instance of a cloud gaming
service requires a minimum uplink bitrate of 1.5 Mbps [21].
In the future the cloud gaming is presumed to reach up to 8k resolutions and
up to 120fps downlink bitstreams. No information on such currently deployed
services are available to formulate typical bitrates. However, Clause 6
provides indication that allows estimation of bitrates. Annex A provides
background information on deployed cloud gaming services.
Different game types result in different round-trip user interaction delay
requirements (sometimes referred also as acceptable game latency). As
discussed in TR 26.928 [30], clause 4.2, with regards to such requirements,
games may be divided into the following 4 types: games requiring (i) at most
50 ms, (ii) at most 100 ms, (iii) at most 200ms, and (iv) games with no
latency requirements. The game latency impacts the traffic model as well as
the requirements on the delivery system. The shorter the latency requirements,
the higher the expected bitrate.
## 5.6 XR Traffic Characteristics
Initial typical bitrates and traffic characteristics for XR services are
collected in TR 26.928 [30], clause 6.
More details are FFS.
# 6 Overview on technological developments for existing and emerging services
## 6.1 Technology Developments
### 6.1.1 Overview
This clause collects developments in the industry on compression advances,
content formats, protocol improvements and other advances that may impact the
traffic characteristics documented in clause 4.
### 6.1.2 Compression Improvements
Due to the increasing consumption of video content with higher resolutions,
the need for more efficient video compression techniques is growing. The first
version of the High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC) standard [15], jointly
developed by the ITU-T VCEG and the ISO MPEG, was finalized in 2013. A wide
range of products and services support HEVC [15] for video encoding/decoding,
especially for Ultra High Definition (UHD) content, where HEVC [15] can
provide around 50% bitrate savings for the same subjective quality as its
predecessor H.264/AVC [14].
Both codecs are defined as part of the TV Video Profiles in TS 26.116 [5] and
are also the foundation of the VR Video Profiles in TS 26.118 [6].
Work on video compression technologies beyond the capabilities of HEVC [15]
are continued by the MPEG/ITU, with the creation of the Joint Video
Exploration Team (JVET) on future video coding in October 2015. Many new
coding tools have been proposed in the context of JVET, which eventually led
to a Call for Proposals on video coding technologies with video compression
capabilities beyond HEVC [15]. The reference software used in the exploration
phase of JVET, called Joint Exploration Model (JEM), was leveraged as the base
for the majority of responses to the call. Results included responses
demonstrating compression efficiency gains of around 40 % or more with respect
to HEVC [15]. This initiated the work by the Joint Video Experts Team (JVET)
on the development of a new video coding standard, to be known as Versatile
Video Coding (VVC).
MPEG has started working on a new video coding standard to be known as MPEG-5
Essential Video Coding (EVC) in January 2019. MPEG-5 EVC aims to provide a
standardized video coding solution to address business needs in some use
cases, such as video streaming, where existing ISO video coding standards have
not been as widely adopted as might be expected from their purely technical
characteristics. In addition, a main profile adds a small number of additional
tools, each of which is individually capable of being either properly
deactivated or switched to the corresponding basic tool. The target coding
efficiency for the call for proposals was to be at least as efficient as HEVC.
This target was exceeded by approximately 24 % in the responses to the call
for proposals, which were evaluated at this meeting. The development of the
MPEG-5 EVC standard is expected to be completed in 2020.
Figure 6.1.2-1 shows the typical improvements of video compression rates over
time as well as the target for the VVC standard. It is also observed that
compression technologies have enabled the reduction of bitrates by 50 % in a
time frame of 7-10 years. Most of the gains come by the increase of encoding
and decoding complexity, spurred according to Moore\'s law.
{width="6.733333333333333in" height="2.8694444444444445in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1: Video bitrate efficiency improvements and target for the final
VVC standard [reproduced with appropriate permission from Fraunhofer]
Table 6.1.2-1 provides a summary of the expected compression efficiency of
different codecs and expectations on target bitrates for different video
technologies.
Table 6.1.2-1: Expected Video coding standards performance and bitrate target
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Codec | Coding | Targeted | | | | performance | bitrate | | | | | | | | | ( | (Random | | | | Random-Access) | Access) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Objective | Subjective | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **HEVC** | -40 % vs AVC | -60 % vs AVC | 4k: | | | [24 | [24 | | | | ][25][26] | ][25][26] | - Statmux: | | | | | 10-13 Mbps | | | | | | | | | | - CBR: 18-25 | | | | | Mbps | | | | | | | | | | 8k: | | | | | | | | | | - CBR: 40-56 | | | | | Mbps | | | | | | | | | | - High | | | | | quality: | | | | | 80-90 Mbps | | | | | | | | | | > [24 | | | | | ][25][26] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ** | -30 % vs AVC | n/a | Not expected | | EVC-Baseline**| [27][29] | | for 4k or 8k | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |** EVC-Main**| -24 % vs HEVC | n/a | Expected | | | [27][29] | | [27][29] | | | | | | | | | | 4k CBR: | | | | | 15-19Mbps | | | | | | | | | | 8k CBR: 30-60 | | | | | Mbps | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ |** VVC** | -30 % vs HEVC | n/a | Expected | | | [28][29] | | [28][29] | | | | | | | | Best-CfP: | | 4k CBR: 10-15 | | | -42 % vs HEVC | | Mbps | | | | | | | | Target: -50 % | | 8k CBR: 25-35 | | | vs HEVC | | Mbps | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note: | | | | | (Average) with | | | | | peaks up to | | | | | 25Mbps thanks | | | | | to STATMUX. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Also noteworthy is the improvement of encoders over time even for existing
standards which also leads to bitrate reductions at the same quality.
Based on this information it can be expected that withi­n the time frame until
2025, video compression technology permit bitrate reductions by a factor of 50
% compared to what is today possible with HEVC [15].
However, not to forget according to Jevons Paradox, stating that the
efficiency with which a resource is used tends to increase (rather than
decrease) the rate of consumption of that resource. This may well mean that
the compression efficiency gains spur even more traffic.
### 6.1.3 New Media Formats
New media formats in media generation and distribution are developed on a
continuous basis, taking into account improvements in capturing and display
systems. TR 26.949 [16] collects TV distribution formats as they were
considered in the time frame of 2015 to 2017. The parameters are summarized in
clause 5.4 of the present document in terms of:
\- Spatial Resolution
\- Frame Rates
\- Colorimetry
\- Other parameters
The latest versions, referred to as UHD-1 Phase 2 is summarized according to
TR 26.949, clause 5.4.8:
\- UHD-1 phase 2 exclusively operates with HEVC [15] and bit depth of 10 bit.
\- only square pixel resolutions and only progressive scan are supported.
\- Only BT.2100 [33] non-constant luminance YCbCr is supported.
\- High Dynamic Range is added either through the PQ10 or the HLG10 system,
relying on HEVC Main-10 Level 5.1 [15].
\- Optional SEI metadata may be provided in the bitstream using HEVC specified
SEI messages [15].
\- Addition of High Frame Rate (HFR), i.e. addition of 100, 120 000/1 001 and
120 Hz.
\- HFR can be supported by two means:
\- Single PID HFR bitstream.
\- Dual PID and temporal scalability when the bitstream is intended to be
decodable by UHD phase 1 receivers at half frame rate.
\- For HFR on HEVC Main-10 Level 5.2 [15] is required.
\- Support for Next Generation Audio (NGA) to enable immersive and
personalized audio content.
The TV Video Profiles in TS 26.116 [5] address coded representations of the
UHD-1 phase 2 signals to the most extent. Table 6.1.3-1 provides an overview
of the TV relevant formats considered in the context of 3GPP TV Video
Profiles.
Table 6.1.3-1: TV over 3GPP services Video Profile Operation Points (TS 26.116
[5])
Operation Point name | Resolution format | Picture aspect ratio | Scan | Max. frame rate | Chroma format | Chroma sub-sampling | Bit depth | Colour space format | 
> Transfer Characteristics  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
H.264/AVC 720p HD | 1280 × 720 | 16:9 | Progressive | 30 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8 | BT.709 | 
> BT.709  
H.265/HEVC 720p HD | 1280 × 720 | 16:9 | Progressive | 30 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8 | BT.709 | 
> BT.709  
H.264/AVC Full HD | 1920 × 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8 | BT.709 | 
> BT.709  
H.265/HEVC Full HD | 1920 × 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 8; 10 | BT.709; BT.2020 | 
> BT.709; BT.2020  
H.265/HEVC UHD | 3840 × 2160 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 | 
> BT.2020  
H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR | 1920 x 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 | 
> BT.2100 PQ  
H.265/HEVC UHD HDR | 3840 x 2160 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 | 
> BT.2100 PQ  
H.265/HEVC Full HD HDR HLG | 1920 x 1080 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 | 
> BT.2100 HLG  
H.265/HEVC UHD HDR HLG | 3840 x 2160 | 16:9 | Progressive | 60 | Y'CbCr | 4:2:0 | 10 | BT.2020 | 
> BT.2100 HLG  
Looking further into the future, there is currently only one 8K broadcast
service being supported by the Japanese public service broadcaster NHK. This
runs 12 hours a day and is to be utilised as part of the promotion for the
upcoming Olympics in Japan. This service is supported by a government
initiative. A summary of the service launched by NHK was published in [42] and
a more detailed description can be found in the IBC paper \"Ready for 8K UHDTV
broadcasting in Japan\" [41].
France Television performed a trial of 8K delivery of the Roland Garros Tennis
Championship by 5G in June 2019, details can be found in [43].
For VR production and distribution, the ITU recommends [TBA] that for eye not
to perceive pixels for 360VR, 30K by 15K images should be provided, though
other criteria may be used in system design.
### 6.1.4 Protocol Improvements
Most of the video traffic used HTTP and TCP for the delivery of both wired and
wireless Internet. The transmission control protocol, mostly known as TCP or
TCP/IP [17], has been invented over 40 years ago. Over the years, it has been
evolving steadily and it became the number transport protocol on the Internet
and finally also on mobile networks. Today, around 75 % of the traffic is
encrypted in mobile data networks. TCP, in combination with TLS, requires
three round trips before the actual data can be sent. However, innovation in
the context became very hard.
In response to these challenges with slow innovation of TCP, Internet
companies started experimenting with proprietary protocols build on top of
UDP. UDP is a very basic protocol. It only provides the bare minimum
functionality and is suitable for new protocols to be built on top of it. It
is well supported by all infrastructure on the Internet. Protocols on top of
UDP can be implemented in applications so it allows for rapid deployment of
new versions. The experiments with UDP protocols evolved into an effort to
bring in the engineering community and openly collaborate on a single protocol
framework on top of UDP. An Internet Engineering Task Force working group has
been established to specify a protocol called QUIC (Quick UDP Internet
Connections). Shortly it is likely to see the first QUIC Internet standard
published [18].
The QUIC Protocol is the next generation of transport for the Internet and is
on track to become ubiquitous on end-user platforms and within all server-side
workflows. Unlike prior standard technologies, which are struggling to
innovate due to compatibility issues with existing infrastructure, QUIC
operates on top of UDP in the application layer and that brings flexibility to
deploy new features in rapid iterations.
Google introduced QUIC back in 2013 as an experimental protocol to reduce TCP
connection and transport latencies. QUIC, on the other hand, minimizes the
number of set-up round trips by combining UDP transport and its own
cryptographic handshake. For connections to the same origin server, QUIC
facilitates a zero round trip time.
QUIC also re-implements TCP loss recovery, over UDP and, by using multiplexed
connections, it eliminates TCP\'s head-of-line blocking. This ensures that
lost packets do not block any other stream but only those with data in it.
Last, but not least, QUIC moves congestion control to the application and the
user space, enabling a rapid evolution for the protocol, as opposed to kernel
space TCP.
QUIC has been nicely designed to allow being enabled seamlessly for existing
video workflows without any changes needed in the video formats or players.
Akamai reports as an example that for a measurement is from a soccer event in
2018 a 25 % throughput improvement for median viewer was achieved compared to
TCP for desktop. QUIC performances gains for mobile compared to TCP/TLS, while
still positive, have found not to be that significant as for desktop, in
particular for video content.
There are several features of the protocol that contribute to improved video
quality, among others:
\- With usual TCP&TLS session which forms HTTPS streaming, there has to be 3
or 4 exchanges of information back and forth between the client and the
server, before the video request is made. With QUIC there\'s none needed,
assuming the client communicated with the server previously. The first packet
from the client already contains the video request, and the first packet from
the server already contains the video content. Or in case the client has not
communicated with the server before, it only takes one roundtrip between the
client and server. This reduces latency greatly. TCP has similar features
available with new version of TLS, TLS-1.3, and TCP Fast Open feature but its
deployment is complicated. The 0-RTT (zero round trip time) connection
establishment for returning connections applies to about 50 % of connections.
\- QUIC also uses more efficient loss recovery - due to more information being
provided about the lost packets and timing.
\- QUIC allows Multiplexing without head-of-line blocking, i.e. if one packet
gets lost then all requests affected.
\- QUIC also allows connection migration across different access networks.
\- It also allows to measure the performance of each feature and use and apply
it selectively for specific deployments.
On mobile QUIC benefits seem to also be tangible. On mobile Android devices,
Google claims[^1] that QUIC has helped to reduce latency of Google Search
responses by 3.6 % and YouTube video buffering by 15.3 %. It was found that by
November 2017, QUIC represented 20 % of the total mobile traffic and expected
to grow to 35 % by end of 2018. According to MVI data, video accounts for
approximately 58 % of the total mobile internet traffic and video represents
64 % of the total QUIC traffic. By November 2018, approximately 90 % of
internet traffic will be encrypted and QUIC will be 32 % of global Internet
traffic.
QUIC being an encryption-based protocol such as HTTP/TLS, traffic is typically
encrypted over the mobile network delivery, meaning that the use of
traditional traffic management tools is limited. On top of what is also
observed for HTTP/TLS, QUIC allows multiplexing multiple streams over a single
connection, but this comes with the added downside that it is impossible to
differentiate between the different streams as the signalling header with the
stream identifier is also encrypted.
Another technology and protocol in media distribution is developed under the
umbrella of ABR Multicast. With the recent proliferation of live streaming,
especially of premium sports, over the Internet, issues in scale and quality
have been exposed. The challenge partially lies in scaling the services to
millions of simultaneous users, but also in the associated peering and
delivery costs as well as the end-to-end latency. Multicast ABR addresses a
problem that had already been solved in the context of managed networks for
IPTV with IGMP. However, it is quite difficult to replicate IGMP exactly over
an unmanaged network. However, in practice it is possible to control delivery
of streams quite precisely over a large part of their journey and multicast
ABR effectively provides a tunnel through which multiple unicast streams are
combined into single ones, just as with traditional multicast. Multiple
unicast streams are converted at the entrance of the tunnel into a single
stream and then back to multiple unicast as they exit in a process known as
transcasting. These processes have since been documented either as a standard
or guidelines towards a standard, by both the DVB [19] and by Cable Labs [20].
Products are being built around these guidelines, with many operators
currently in proof of concept or field trials of the technology.]
### 6.1.5 Impact on Media Services
The impact of these new developments on Media Service is FFS.
# 7 Characteristics and requirements for different media services on 3GPP
networks
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause collects characteristics and requirements for different media
services on 3GPP networks.
## 7.2 Collection process for requirements for different media services on
3GPP networks
Use cases are collected in the context of the present document. The use cases
come with an analysis of certain characteristics. For this purpose a template
is provided below.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Media Service Description** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Name:** [e.g. StreamOn] | | | | **Date of submission:** [e.g. 18^th^ October 2018] | | | | **Source:** [e.g. DT] | | | | **Description:** [Free text giving high level description of the | | service] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Categorization** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Type:** [e.g. Third Party, Operator, Combination of both, Other] | | | | **Status:** [e.g. planned, PoC, trialed, commercially deployed] | | | | **Category:** [e.g. Download, Live streaming, On-demand streaming, | | Interactive, Conversational] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Used Technologies** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Codecs:** [e.g. AAC, HE-AAC, HEVC/H.265, AVC/H.264 with Profiles | | and levels used] | | | | **Media types and formats:** [e.g. 4K video, HDR video, stereo or | | 5.1 audio] | | | | **Media protocols and containers:** [e.g. DASH, HLS, CMAF, ISOBMFF, | | MP4, MPEG2 TS, RTP] | | | | **Transport protocols:** [e.g. FLUTE, UDP, TCP, QUIC, HTTP 1.1, | | HTTP 2.0] | | | | **Clients:** [e.g. iOS or android application, browser, set top | | boxes, TV set] | | | | **Others:** [e.g. DRM, interactivity framework, QoE and analytics, | | QoS handling] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Deployment Statistics** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | [e.g. number of clients, traffic volumes] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Traffic Characteristics** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Bitrate Characteristics:** [typical target bitrates, minimum | | required bitrate, maximum necessary bitrate,] | | | | **Other KPIs** [end-to-end latency, tune-in times, etc.] | | | | **Potential mapping to 5QIs (5G QoS Identifier - See TS 23.501 | | Clause 5.7.4 and Table 5.7.4-1 copied below):** | | | | [which 5QIs among 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 80, e.g. 6, \"video | | buffered streaming and TCP based\"] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **References** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | [list of public documentation in support of the present description | | e.g. a URL, a scientific publication, an industry or standards | | organization specification] | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | **Any additional information** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Table 7.2-1: Standardized 5QI to QoS characteristics mapping (from TS 23.501)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5QI | Res | De | P | P | De | De | Ex | | | ource | fault | acket | acket | fault | fault | ample | | Value | Type | Pri | Delay | Error | Ma | | Ser | | | | ority | B | | ximum | Aver | vices | | | | Level | udget | Rate | Data | aging | | | | | | | | Burst | W | | | | | | | | V | indow | | | | | | | | olume | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | TE 2) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | GBR | 20 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Conv | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-2^ | | ms | ersat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | Voice | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | (NO | 40 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Conv | | | TE 1) | | 50 ms | 0^-3^ | | ms | ersat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | (Live | | | | | | | | | Strea | | | | | | | | | ming) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | | 30 | 50 ms | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Real | | | | | | 0^-3^ | | ms | Time | | | | | | | | | Ga | | | | | | | | | ming, | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | lectr | | | | | | | | | icity | | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | edium | | | | | | | | | vol | | | | | | | | | tage, | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | ocess | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | monit | | | | | | | | | oring | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | | 50 | 3 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Non | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | ms | -Conv | | | | | | | | | ersat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | (Buf | | | | | | | | | fered | | | | | | | | | Strea | | | | | | | | | ming) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 65 | | 7 | 75 ms | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Mi | | | | | | 0^-2^ | | ms | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | Push | | | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | | | Talk | | | | | | | | | voice | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | CPTT) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 66 | | 20 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Non-M | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-2^ | | ms | issio | | | | | | | | | n-Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | Push | | | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | | | Talk | | | | | | | | | voice | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 67 | | 15 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Mi | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-3^ | | ms | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | plane | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 75 | | 25 | 50 ms | 1 | N/A | 2000 | V2X | | | | | | 0^-2^ | | ms | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | No | 10 | 1 | 1 | N/A | N/A | IMS | | | n-GBR | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | Signa | | | | | | | | | lling | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | (NO | 60 | 3 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Video | | | TE 1) | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | (Buf | | | | | | | | | fered | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tream | | | | | | | | | ing)\ | | | | | | | | | TCP- | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | | | e- | | | | | | | | | mail, | | | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | | | ftp, | | | | | | | | | p2p | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | sha | | | | | | | | | ring, | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | rogre | | | | | | | | | ssive | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | ideo, | | | | | | | | | etc.) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | | 70 | 1 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Vo | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-3^ | | | ice,\ | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | (Live | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tream | | | | | | | | | ing)\ | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntera | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | | aming | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | | 80 | 3 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Video | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | (Buf | | | | | | | | | fered | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tream | | | | | | | | | ing)\ | | | | | | | | | TCP- | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | | | e- | | | | | | | | | mail, | | | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | | | ftp, | | | | | | | | | p2p | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | sha | | | | | | | | | ring, | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | rogre | | | | | | | | | ssive | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | | 90 | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | ideo, | | | | | | | | | etc.) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 69 | | 5 | 60 ms | 1 | N/A | N/A | Mi | | | | | | 0^-6^ | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | sens | | | | | | | | | itive | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | C-PTT | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | ling) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 70 | | 55 | 2 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Mi | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | ample | | | | | | | | | ser | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | QCI | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | /8/9) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 79 | | 65 | 50 ms | 1 | N/A | N/A | V2X | | | | | | 0^-2^ | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 80 | | 68 | 10 ms | 1 | N/A | N/A | Low | | | | | | 0^-6^ | | | La | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | eMBB | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | Augm | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | ality | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 82 | Delay | 19 | 1 | 1 | 255 | 2000 | Dis | | | Cri | | 0 ms\ | 0^-4^ | bytes | ms | crete | | | tical | | (NO | | | | Autom | | | GBR | | TE 4) | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 83 | | 22 | 1 | 1 | 1358 | 2000 | Dis | | | | | 0 ms\ | 0^-4^ | bytes | ms | crete | | | | | (NO | | | | Autom | | | | | TE 4) | | (NO | | ation | | | | | | | TE 3) | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 84 | | 24 | 30 ms | 1 | 1354 | 2000 | I | | | | | | 0^-5^ | bytes | ms | ntell | | | | | (NOTE | | | | igent | | | | | 6) | | | | tran | | | | | | | | | sport | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | stems | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | | 21 | 5 ms | 1 | 255 | 2000 | E | | | | | | 0^-5^ | bytes | ms | lectr | | | | | (NOTE | | | | icity | | | | | 5) | | | | Dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tion- | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | vo | | | | | | | | | ltage | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 1: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | layed | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | unted | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | lost, | | | | | | | | | thus | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | PER. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 2: | | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fault | | | | | | | | | MDBV | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | 5QIs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 3: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | MDBV | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 1354 | | | | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | avoid | | | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | | | fra | | | | | | | | | gment | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | IPv6 | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ased, | | | | | | | | | IPSec | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | GTP | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | unnel | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | node | | | | | | | | | (the | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | calcu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | as in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C of | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 23. | | | | | | | | | 060 \ | | | | | | | | | [56] | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | by 4 | | | | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | usage | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | GTP-U | | | | | | | | | exte | | | | | | | | | nsion | | | | | | | | | hea | | | | | | | | | der). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 4: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 1 ms | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UPF | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | N6 | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | subtr | | | | | | | | | acted | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | erive | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | udget | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | face. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 5: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | of 2 | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UPF | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | N6 | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | subtr | | | | | | | | | acted | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | erive | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | udget | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | face. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 6: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | of 5 | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UPF | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | N6 | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | subtr | | | | | | | | | acted | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | erive | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | udget | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | face. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
NOTE 1: For Standardized 5QI to QoS characteristics mapping, the table will be
extended/updated to support service requirements for 5G, e.g. ultralow latency
service.
NOTE 2: It is preferred that a value less than 64 is allocated for any new
standardised 5QI of non-GBR Resource Type. This is to allow for option 1 to be
used as described in clause 5.7.1.3 of TS 23.501 (as the QFI is limited to
less than 64).
## 7.3 Summary of Responses for Streaming Services
### 7.3.1 Introduction
This clause provides a summary of the information that was collected for
streaming services. The current information is based on responses from:
\- Comcast VIPER
\- AWS Media Services
\- Hulu
\- Bitmovin
\- ARD Mediathek
The services address live and On-demand streaming services.
### 7.3.2 Used Technologies
#### 7.3.2.1 Codecs
The pre-dominant video codec for the services is still H.264/AVC [14].
H.265/HEVC [15] is also in deployments. Non-MPEG video codecs such as VP9 or
AV1 are in use or expected to be in use, but much less prominent than MPEG
codecs according to the responses.
The pre-dominant audio codec is AAC, with some variants. Also, AC-3 is used
quite often to support beyond stereo experiences. No other audio codec was
mentioned.
#### 7.3.2.2 Media types and formats
Most of the services run HD video. Experiments with UHD and HDR are ongoing.
Different HDR formats (i.e. HDR10, Dolby Vision, HLG, and SL-HDR) are in use.
For audio, stereo is deployed and 5.1 is also broadly used. Some initial
experiments are done with multichannel audio, NGA (Next Generation Audio).
#### 7.3.2.3 Media protocols and containers
All services deploy DASH and HLS. On HLS, the MPEG-2 TS still is maintained.
For DASH, exclusively ISO BMFF based distribution is used but a convergence
towards a common segment format based on CMAF for DASH and HLS is expected.
Other formats such as RTMP or RTP are maintained to some extent for legacy
reasons.
#### 7.3.2.4 Transport protocols
HTTP/1.1 with TCP/IP is used almost exclusively. Some initial tests are
ongoing on HTTP/2.0 and HTTP/3 (also known as HTTP over QUIC). No received
response indicates the use of multicast protocols.
#### 7.3.2.5 Clients
All services provide client application running on iOS and Android for
Browser-based playback as well as applications or native integration into set-
top boxes, HDMI sticks (i.e. Apple TV™, Fire TV™, Chromecast™, Tizen™) and TV
Sets. Game consoles are also targeted.
#### 7.3.2.6 Other Technologies
Other mentioned deployed technologies are:
  * DRM (Widevine, PlayReady, Fairplay) based on common encryption
  * Analytics collection and QoE Measurement
  * Dynamic Ad Insertion
  * Watermarking
### 7.3.3 Traffic Characteristics
#### 7.3.3.1 Bitrate Characteristics
Average streaming bitrate
\- STBs: 4-6Mbps
\- Mobile applications and browsers: less than 4-6Mbps
\- 4K content: 10-15Mbps
Average segment durations
\- 6 seconds
#### 7.3.3.2 Other KPIs
Other KPIs such as video start time, video playback failure, rebuffering
ratio, connection induced rebuffering, minimum/average bitrates, ABR
adaptation frequency were not reported.
#### 7.3.3.3 Potential mapping to 5QIs
Commonly targeted 5QI values are 6 and 8. Others are considered interesting
for specific services.
# 8 Applicability of existing 5Qis
## 8.1 QoS Model
### 8.1.1 Overview
Clause 5.7 of TS 23.501 [10] explains the QoS Model for 5G. The 5G QoS model
is based on QoS Flows. The 5G QoS model supports both QoS Flows that require
guaranteed flow bit rate (GBR QoS Flows) and QoS Flows that do not require
guaranteed flow bit rate (Non-GBR QoS Flows). The 5G QoS model also supports
Reflective QoS (see clause 5.7.5 of TS 23.501 [10]).
A QoS Flow ID (QFI) is used to identify a QoS Flow in the 5G System. User
Plane traffic assigned to the same QoS Flow within a PDU Session receives the
same traffic forwarding treatment **_(e.g._** scheduling, admission
threshold).
The QFI may be dynamically assigned or may be equal to the 5QI, for more
details on existing 5QI see clause 8.1.2.
A QoS Flow may either be \'GBR\', \'Non-GBR\' or \"Delay Tolerant GBR\"
depending on its QoS profile and it contains QoS parameters as follows:
\- For each QoS Flow, the QoS profile includes the QoS parameters:
\- 5G QoS Identifier (5QI); and
\- Allocation and Retention Priority (ARP).
\- For each Non-GBR QoS Flow only, the QoS profile can also include the QoS
parameter:
\- Reflective QoS Attribute (RQA).
\- For each GBR QoS Flow only, the QoS profile also include the QoS
parameters:
\- Guaranteed Flow Bit Rate (GFBR) - UL and DL; and
\- Maximum Flow Bit Rate (MFBR) - UL and DL; and
\- In the case of a GBR QoS Flow only, the QoS profile can also include one or
more of the QoS parameters:
\- Notification control;
\- Maximum Packet Loss Rate - UL and DL
The usage of a dynamically assigned 5QI for a QoS Flow requires in addition
the signalling of the complete 5G QoS characteristics (described in clause
5.7.3 of TS 23.501 [10]) as part of the QoS profile.
The principle for classification and marking of User Plane traffic and mapping
of QoS Flows to Access Network (AN) resources is illustrated in Figure 8-1-1.
Figure 8.1-1: The principle for classification and User Plane marking for QoS
Flows and mapping to AN Resources
### 8.1.2 5G QoS Parameters
A 5QI is a scalar that is used as a reference to 5G QoS characteristics
defined in clause 5.7.4 of TS 23.501 [10], i.e. access node-specific
parameters that control QoS forwarding treatment for the QoS Flow (e.g.
scheduling weights, admission thresholds, queue management thresholds, link
layer protocol configuration, etc.).
Standardized 5QI values have one-to-one mapping to a standardized combination
of 5G QoS characteristics as specified in Table 5.7.4-1 of TS 23.501 [10] and
shown below in Table 8.1.4-1.
A summary of the most relevant QoS Parameters is provided as follows. For
details, please refer to TS 23.501 [10], clause 5.7.2:
\- Guaranteed Flow Bit Rate (GFBR) - UL and DL, for GBR QoS Flows only:
denotes the bit rate that is guaranteed to be provided by the network to the
QoS Flow over the Averaging Time Window.
\- Maximum Flow Bit Rate (MFBR) -- UL and DL, for GBR QoS Flows only limits
the bit rate to the highest bit rate that is expected by the QoS Flow (e.g.
excess traffic may get discarded or delayed by a rate shaping or policing
function).
\- The Maximum Packet Loss Rate (UL, DL) indicates the maximum rate for lost
packets of the QoS flow that can be tolerated in the uplink and downlink
direction, if the flow is compliant to the GFBR and is only used for voice
media traffic in rel.16.
### 8.1.3 5G QoS Characteristics
In addition to 5G QoS parameters, also 5G QoS characteristics are defined in
TS 23.501 [10]. The characteristics describe the packet forwarding treatment
that a QoS Flow receives edge-to-edge between the UE and the UPF in terms of
the following performance characteristics:
1) Resource Type (GBR, Delay critical GBR or Non-GBR): determines if dedicated
network resources related to a QoS Flow-level Guaranteed Flow Bit Rate (GFBR)
value are permanently allocated (e.g. by an admission control function in a
radio base station).
2) Priority level; indicates a priority in scheduling resources among QoS
Flows.
3) Packet Delay Budget; defines an upper bound for the time that a packet may
be delayed between the UE and the UPF that terminates the N6 interface. In
uncongested scenarios, 98 percent of the packets are expected to be within the
packet delay budget.
4) Packet Error Rate: The Packet Error Rate (PER) defines an upper bound for
the rate of PDUs (e.g. IP packets) that have been processed by the sender of a
link layer protocol (e.g. RLC in RAN of a 3GPP access) but that are not
successfully delivered by the corresponding receiver to the upper layer (e.g.
PDCP in RAN of a 3GPP access).
5) Averaging window (for GBR and Delay-critical GBR resource type only); The
Averaging window represents the duration over which the GFBR and MFBR are
calculated.
6) Maximum Data Burst Volume (for Delay-critical GBR resource type only):
denotes the largest amount of data that the 5G-AN is required to serve within
a period of 5G-AN PDB.
Standardized or pre-configured 5G QoS characteristics, are indicated through
the 5QI value. Signalled 5G QoS characteristics are provided as part of the
QoS profile and include all of the characteristics listed above.
### 8.1.4 Standardized 5QI to QoS characteristics mapping
The one-to-one mapping of standardized 5QI values to 5G QoS characteristics is
specified in table 5.7.4-1 if TS 23.501 [10] and shown below in Table 8.1.4-1.
Table 8.1.4-1: Standardized 5QI to QoS characteristics mapping\ (identical to
Table 5.7.4.1-1 in TS 23.501 [10])
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5QI | Res | De | P | P | De | De | Ex | | | ource | fault | acket | acket | fault | fault | ample | | Value | Type | Pri | Delay | Error | Ma | | Ser | | | | ority | B | | ximum | Aver | vices | | | | Level | udget | Rate | Data | aging | | | | | | | | Burst | W | | | | | | | | V | indow | | | | | | | | olume | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NO | | | | | | | | | TE 2) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | GBR | 20 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Conv | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-2^ | | ms | ersat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | Voice | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | (NO | 40 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Conv | | | TE 1) | | 50 ms | 0^-3^ | | ms | ersat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | (Live | | | | | | | | | Strea | | | | | | | | | ming) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | | 30 | 50 ms | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Real | | | | | | 0^-3^ | | ms | Time | | | | | | | | | Ga | | | | | | | | | ming, | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | lectr | | | | | | | | | icity | | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | edium | | | | | | | | | vol | | | | | | | | | tage, | | | | | | | | | Pr | | | | | | | | | ocess | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | monit | | | | | | | | | oring | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | | 50 | 3 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Non | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | ms | -Conv | | | | | | | | | ersat | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | (Buf | | | | | | | | | fered | | | | | | | | | Strea | | | | | | | | | ming) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 65 | | 7 | 75 ms | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Mi | | | | | | 0^-2^ | | ms | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | Push | | | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | | | Talk | | | | | | | | | voice | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | CPTT) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 66 | | 20 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Non-M | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-2^ | | ms | issio | | | | | | | | | n-Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | Push | | | | | | | | | To | | | | | | | | | Talk | | | | | | | | | voice | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 67 | | 15 | 1 | 1 | N/A | 2000 | Mi | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-3^ | | ms | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | plane | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 75 | | 25 | 50 ms | 1 | N/A | 2000 | V2X | | | | | | 0^-2^ | | ms | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | No | 10 | 1 | 1 | N/A | N/A | IMS | | | n-GBR | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | Signa | | | | | | | | | lling | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | (NO | 60 | 3 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Video | | | TE 1) | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | (Buf | | | | | | | | | fered | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tream | | | | | | | | | ing)\ | | | | | | | | | TCP- | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | | | e- | | | | | | | | | mail, | | | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | | | ftp, | | | | | | | | | p2p | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | sha | | | | | | | | | ring, | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | rogre | | | | | | | | | ssive | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | ideo, | | | | | | | | | etc.) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | | 70 | 1 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Vo | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-3^ | | | ice,\ | | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | | (Live | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tream | | | | | | | | | ing)\ | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntera | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | | aming | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | | 80 | 3 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Video | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | (Buf | | | | | | | | | fered | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | tream | | | | | | | | | ing)\ | | | | | | | | | TCP- | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | | | e- | | | | | | | | | mail, | | | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | | | ftp, | | | | | | | | | p2p | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | sha | | | | | | | | | ring, | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | rogre | | | | | | | | | ssive | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | | 90 | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | ideo, | | | | | | | | | etc.) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 69 | | 5 | 60 ms | 1 | N/A | N/A | Mi | | | | | | 0^-6^ | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | sens | | | | | | | | | itive | | | | | | | | | signa | | | | | | | | | lling | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | C-PTT | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | ling) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 70 | | 55 | 2 | 1 | N/A | N/A | Mi | | | | | 00 ms | 0^-6^ | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Cri | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | | ample | | | | | | | | | ser | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | QCI | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | /8/9) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 79 | | 65 | 50 ms | 1 | N/A | N/A | V2X | | | | | | 0^-2^ | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 80 | | 68 | 10 ms | 1 | N/A | N/A | Low | | | | | | 0^-6^ | | | La | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | eMBB | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | Augm | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | ality | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 82 | Delay | 19 | 1 | 1 | 255 | 2000 | Dis | | | Cri | | 0 ms\ | 0^-4^ | bytes | ms | crete | | | tical | | (NO | | | | Autom | | | GBR | | TE 4) | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 83 | | 22 | 1 | 1 | 1358 | 2000 | Dis | | | | | 0 ms\ | 0^-4^ | bytes | ms | crete | | | | | (NO | | | | Autom | | | | | TE 4) | | (NO | | ation | | | | | | | TE 3) | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 84 | | 24 | 30 ms | 1 | 1354 | 2000 | I | | | | | | 0^-5^ | bytes | ms | ntell | | | | | (NOTE | | | | igent | | | | | 6) | | | | tran | | | | | | | | | sport | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | stems | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | | 21 | 5 ms | 1 | 255 | 2000 | E | | | | | | 0^-5^ | bytes | ms | lectr | | | | | (NOTE | | | | icity | | | | | 5) | | | | Dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tion- | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | | vo | | | | | | | | | ltage | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 22. | | | | | | | | | 261 \ | | | | | | | | | [2]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 1: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | layed | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | unted | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | lost, | | | | | | | | | thus | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | luded | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | PER. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 2: | | | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fault | | | | | | | | | MDBV | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | | PLMN | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | 5QIs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 3: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | MDBV | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 1354 | | | | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | avoid | | | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | | | fra | | | | | | | | | gment | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | IPv6 | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ased, | | | | | | | | | IPSec | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | GTP | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | unnel | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | node | | | | | | | | | (the | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | calcu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | as in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | C of | | | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | | | S 23. | | | | | | | | | 060 \ | | | | | | | | | [56] | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | duced | | | | | | | | | by 4 | | | | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | usage | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | GTP-U | | | | | | | | | exte | | | | | | | | | nsion | | | | | | | | | hea | | | | | | | | | der). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 4: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 1 ms | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UPF | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | N6 | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | subtr | | | | | | | | | acted | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | erive | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | udget | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | face. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 5: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | of 2 | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UPF | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | N6 | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | subtr | | | | | | | | | acted | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | erive | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | udget | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | face. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE 6: | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | of 5 | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | a UPF | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | N6 | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | 5G-AN | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | subtr | | | | | | | | | acted | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | | PDB | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | erive | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | udget | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | face. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.1.5 Considerations for Media Services
#### 8.1.5.1 General
For media traffic considered in the present document, it is appropriate to
understand, how they map to QoS parameters and characteristics, including the
mapping to the 5QIs as indicated above.
#### 8.1.5.2 Expected TCP/IP Performance for non-GBR
Maximum achievable throughput for a single TCP connection is determined by
different factors. One trivial limitation is the maximum bandwidth of the
slowest link in the path. But there are also other, less obvious limits for
TCP throughput. Packet loss can create a limitation for the connection as well
as can the roundtrip time of acknowledgements.
The TCP Receive Window is the amount of data that a receiver can accept
without acknowledging the sender. If the sender has not received
acknowledgement for the first packet it sent, it will stop and wait and if
this wait exceeds a certain limit, it may even retransmit. This is how TCP
achieves reliable data transmission. Even if there is no packet loss in the
network, this windowing limits throughput. Because TCP transmits data up to
the window size before waiting for the acknowledgements, the full bandwidth of
the network may not always get used. At any given time, the window advertised
by the receive side of TCP corresponds to the amount of free receive memory it
has allocated for this connection.
When packet loss occurs in the network, an additional limit is imposed on the
connection. In the case of light to moderate packet loss when the TCP rate is
limited by the congestion avoidance algorithm.
The _Mathis equation_ is a formula that approximates the actual impact of loss
on the maximum throughput rate:
> Max Rate in bps \
> where
>
> MSS = maximum segment size in bytes
>
> RTT = round trip time in seconds
>
> p = the probability of packet loss
NOTE: _The formula is known as the Mathis equation, from a 1997 paper titled_
[The Macroscopic Behavior of the TCP Congestion Avoidance
Algorithm]{.underline} [40].
While this equation obviously has limits in the details, it provides an
excellent estimate on the estimated TCP throughput. Figure 8.1.5-1 shows the
estimated TCP Throughput over One Way Latency for different packet loss rates
and MSS 1500 bytes based on this equation, assuming that the RTT is twice the
one way latency.
{width="6.740277777777778in" height="3.1in"}
Figure 8.1.5-1: Estimated TCP Throughput over One Way Latency for different
packet loss rates and MSS 1500 bytes
Based on this equation, the estimated TCP throughput for some relevant
streaming related Non-GBR 5QIs as documented in Table 8.1.4-1 are as follows:
\- 5QI = 7 with Latency=100ms and Packet loss rate 10e-3 results in estimated
TCP Throughput of 237 kbit/s
\- 5QI = 8 and 9 with Latency=300ms and Packet loss rate 10e-6 results in
estimated TCP Throughput of 2.5 Mbit/s
\- 5QI = 7 with Latency=10ms and Packet loss rate 10e-6 results in estimated
TCP Throughput of 75 Mbit/s
The equation shows that typically TCP based streaming traffic is more
susceptible to loss rates than to delay. It is also important that packet loss
rates and latencies are not guaranteed and may therefore result in lower or
higher throughput, for example in case of congestion or cell handoff. Hence,
media services using these 5QI assignments preferably apply protocols that
enable to adapt to these bitrates and changes.
#### 8.1.5.3 Bitrate considerations for GBR services
If the service would be able to benefit from GBR QoS, then the GFBR and MFBR
are relevant. A suitable characterization for a media service is the required
minimum bitrate that it needs in order to maintain a good service quality. At
the same time, a service is well characterized up to which bitrate it would
still provide noticeable quality improvements. Such information may be static
or may even change over time, depending on the complexity of the service.
#### 8.1.5.4 Relevant Parameters for Media Services
Based on this discussion, it is proposed that for Media services that use TCP-
based distribution systems and permit rate adaptation (such as adaptive
streaming services), the following information is worthwhile to be provided:
\- The typical bitrate at which the service preferable operates, possibly
providing a range of the bitrate. It should also be mentioned if such
information is static over the service or would change, and if such
information may be configurable.
\- If there exists a minimum bitrate that the service should not fall below to
maintain a sufficient quality. If this exists, a range would be preferable. It
should also be mentioned if such information is static over the service or
would change, and if such information may be configurable.
\- If there exists a maximum bitrate that the service beyond which the
services does not created additional quality. If this exists, a range would be
preferable. It should also be mentioned if such information is static over the
service or would change, and if such information may be configurable.
###### ### Annex A: Background information on cloud gaming
Interactive online game applications require connectivity between the game
application client and a game application server. The game application client
typically runs on a UE or on a device attached to a UE. The type of traffic
generated depends on the type of game. The Quality of Experience is influenced
by the adequacy of the QoS of the connectivity and the traffic requirements
from the game application.
For example, Ref. [23] provides delay thresholds per game type in table A-1:
Table A-1: Delay tolerance in traditional gaming (from [23]).
* * *
Example game type Perspective Delay threshold First person shooter (FPS) First
person 100 ms Role playing game (RPG) Third person 500 ms Real-time strategy
(RTS) Omnipresent 1000 ms
* * *
NOTE: The delay tolerance figures of Table A-1. are applicable to regular 2D
games and do not take into account any motion-to-photon requirements of VR
gaming applications.
Cloud gaming implies that, while the game is being played by a user on a
client, game application processing and rendering is totally or partly
performed in a remote network entity, potentially at the edge of the network.
The rendered 2D or VR360 video is then encoded and streamed to the client.
These extra steps in game workflow influence the overall interactive delay and
audio/video quality (e.g. encoding type/profile/level and performances,
resolution and frame rate), and hence influence the Quality of Experience.
There is work in ITU-T Study Group 12 regarding assessment of gaming quality.
Two recommendations are published:
\- ITU-T G.1032 \"Influence factors on gaming quality of experience\"
([https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-G.1032-201710-I/en]{.underline}) [38]
\- ITU-T P.809 \"Subjective evaluation methods for gaming quality\"
([https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-P.809/en]{.underline}). [39]
This last recommendation could be used to produce comparable subjective
evaluations of the influence of connectivity characteristics over QoE.
Clause 5.3.1 of [22] discusses cloud gaming requirements. It states that
\"Taking out the delay for rendering and encoding/decoding processing, the
round-trip time (RTT) delay over 5GS should be less than 5 ms\".
Cloud gaming services already exist, and new ones are being launched, enabling
users to play any type of game (whether it is originally offline or online,
single player or multiplayer etc.) on a device like a lite smartphone, tablet
or TV which would typically be unable to process such a game. The following is
a brief look at several of these services and the public information about
their requirements.
Cloud gaming typical traffic characteristics are evolving as services are
being deployed. But a tendency can be derived from the data available.
Bitrates in the range of 5-35Mbps are expected. Although latency requirements
vary from game types and users, cloud gaming services are expected to offer a
Quality of Experience which is at least as good as the experience of regular
(locally processed) gaming.
#