# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The last major update to the ITU-T Basic Operators [6] was in 2005, with a
follow on update in 2009. These basic operators serve as a foundation for
reference software of codecs specified by 3GPP. During the last several years,
processors with wide accumulators, and support for single-instruction-
multiple-data (SIMD), and very long instruction word (VLIW) features have
become prevalent. The basic operators of 2009 now need to be extended to
leverage these capabilities of modern processors so that implementations with
lower mega-cycles-per-second (MCPS) and lower-power may be realized.
Enhanced Voice Services (EVS) is one of the recent codecs defined by 3GPP that
can leverage these features of modern processors. The existing EVS reference
software would have to be appropriately modified to leverage these extended
basic operators without changing the underlying algorithm. This is referred to
as an alternative EVS implementation using the extended basic operators.
This alternative EVS implementation would have to be evaluated to ensure that
inter-operability is maintained in addition to ensuring that voice quality is
not impacted.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the following topics:
1) Assessment of the gaps between modern processors and the existing set of
basic operators (STL2009) [6].
2) Proposal of an extended set of operators addressing modern DSP
architectures as an extension to STL2009.
3) Assessment of merits of an alternative EVS implementation using extended
STL2009 Basic Operators.
4) Proposal for validation of an alternative EVS implementation using extended
STL2009 Basic Operators.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[3] Recommendation ITU-T P.800 (08/1996): \"Methods for subjective
determination of transmission quality\".
[4] Recommendation ITU-T P.863 (09/2014): \"Perceptual objective listening
quality assessment\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.443: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(floating-point)\".
[6] Recommendation ITU-T G.191 (03/10): \"Software tools for speech and audio
coding standardization\".
[7] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Performance
Characterization (Release 14)\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
SIMD Single Instruction Multiple Data
STL Software tools for speech and audio coding standardization
VLIW Very Long Instruction Word _._
# 4 Extension to the STL2009 Basic Operators
## 4.1 Analysis of the gap between current basic operators and modern DSP
architectures
State-of-the-art processor architectures, such as the recent ones from Intel,
ARM, QUALCOMM, Texas Instruments etc., support wide accumulators, SIMD and
VLIW capabilities. The last major update to the ITU-T Basic Operators was in
2005, with a follow on update in 2009 [6]. It appears that these earlier
versions of the Basic Operators (2009 and earlier) were influenced by older
DSP architectures such as the Texas Instruments TMS320C5x and TMS320C54x
processors where the accumulator was 40 bits wide.
However, a survey of the state-of-the-art processor architectures shows that
most of them support the following capabilities:
\- Wider (64 bit) accumulators and registers.
\- Wider accumulators enable additional guard bits which eliminate the need
for checking for saturation after every basic operation.
\- SIMD (Single Instruction Multiple Data) instructions which can process
vector data. For example, a single instruction can process two 32-bit data
elements or four 16-bit elements in parallel.
\- VLIW (Very Long Instruction Word) enables several operations to be executed
in parallel in a single cycle.
_Basic operators that are friendlier to compilers, and enable SIMD and VLIW
features to be leveraged, can significantly reduce implementation time._
Improved compiler technology and software development tools interpret data
types and associated basic operators to map them to a processor architecture
for better Out-of-box (OOB) performance. Without this computer assisted
optimization, an engineer would have to hand-optimize the code which would
result in increased engineering effort and longer time to market.
Many recent audio/hybrid codecs make extensive use of 16bit x 32bit MAC
(multiply and accumulate) and 32bit x 32bit MAC operations which are realized
quite differently between VLIW and SIMD architectures and the current Basic
Operators:
\- Current STL2009 Basic operators require saturation and truncation after
every multiply-accumulate (MAC) operation to maintain bit-exactness.
\- The current Basic operator saturation checks prevent use of SIMD
parallelism.
\- To maintain bit-exactness, cycles are wasted resulting in higher MCPS and
power on VLIW and SIMD capable devices.
\- Higher precision variables, such as 64bit operands, are partitioned into
smaller width operands, processed and then put back to the original width.
This results in an overhead and processor cycles are wasted.
Considering the capabilities of modern processor architectures, as well as the
characteristics of the latest speech and audio codecs, there is a need for
extending STL2009 with additional basic operators & data types to better
leverage the capabilities of state-of-the-art processor architectures and
characteristics of DSP algorithms.
## 4.2 Test methodology for validating the extended basic operators
### 4.2.0 General
This clause describes a test framework that will compare the fixed-point
arithmetic accuracy of the extended basic operators against a floating-point
implementation of the extended basic operators. Each basic operator will be
tested for 4 different data patterns.
In table 1 below, the extended basic operators have been classified into four
main classes. The test patterns used for testing and the build options of the
test framework are also shown below.
Table 1: Classification of the extended basic operators
* * *
Test framework for extended basic operators  
Main class Subclass Total basops Covered basops 64 bit accumulator 64-bit
Integer Mac 4 4 64-bit Mac 7 7 64-bit Math 12 12 64-bit scale 7 7 64-bit move
5 0 Complex Complex Math 7 7 Complex Mac 9 9 Complex Move 10 0 Complex Scale 9
9 Enhanced 32 bit 32*16 bit Enh MAC 6 6 32*32 bit Enh MAC 6 6 Control code ops
18 0 Total 100 67
* * *
**Test data patterns:**
\- -1.0 to 1.0 float range with configurable interval.
\- Random numbers.
\- Special values: very low level values (e.g., in the range of 1e-3, 1e-6
etc.), nominal and large values
\- Custom mode: users can specify their customized array of size N.
**Build options:**
MSVC 2017 and MSVC 2013 workspaces are provided, with 2 options:
\- MSVC 2017/2013 project.
\- Gcc based makefiles.
### 4.2.1 Test methodology
In Figure 1 below, a block diagram explains how to validate the extended
STL2009 Basic Operators implementation against a reference floating-point
implementation. A data generator generates floating-point notation data values
that are then converted into fixed-point notation and these are input to the
design under test (DUT) implementation of the extended STL2009 Basic Operators
implementation. The same fixed-point data is converted into floating-point
notation, and then input to a reference floating-point implementation of the
extended STL2009 Basic Operators. The fixed-point output of the DUT is
converted to floating-point notation, and then compared against the reference
floating-point implementation output and an error value is generated and
logged.
{width="6.345138888888889in" height="3.275in"}
Figure 1: Block diagram illustrating how the fixed-point implementation is
validated against a floating-point reference implementation of the extended
STL2009 basic operators
In the following clauses, the test results for an example basic operator,
Mpy_32_16_1 are reported.
### 4.2.2 Test results for basic operator Mpy_32_16_1
The setup in figure 1 was used for testing with four different types of data:
1) Random input numbers
2) A sweep from a negative number to a positive number
3) A piecewise sweep from a negative number to a positive number
4) A custom input where a user can specify an array of size N with custom
inputs
Figures 2, 3, 4 and 5 illustrate the results of the test for the above four
different data types. The error between the fixed-point implementation and
floating-point implementation are extremely small thereby validating the
fixed-point implementation.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="4.679861111111111in"}
Figure 2: Test results for basic operator Mpy_32_16_1 using random input. The
error between the fixed-point output and floating-point output is very small.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="4.679861111111111in"}
Figure 3: Test results for basic operator Mpy_32_16_1 using a sweep input. The
error between the fixed-point output and floating-point output is very small.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="4.679861111111111in"}
Figure 4: Test results for basic operator Mpy_32_16_1 using a piecewise sweep
input. The error between the fixed-point output and floating-point output is
very small.
{width="6.495833333333334in" height="4.679861111111111in"}
Figure 5: Test results for basic operator Mpy_32_16_1 using a user defined
custom input. The error between the fixed-point output and floating-point
output is very small.
### 4.2.3 Test results
For a complete report of the framework used, as well as the results of the
test, please see the attachment \"Baseop_tst_frmwork.zip\".
NOTE: The unsigned basic operators in clause A.5 were verified separately and
are used by the EVS codec in TS 26.442 [2].
### 4.2.4 Test results conclusion
Based on the results reported in \"precision_abs_err_report.csv\", it can be
concluded that the fixed-point implementation of the extended basic operators
all pass against the reference floating-point implementation of the same
extended basic operators.
# 5 Alternative EVS Implementation Using the Extended Basic Operators
## 5.1 Merits of an alternative EVS implementation using the extended basic
operators
EVS [2] is a sophisticated hybrid audio-speech codec with several modes of
operation. As such it has a large number of functions. Manually optimizing
this large set of functions is prohibitive from an effort (and therefore time)
perspective. Implementers will have to rely on computer assisted tools and
compiler to get them as close to a final implementation as possible, and spend
the last mile in manual optimization to reach the final target performance. It
is therefore imperative that the basic operators are defined in such a manner
that they lend themselves to better leverage the features and capabilities of
modern DSP architectures. Data types need to be mapped to match the processor
registers or operand widths of data used in SIMD (Single Instruction Multiple
Data) processing; basic operators need to be mapped to processor instructions.
A standard reference C code written with these aspects in mind will result in
an implementation that leverages SIMD and VLIW (Very Long Instruction Word)
features of the processor better and results in an out-of-the-box (OOB)
performance that is quite close to the final desired performance. The compiler
can optimize the code across all the files and functions thereby significantly
reducing manual optimization effort. Implementers can go to market faster.
Figure 6 shows the benefits of creating an alternate reference C code for EVS
using the updated basic operator:
1) Reduced hand-optimization efforts lead to reduced total engineering effort,
and hence improved time to market.
2) Improved MCPS numbers in OOB and final hand-optimized code.
3) Reduced code size. Reduced MCPS and memory reduces overall power used. This
should facilitate extended battery life.
{width="5.748611111111111in" height="3.0694444444444446in"}
Figure 6: Benefits of proposed alternate reference C for EVS
Using the existing standard EVS Reference code version 14.0.0 as a starting
point, an alternative C code that leverages the proposed basic operators has
been created. During this creation process, step by step, several key
parameters have been monitored such as the engineering effort spent expressed
as time (days, weeks, months), and corresponding reduction in MCPS.
Figure 7 shows the optimization level achieved versus engineering effort
measured in units of time. As the figure shows, the OOB performance of the
existing reference C is at 269 MCPS, while the OOB performance of the proposed
alternative EVS reference C code is at 162 MCPS. This is a gain of 1.66x
achieved in matter of a few days of engineering effort. Next, time is spent
restructuring the code and hand optimizing. The final hand-optimized version
is at 61.9 MCPS compared to 77.5 MCPS for the existing EVS reference
implementation. This is a gain of 1.25x.
{width="6.49375in" height="3.6527777777777777in"}
Figure 7: Impact of alternate reference C at different phases of the
implementation process
In table 2, the improvement in weighted million operations per second (WMOPS)
of the alternative EVS implementation using extended basic operators is
compared against the WMOPS of the existing EVS standard reference code using
STL2009 basic operators as a baseline. Second row shows a benefit of 1.07x
with changing the weights for STL2009 basic operators. Third row shows the
total benefit of 1.17x with the use of the extended basic operators and weight
change of the existing STL2009 basic operators.
Table 2: WMOPS based Comparison of the alternative EVS implementation with
existing EVS implementation
* * *
EVS Code Base - 14.0.0 STL_basops complexity weights Average WMOPS Improvement
Over Reference  
Encoder Decoder Total  
Reference with STL2009 STL2009 weights as is 53.3 24.2 77.5 1.00x Reference
with STL2009 With new proposed weights for STL2009 50.6 22.1 72.7 1.07x
Alternate Reference with STL2017 With new proposed weights for STL2009 & for
extended basic operators 47.1 18.9 66 1.17x
* * *
Following test cases were used for WMOPS and MCPS calculation:
\- Encoder test case: -rf HI 3 13200 32 stv32n2.INP
stv32n2_rfHI3_13200_32kHz.COD
\- Decoder test case: 32 stv32c_rfHI3_13200_32kHz.COD stv32c_rfHI3_13200.out
The WMOPS numbers reported in Table1 are average WMOPS for this worst case
complexity test vector. Please refer to 3GPP TR 26.952: Codec for Enhanced
Voice Services (EVS); Performance Characterization (Release 14) [7], for a
more detailed explanation of WMOPs for EVS.
In table 3, the improvement in million cycles per seconds (MCPS) of the
alternative EVS implementation is compared against the MCPS of the existing
EVS standard reference code on a specific DSP platform using STL2009 basic
operators as a baseline. A gain of 1.25x is observed.
The gain in final MCPS of 1.25x is significantly more than gain of 1.17x in
WMOPS. The explanation is that the existing method of computing WMOPS does not
address the cycles gained with VLIW where multiple instructions are executed
in parallel. In addition, the current assigned integer weights of 1 or higher
for SIMD and VLIW friendly instructions does not account for the inherent
parallelism possible of processing multiple operands in a single cycle in
modern processors.
Table 3: MCPS based Comparison of the alternative EVS implementation with
existing EVS implementation on a Cadence Tensilica HiFi DSP
* * *
Perf parameter REFC with STL2009 ALT_REFC with STL2017 Performance improvement
Total (Enc + Dec) Total (Enc + Dec)  
OOB MCPS 269.3 162.5 1.66x Final MCPS 77.5 61.9 1.25x Code size -- OOB (in K
Bytes) 2117.3 2036.6 1.04x
* * *
## 5.2 Example pseudo code to illustrate some of the benefits of modern DSP
architectures
The following examples illustrate the benefits of VLIW and SIMD features of
modern DSP architectures. The existing reference code needs to be changed to
leverage the extended basic operators that exploit the features of modern DSP
architectures. The following examples with pseudo code show that cycles are
reduced from 4 to 2.
**Example 1:**
Original Reference C Code --
for (i=0: i\<N; i++)
{
acc = acc + a[i]*b[i]; /* multiply, truncate, and saturate are happening */
}
/* Regular implementation */
/* Multiply, **truncate** , and **saturate** are happening for each element.
*/
/* Truncate and saturate here imply that order of execution is important.
Compiler cannot change this order of execution without violating bit-exactness
*/
Int_32 acc;
acc = a[0]*b[0]; /* cycle 1 */
acc = acc + a[1]*b[1]; /* cycle 2 */
acc = acc + a[2]*b[2]; /* cycle 3 */
acc = acc + a[3]*b[3]; /* cycle 4 */
/* total cycles = 4: For processing 4 elements of array a and b */
/* For N elements it will take N cycles */
**Example 2:**
Explanation of:
\- How SIMD/VLIW friendly REFC code helps to reduce cycles.
\- Why bit-exactness is violated when VLIW, SIMD features are used.
/* **Example 2 - A:** Implementation in 2 slots VLIW architecture */.
/* Since truncation and saturation is not required, Acc1 and Acc2 executed in
1 cycle in two different slots */
/* Final result in Acc does NOT match acc in regular implementation */
/* This 2-slot implementation is **not bit-exact with regular implementation**
and therefore the need to define alternate set of bit-streams */
/* Therefore the reference code has to be changed to take benefit of 2-slot
architecture */
Int_64 Acc1, Acc2, Acc;
Acc1 = a[0]*b[0]; /* slot 0, cycle 1 */
Acc2 = a[1]*b[1]; /* slot 1, cycle 1 */
Acc1 = Acc1 + a[2]*b[2]; /* slot 0, cycle 2 */
Acc2 = Acc2 + a[3]*b[3]; /* slot 1, cycle 2 with VLIW supported */ /*
Alternatively, this can be slot 0, cycle 2 if 2-way SIMD is supported as
illustrated in Example 2-B */
Acc = Acc1 + Acc2; /* slot 0, cycle 3. This will be done outside the loop,
only once */
/* Total cycles for 4 elements = 3 */
/* For N elements it will take (N/2 + 1) cycles */
/* **Example 2 - B:** Implementation in 2 slots VLIW and 2-way SIMD
architecture */.
/* Since truncation and saturation is not required, Acc1 and Acc2 executed in
1 cycle in two different slots */
/* In a 2-way SIMD architecture, 2 MAC operations can be done in a single
cycle in single slot on two-32bit elements stored in a 64 bit registers */
/* This SIMD/VLIW implementation is **not bit-exact with regular
implementation** and therefore the need to define alternate set of bit-streams
*/
/* Therefore the reference code has to be changed to take benefit of 2-way
SIMD and 2-slot architecture */
Int_64 Acc1, Acc2, Acc;
/* One 64-bit register holds two 32 bit elements a[0] and a[1]. Another 64-bit
register holds two 32 bit elements b[0] and b[1]*/
Acc1 = a[0]*b[0] + a[1]*b[1]; /* slot 0, cycle 1 2-way SIMD mac */
Acc2 = a[2]*b[2] + a[3]*b[3]; /* slot 1, cycle 1 2-way SIMD mac*/
Acc = Acc1 + Acc2; /* slot 0, cycle 2. This will be done outside the loop,
only once */
/* Total cycles for 4 elements = 2 */
/* For N elements it will take (N/4 + 1) cycles */
In conclusion, for a loop processing N elements,
Example 1 will consume: N Cycles.
Example 2A will consume: (N/2 + 1) cycles.
Example 2B will consume: (N/4 + 1) cycles.
Hence a 2-way SIMD, 2-slot architecture, will provide close to 4X improvement
in cycles for operations in a loop as shown above.
## 5.3 Validation of an alternative EVS implementation using updated basic
operators
### 5.3.1 C-code inspection
Before starting the performance evaluation, the C-code of the alternative EVS
implementation will be shared for inspection, upon request, under NDA. The
verification will be reported to SA4.
### 5.3.2 Objective performance evaluation of the alternative EVS
implementation
For the objective performance validation of the alternative implementation of
EVS using the updated set of basic operators, it is proposed to use the same
procedure as has been used to validate the EVS floating-point. Namely, it is
proposed to process a P.800 compatible database [3] [exact database tbd]
including speech and music and mixed test samples by the following 4
combinations of the legacy fixed-point EVS [2] encoder and decoder (Ref_fxd)
and the evaluated EVS encoder and decoder (CuT):
a) Ref_fxd encoder -- Ref_fxd decoder
b) CuT encoder -- CuT decoder
c) Ref_fxd encoder -- CuT decoder
d) CuT encoder -- Ref_fxd decoder
The processing is performed according to EVS-7c and the resulting stimuli are
evaluated using POLQA [4] with the reference item being the direct item of the
respective bandwidth and the test items being the EVS conditions. In other
words all stimuli are evaluated against the original signal.
For each condition and for each P.800 sample, the individual POLQA MOS-LQO
scores are computed and the differences for [a) -- b)], [a) \-- c)] and [a) --
d)] compared, both for the samples individually, and averaged for each test
condition. The proposed alternative EVS implementation and the standardized
fixed-point implementation are considered to perform equivalent if the
difference values are within reasonable bounds.
It is further proposed to also objectively validate the performance of
interoperation of this new EVS implementation with the standardized EVS
floating-point implementation [5] (Ref_flt) to make sure that there are no
interoperability issues when interoperating with the standardized floating-
point EVS code. Consequently, two additional combinations are added:
e) Ref_flt encoder -- CuT decoder
f) CuT encoder -- Ref_flt decoder
It is proposed that the objective evaluation is performed for all the
conditions that were subjectively evaluated in the EVS Selection Tests and for
all conditions that were subjectively evaluated in the EVS Characterization
Tests.
The analysis would follow the template in Table 4 for all the individual
samples and all conditions. Additionally, for each test condition, as well as
for all the conditions combined, the following statistics will be also
provided -- average difference, minimum difference, maximum difference,
standard deviation and 95% confidence interval. For better visualization,
histograms or cumulative distribution functions of the differences may also be
provided.
Table 4: Template for result presentation
* * *
Input Bandwidth Bit rate DTX Level FER/Profile a) - b) a) - c) a) -- d) a) --
e) a) -- f)
* * *
### 5.3.3 Subjective performance evaluation of the alternative EVS
implementation
The goal of the subjective performance evaluation of the alternative EVS
implementation is to complement the objective validation as a sanity check. It
covers all relevant configurations with emphasis on most relevant ones to
minimize the number of subjective tests. In particular:
1) Bitrates: All EVS bitrates are included, both of the EVS native modes (5.9,
7.2, 8, 13.2, 13.2 CAM, 16.4, 24.4, 32, 48, 56, 96, 128 kb/s) and the AMR-WB
IO modes (23.85, 23.05, 19.85, 18.25, 15.85, 14.25, 12.65, 8.85 and 6.6 kb/s).
This is done through constant bitrate conditions or bitrate switching
conditions in order to minimize the necessary number of subjective
experiments, and yet cover all the bitrates.
2) Bandwidth: It is proposed to include only WB and SWB experiments in the
subjective evaluation as most relevant for EVS operation. Further, it is
assumed that most of the NB technologies are also included within WB or SWB
EVS operation. Finally FB operation is algorithmically very similar to the SWB
operation.
3) Input levels: 16, 26, 36 dBov input levels are tested.
4) Noisy speech is evaluated in one experiment.
5) Mixed & Music inputs are evaluated in one experiment.
6) Impaired channel & Jitter Buffer Management (JBM) conditions are spread
across all experiments. The Frame Erasure Rates (FERs) or network error
profiles have been selected such that they should allow to uncover any issues
in operation in impaired channels, yet the channel is not too bad to
significantly influence the test resolution for clean channel conditions.
7) Rate switching is included, as mentioned above.
8) Tandem conditions were not included in the test as it is assumed that any
implementation issues should be uncovered in conditions without tandeming.
Further, tandem operation is not foreseen as a major operation use-case for
EVS.
The methodology used is P.800 ACR or DCR reflecting the EVS Selection and
Characterization tests. It is proposed to use 4 different talkers (two male
and two female talkers), and 6 panels of 4 listeners. This set-up gives 96
votes per condition (6panels*4talkers*4listeners).
Similarly to the objective tests, the following 4 configurations will be
tested in all experiments:
a) Ref_fxd encoder -- Ref_fxd decoder
b) CuT encoder -- CuT decoder
c) Ref_fxd encoder -- CuT decoder
d) CuT encoder -- Ref_fxd decoder
**Experiment 1 - WB clean speech ACR (17 conditions per codec
configuration):**
-16 dBov clean channel - 5.9 kb/s, switching: 7.2-9.6 kb/s, 13.2-96 kb/s, AMR-WB IO, DTX ON
-26 dBov clean channel - 7.2 kb/s, 13.2 kb/s, 13.2 kb/s Channel-Aware Mode (CAM), 24.4 kb/s, DTX ON
-36 dBov clean channel - 5.9 kb/s DTX ON, switching: 7.2-9.6 kb/s, 13.2-96 kb/s, AMR-WB IO, DTX OFF
-26 dBov random 3% FER - 5.9 kb/s, switching: 7.2-9.6 kb/s, 13.2-96 kb/s, AMR-WB IO, DTX ON
-26 dBov Profile 8(6.2%) -- 13.2 kb/s Channel-Aware Mode (CAM), DTX ON
**Experiment 2 - SWB clean speech DCR (6 conditions per codec
configuration):**
-16 dBov clean channel - 9.6 kb/s, 13.2 kb/s, DTX OFF
-36 dBov clean channel - 24.4 kb/s, switching 32-128 kb/s, DTX ON
-26 dBov Profile 7(3.3%) - switching 9.6 - 24.4 kb/s, DTX ON
-26 dBov Profile 8(6.2%) - 13.2 kb/s CAM, DTX ON
**Experiment 3 - SWB noisy speech DCR - 26 dBov, Street noise at 20 dB SNR (6
conditions per codec configuration):**
clean channel - 9.6 kb/s, DTX ON
clean channel - 13.2 kb/s, DTX ON
clean channel - 24.4 kb/s, DTX ON
3% random FER - switching 9.6 - 24.4 kb/s, DTX ON
3% random FER - switching 32 - 128 kb/s, DTX ON
Profile 8(6.2%) - 13.2 kb/s CAM, DTX ON
**Experiment 4 - SWB mixed and music DCR (6 conditions per codec
configuration):**
-16 dBov clean channel - 9.6 kb/s, DTX ON
-26 dBov clean channel - 13.2 kb/s, DTX ON
-36 dBov clean channel - 24.4 kb/s, DTX ON
-26 dBov 3% random FER - switching 9.6 - 24.4 kb/s, DTX ON
-26 dBov 3% random FER - switching 32 - 128 kb/s, DTX ON
-26 dBov Profile 8(6.2%) - 13.2 kb/s CAM, DTX ON
# 6 Conclusions
During the recent several years, processors with wide accumulators, SIMD
support and VLIW features have become prevalent. On the other hand, the latest
major update to the ITU-T Basic Operators [6] that serve as a foundation for
reference software of codecs specified by 3GPP occurred in 2005, with a
consequent update in 2009. EVS [2], the latest speech and audio codec
standardized by 3GPP, was specified using those operators.
Given the information collected during the study, it is recommended to submit
the proposed new set of basic operators to the STL GitHub open source
environment as an extension of the current ITU-T Basic Operators. It is
further recommended to inform ITU-T Study Group 12 of the new set of basic
operators including the updated weights for the current set of basic
operators, which have been agreed in 3GPP SA4, and request them to update
Recommendation ITU-T G.191 (STL) [6] accordingly so that the new set of basic
operators will be available for future codec standardizations.
It was further shown that by implementing the EVS codec using the new set of
basic operators, a complexity gain of about 25% can be obtained for a given
example of a modern processor. The corresponding decrease in WMOPS was about
10%. It is thus recommended to begin normative work with the objective of
specifying an alternative implementation of the EVS codec using the new set of
basic operators. The evaluation of the alternative implementation should
follow the guidelines outlined in clause 5.3 of the present document.
###### ### Annex A: Extended Basic Operators
Name: enh64.c, enh32.c, complex_basop.c, enhUL32.c
Associated header file: enh64.h, enh32.h complex_basop.h, enhUL32.h
Variable definitions:
C_var1, C_var2: 16 bit complex variables
CL_var1, CL_var2: 32 bit complex variables
W_var1, W_var2: 64 bit variables
L_var1, L_var2: 32 bit variables
UL_var1, UL_var2, UL_varout_h, UL_varout_l: 32 bit unsigned variables
var1, var2: 16 bit variables
U_var1, U_varout_l: 16 bit unsigned variables
# A.1 Basic operators that use 64 bit registers/accumulators
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_add_nosat(W_var1, W_var2) | Adds the two 64-bit variables | | | W_var1 and W_var2 without | | | saturation control on 64 bits. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_sub_nosat (W_var1, W_var2) | Subtracts the two 64-bit | | | variables W_var1 and W_var2 | | | without saturation control on 64 | | | bits. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_shl (W_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shifts left the | | | 64-bit variable W_var1 by var2 | | | positions: | | | | | | if var2 is negative, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by (--var2) positions with | | | extension of the sign bit. | | | | | | if var2 is positive, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (var2) positions with | | | saturation control on 64 bits. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_shr (W_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shifts right the | | | 64-bit variable W_var1 by var2 | | | positions: | | | | | | if var2 is negative, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (--var2) positions with | | | saturation control on 64 bits . | | | | | | if var2 is positive, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by (var2) positions with | | | extension of the sign bit. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_shl_nosat (W_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shifts left the | | | 64-bit variable W_var1 by var2 | | | positions: | | | | | | if var2 is negative, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by (--var2) positions with | | | extension of the sign bit. | | | | | | if var2 is positive, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (var2) positions without | | | saturation control on 64 bits. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_shr_nosat (W_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shifts right the | | | 64-bit variable W_var1 by var2 | | | positions: | | | | | | if var2 is negative, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (--var2) positions | | | without saturation control on 64 | | | bits . | | | | | | if var2 is positive, W_var1 is | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by (var2) positions with | | | extension of the sign bit. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mult_32_16 (L_var1, var2) | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 and sign | | | extend to 64-bits without | | | saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the result is | | | produced in 17Q47 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mac_32_16 (W_acc, L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 and sign | | | extend to 64-bits without | | | saturation control;\ | | | add this 64 bit value to the 64 | | | bit W_acc without saturation | | | control, and return a 64 bit | | | result | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then added to W_acc (in | | | 17Q47) format. The final result | | | is in 17Q47 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_msu_32_16 (W_acc, L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 and sign | | | extend to 64-bits without | | | saturation control; subtract | | | this 64 bit value from the 64 | | | bit W_acc without saturation | | | control, and return a 64 bit | | | result. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then subtracted from W_acc | | | (in 17Q47) format. The final | | | result is in 17Q47 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mult0_16_16 (var1, var2) | Multiply 16 bit var1 by 16 bit | | | var2, sign extend to 64 bits and | | | return the 64 bit result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mac0_16_16 (W_acc, var1, | Multiply 16 bit var1 by 16 bit | | var2) | var2, sign extend to 64 bits; | | | add this 64 bit value to the 64 | | | bit W_acc without saturation | | | control, and return a 64 bit | | | result | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_msu0_16_16 (W_acc, var1, | Multiply 16 bit var1 by 16 bit | | var2) | var2, sign extend to 64 bits; | | | subtract this 64 bit value from | | | the 64 bit W_acc without | | | saturation control, and return a | | | 64 bit result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mult_16_16 (W_acc, var1, | Multiply a signed 16 bit var1 by | | var2) | signed 16 bit var2, shift the | | | product left by 1 and sign | | | extend to 64-bits without | | | saturation control and return a | | | 64 bit result | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if var1 is in 1Q15 | | | format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the result is | | | produced in 33Q31 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mac_16_16 (W_acc, var1, | Multiply a signed 16 bit var1 by | | var2) | signed 16 bit var2, shift the | | | result left by 1 and sign extend | | | to 64-bits;\ | | | add this 64 bit value to the 64 | | | bit W_acc without saturation | | | control, and return a 64 bit | | | result | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if var1 is in 1Q15 | | | format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is in | | | 33Q31 format which is then added | | | to W_acc (in 33Q31 format) to | | | provide a final result in 33Q31 | | | format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_msu_16_16 (W_acc, var1, | Multiply a signed 16 bit var1 by | | var2) | signed 16 bit var2, shift the | | | result left by 1 and sign extend | | | to 64-bits;\ | | | subtract this 64 bit value from | | | the 64 bit W_acc without | | | saturation control, and return a | | | 64 bit result | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if var1 is in 1Q15 | | | format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is in | | | 33Q31 format which is then | | | subtracted from W_acc (in 33Q31 | | | format) to provide a final | | | result in 33Q31 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_deposit32_l (L_var1) | Deposit the 32 bit L_var1 into | | | the 32 LS bits of the 64 bit | | | output. The 32 MS bits of the | | | output are sign extended | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_deposit32_h (L_var1) | Deposit the 32 bit L_var1 into | | | the 32 MS bits of the 64 bit | | | output. The 32 LS bits of the | | | output are zeroed. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_sat_l (W_var) | Saturate the 64 bit variable | | | W_var to 32 bit value and | | | return the lower 32 bits. | | | | | | For example, a 64b wide | | | accumulator is helpful in | | | accumulating 16*16 multiplies | | | without checking for saturation. | | | However, at the end of the | | | multiply-and-accumulate loop, we | | | need to return only the 32b | | | value after checking for | | | saturation. | | | | | | If W_var is in 33Q31 format, | | | then the result returned will be | | | saturated to 1Q31 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_sat_m (W_var) | Arithmetic right shift the 64 | | | bit variable W_var by 16 bits; | | | saturate the 64 bit value to 32 | | | bit value and return the lower | | | 32 bits. | | | | | | For example, a 64 bit wide | | | accumulator is helpful in | | | accumulating 32*16 multiplies | | | without checking for saturation. | | | A 32*16 multiply gives a 48 bit | | | product; at the end of the | | | multiply-and-accumulate loop, | | | the result is in the lower 48 | | | bits of the 64 bit accumulator. | | | Now an arithmetic right shift by | | | 16 bits will drop the LSB 16 | | | bits. Now we should check for | | | saturation and return the lower | | | 32 bits. | | | | | | If W_var is in 17Q47 format, | | | then the result returned will be | | | saturated to 1Q31 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_shl_sat_l (W_var, var1) | Arithmetic left shift the 64 bit | | | W_var by var1 positions with | | | lower 32 bit saturation and | | | return the 32 LSB of 64 bit | | | result. | | | | | | If var1 is negative, the result | | | is shifted to right by (-var1) | | | positions and sign extended. | | | After shift operation, returns | | | the 32 MSB of 64 bit result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_extract_l (W_var1) | Return the 32 LSB of a 64 bit | | | variable W_var1. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_extract_h (W_var1) | Return the 32 MSB of a 64 bit | | | variable W_var1. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_round48_L (W_var1) | Rounds the lower 16 bits of the | | | 64-bit input number W_var1 into | | | the most significant 32 bits | | | with saturation. Shifts the | | | resulting bits right by 16 and | | | returns the 32-bit number: | | | | | | If W_var1 is in 17Q47 format, | | | then the result returned will be | | | rounded and saturated to 1Q31 | | | format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_round32_s (W_var1) | Rounds the lower 32 bits of the | | | 64-bit input number W_var1 into | | | the most significant 16 bits | | | with saturation. Shifts the | | | resulting bits right by 32 and | | | returns the 16-bit number: | | | | | | If W_var1 is in 17Q47 format, | | | then the result returned will be | | | rounded and saturated to 1Q15 | | | format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_norm (W_var1) | Produces the number of left | | | shifts needed to normalize the | | | 64-bit variable W_var1. If | | | W_var1 contains 0, return 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_add (W_var1, W_var2) | Adds the two 64-bit variables | | | W_var1 and W_var2 with 64-bit | | | saturation control. Sets | | | overflow flag. Returns 64-bit | | | result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_sub (W_var1, W_var2) | Subtracts 64-bit variable | | | W_var2 from W_var1 with 64-bit | | | saturation control. Sets | | | overflow flag. Returns 64-bit | | | result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_neg (W_var1) | Negates a 64-bit variables | | | W_var1 with 64-bit saturation | | | control. Set overflow flag. | | | Returns 64-bit result. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_abs (W_var1) | Returns a 64-bit absolute value | | | of a 64-bit variable W_var1 | | | with saturation control. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mult_32_32 (L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | L_var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Shift | | | the product left by 1 with | | | saturation control. Returns the | | | 64-bit result. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode.\ | | | For example, if L_var1 & | | | L_var2 are in 1Q31 format then | | | the result is produced in 1Q63 | | | format.\ | | | Note that | | | W_mult_32_32(-2147483648, | | | -2147483648) = | | | 9223372036854775807. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_mult0_32_32 (L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | L_var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Returns | | | the 64-bit result. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 & | | | L_var2 are in 1Q31 format then | | | the result is produced in 2Q62 | | | format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_lshl (W_var1, var2) | Logically shift the 64-bit input | | | W_var1 left by var2 positions\ | | | - If var2 is negative, logically | | | shift right W_var1 by (-var2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_lshr (W_var1, var2) | Logically shift the 64-bit input | | | W_var1 right by var2 positions\ | | | - If var2 is negative, logically | | | shift left W_var1 by (-var2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | W_round64_L (W_var1) | Rounds the lower 32 bits of the | | | 64-bit input number W_var1 into | | | the most significant 32 bits | | | with saturation. Shifts the | | | resulting bits right by 32 and | | | returns the 32-bit number:\ | | | If W_var1 is in 1Q63 format, | | | then the result returned will be | | | rounded and saturated to 1Q31 | | | format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.2 Basic operators which use 32 bit precision multiply
Basic operators in this clause are useful for FFT and scaling functions where
the result of a 32*16 or 32*32 arithmetic operation is rounded, and saturated
to 32 bit value. There is no accumulation of products in these functions. In
functions that accumulate products, you should use base operators in clause
A.1.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mpy_32_16_1( L_var1, var2) | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 with 48 bit | | | saturation control; Return the | | | 32 MSB of the 48 bit result | | | after truncation of lower 16 | | | bits | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then saturated, truncated and | | | returned in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | W_var1 = W_mult_32_16 ( | | | L_var1, var2 ); | | | | | | L_var_out = W_sat_m( W_var1 | | | ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mpy_32_16_r( L_var1, var2) | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 with 48 bit | | | saturation control; Return the | | | 32 MSB of the 48 bit result | | | after rounding of the lower 16 | | | bits | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then rounded, saturated, and | | | returned in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | W_var1 = W_mult_32_16 ( | | | L_var1, var2 ); | | | | | | L_var_out = W_round48_L | | | (W_var1); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mpy_32_32( L_var1, L_var2) | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Shift | | | the product left by 1 with 64 | | | bit saturation control; Return | | | the 32 MSB of the 64 bit result | | | after truncating of the lower 32 | | | bits | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q31 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 1Q63 format which is | | | then truncated, saturated, and | | | returned in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | W_var1 = (( Word64)L_var1 * | | | L_var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | W_extract_h(W_shl(W_var1, 1) | | | ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mpy_32_32_r( L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | L_var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Add | | | rounding offset to lower 31 bits | | | of the product. Shift the result | | | left by 1 with 64 bit saturation | | | control; return the 32 MSB of | | | the 64 bit result with | | | saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and L_var2 is in | | | 1Q31 format, then the result is | | | produced in 1Q63 format which is | | | then rounded, saturated, and | | | returned in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | W_var1 = (( Word64)L_var1 * | | | L_var2); | | | | | | W_var1 = W_var1 + | | | 0x40000000LL; | | | | | | W_var1 = W_shl ( W_var1, 1 ); | | | | | | L_var_out = W_extract_h( | | | W_var1 ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Madd_32_16( L_var3, L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | Madd_32_16_r( L_var3, | product left by 1 with 48 bit | | L_var1, var2) | saturation control; Add the 32 | | | bit MSB of the 48 bit result | | | with 32 bit L_var3 with 32 bit | | | saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then saturated, truncated to | | | 1Q31 format and added to L_var3 | | | in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_16_1(L_var1, var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_add(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | | | | | | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 with 48-bit | | | saturation control; Get the | | | 32-bit MSB from 48-bit result | | | after rounding of the lower 16 | | | bits and add this with 32-bit | | | L_var3 with 32-bit saturation | | | control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then saturated, rounded to | | | 1Q31 format and added to L_var3 | | | in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_16_r(L_var1, var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_add(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Msub_32_16( L_var3, L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | Msub_32_16_r( L_var3, | product left by 1 with 48 bit | | L_var1, var2) | saturation control; Subtract the | | | 32 bit MSB of the 48 bit result | | | from 32 bit L_var3 with 32 bit | | | saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then saturated, truncated to | | | 1Q31 format and subtracted from | | | L_var3 in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_16_1(L_var1, var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_sub(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | | | | | | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 16-bit variable var2. Shift the | | | product left by 1 with 48-bit | | | saturation control; Get the | | | 32-bit MSB from 48-bit result | | | after rounding of the lower 16 | | | bits and subtract this from | | | 32-bit L_var3 with 32-bit | | | saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and var2 is in 1Q15 | | | format, then the product is | | | produced in 17Q47 format which | | | is then saturated, rounded to | | | 1Q31 format and subtracted from | | | L_var3 in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_16_r(L_var1, var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_sub(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Madd_32_32( L_var3, L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | L_var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Shift | | Madd_32_32_r( L_var3, | the product left by 1 with 64 | | L_var1, L_var2) | bit saturation control; Add the | | | 32 MSB of the 64 bit result to | | | 32 bit signed variable L_var3 | | | with 32 bit saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and L_var2 is in | | | 1Q31 format, then the product is | | | saturated and truncated in 1Q31 | | | format which is then added to | | | L_var3 (in 1Q31 format), to | | | provide result in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_32(L_var1, L_var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_add(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | | | | | | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Add | | | rounding offset to lower 31 bits | | | of the product. Shift the result | | | left by 1 with 64-bit saturation | | | control; get the 32 MSB of the | | | 64-bit result with saturation | | | and add this with 32-bit signed | | | variable L_var3 with 32-bit | | | saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and L_var2 is in | | | 1Q31 format, then the product is | | | saturated and rounded in 1Q31 | | | format which is then added to | | | L_var3 (in 1Q31 format), to | | | provide result in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_32_r(L_var1, | | | L_var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_add(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Msub_32_32( L_var3, L_var1, | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | L_var2) | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Shift | | Msub_32_32_r( L_var3, | the product left by 1 with 64 | | L_var1, L_var2) | bit saturation control; Subtract | | | the 32 MSB of the 64 bit result | | | from 32 bit signed variable | | | L_var3 with 32 bit saturation | | | control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and L_var2 is in | | | 1Q31 format, then the product is | | | saturated and truncated in 1Q31 | | | format which is then subtracted | | | from L_var3 (in 1Q31 format), | | | to provide result in 1Q31 | | | format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_32(L_var1, L_var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_sub(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | | | | | | Multiplies the signed 32-bit | | | variable L_var1 with signed | | | 32-bit variable L_var2. Add | | | rounding offset to lower 31 bits | | | of the product. Shift the result | | | left by 1 with 64-bit saturation | | | control; get the 32 MSB of the | | | 64-bit result with saturation | | | and Subtract this from 32-bit | | | signed variable L_var3 with | | | 32-bit saturation control. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | For example, if L_var1 is in | | | 1Q31 format and L_var2 is in | | | 1Q31 format, then the product is | | | saturated and rounded in 1Q31 | | | format which is then subtracted | | | from L_var3 (in 1Q31 format), | | | to provide result in 1Q31 | | | format. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed | | | | | | L_var_out = | | | Mpy_32_32_r(L_var1, | | | L_var2); | | | | | | L_var_out = L_sub(L_var3, | | | L_var_out); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.3 Basic operators which use complex data types
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_shr (CL_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shifts right the | | | real and imaginary parts of the | | | 32 bit complex number CL_var1 | | | by var2 positions | | | | | | If var2 is negative, real and | | | imaginary parts of CL_var1 are | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (-var2) positions with | | | 32-bit saturation control. | | | | | | If var2 is positive, real and | | | imaginary parts of CL_var1 are | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by ( var2 ) positions with | | | sign extension | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | L_shr(CL_var1.re, | | | L_shift_val); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | L_shr(CL_var1.im, | | | L_shift_val); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_shl (CL_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shift left the | | | real and imaginary parts of the | | | 32 bit complex number CL_var1 | | | by L_shift_val positions | | | | | | If var2 is negative, real and | | | imaginary parts of CL_var1 are | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by ( -var2 ) positions with | | | sign extension | | | | | | If var2 is positive, real and | | | imaginary parts of CL_var1 are | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (var2) positions with | | | 32-bit saturation control | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | L_shl(CL_var1.re, | | | L_shift_val); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | L_shl(CL_var1.im, | | | L_shift_val); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_add (CL_var1, CL_var2) | Adds the two 32 bit complex | | | numbers CL_var1 and CL_var2 | | | with 32-bit saturation control. | | | | | | Real part of the 32 bit complex | | | number CL_var1 is added to Real | | | part of the 32 bit complex | | | number CL_var2 with 32 bit | | | saturation control. The result | | | forms the real part of the | | | result variable. | | | | | | Imaginary part of the 32 bit | | | complex number CL_var1 is added | | | to Imaginary part of the 32 bit | | | complex number CL_var2 with 32 | | | bit saturation control. The | | | result forms the imaginary part | | | of the result variable. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | L_add(CL_var1.re, | | | CL_var2.re); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | L_add(CL_var1.im, | | | CL_var2.im); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_sub (CL_var1, CL_var2) | Subtract the two 32 bit complex | | | numbers CL_var1 and CL_var2 | | | with 32-bit saturation control | | | | | | Real part of the 32 bit complex | | | number CL_var2 is subtracted | | | from Real part of the 32 bit | | | complex number CL_var1 with 32 | | | bit saturation control. The | | | result forms the real part of | | | the result variable. | | | | | | Imaginary part of the 32 bit | | | complex number CL_var2 is | | | subtracted from Imaginary part | | | of the 32 bit complex number | | | CL_var1 with 32 bit saturation | | | control. The result forms the | | | imaginary part of the result | | | variable. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | L_sub(CL_var1.re, | | | CL_var2.re); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | L_sub(CL_var1.im, | | | CL_var2.im); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_scale (CL_var, var1) | Multiply the real and imaginary | | | parts of a 32 bit complex number | | | CL_var by a 16-bit var1. The | | | resulting 48 bit product for | | | each part is rounded, saturated | | | and 32 bit MSB of 48 bit result | | | are returned. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | Mpy_32_16_r(CL_var.re, | | | var1); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | Mpy_32_16_r(CL_var.im, | | | var1); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_dscale (CL_var, var1, var2) | Multiply the real parts of a 32 | | | bit complex number CL_var by a | | | 16-bit var1 and imaginary parts | | | of a 32 bit complex number | | | CL_var by a 16-bit var2. The | | | resulting 48 bit product for | | | each part is rounded, saturated | | | and 32 bit MSB of 48 bit result | | | are returned. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | Mpy_32_16_r(CL_var.re, | | | var1); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | Mpy_32_16_r(CL_var.im, | | | var2); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_msu_j (CL_var1, CL_var2) | Multiply the 32 bit complex | | | number CL_var2 with j and | | | subtract the result from the 32 | | | bit complex number CL_var1 with | | | saturation control. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = L_add( | | | CL_var1.re, CL_var2.im ); | | | | | | CL_result.im = L_sub( | | | CL_var1.im, CL_var2.re ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_mac_j (CL_var1, CL_var2) | Multiply the 32 bit complex | | | number CL_var2 with j and add | | | the result to the 32 bit complex | | | number CL_var1 with saturation | | | control. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = L_sub( | | | CL_var1.re, CL_var2.im ); | | | | | | CL_result.im = L_add( | | | CL_var1.im, CL_var2.re ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_move (CL_var) | Copy the 32 bit complex number | | | CL_var to destination 32 bit | | | complex number | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_Extract_real (CL_var) | Return the real part of a 32 bit | | | complex number CL_var | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_Extract_imag (CL_var) | Return the imaginary part of a | | | 32 bit complex number CL_var | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_form (L_re, L_im) | Combine the two 32 bit variable | | | L_re and L_im and return a 32 | | | bit complex number. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = L_re; | | | | | | CL_result.im = L_im; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_multr_32x16(CL_var, | Multiplication of 32 bit complex | | C_coeff) | number CL_var with a 16 bit | | | complex number C_coeff. | | | | | | The formula for multiplying two | | | complex numbers, (x+iy) and | | | (u+iv) is | | | | | | (x+iy)*(u+iv) = (xu -- yv) + | | | i(xv + yu); | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | W_tmp1 = | | | W_mult_32_16(CL_var.re, | | | C_coeff.re); | | | | | | W_tmp2 = | | | W_mult_32_16(CL_var.im, | | | C_coeff.im); | | | | | | W_tmp3 = | | | W_mult_32_16(CL_var.re, | | | C_coeff.im); | | | | | | W_tmp4 = | | | W_mult_32_16(CL_var.im, | | | C_coeff.re); | | | | | | CL_res.re = W_round48_L( | | | W_sub_nosat (W_tmp1, | | | W_tmp2)); | | | | | | CL_res.im = W_round48_L( | | | W_add_nosat (W_tmp3, | | | W_tmp4)); | | | | | | For example, if the real and | | | imaginary part of complex | | | variable CL_var are in 1Q31 | | | format, and C_coeff in 1Q15 | | | format, then the intermediate | | | products would be in 17Q47 | | | format. The round operation will | | | convert the result of | | | addition/subtraction from 17Q47 | | | format to 1Q31 format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_negate (CL_var) | Negate the 32 bit complex | | | number, saturate and return. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | L_negate(CL_var.re); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | L_negate(CL_var.im); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_conjugate(CL_var) | Negate only the imaginary part | | | of complex number CL_var with | | | saturation. No change in the | | | real part. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations | | | | | | CL_result.re = CL_var.re; | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | L_negate(CL_var.im); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_mul_j ( CL_var) | Multiplication of a 32 bit | | | complex number CL_var with j | | | and return a 32 bit complex | | | number. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_swap_real_imag ( CL_var) | Swap real and imaginary parts of | | | a 32 bit complex number CL_var | | | and return a 32 bit complex | | | number. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_add (C_var1, C_var2) | Adds the two 16 bit complex | | | numbers C_var1 and C_var2 with | | | 16-bit saturation control. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | C_result.re = add(C_var1.re, | | | C_var2.re); | | | | | | C_result.im = add(C_var1.im, | | | C_var2.im); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_sub (C_var1, C_var2) | Subtract the two 16 bit complex | | | numbers C_var1 and C_var2 with | | | 16-bit saturation control | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | C_result.re = sub(C_var1.re, | | | C_var2.re); | | | | | | C_result.im = sub(C_var1.im, | | | C_var2.im); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_mul_j (C_var) | Multiplication of a 16 bit | | | complex number with j and return | | | a 16 bit complex number | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_multr (C_var1, C_var2) | Multiplication of 16 bit complex | | | number C_var1 with 16 bit | | | complex number C_var2 which | | | results in a 16 bit complex | | | number. | | | | | | The formula for multiplying two | | | complex numbers, (x+iy) and | | | (u+iv) is | | | | | | (x+iy)*(u+iv) = (xu -- yv) + | | | i(xv + yu); | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | W_tmp1 = | | | W_mult_16_16(C_var1.re, | | | C_var2.re); | | | | | | W_tmp2 = | | | W_mult_16_16(C_var1.im, | | | C_var2.im); | | | | | | W_tmp3 = | | | W_mult_16_16(C_var1.re, | | | C_var2.im); | | | | | | W_tmp4 = | | | W_mult_16_16(C_var1.im, | | | C_var2.re); | | | | | | C_result.re = | | | round_fx(W_sat_l | | | (W_sub_nosat (W_tmp1, | | | W_tmp2))); | | | | | | C_result.im = | | | round_fx(W_sat_l | | | (W_add_nosat (W_tmp3, | | | W_tmp4))); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_form (re, im) | Combine the two 16 bit variable | | | re and im and return a 16 bit | | | complex number | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_scale_32(CL_var1, L_var2) | Multiply the real and imaginary | | | parts of a 32-bit complex number | | | CL_var1 by a 32-bit L_var2. | | | | | | The resulting 64-bit product for | | | each part is rounded, saturated | | | and 32 bit MSB of 64-bit result | | | are returned. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | Mpy_32_32_r(CL_var1.re, | | | L_var2); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | Mpy_32_32_r(CL_var1.im, | | | L_var2); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_dscale_32(CL_var1, | Multiply the real parts of a | | L_var2, L_var3) | 32-bit complex number CL_var1 | | | by a 32-bit L_var2 and | | | imaginary parts of a 32-bit | | | complex number CL_var1 by a | | | 32-bit L_var3. The resulting | | | 64-bit product for each part is | | | rounded, saturated and 32 bit | | | MSB of 64-bit result are | | | returned. | | | | | | Following code snippet describe | | | the operations performed on real | | | & imaginary part of a complex | | | number. | | | | | | CL_result.re = | | | Mpy_32_32_r(CL_var1.re, | | | L_var2); | | | | | | CL_result.im = | | | Mpy_32_32_r(CL_var1.im, | | | L_var3); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_multr_32x32(CL_var1, | complex multiplication of | | CL_var2) | CL_var1 and CL_var2. | | | Multiplication is in fractional | | | mode. Both input and outputs are | | | in 1Q31 format. | | | | | | W_tmp1 = | | | W_mult_32_32(CL_var1.re, | | | CL_var2.re);\ | | | W_tmp2 = | | | W_mult_32_32(CL_var1.im, | | | CL_var2.im);\ | | | W_tmp3 = | | | W_mult_32_32(CL_var1.re, | | | CL_var2.im);\ | | | W_tmp4 = | | | W_mult_32_32(CL_var1.im, | | | CL_var2.re);\ | | | \ | | | CL_res.re = W_round64_L( | | | W_sub (W_tmp1, W_tmp2));\ | | | CL_res.im = W_round64_L( | | | W_add (W_tmp3, W_tmp4)); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_mac_r(CL_var1, C_var2, | Multiplies real and imaginary | | var3) | part of C_var2 by var3 and | | | shifts the result left by 1. | | | Adds the 32-bit result to | | | CL_var1 with saturation. Rounds | | | the 16 least significant bits of | | | the result into the 16 most | | | significant bits with saturation | | | and shifts the result right by | | | 16. Returns a 16-bit complex | | | result. | | | | | | C_result = CL_round32_16( | | | CL_add( Cl_var1, | | | | | | C_scale(C_var2, var3) ) ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_msu_r(CL_var1, C_var2, | Multiplies real and imaginary | | var3) | part of C_var2 by var3 and | | | shifts the result left by 1. | | | Subtract the 32-bit result from | | | CL_var1 with saturation. Rounds | | | the 16 least significant bits of | | | the result into the 16 most | | | significant bits with saturation | | | and shifts the result right by | | | 16. Returns a 16-bit complex | | | result. | | | | | | C_result = CL_round32_16( | | | CL_sub( Cl_var1, | | | | | | C_scale(C_var2, var3) ) ); | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CL_round32_16( CL_var1) | Rounds the lower 16 bits of the | | | 32-bit complex number CL_var1 | | | into the most significant 16 | | | bits with saturation. Shifts the | | | resulting bits right by 16 and | | | returns the 16-bit complex | | | number. | | | | | | If real and imaginary of | | | CL_var1 is in 1Q31 format, then | | | the result returned will be | | | rounded and saturated to 1Q15 | | | format. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_Extract_real(C_var1) | Return the real part of a 16-bit | | | complex number C_var | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_Extract_imag (C_var1) | Return the imaginary part of a | | | 16-bit complex number C_var | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_scale(C_var1,var2) | Multiply the real and imaginary | | | parts of a 16-bit complex number | | | C_var by a 16-bit var1. Returns | | | 32-bit complex number | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_negate(C_var1) | Negate the 16-bit complex | | | number, saturate and return a 16 | | | bit complex number. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_conjugate(C_var1) | Negate only the imaginary part | | | of a 16 bit complex number | | | C_var1 with saturation. No | | | change in the real part. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_shr(C_var1, var2) | Arithmetically shifts right the | | | real and imaginary parts of the | | | 16-bit complex number C_var1 by | | | var2 positions. | | | | | | If var2 is negative, real and | | | imaginary parts of C_var1 are | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (-var2) positions with | | | 16-bit saturation control. | | | | | | If var2 is positive, real and | | | imaginary parts of C_var1 are | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by (var2) positions with | | | sign extension | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | C_shl(C_var1,var2) | Arithmetically shift left the | | | real and imaginary parts of the | | | 16-bit complex number C_var1 by | | | var2 positions | | | | | | If var2 is negative, real and | | | imaginary parts of C_var1 are | | | shifted to the least significant | | | bits by (-var2) positions with | | | sign extension | | | | | | If var2 is positive, real and | | | imaginary parts of C_var1 are | | | shifted to the most significant | | | bits by (var2) positions with | | | 16-bit saturation control | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# A.4 Basic operators for control operation
The following basic operators should be used in the control processing part of
the reference code. They are expected to help compilers generate more
efficient code for control sections of the reference C code. In addition, they
also help in computing a more accurate representation of control code
operations in the total WMOPs (weighted millions of operations) of the
reference code.
* * *
LT_16(var1, var2) Return 1 if 16 bit variable var1 is less than 16 bit
variable var2, else return 0 GT_16(var1, var2) Return 1 if 16 bit variable
var1 is greater than 16 bit variable var2, else return 0 LE_16(var1, var2)
Return 1 if 16 bit variable var1 is less than or equal to 16 bit variable
var2, else return 0. GE_16(var1, var2) Return 1 if 16 bit variable var1 is
greater than or equal to 16 bit variable var2, else return 0 EQ_16(var1, var2)
Return 1 if 16 bit variable var1 is equal to 16 bit variable var2, else return
0 NE_16(var1, var2) Return 1 if 16 bit variable var1 is not equal to 16 bit
variable var2, else return 0 LT_32(L_var1, L_var2) Return 1 if 32 bit variable
L_var1 is less than 32 bit variable L_var2, else return 0 GT_32(L_var1,
L_var2) Return 1 if 32 bit variable L_var1 is greater than 32 bit variable
L_var2, else return 0 LE_32(L_var1, L_var2) Return 1 if 32 bit variable L_var1
is less than or equal to 32 bit variable L_var2, else return 0 GE_32(L_var1,
L_var2) Return 1 if 32 bit variable L_var1 is greater than or equal to 32 bit
variable L_var2, else return 0. EQ_32(L_var1, L_var2) Return 1 if 32 bit
variable L_var1 is equal to 32 bit variable L_var2, else return 0
NE_32(L_var1, L_var2) Return 1 if 32 bit variable L_var1 is not equal to 32
bit variable L_var2, else return 0 LT_64(W_var1, W_var2) Return 1 if 64 bit
variable W_var1 is less than 64 bit variable W_var2, else return 0
GT_64(W_var1, W_var2) Return 1 if 64 bit variable W_var1 is greater than 64
bit variable W_var2, else return 0 LE_64(W_var1, W_var2) Return 1 if 64 bit
variable W_var1 is less than or equal to 64 bit variable W_var2, else return 0
GE_64(W_var1, W_var2) Return 1 if 64 bit variable W_var1 is greater than or
equal to 64 bit variable W_var2, else return 0. NE_64(W_var1, W_var2) Return 1
if 64 bit variable W_var1 is not equal to 64 bit variable W_var2, else return
0 EQ_64(W_var1, W_var2) Return 1 if 64 bit variable W_var1 is equal to 64 bit
variable W_var2, else return 0
* * *
# A.5 Basic operators for unsigned data types
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL_addNs (UL_var1, UL_var2, | Adds the two unsigned 32-bit | | *var1) | variables UL_var1 and UL_var2 | | | with overflow control, but | | | without saturation. Returns | | | 32-bit unsigned result. var1 is | | | set to 1 if wrap around | | | occurred, otherwise 0. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL_subNs (UL_var1, UL_var2, | Subtracts the 32-bit usigned | | *var1) | variable UL_var2 from the | | | 32-bit unsigned variable | | | UL_var1 with overflow control, | | | but without saturation. Returns | | | 32-bit unsigned result. var1 is | | | set to 1 if wrap around (to | | | \"negative\") occurred, | | | otherwise 0. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | norm_ul (UL_var1) | Produces the number of left | | | shifts needed to normalize the | | | 32-bit unsigned variable | | | UL_var1 for positive values on | | | the interval with minimum of 0 | | | and maximum of 0xffffffff. If | | | UL_var1 contains 0, return 0. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL_Mpy_32_32(UL_var1, | Multiplies the two unsigned | | UL_var2) | values UL_var1 and UL_var2 and | | | returns the lower 32 bits, | | | without saturation control. | | | | | | UL_var1 and UL_var2 are | | | supposed to be in Q32 format. | | | | | | The result is produced in Q64 | | | format, the 32 LS bits. | | | | | | Operates like a regular | | | 32x32-bit unsigned int | | | multiplication in ANSI-C. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mpy_32_32_uu(UL_var1, | Multiplies the two unsigned | | UL_var2, *UL_var3, | 32-bit variables UL_var1 and | | *UL_var4) | UL_var2. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode. | | | | | | UL_var1 and UL_var2 are | | | supposed to be in Q32 format. | | | | | | The result is produced in Q64 | | | format: UL_varout_h points to | | | the 32 MS bits while | | | UL_varout_l points to the 32 | | | LS bits. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Mpy_32_16_uu(UL_var1, | Multiplies the unsigned 32-bit | | U_var1, UL_varout_h, | variable UL_var1 with the | | U_varout_l) | unsigned 16-bit variable | | | U_var1. | | | | | | The operation is performed in | | | fractional mode : | | | | | | UL_var1 is supposed to be in | | | Q32 format. | | | | | | U_var1 is supposed to be in Q16 | | | format. | | | | | | The result is produced in Q48 | | | format: UL_varout_h points to | | | the 32 MS bits while | | | U_varout_l points to the 16 LS | | | bits. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UL_deposit_l(U_var1) | Deposit the 16-bit U_var1 into | | | the 16 LS bits of the 32-bit | | | output. The 16 MS bits of the | | | output are not sign extended. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
###### ### Annex B: Weights of the STL basic operators
This annex contains a list of the existing STL2009 and new extensions referred
to as STL2017 basic operators and their weights for the modern DSP
architectures.
* * *
Legends  
STL-2009 basic operators STL-2017 Complex basic operators STL-2017 64-bit
basic operators STL-2017 Enhanced 32-bit basic operators STL-2017 Unsigned
basic operators STL-2017 Control code basic operators
* * *
* * *
BASOPS Complexity Weights Comments  
Existing STL2009 as is Updated  
add 1 1 sub 1 1 abs_s 1 1 shl 1 1 shr 1 1 extract_h 1 1 extract_l 1 1 mult 1 1
L_mult 1 1 negate 1 1 round 1 1 L_mac 1 1 L_msu 1 1 L_macNs 1 1 L_msuNs 1 1
L_add 1 1 L_sub 1 1 L_add_c 2 2 L_sub_c 2 2 L_negate 1 1 L_shl 1 1 L_shr 1 1
mult_r 1 1 shr_r 3 2 Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture mac_r 1
1 msu_r 1 1 L_deposit_h 1 1 L_deposit_l 1 1 L_shr_r 3 2 Reduced to reflect
modern processor architecture L_abs 1 1 L_sat 4 1 Reduced to reflect modern
processor architecture norm_s 1 1 div_s 18 18 norm_l 1 1 move16 1 1 move32 2 1
Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture Logic16 1 1 Logic32 2 1
Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture Test 2 1 Reduced to reflect
modern processor architecture s_max 1 1 s_min 1 1 L_max 1 1 L_min 1 1 L40_max
1 1 L40_min 1 1 shl_r 3 2 Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture
L_shl_r 3 2 Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture L40_shr_r 3 2
Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture L40_shl_r 3 2 Reduced to
reflect modern processor architecture norm_L40 1 1 L40_shl 1 1 L40_shr 1 1
L40_negate 1 1 L40_add 1 1 L40_sub 1 1 L40_abs 1 1 L40_mult 1 1 L40_mac 1 1
mac_r40 2 2 L40_msu 1 1 msu_r40 2 2 Mpy_32_16_ss 2 2 Mpy_32_32_ss 4 2 Reduced
to reflect modern processor architecture L_mult0 1 1 L_mac0 1 1 L_msu0 1 1
lshl 1 1 lshr 1 1 L_lshl 1 1 L_lshr 1 1 L40_lshl 1 1 L40_lshr 1 1 s_and 1 1
s_or 1 1 s_xor 1 1 L_and 1 1 L_or 1 1 L_xor 1 1 rotl 3 3 rotr 3 3 L_rotl 3 3
L_rotr 3 3 L40_set 3 1 Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture
L40_deposit_h 1 1 L40_deposit_l 1 1 L40_deposit32 1 1 Extract40_H 1 1
Extract40_L 1 1 L_Extract40 1 1 L40_round 1 1 L_saturate40 1 1 round40 1 1 IF
4 3  
GOTO 4 2  
BREAK 4 2  
SWITCH 8 6  
FOR 3 3  
WHILE 4 3  
CONTINUE 4 2  
L_mls 5 1 Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture div_l 32 32 i_mult
3 1 Reduced to reflect modern processor architecture CL_shr 1 CL_shl 1 CL_add
1 CL_sub 1 CL_scale 1 CL_dscale 1 CL_msu_j 1 CL_mac_j 1 CL_move 1
CL_Extract_real 1 CL_Extract_imag 1 CL_form 1 CL_multr_32x16 2 CL_negate 1
CL_conjugate 1 CL_mul_j 1 CL_swap_real_imag 1 C_add 1 C_sub 1 C_mul_j 1
C_multr 2 C_form 1 CL_scale_32 1 CL_dscale_32 1 CL_multr_32x32 2 C_mac_r 2
C_msu_r 2 CL_round32_16 1 C_Extract_real 1 C_Extract_imag 1 C_scale 1 C_negate
1 C_conjugate 1 C_shr 1 C_shl 1 move64 1 W_add_nosat 1 W_sub_nosat 1 W_shl 1
W_shr 1 W_shl_nosat 1 W_shr_nosat 1 W_mac_32_16 1 SIMD and VLIW friendly
basops W_msu_32_16 1 SIMD and VLIW friendly basops W_mult_32_16 1 SIMD and
VLIW friendly basops W_mult0_16_16 1 SIMD and VLIW friendly basops
W_mac0_16_16 1 SIMD and VLIW friendly basops W_msu0_16_16 1 SIMD and VLIW
friendly basops W_mult_16_16 1 SIMD and VLIW friendly basops W_mac_16_16 1
SIMD and VLIW friendly basops W_msu_16_16 1 SIMD and VLIW friendly basops
W_shl_sat_l 1 W_sat_l 1 W_sat_m 1 W_deposit32_l 1 W_deposit32_h 1 W_extract_l
1 W_extract_h 1 W_round48_L 1 W_round32_s 1 W_norm 1 W_add 1 W_sub 1 W_neg 1
W_abs 1 W_mult_32_32 1 W_mult0_32_32 1 W_lshl 1 W_lshr 1 W_round64_L 1
Mpy_32_16_1 1 Mpy_32_16_r 1 Mpy_32_32 1 Mpy_32_32_r 1 Madd_32_16 1
Madd_32_16_r 1 Msub_32_16 1 Msub_32_16_r 1 Madd_32_32 1 Madd_32_32_r 1
Msub_32_32 1 Msub_32_32_r 1 UL_addNs 1 Previous weight, when used in the EVS
codec [2], was 2 UL_subNs 1 Previous weight, when used in the EVS codec [2],
was 2 UL_Mpy_32_32 1 Previous weight, when used in the EVS codec [2], was 2
Mpy_32_32_uu 2 Previous weight, when used in the EVS codec [2], was 4
Mpy_32_16_uu 2 Previous weight, when used in the EVS codec [2], was 4 norm_ul
1 Previous weight, when used in the EVS codec [2], was 2 UL_deposit_l 1
Previous weight, when used in the EVS codec [2], was 2 LT_16 1 GT_16 1 LE_16 1
GE_16 1 EQ_16 1 NE_16 1 LT_32 1 GT_32 1 LE_32 1 GE_32 1 EQ_32 1 NE_32 1 LT_64
1 GT_64 1 LE_64 1 GE_64 1 EQ_64 1 NE_64 1
* * *
#