# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document covers the enhancement required to support MCPTT.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\"
[3] 3GPP TR 26.952: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS);Performance
Characterization\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[5] ITU-T Technical Paper - GSTP-GVBR, Performance of ITU-T G.718
(http://www.itu.int/pub/T-TUT) (http://www.itu.int/pub/publications.aspx-
lang=en&parent=T-TUT-ASC-2010).
[6] ETSI EN 300 395-2: \"Terrestrial Trunked Radio (TETRA) Speech codec for
full-rate traffic channel Part 2: TETRA codec\", version 1.3.1 (25 January
2005).
[7] 3GPP TR 26 975: \"Performance characterization of the Adaptive Multi-Rate
(AMR) speech codec\".
[8] 3GPP TR 46.055: \"Performance characterization of the GSM Enhanced Full
Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[9] (void)
[10] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TR 26 976: \"Performance characterization of the Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.076: \"Noise suppression for the AMR codec; Service
description; Stage 1\".
[15] 3GPP TS 26.131: \"Terminal acoustic characteristics for telephony;
Requirements\".
[16] NTIA Report 15-520: \"Speech Codec Intelligibility Testing in Support of
Mission-Critical Voice Applications for LTE\", S.D. Voran & A.A. Catellier
September 2015.
[17] (void)
[18] (void)
[19] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[20] 3GPP TR 26.947: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Selection and characterisation of application layer Forward Error Correction
(FEC)\".
[21] (void)
[22] (void)
[23] (void)
[24] ITU-T Recommendation P.800 (08/1996): \"**Methods for subjective
determination of transmission quality\".**
[25] 3GPP TS 26.442: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); ANSI C code
(fixed-point)\".
[26] 3GPP TS 26.448: \"Codec for Enhanced Voice Services (EVS); Jitter buffer
management\".
[27] ITU-T Recommendation P.807 (02/2016): \"Subjective test methodology for
assessing speech intelligibility**\".**
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ADP Associated Delivery Procedures
AS Application Server
BC Broadcast
BM-SC Broadcast-Multicast - Service Centre
GCS Group Communication Service
MCPTT Mission Critical Push-To-Talk
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast Single Frequency Network
MOS Mean Opinion Score
NTIA National Telecommunications & Information Administration
TETRA TErrestrial Trunked Radio
SC-PTM Single Cell-Point To Multipoint
SWB Super Wide Band
UC Unicast
# 4 Reference Model
Figure 1 shows a reference model of MCPTT support over UC and BC. The GCS AS
interacts with UE over GC1 interface for application signalling. The GCS AS
determines whether to deliver the audio over UC or BC. GCS AS interacts with
BM-SC over MB2 interface to deliver audio to BM-SC. The BM-SC delivers the
audio over broadcast channel to the UE via SGi-mb interface. The GCS AS
interacts with P-GW over SGi interface to deliver audio to the UE. The **red**
line represents the audio delivered over UC channel. The **green** line
represents the audio delivered over BC channel.
Note: The UE interacts with the BM-SC using HTTP method via SGi interface for
MBMS Associated Delivery Procedure. Whether the ADP procedure applies to the
MCPTT is TBD.
Figure 1: MCPTT support Reference Model
# 5 Key Issues for Supporting MCPTT
## 5.1 Key Issue#1: Codec for MCPTT
### 5.1.1 Review of Codec Alternatives and their Relative Perceptual
Performance
#### 5.1.1.1 Overview of the 3GPP Codec Comparison
The EVS Selection and Characterization Phase Test Results provided in the main
body and Annex D of TR 26.952 [3] give a detailed assessment of the
performance of the EVS Codec in realistic scenarios compared to both AMR and
AMR-WB. A summary of this comparison is provided in the next two subclauses.
In the fourth subclause the relative performance of different audio bandwidths
coded with AMR, AMR-WB and EVS is provided showing that the SWB modes of EVS
outperform the WB and NB Primary modes of EVS, AMR-WB and AMR.
In the fifth subclause, a review of the TETRA codec performance in comparison
to the 3GPP Codecs is provided.
This version of the document includes a review of codec alternatives and their
relative intelligibility in high noise conditions, e.g., at SNRs in the range
of -30 dB to 5 dB. The NTIA report [16] covered six noise types for an
intelligibility study that included a range of public safety and civilian
environments. Results of intelligibility testing for additional public safety
specific high noise background conditions are not included in this document.
#### 5.1.1.2 Narrowband Comparison vs AMR
For Narrowband (NB) signals, four experiments were conducted in the EVS
Selection and four in the EVS Characterization. Taken together, these results
provide a complete picture of the performance of EVS with respect to AMR but
the highlights are provided in Figures 2 to 6 below.
It can be seen that EVS always significantly out-performs AMR in terms of
intrinsic audio quality for both speech and Mixed/Music signals. EVS is also
significantly more robust to frame erasures; both randomly distributed or
according to the Delay and Error profiles from TS 26.114 [4] using the EVS
JBM.
* * *
{width="3.196527777777778in" height="2.71875in"} {width="3.196527777777778in"
height="2.71875in"}  
(a) (b)  
{width="3.2083333333333335in" height="2.6875in"} {width="3.2083333333333335in"
height="2.6875in"}  
(c) (d)  
Figure 2: EVS NB vs AMR -- Speech - Random Frame Erasures - Selection  
{width="3.1847222222222222in" height="2.779166666666667in"}
{width="3.2715277777777776in" height="2.74375in"}  
(a) (b)  
{width="3.1729166666666666in" height="2.7847222222222223in"}
{width="3.2597222222222224in" height="2.7666666666666666in"}  
(c) (d)  
Figure 3: EVS NB vs AMR -- Speech - Random Frame Erasures - Characterization
* * *
* * *
{width="3.196527777777778in" height="2.8465277777777778in"}
{width="3.1930555555555555in" height="2.8430555555555554in"} (a) (b) Figure 4:
EVS NB vs AMR -- Speech - TS 26.114 Delay & Error Profiles  
[]{.underline}  
{width="3.2125in" height="2.8319444444444444in"} {width="3.2125in"
height="2.8319444444444444in"} (a) (b) Figure 5: EVS NB vs AMR -- Music &
Mixed Content - Random Frame Erasures
* * *
* * *
{width="3.2083333333333335in" height="2.8541666666666665in"}
{width="3.2083333333333335in" height="2.8541666666666665in"} (a) (b) Figure 6:
EVS NB vs AMR -- Music & Mixed Content - TS 26.114 Delay & Error Profiles
* * *
#### 5.1.1.3 Wideband Comparison vs AMR-WB
For Wideband (WB) signals, seven experiments were conducted during the EVS
Selection and five experiments during Characterization; focused on determining
the performance of the EVS Wideband Primary Modes of operation. Taken together
these experiments provide unique information about the performance of EVS with
respect to AMR-WB but the highlights are provided below in Figures 7 to 10.
As in the case of AMR and NB, it can be seen that EVS always significantly
out-performs AMR-WB or AMR-WB/G.718IO in terms of intrinsic audio quality for
both speech and Mixed/Music signals. EVS is also significantly more robust to
input level and frame erasures; both randomly distributed or using the EVS JBM
in conjunction with the packet delay and error profiles taken from either TS
26.114 or the new profiles defined for LTE.
What is less clear from the frame erasure plots is that AMR-WB, in its basic
form, performs significantly less well than these curves would suggest. Work
in ITU-T as part of the G.718 exercise led to significant improvements to the
packet loss concealment of AMR-WB (G.722.2) and these improvements are shown
in Figures 11 & 12 (FER and BFER); taken from the Characterization Report of
Recommendation ITU-T G.718 [5]. The enhancements achieved during the
development of G.718 formed part of the justification of the EVS work item and
thus it can be assumed that EVS will perform even better than suggested by
Figures 8, 9 and 10.
* * *
{width="3.134027777777778in" height="2.7152777777777777in"}
{width="3.1416666666666666in" height="2.714583333333333in"} (a) (b) Figure 7:
EVS WB vs AMR-WB -- Speech -- Clean Channel & Levels
* * *
* * *
{width="3.188888888888889in" height="2.7666666666666666in"}
{width="3.188888888888889in" height="2.7666666666666666in"} (a) (b) Figure 8:
EVS WB vs AMR-WB -- Speech - Random Frame Erasures
* * *
* * *
{width="3.1416666666666666in" height="2.6659722222222224in"}
{width="3.0868055555555554in" height="2.6479166666666667in"} (a) (b) Figure 9:
EVS WB vs AMR-WB -- Speech - TS 26.114 Delay & Error Profiles
* * *
* * *
{width="3.1770833333333335in" height="2.676388888888889in"}
{width="3.1770833333333335in" height="2.703472222222222in"} (a) (b) Figure 10:
EVS WB vs AMR-WB -- Speech -- New EVS JBM Delay & Error Profiles
* * *
* * *
{width="6.5in" height="5.779166666666667in"}
* * *
Figure 11: AMR-WB (G.722.2) vs G.718IO -- Speech (American English) Figure 27
of [3]
* * *
{width="6.5in" height="5.795138888888889in"}
* * *
Figure 12: AMR-WB (G.722.2) vs G.718IO -- Speech (French) Figure 28 of [3]
#### 5.1.1.4 Super-wideband EVS and Relationships to Other Bandwidths
Three mixed bandwidth tests were performed during the EVS Characterization and
the results are shown in Figure 13.
It is clear from Figure 13 that the Super-wideband (SWB) modes of EVS
outperform the WB modes, which themselves outperform the NB modes. On the
whole it is clear that these trends hold across input types and bit rates. The
EVS codec can also be seen to scale well with bit rate within each bandwidth
and asymptotically approaches the Direct Source (DS) in the case of SWB and
progressively lower value in the cases of the reduced bandwidth signals; WB
and NB.
These mixed bandwidth test results also reinforce the performance advantages
of EVS compared to AMR and AMR-WB.
* * *
{width="3.0194444444444444in" height="2.303472222222222in"}
{width="3.0194444444444444in" height="2.3027777777777776in"} (a) Clean (b) Car
Noise {width="3.03125in" height="2.323611111111111in"}
{width="2.811111111111111in" height="2.338888888888889in"} (c) Music & Mixed
Content - Chinese (d) Music & Mixed Content - US English
* * *
Figure 13: EVS vs AMR and AMR-WB -- Bandwidth and Bitrate Differences
#### 5.1.1.5 Comparison of the 3GPP Codecs to TETRA
The details of the TETRA codec may be found in ETSI EN 300 395-2 [6]. The bit
rate of the TETRA codec is 4,567 kbps and it makes use of the ACELP paradigm
and 30ms frames. At the time of its selection in 1993, the TETRA ACELP codec
represented the state-of-the-art in low bit rate speech codecs and it was well
adapted to its specific application and the TETRA 4:1 TDMA air interface.
According to the Characterization tests conducted during the standardization
of the TETRA ACELP codec which are also provided in [6]:
> _\"For clean speech at a nominal input level of -22 dB the average Q value
> obtained for the TETRA codec is 13,0 dB for the linear input condition and
> 16,5 dB for the IRS input condition. For comparison purposes the
> corresponding values obtained for the Global System for Mobile
> communications (GSM) full-rate codec are 17,4 dB and 18,9 dB
> respectively.\"_
These differences in dBQ are reproduced below (from [6]) in Tables 1 & 2 for
various input signals.
From Tables 1 & 2 it is clear that the TETRA codec is consistently inferior to
the original GSM Full Rate Speech Codec of the order of 2.4 \- 4.4 dBQ.
Table 1: TETRA vs GSM TCH-FS for A-Law IRS Input Signals
+---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | TETRA ACELP | GSM TCH-FS | | | | | | | (Nominal Level) | (Nominal Level) | | | | | | | (dBQ) | (dBQ) | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Quiet | 16.5 | 18.9 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Vehicle -10dB | 4.1 | 5.2 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Vehicle -20dB | 9.5 | 10.5 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Office -10dB | 7.2 | 8.7 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Office -20dB | 11.4 | 11.7 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Table 2: TETRA vs GSM TCH-FS for FLAT Input Signals
+---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | TETRA ACELP | GSM TCH-FS | | | | | | | (Nominal Level) | (Nominal Level) | | | | | | | (dBQ) | (dBQ) | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Quiet | 13.0 | 17.4 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Vehicle -10dB | 6.5 | 10.0 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Vehicle -20dB | 9.3 | 14.7 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Office -20dB | 9.4 | 14.6 | +---------------+-----------------+-----------------+
Since the selection of the TETRA speech coding standard in 1993, firstly SMG,
and latterly 3GPP, has developed several generations of codec upgrades for NB
speech; firstly the Enhanced Full-Rate Codec (EFR), then the Adaptive Multi-
Rate codec (AMR) which included the EFR as the 12.2 kbps mode and most
recently the EVS codec. Each of these developments has provided clear and
measurable quality improvements over the generation that went before.
* * *
{width="6.197916666666667in" height="4.841666666666667in"}
* * *
**Figure 14: (Figure 5.4 from [7]): AMR Family of Curves for Experiment 1b
(Clean Speech in Half Rate)**
Examining the performance gains of GSM EFR (= AMR 12.2 - ETSI ETR 305 or GSM
06.55 [8]) over the GSM Full Rate Codec it is clear that EFR significantly
outperformed the GSM Full Rate Codec in all tests [8]:
> _\"The EFR codec is better than the actual FR codec for clear speech, for
> all error conditions (EP1, EP2 andEP3) and for tandeming under error EP1; it
> is equivalent to G.728 for its intrinsic quality, for background noise
> conditions and talker dependency.\"_
Considering GSM AMR (ETSI TR 126 975 [7]), from Figure 14 (Figure 5.4 of [7])
it can be seen that all of the AMR coding modes are at least as good as the
GSM Full Rate Codec for clean speech [7]. Data is somewhat lacking on noisy
speech performance with AMR in [7] but it can be reasonably expected that In
noisy speech, the higher bit rates of AMR would exceed the performance of GSM
FR due to the increasing similarity with EFR but that the margin would
diminish at lower bit rates. However, all of the bit rates of the AMR modes
exceed the 4.567 kbps of TETRA.
It can therefore be confidently concluded that the overall perceptual quality
of the TETRA Codec will be inferior to that of any mode of the AMR codec.
Such a conclusion is anecdotally supported by the adoption of the AMR 4.75
kbps codec as a codec upgrade to TETRA during the development of the TETRA-2
feature set.
From the EVS Characterization results in TR 26.952 [3] (reproduced in
subclause 5.1.1.2) the comparisons between AMR & EVS show an improvement for
the EVS codec over all of the coding modes of AMR.
It can therefore be confidently concluded that the perceptual quality of the
TETRA Codec is going to be noticeably inferior to any of the EVS NB codec
modes. It is also clear from subclause 5.1.1.4 that AMR-WB and the WB, SWB and
FB modes of EVS are capable of significantly improving not only the quality,
but also the intelligibility, of any MCPTT system when compared to narrowband
communication systems such as TETRA and P25. The increased intelligibility of
the wider audio bandwidths are also available at bit rates approaching the
lower bit rates of AMR with the EVS codec i.e. EVS Wideband VBR (nominally 5.9
kbps) and 7.2 kbps compared to AMR 4.75, 5.9, 6.7 and 7.4 kbps. This feature
of the EVS codec simultaneously satisfies the requirements for improved
intelligibility and for radio resource efficiency given in subclauses 5.14,
6.15.5 and 6.15.6 of [2].
#### 5.1.1.6 Comparison of Performance over MCPTT Bearers
##### 5.1.1.6.1 \"HD-Voice\" AMR-WB performance over 3GPP networks
The \"HD Voice\" reference describes the quality of experience across the
listed KPIs (speech quality, speech intelligibility, error resiliency, and
call capacity) of AMR-WB in today\'s commercial VoLTE networks.
For instance AMR-WB at 12.65 kbps operating over a unicast LTE PS channel with
1% FER per mobile link (as specified for QCI=1) resulting in 2% total FER in
mobile-to-mobile calls.
To characterize the reference coverage in a VoLTE system using unicast power-
controlled channels with HARQ Re-TX and QCI = 1 this document uses the VoLTE
field test results illustrated in figures 5.1.1.6.1-1 and 5.1.1.6.1-2 below.
Figure 5.1.1.6.1-2 excludes the zero RTP loss rate data to allow the reader to
see the non-zero cases more clearly.
{width="4.8in" height="4.925in"}
Figure 5.1.1.6.1-1 CDF of end-to-end RTP packet loss rate for VoLTE mobile-to-
mobile calls. Zero RTP loss values INCLUDED.
These measurements are based on logs taken over 6000 calls over various
commercial LTE networks spanning multiple continents, with each call averaging
34 seconds in duration (actually a mix of many short 30s calls and several
hours of long calls). The RTP loss rate is calculated over 1 second windows
and includes stationary and mobile UE\'s in good and bad coverage conditions.
It can that seen that about only about 90% of the cell area has an end-to-end
FER \1%).
As seen in clause 5.1.1.6.3.1, under these conditions the EVS WB and SWB
channel aware mode will offer significantly better speech quality than AMR-WB
at 12.65 kbps due to improved error resiliency. It can be appreciated that the
EVS WB channel aware mode at 13.2 kbps can tolerate up to 8% FER and still
deliver the same speech quality as AMR-WB 12.65 kbps operating at 2% FER which
is center of the cell \"HD Voice\" speech quality. The ability to sustain the
link while tolerating higher path loss results in improved link
budget/coverage. The EVS SWB channel aware mode at 13.2 kbps can tolerate even
higher FER (up to 10%) for further extending coverage while maintain HD Voice
center of cell speech quality. The 13.2 kbps EVS WB and SWB non-channel aware
modes can also operate at higher FER(4% for WB non-channel aware mode as shown
in clause 4.1) and deliver \"HD Voice\" center of cell speech quality thereby
resulting in improved coverage, albeit lower than that of the channel aware
mode.
**Call capacity:** The 13.2 kbps EVS modes utilize the same transport block
size as AMR-WB 12.65 kbps. This results in the same cell site voice capacity
as AMR-WB 12.65 kbps. If coverage is kept a constant, the improved error
resiliency can be utilized for capacity gains by increasing the packet loss
rate by not transmitting the packet at the UE itself. The power at which each
packet is transmitted would not be lowered but this mechanism can result in
power savings at the UE due to reduced ON time or reduced number of
transmissions (analogous to DTX or blanking but for active speech).
Incorporating this into the scheduler can reduce the average number of
resource blocks required thereby freeing up resources either to add more users
or for best effort traffic. The capacity gains are directly proportional to
the maximum FER rate at which the EVS mode can still maintain HD voice centre
of cell voice quality. Correlating to speech quality discussed in clause
5.1.1.6.3.1, at 13.2 kbps the EVS SWB channel aware mode would offer the
highest capacity gains followed by EVS WB channel aware, EVS SWB and WB non-
channel aware modes. For example, reducing ON time by 10% (i.e. blanking 10%
of the active frame vocoder packets) when operating in EVS SWB channel aware
mode can result in 18% capacity gains measured in terms of number of
additional users per cell site.
The lower bit-rates of EVS namely the 5.9 VBR and 7.2 kbps WB modes can offer
significant cell site voice capacity improvements due to utilizing smaller
transport block sizes/resource blocks. It has been demonstrated that the EVS
VBR 5.9 mode can achieve 41% more capacity than AMR 12.2, which has the same
capacity as AMR-WB 12.65. EVS 7.2 kbps can offer 35% more capacity than AMR
12.65 kbps. Correlating to speech quality results discussed in clause
5.1.1.6.3.1, it can be seen that this significant capacity gain improvement is
achieved while maintaining \"HD Voice\" speech quality.
###### 5.1.1.6.3.3 MBMS bearer
The simulation results in this clause demonstrate EVS and AMR-WB performance
on the downlink MBMS bearer and compare this to the reference. The error
conditions and scheduler assumptions considered in the MBMS downlink bearer in
these simulations, including the definition of Case 1 and Case2, are detailed
in clause A.1. The results provided are the output of simulations conducted by
one source company using the models described in clause A.1.
Figures 5.1.1.6.3.3-1 (Superwideband) and 5.1.1.6.3.3-2 (Wideband) show speech
quality comparison of EVS vs AMR-WB for Case 1. Simulated error conditions in
the downlink MBMS bearer channel is given in Table A.1.3-1. In all MBMS bearer
scenarios considered, EVS significantly outperforms AMR-WB in terms of voice
quality.
{width="5.895833333333333in" height="2.798611111111111in"}
Figure 5.1.1.6.3.3-1: P.OLQA scores for Case 1 -- Superwideband Speech
{width="5.902083333333334in" height="2.8048611111111112in"}
Figure 5.1.1.6.3.3-2: P.OLQA scores for Case 1 -- Wideband Speech
Figures 5.1.1.6.3.2-3 and 5.1.1.6.3.2-4 show speech quality for Case 2
described in clause A.1.3. Total uplink and network error levels of 1% FER are
considered with various MBMS bearer conditions in the downlink with 40ms
scheduling at eNB, and de-jitter buffering at the receiving MCPTT UE.
AMR-WB is unable to meet the reference error resilience, speech quality, and
speech intelligibility in all scenarios except for the 1% FER cases. EVS meets
or exceeds these reference KPIs in most cases. In addition, both EVS wideband
and superwideband modes offer notable improvement in voice quality over AMR-WB
under various error conditions considered here.
In certain cases (e.g. v120_b5_4 profile in Figure 5.1.1.6.3.2-3) the
improvement in P.OLQA scores by EVS over AMR-WB is 0.65, while AMR-WB yield
low P.OLQA scores around 2.84. This may translate into scenarios where an end
user may not understand certain portions of speech with AMR-WB under certain
FER conditions in the MBMS coverage area, while EVS would provide clear and
meaningful speech.
In most test cases considered under Case 1 and Case 2 above, AMR-WB is unable
to meet the reference \"HD Voice\" quality as it suffers from a significant
reduction in voice quality during channel errors. From a coverage perspective,
this would be experienced as significant degradation in voice quality in areas
exhibiting above channel characteristics with errors. Above results also
demonstrate how the EVS can compensate for errors significantly better than
AMR-WB. Note that the improvement of speech quality over AMRWB offered by EVS
Channel Aware mode increases, when more errors are present in the downlink
MBMS bearer channel.
{width="5.897222222222222in" height="3.395138888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.1.6.3.3-3: P.OLQA scores for Case 2 -- Superwideband Speech
{width="5.896527777777778in" height="3.395138888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.1.6.3.3-4: P.OLQA scores for case 2 -- Wideband Speech
**Error resiliency, Speech Quality, and Speech Intelligibility:**
The results in this clause show that EVS can withstand MBMS channel errors
much better than AMR-WB. With increasing error rates in the MBMS downlink,
AMR-WB speech quality degrades at a faster pace, while EVS is able to maintain
a reasonable level of speech quality.
In all of the MBMS bearer scenarios, with the exception of FERs >= 3% in Case
2 wideband, the EVS channel-aware mode is able to meet or exceed the
performance of the reference error resiliency, speech quality, and speech
intelligibility.
In most of the MBMS bearer scenarios (FER\2% may be classified as regions of bad
coverage which will experience significantly lower speech quality than the
center of the cell. With EVS 13.2 kbps channel aware mode (Option 1) or non-
channel aware mode (Option 1), the fraction of links which will experience
\"HD Voice\" center of cell speech quality, increases to 96% or 89%
respectively which roughly speaking brings EVS over LTE-D coverage closer to
that of the reference \"HD-Voice\" coverage. The respective SWB modes will
further increase the fraction of links which experience \"HD Voice\" center of
cell speech quality.
**Speech Quality and Intelligibility:**
EVS offers significantly improved voice quality over \"HD Voice\" center of
cell experience for 80% of links which experience BLER \ 5 Complete relaxation possible; no effort required.\ 4 Attention necessary;
> no appreciable effort required.\ 3 Moderate effort required.\ 2 Considerable
> effort required.\ 1 No meaning understood with any feasible effort.
The speech material consisted of six talkers (3 male, 3 female), 4 samples of
each talker, where each sample contains two sentences of the Berlin sentence
corpus. The clean speech material was combined with the two noise types
(coffee and siren), kindly provided by the NTIA over the 3GPP reflector,
according to the EVS characterization processing. For concatenation, a long
noise sequence was assembled out of the provided short samples. As SNR levels
10dB for coffee noise and 5dB for the siren noise were chosen. Each noise type
was evaluated in a separate experiment.
26 conditions were evaluated consisting of 6 codec modes times 4 channel
conditions, plus 2 direct condtions. The codecs AMR-WB, EVS-WB, and EVS-SWB
have been included operating at the bit rates 13.2kbps (12.85kbps for AMR-WB)
and 24.4kbps (23.85kbps for AMR-WB), all using DTX. The 13.2 kbps EVS modes
were operated in channel-aware (CA) mode (CA parameters: p=HI, o=3). All
conditions have been evaluated using clean channel and error profiles for 5%,
10%, 20% frame loss rate, using the informative EVS-JBM for MTSI [4],
specified in [26].
The delay and error profiles have been derived with the tool provided by
Qualcomm over the 3GPP SA4 reflector. For the EVS decoder, the JBM correction
for low jitter but high loss in [25] was active.
The listening test was conducted in a listening room according to the
requirements of P.800 using Sennheiser HD280 pro as the instrument for diotic
listening. The randomization of the samples was done according to P.800 using
the balanced block design method.
##### 5.1.1.7.2 Test results
The following plots show the mean scores and 95% confidence intervals for the
experiment with coffee background noise, where 25 naive subjects participated.
Unfortunately, not enough subjects did follow the lab invitation for the siren
noise experiment and it was not possible to compensate the missing subjects.
As a consequence, the it was decided to omit this experiment. It should be
noted that the number of listeners is rather small for a codec selection
process, however at least the number of 24 listeners has been reached which is
the usual minimum requirement for listening tests in a codec qualification
process. It should also be noted that this experiment can only be considered a
snapshot of listening effort in a single language. Those results do therefore
not claim to be exhaustive and should only be used to evaluate trends.
Given that 25 listeners participated in the test and there were six trials per
condition, a total number of 3900 trials were reported, meaning 150 trials per
condition.
Figure 5.1.1.7.2-1: Plot of listening effort in 10dB SNR coffee background
noise for 13.2 kbps gross bit rate incl. AMR-WB, EVS-WB in channel aware mode
and EVS-SWB in channel aware mode
Figure 5.1.1.7.2-2: Plot of listening effort in 10dB SNR coffee background
noise for 24.4 kbps gross bit rate incl. AMR-WB, EVS-WB and EVS-SWB
The following points can be observed:
  * All error-free conditions show an average score above 4 on the listening effort scale. These operation points seem to guarantee sufficiently low listening effort and are not considered as critical.
  * As the experiment design is focusing on high packet loss conditions, conclusions on other influencing factors such as audio bandwidth or bit rate can not be drawn
  * For packet loss rates of 5% and 10%, EVS always shows a significantly higher score compared to corresponding AMR-WB conditions
  * EVS with 10% packet loss rate performs similar to AMR-WB at 5% packet loss rate
  * Using the channel aware mode, EVS\@13.2kbps with 20% packet loss rate performs similar to AMR-WB\@12.65 with 10% packet loss rate.
### 5.1.2 Review of the Codec Alternatives and their Relative Speech
Intelligibility in Clean and Low SNRs
The high noise intelligibility results in NTIA Report 15-520 [16] provide
valuable information for the selection of the codec for MCPTT. For simplicity,
operating conditions of codecs are not repeated in the following paragraphs
but they can be found in [16].
The report provides intelligibility scores, as measured with the Modified
Rhyme Test (MRT) methodology, across a range of noise conditions for different
codecs, bit rates and bandwidths but for SA4 only 3 codecs are really of
direct interest; namely AMR (Sometimes referred to as AMR NB in [16]), AMR-WB
and EVS although the benchmarks of Analogue FM and the P25 codec are of
interest. These intelligibility results were conducted without radio channel
impairments.
In clean channel conditions, in two cases out of 12 EVS-NB performed
statistically significantly better than AMR but in the other 10 cases there
was no statistically significant difference.
In one case out of 18, EVS-WB performed statistically worse than AMR-WB, but
in this case EVS was operating at its lowest bit rate with DTX/CNG enabled and
at a lower bit rate than AMR-WB. In the other 17 cases there was no
statistically significant difference.
In three cases out of 24, EVS-FB performed statistically significantly better
than AMR-WB or EVS-WB, in one case EVS-FB performed statistically worse than
AMR-WB (Alarm noise -30dB SNR) and in the other 20 cases there was no
statistically significant difference.
\- From the NTIA report [16] using a WB codec results in higher
intelligibility than using a NB codec in noisy conditions.
\- In the NTIA report [16] for SNRs within the range 10dB to -5dB, FB is
always equivalent to or better than WB and NB in noisy conditions from an
intelligibility point of view.
\- The NTIA report [16] shows that the intelligibility increases (up to a
saturation level) with coded bitrate within confidence limits for a given
audio bandwidth.
#### 5.1.2.1 Speech Intelligibility
This Clause presents results from a subjective intelligibility test, P.INTELL
(as specified in ITU.T P.807 [27]), conducted by an independent laboratory
Dynastat, Inc.
**P.INTELL - Method and Procedure**
The P.INTELL test is designed to evaluate the Speech Intelligibility of eight
test conditions. The experimental design of P.INTELL is based on the
partially-balanced/randomized-blocks experimental design that has been used in
most codec standardization testing efforts in the past decade for Speech
Quality tests, i.e., tests described in ITU-T Rec. P.800 [24]. The partially-
balanced/randomized-blocks experimental design is described and recommended in
the ITU-T Handbook of Subjective Testing Practical Procedures.
The test parameters for the P.INTELL test included:
  * Eight test conditions
  * Four talkers - two males and two females
  * Four samples per talker, where \"sample\" is described in the next section
  * 32 subjects - four panels of eight naive subjects, each panel with an independent randomization of the speech materials
**Structure of the P.INTELL Test**
The P.INTELL source speech database includes 96 items, where each item is a
pair of single-syllable English words. For half of the items, the words differ
only in the initial consonant, i.e., rhyming word pairs. For the other half,
the words differ only in the final consonant, i.e., alliterative word pairs.
The critical consonants in both the rhyming and alliterative test-items differ
only in a single Distinctive Feature, either _Voicing_ , _Nasality_ ,
_Sustention_ , _Sibilation_ , _Graveness_ or _Compactness_. In P.INTELL a
\"sample\" results from a single subject selecting one of two words for each
of the 96 presentation pairs. Table 5.1.2.1-0 shows the P.INTELL test items
with the six distinctive features, four samples, and four vowel/consonant
start-stop characteristic.
Table 5.1.2.1-0. P.INTELL test items
**Test Conditions**
Table 5.1.2.1-1 shows the test conditions list to evaluate the speech
intelligibility of the two codecs AMR-WB and the EVS-SWB CA. The AMR-WB at
12.65 kbps and EVS-SWB CA at 13.2 kbps are tested at the frame erasure rates
of 2%, 8%, and 20%. The test also included the original un-coded signal.
Table 5.1.2.1-1. Test conditions list
+----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **C |** Bit | * | ** | **Upl | ** |** No | ** | | | ondit | R | _CA_ _| DTX_ _| ink_ _| Downl | ise_ _| SNR_ _| | | ion_ _| ate_ _| | | | ink_ _| | | | | | |__FE | | | | | | | | |__(kb | C-Off | | | | | | | | | /s)__| set_ * | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C1 | Un- | - | - | - | - | 0% | Siren | 5dB | | | coded | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C2 | AMRWB | 12.65 | - | on | MTSI | 2% | Siren | 5dB | | | 2%FER | | | | 2 | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C3 | AMRWB | 12.65 | - | on | MTSI | 8% | Siren | 5dB | | | 8%FER | | | | 2 | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C4 | AMRWB | 12.65 | - | on | MTSI | 20% | Siren | 5dB | | | 2 | | | | 2 | | | | | | 0%FER | | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C5 | EVS-S | 13.2 | 3 | on | MTSI | 2% | Siren | 5dB | | | WB-CA | | | | 2 | | | | | | 2% | | | | | | | | | | FER | | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C6 | EVS-S | 13.2 | 3 | on | MTSI | 8% | Siren | 5dB | | | WB-CA | | | | 2 | | | | | | 8% | | | | | | | | | | FER | | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C7 | EVS-S | 13.2 | 3 | on | MTSI | 20% | Siren | 5dB | | | WB-CA | | | | 2 | | | | | | 20% | | | | | | | | | | FER | | | | | | | | +----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The intelligibility test was conducted in high noise and in impaired channels.
A background noise that mimics that of US police car Siren is mixed with the
input source at 5 dB. The Siren noise characteristic is as shown in Figure
5.1.2.1-1 below (which has most of the noise energy around 500-1500 Hz). The
following procedure is used for noise mixing (similar to that of the steps
used in 3GPP tests): The input source is normalized to -26 dBov, and noise is
scaled such that the Siren noise loudness is at -31 dBov. The normalized input
source and the scaled noise is mixed at SNR of 5 dB.
**(a) (b)**
Figure 5.1.2.1-1. An example Siren noise characteristic (a) spectrogram, (b)
LT frequency response
Figure 5.1.2.1-2. Steps to simulate impaired channel conditions
Figure 5.1.2.1-2 shows the steps to simulate the impaired channel conditions
that combines the Markov model based error traces with the VoLTE uplink jitter
and the MBMS/LTE-D downlink scheduler jitter. The steps are further elaborated
below.
**Step 1:** Apply Markov channel models (Table A.1.2-3 in Annex A.1.2) to
produce the error traces.
**Step 2:** Simulate the eNB scheduling procedures described in Case1 in
clause A.1.3. This models the minimum amount of jitter that would be
introduced in both the MBMS and LTE-D bearers and is caused by the MSP for
MBMS (see clause 5.3.6) and a similar minimum scheduling period for LTE-D
bearers. To simulate the VoLTE uplink jitter, the MTSI profile 2 is used.
**Step 3:** Convert the Markov model error traces to error profile.
**Step 4:** For EVS, use the *.dat file and the following command lines to
generate the decoder output.
> [For EVS SWB CA \@13.2:]{.underline}
>
> /* encoder */
>
> evs_cod -dtx -rf 3 13200 32 input.pcm temp.pkt
>
> /* Network simulator */
>
> networkSimulator_g192.exe **v3_b10.dat** temp.pkt temp_voip.pkt data.trace 1
> 0
>
> /* decoder */
>
> evs_dec -voip -tracefile temp 32 temp_voip.pkt output.pcm
**Step 5:** For AMR-WB, the procedure is the same through the eNB scheduler
simulation. Then, since no JBM is available for AMR-WB, we used the 3GPP
utility function (dlyerr_2_errpat.exe) made available by SA4 that simulates
jitter-buffer handling, resulting in a circuit-switched packet file that can
be passed to the normal AMR-WB decoder.
> [For AMR-WB \@12.65:]{.underline}
>
> /* encoder */
>
> amrwb_enc -dtx --itu 2 input.pcm temp.pkt
>
> /* Delay to error pattern */
>
> dlyerr_2_errpat.exe -L 22000 -d 200 -f 1 -w -s 0 -i v3_b10.dat -o v3_b10.dat
>
> eid-xor.exe -vbr -fer temp.pkt v3_b10.dat tempfer.pkt
>
> /* decoder */
>
> amrwb_dec.exe -itu tempfer.pkt output.pcm
**Low jitter scenario -- 3GPP EVS JBM Behavior**
The 3GPP EVS JBM was used for testing in EVS selection and characterization
tests. During the tests, the MTSI profiles 1 through 10 were used that are
representative of VoLTE and HSPA, covering a wide range of jitter and packet
losses. The informative 3GPP EVS JBM was never evaluated for other profiles
such as MBMS. While investigating the MBMS downlink packet scheduler, a bug in
the 3GPP EVS de-jitter buffer handling was uncovered in case of low jitter
scenarios. In particular, the JBM was not exercising the partial copy recovery
logic as it was locking up in a low jitter, high FER scenario. This scenario
is a direct consequence of using the informative-only 3GPP JBM, which was
developed specifically for EVS on VoLTE (not MBMS) using 3GPP VoLTE delay-loss
profiles. In Figure **5.1.2.1-2** , we are simulating the test case using an
approximation of the jitter based on modelling the MBMS downlink packet
scheduler, which triggers the problem. This does not happen for the delay-loss
profiles derived from commercial VoLTE field testing. In the subjective
evaluation testing that we conducted on Jan 07, 2016 the 3GPP EVS JBM included
a bug fix provided by Fraunhofer IIS. A CR that addresses the JBM issue was
agreed at the January SA4#87 meeting.
**Test Results -- Summary**
Table 5.1.2.1-2 shows the summary of speech intelligibility test results
(Means, Standard Deviations) for each of the test conditions involved in the
experiment). Each value shown in the Table is based on 128 samples (32
subjects x 4 talkers). P.INTELL Scores are expressed as Percent Correct.
Figure 5.1.2.1-3 shows the P.INTELL profile plots (i.e., Distinctive Feature
scores) for the Test conditions c02 vs c05 FER 2%, c03 vs c06 FER 8%, and c04
vs c07 FER 20%.
Table 5.1.2.1-2. Test Results - summary
+----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | | **Condition** | **Bit Rate** | **Mean Intel** | **StdDev** | | | | | | | | | | **(kb/s)** | | | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C1 | Uncoded (with noise) | - | 92.87 | 5.54 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C2 | AMRWB 2%FER | 12.65 | 86.07 | 7.25 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C3 | AMRWB 8%FER | 12.65 | 80.83 | 8.09 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C4 | AMRWB 20%FER | 12.65 | 72.59 | 10.69 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C5 | EVS-SWB-CA 2% FER | 13.2 | 87.83 | 6.85 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C6 | EVS-SWB-CA 8% FER | 13.2 | 84.18 | 8.12 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+ | C7 | EVS-SWB-CA 20% FER | 13.2 | 77.41 | 10.31 | +----+----------------------+--------------+----------------+------------+
**(a) (b)**
(c)
Figure. 5.1.2.1-3 P.INTELL profile plots for test conditions (Red: EVS-SWB CA,
blue: AMR-WB) (a) c02 vs c05 FER 2%, (b) c03 vs c06 FER 8%, and (c) c04 vs c07
FER 20%.
**Statistical Analysis (AMR-WB vs EVS SWB codec)**
Figure 5.1.2.1-4 shows the P.INTELL speech intelligibility scores for AMR-WB
and EVS SWB-CA at FERs 2%, 8%, and 20%. It can be noted that,
  * At a given FER, the EVS SWB CA is \"statistically significantly better than (BT)\" AMR-WB (as further elaborated below).
  * EVS-SWB CA at FER 8% is \"statistically no worse than (NWT)\" AMR-WB at FER 2% (as further elaborated below).
  * AMR-WB at FER 8% MBMS bearer is \"statistically worse than\" AMR-WB at FER 2% (as further elaborated below).
Figure 5.1.2.1-4 Statistical analysis
**AMR-WB vs EVS-SWB CA at a given FER**
Table 5.1.2.1-3 presents the statistical significance test results comparing
AMR-WB at FER 2%, 8%, and 20% vs EVS-SWB CA at FER 2%, 8%, and 20%. T-stat is
estimated as (mean_ref -- mean_cut)/SEmd, where SEmd =
sqrt((stddev_ref\^2+stddev_cut\^2)/N). The t-scores for a two-sided
significance test at 95% confidence interval (CI) is, t~(.05,254)~=1.97. As
shown in Table 5.1.2.1-3, for the three FERs under test, 2%, 8% and 20%, the
EVS-SWB CA is \"statistically significantly better than (BT)\" the AMR-WB.
Table 5.1.2.1-3. Statistical significance test (two sided t-test at 95% CI)
AMR-WB at 12.65 kbps vs EVS SWB-CA at 13.2 kbps (at FERs 2%, 8%, and 20%)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Ref | Mean | Std. | CuT | Mean | Std. | T | CuT | | | | Dev | | | Dev | -stat | vs | | (A | (ref) | | ( | (CuT) | | | Ref | | MR-WB | | (ref) | EVS-S | | (CuT) | (N | | | | | | WB-CA | | | =128) | | | \@ | | | | | | | | | 12.65 | | | \ | | | | | | kb/s) | | | @13.2 | | | | | | | | | kb/s) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | c2 | 86.07 | 7.25 | c5 | 87.83 | 6.85 | 1.996 | C5 | | (2% | | | (2% | | | | **\"B | | FER) | | | FER) | | | | T\"** | | | | | | | | | C2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | c3 | 80.83 | 8.09 | c6 | 84.18 | 8.12 | 3.307 | C6 | | (8% | | | (8% | | | | **\"B | | FER) | | | FER) | | | | T\"** | | | | | | | | | C3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | c4 | 72.59 | 10.69 | c7 | 77.41 | 10.31 | 3.671 | C7 | | (20% | | | (20% | | | | **\"B | | FER) | | | FER) | | | | T\"** | | | | | | | | | C4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**AMR-WB at FER 2% vs EVS-SWB CA at FER 8%**
Table 5.1.2.1-4 presents the statistical significance test results comparing
AMR-WB at FER 2% vs EVS-SWB CA at FER 8%. As shown in Table 4, the EVS-SWB CA
at FER 8% is \"statistically no worse than (NWT)\" the AMR-WB at FER 2%.
Table 5.1.2.1-4. Statistical significance test (two sided t-test at 95% CI)
AMR-WB at 12.65 kbps at FER 2% vs EVS SWB-CA at 13.2 kbps at FER 8%
+---------------+-------+-------+--------------+-------+-------+---------+-------------------+ | Ref | Mean | Std | CuT | Mean | Std | T-stat | CuT vs Ref | | | | | | | | | | | (AMR-WB | (ref) | (ref) | (EVS-SWB-CA | (cut) | (cut) | (N=128) | | | | | | | | | | | | \@12.65 kb/s) | | | \@13.2 kb/s) | | | | | +---------------+-------+-------+--------------+-------+-------+---------+-------------------+ | c2 (2% FER) | 86.07 | 7.25 | c6 (8% FER) | 84.18 | 8.12 | -1.964 | **c6 \"NWT\" c2** | +---------------+-------+-------+--------------+-------+-------+---------+-------------------+
**AMR-WB at FER 2% vs 8%**
Table 5.1.2.1-5 presents the statistical significance test results comparing
AMR-WB at FER 2% vs AMR-WB at FER 8%. As shown in Table 5, the AMR-WB at FER
8% is \"statistically worse than (WT)\" the AMR-WB at FER 2%.
Table 5.1.2.1-5. Statistical significance test (two sided t-test at 95% CI)
AMR-WB at 12.65 kbps at FER 2% vs FER 8%
+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+-------+-------+---------+------------------+ | Ref | Mean | Std | CuT | Mean | Std | T-stat | CuT vs Ref | | | | | | | | | | | (AMR-WB | (ref) | (ref) | (AMR-WB | (cut) | (cut) | (N=128) | | | | | | | | | | | | \@12.65 kb/s) | | | \@12.65 kb/s) | | | | | +---------------+-------+-------+---------------+-------+-------+---------+------------------+ | c2 (2% FER) | 86.07 | 7.25 | c3 (8% FER) | 80.83 | 8.09 | 5.457 | **c3 \"WT\" c2** | +---------------+-------+-------+---------------+-------+-------+---------+------------------+
**ANOVA Statistical Analysis (AMR-WB vs EVS-SWB)**
Two sets of conditions, i.e., AMR-WB set 1: c02, c03, c04 and EVS-SWB CA set
2: c05, c06, c07 are analyzed based on the Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)
metric. The appropriate statistical model is a three factor Analysis of
Variance (ANOVA) for Sets (2) x Conditions (3) x Scores (128 \- 32 Subjects x
4 Talkers). Table 5.1.2.1-6 shows results of the ANOVA.
Table 5.1.2.1-6. Results of ANOVA for Sets x Conditions x Scores
The main effect for **Sets** factor is highly significant (p\<0.0001), which
means that the average scores for the two sets of conditions are significantly
different (AMR-WB: 79.830 and EVS-SWB CA: 83.140). The main effect for
**Conditions** factor is also highly significant (p\<0.0001), which means that
there is significant variation among the average scores for the three
conditions (86.950, 82.505, 75.000). Finally, the interaction effect, **Sets x
Conditions** , is significant (p\<0.05), which indicates that the pattern of
scores for the two Sets across the three Conditions is statistically
different. Figure 5.1.2.1-5 illustrates the significant interaction between
the AMR-WB and the EVS-SWB CA intelligibility scores.
Figure 5.1.2.1-5 Illustration of interaction between Sets and Conditions in
the ANOVA
##### 5.1.2.1.1 MCPTT bearers -- speech intelligibility
Based on the results in clause 5.1.2.1, it can be concluded that EVS-SWB CA
offers a statisically significant improvement in speech intelligibilty over
AMR-WB (HD voice). The improved robustness to background noise and resiliency
to errors are particularly relevant to the MCPTT service. For example, results
for car noise at 20 dB and music and mixed content in clean channel conditions
in Clause 5.1.1.4 show robustness to low levels of background noise. Results
with other types of noise (e.g., street noise and office babble @ 15-20dB SNR)
and in impaired channels (e.g., at FERs in the range of 3-10%) are elaborated
in TR 26.952. The test results in Clause 5.1.1.4 and TR 26.952 show voice
quality improvements based on the P.800 ACR/DCR test methodology, but may not
be fully indicative of speech intelligibility. The speech intelligibility test
results based on the P.INTELL test presented in Clause 5.1.2.1 evaluates under
high background noise (siren at 5dB) and impaired channel conditions.
**Unicast bearer**
By definition of the reference summarized in clause 5.1.1.6.1, _AMR-WB meets
the reference performance._
From the results in clause 5.1.2.1, it can be seen that _EVS-SWB CA speech
intelligiblity exceeds that of the reference._
It is important to understand the coverage improvement provided by the
improved speech intelligibility of EVS-SWB CA. Based on the analysis in clause
5.1.2.1 showing that speech intelligiblity of EVS-SWB CA @ 8% FER is similar
to that of AMR-WB @ 2%, the field test results identified in clause 5.1.1.6.1
demonstrate that for FER\<=2%, the VoLTE system achieves 90% coverage while
for FER \<=8%, the system achieves 99.5% coverage.
Table 5.1.2.1.1-1. AMR-WB and EVS-SWB CA Coverage Over MCPTT Unicast Bearer
* * *
Codec and mode **Operating FER** **VoLTE Coverage** AMR-WB 12.65 kbps **2%**
**90.0%** EVS 13.2 kbps SWB CA mode **8%** **99.5%**
* * *
This demonstrates how _EVS-SWB CA can provide similar speech intelligibilty as
AMR-WB with better coverage in VoLTE networks._
**MBMS bearer**
Based on the results in clause 5.1.2.1 it is expected that _EVS-SWB CA speech
intelligiblity exceeds that of AMR-WB under all the MBMS bearer conditions
tested._
To understand the coverage improvement provided by the improved speech
intelligibility of EVS-SWB CA, Figure 5.1.2.1.1-1 below shows a CDF of the
coverage in an MBSFN cell embedded in a 57-cell system simulation at different
FERs on the MBMS downlink[^1]. Each curve is constructed by looking at the SNR
trace for each terminal in the cell and determining the lowest SNR level below
which the terminal experiences at least the target FER, then plots the CDF of
all the users against the SNR values. The x-axis then represents the SNR that
the MBMS Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS) needs to work with to achieve the
target FER of each curve for the percentage of users represented on the
y-axis. Realistically, the most robust MCS (MCS 0) needs an SNR of at least
-4dB to operate, so the curves to the left of -4dB SNR are not achievable.
Based on the data provided by this simulation, the MBMS system provides less
than 90% coverage at 2% end-to-end FER (1% uplink, 1% downlink). On the other
hand, the MBMS system can provide an MCS that would allow for at least 90%
coverage at 8% end-to-end FER (1% FER uplink, 7% FER downlink).
This clearly demonstrates how a codec that is more resilient to FER can have
improved coverage area compared to a codec that is less resilient to FER.
Therefore, neither AMR-WB nor EVS-SWB CA at 2% end-to-end FER (1% uplink, 1%
downlink) can meet the reference coverage KPI because the underlying MBMS
system can not provide at least 90% coverage at 2% FER. AMR-WB speech
intelligibility performance at 8% FER is statistically lower than AMR-WB
speech intelligibility performance at 2% FER. However it is possible for EVS-
SWB CA with 8% end-to-end FER (7% downlink and 1% uplink) to exceed the
reference coverage KPI without a statistically significant intelligibility
performance decrease compared to the reference intelligibility performance.
Figure 5.1.2.1.1-1. Coverage in an MBSFN cell (embedded in a 57-cell system
simulation) at different FERs on the MBMS downlink
Comparing the 1% and 7% FER curves at any particular SNR value shows how _EVS-
SWB CA can provide similar speech intelligibilty as AMR-WB with better
coverage over the MBMS bearer._
**LTE-D bearer**
The similarities in speech intelligibility between AMR-WB @ 2% FER and EVS-SWB
CA @ 8% FER demonstrated in clause 5.1.2.1 can be used to make preliminary
estimates about the coverage, power consumption, and capacity improvement
provided by the improved speech intelligibility of EVS-SWB CA as was done in
clause 5.1.1.6.4.3. The gains based on similarities of subjective speech
intelligibility are similar to the gains based on equivalence of voice quality
(based on objective P.OLQA measure, Clause 5.1.1.6.3.4), and are listed in
Tables 5.1.2.1.1-2 to 5.1.2.1.1-4.
Table 5.1.2.1.1-2. Link budget gains and coverage/range extension offered by
EVS codec
+-------------------------------------+-------------+----------+----------+-------+ | Model | BLER Target | Gain | Distance | Area | | | | | | | | | | | Gain | Gain | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------+----------+-------+ | AMR 12.2 kbps/AMR-WB 12.65 kbps | 2% | - | - | - | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------+----------+-------+ | EVS -- 13.2 kbps channel aware mode | \~8%[^2] | \~2.8 dB | \~17% | \~38% | +-------------------------------------+-------------+----------+----------+-------+
Table 5.1.2.1.1-3. Power consumption gains offered by EVS modes
+--------------+------------+--------------+-------------+----------+ | Model | TX Power | TX Power | RX Power | RX Power | | | | Gain | | | | | | | | Gain | +--------------+------------+--------------+-------------+----------+ | AMR 12.2 | 3.01 units | - | 0.16 units | - | | kbps/AMR-WB | | | | | | 12.65 kbps | | | | | +--------------+------------+--------------+-------------+----------+ | EVS - 13.2 | 2.91 units | 3.3% | 0.155 units | 3.1% | | kbps CA and | | | | | | non-CA modes | | | | | +--------------+------------+--------------+-------------+----------+
Table 5.1.2.1.1-4. Increase in capacity -- fraction of successful links
offered by EVS codec (3TX/cell and 4TX/cell)
+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | 3 | 4 | | | | | | | TX/cell | TX/cell | | | | +---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Model | BLER | F | 3 | F | 4 | 4TX | | | | raction | TX/cell | raction | TX/cell | Gain | | | Target | of | | of | | R | | | | | Gain | | Gain | elative | | | | Suc | | Suc | | gain | | | | cessful | | cessful | | w.r.t. | | | | links | | link | | 3TX | +---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | AMR-WB | 2% | 80% | - | 70% | - | **16%** | | 12 | | | | | | | | .65kb/s | | | | | | | +---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | EVS SWB | \~8% | \~96% | \~20% | \~91% | \~30% | **\~ | | CA 13.2 | | | | | | 51.6%** | | kb/s | | | | | | | +---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
A comparison of the EVS-SWB CA and AMR-WB performance with respect to the
reference can be performed using Figure 5.1.1.6.3.4-2 as was done in Clause
5.1.1.6.3.4. From the graph, it can be seen that AMR-WB can only get 80%
coverage at 2% FER, and to get to the reference 90% coverage would introduce
up to 5% FER. Given the trend that AMR-WB speech intelligibility degrades with
increasing FER beyond 2%, it is questionable whether AMR-WB can meet the
reference coverage for LTE-D bearers. However, more data is needed to show
this with statistical significance.
On the other hand, as illustrated in Figure 5.1.1.6.3.4-2, EVS-SWB CA (Option
1) can operate with 90% coverage and 4.5% FER while exceeding the reference
speech intelligibility. EVS-SWB CA can also achieve \~96% coverage (at about
8% FER) with the intelligibility similar to the reference. Therefore _EVS-SWB
CA exceeds the reference over LTE-D bearers in these three KPIs._
The above simulations and calculations of coverage focused on the LTE-D data
channel and assumed the lower coding rate and lower RB usage of the control
(SA) channel would allow the data channel not to exceed 8% BLER.
A further analysis to account for data channel losses caused by errors on the
SA channel is calculated using the simulation data illustrated in Figure
5.1.2.1.1-2 on the SA channel link performance and Figure 5.1.1.6.3.4-1 on the
link budget performance for the data channel. A link budget of 0.63 dB on the
data channel provides 7.4% BLER if the SA channel does not introduce more
errors. Since the SA channel uses only 1 RB, the effective SNR is 3.63 dB. The
SA channel with 2 HARQs reduces the SA channel BLER to 0.65% which results in
an effective BLER 8.0% for the data channel carrying the voice packets which
represents the BLER needed for EVS-CA. Performing the same analysis for the
BLER needed for AMR-WB, a link budget of 3.56 dB on the data channel results
in a data channel BLER of 1.91% and a SA channel BLER of 0.1%, resulting in an
effective BLER of 2.0%.
Figure 5.1.2.1.1-2 SA Channel Link Performance
This provides the following results on coverage and capacity over LTE-D
bearers.
Table 5.1.2.1.1-5. Link budget gains and coverage/range extension offered by
EVS codec
* * *
Model Target BLER of data channel Effective BLER with SA channel errors Link
Budget of data channel dB\ Distance\ Area\ Gain Gain Gain
AMR 12.2 kbps/AMR-WB 12.65 kbps 1.91% 2.0 % 3.56 dB - - -
EVS -- 13.2 kbps channel aware mode \~7.4% \~8.0 % \~0.63 dB \~2.93 dB \~18%
\~40%
* * *
Table 5.1.2.1.1-6. Increase in capacity -- fraction of successful links
offered by EVS codec (3TX/cell and 4TX/cell)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | 3 | 4 | | | | | | | TX/cell | TX/cell | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Model | Target\ | F | 3 | F | 4 | 4TX | | | BLER | raction | TX/cell | raction | TX/cell | Gain | | | | of | | of | | R | | | of TX | | Gain | | Gain | elative | | | channel | Suc | | Suc | | gain | | | | cessful | | cessful | | w.r.t. | | | | links | | link | | 3TX | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | AMR-WB | 1.91% | 79.5% | - | 69% | - | ** | | 12 | | | | | | 15.7%**| | .65kb/s | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | EVS SWB | \~7.4% | \~95% | \~19.5% | \~90% | \~30% |** \~ | | CA 13.2 | | | | | | 50.9%** | | kb/s | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Conclusions
Speech Intelligibility:
  * EVS-SWB offers significant speech intelligibility improvements over the reference. It also offers even more improvements over AMR-WB under the same bearer conditions. The improved robustness to background noise and resiliency to errors are particularly relevant to the MCPTT service and result in better speech intelligibly compared to the reference and AMR-WB across all the MCPTT bearers.
  * AMR-WB meets the reference speech intelligibility for unicast bearers.
  * A downward trend in intelligibility performance with increasing FER raises a question about whether AMR-WB can meet the reference speech intelligibility for the MBMS and LTE-D bearers. However more data is needed to show this with statistical significance.
In summary, based on the select speech intelligibility test results presented
in clause 5.1.2.1,
  * EVS-SWB outperforms AMR-WB in the selected KPIs and across all the MCPTT bearers.
  * There are some MCPTT bearers where some KPIs cannot be meaningfully compared to the reference \"HD Voice\" experience:
```{=html}
``` \- In the cases that allow a comparison to the reference (call capacity on
unicast, coverage and error-resiliency/intelligibility on all MCPTT bearers),
EVS exceeds the performance of the reference for all the bearers. In these
cases, AMR-WB meets the reference for unicast bearers. A downward trend in
speech intelligibility performance with increasing FER raises a question about
whether AMR-WB can meet the reference KPI for the MBMS and LTE-D bearers.
However more data is needed to show this with statistical significance.
  * In the cases that do not allow a comparison to the reference (capacity on MBMS and LTE-D), the EVS codec outperforms AMR-WB across all MCPTT bearers. Based on a similar analysis as in Clause 5.1.1.6.3.2-4, the call capacity of EVS-SWB CA exceeds that of AMR-WB across all MCPTT bearers.
The Table 5.1.2.1.2-1 below provides a comparison based on the above
conclusions and highlights some key results.
Table 5.1.2.1.2-1: Conclusions and Key Results of Speech Intelligibility
Testing
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Key |**[EV | **[EV |**[AMR-W | | Performance | S]{.underline} | S]{.underline} | B]{.underline} | | Indicator | Compared to | Compared to | Compared to | | (KPI)**| AMR-WB** | Reference**| R | | | | | eference**[^6] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Coverage** | Exceeds for | Exceeds for | Meets for | | | all MCPTT | all MCPTT | unicast | | | bearers | bearers | bearers | | | | | | | | \~38% better | | Questionable | | | coverage for | | whether meets | | | LTE-D bearers | | for MBMS and | | | | | LTE-D | | | | | bearers.[^7] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Error | Exceeds for | Exceeds for | Meets for | | res | all MCPTT | all MCPTT | unicast | | iliency/Speech | bearers. | bearers | bearers | | Int | | | | | elligibility** | Similar | | Questionable | | | i | | whether meets | | | ntelligibility | | for MBMS and | | | performance | | LTE-D | | | between AMR-WB | | bearers.[^8] | | | at 2% FER and | | | | | EVS-SWB at 8% | | | | | FER | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Call | Exceeds for | Exceeds for | Meets for | | Capacity** | all MCPTT | unicast | unicast | | | bearers | bearers | bearers | | | | | | | | An estimated | Cannot compare | Cannot compare | | | 20-30% better | for other | for other | | | capacity than | MCPTT bearers | MCPTT bearers | | | AMR-WB for | | | | | LTE-D bearers | | | | | | | | | | Can also | | | | | support more | | | | | group than | | | | | AMR-WB for | | | | | LTE-D bearers | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.1.3 Review of Codec Alternatives and their Relative Complexity
The complexity of the EVS codec is described in subclause 13.2 of TR 26.952
[3]. Tables 13.2a, 13.2c and 13.2d from [3], reproduced below as Tables 3,
4,and 5, provide a comparison of the mean of the per-audio-frame complexity
for EVS and AMR-WB, analysed with a source file comprising 8.5 minutes of
mixed speech and music. In the case of the decoders the complexity is measured
in the presence of 30% frame erasures and the EVS operation is analysed by
bandwidth and sample rate.
Table 3: Highest values of the mean complexity for different sample rates and
coded bandwidths
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NB | **8** | * | * | * | * | | | | _29.98_ _|_ 15.40**| *43.97** | _45.38_ _| +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 | 31.52 | 16.38 | 47.35 | 47.90 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | 37.34 | 19.37 | 56.71 | 56.71 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB |__16_ _| * | * | * | * | | | |_ 38.25**| *18.29** | _51.38_ _|_ 56.54**| +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | 43.32 | 22.88 | 60.92 | 66.20 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | SWB |** 32**| * | * | * | * | | | | *45.12** | _22.67_ _|_ 65.56**| *67.80** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 4: Highest values of the mean complexity for AMR-WB
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB | **16** | * | **7.80** | * | * | | | | _32.30_ _| |_ 38.73**| *40.11** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 5: Incremental mean complexity for EVS relative to AMR-WB
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Coded | Sample | Encoder | Decoder | Balanced | Wor | | B | Rate | Co | Co | | st/Worst | | andwidth | | mplexity | mplexity | Combined | Combined | | | (kHz) | | | Co | Co | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | mplexity | mplexity | | | | | | | | | | | | | (WMOPS) | (WMOPS) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NB | **8** | ** | ** | ** | ** | | | | -7.18%**| +97.4%** | +13.5%**| +13.1%** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 16 | -2.41% | +110% | +22.3% | +19.4% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | +15.6% | +148% | +46.4% | +41.4% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | WB | **16** | ** | * | ** | ** | | | | +18.4%**| *+134%** | +32.7%**| +41.0%** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 32 | +34.1% | +193% | +57.3% | +65.0% | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | SWB | **32** | ** | * | ** | ** | | | | +39.8%**| *+191%** | +69.3%**| +69.0%** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
From Table 5 it can be seen that under the same conditions, the EVS codec
requires 69% more processing on average to reproduce twice the audio bandwidth
in a SWB capable UE than the AMR-WB codec providing WB. It can also be seen
that in a WB-only capable UE, the EVS codec requires 41% more processing on
average..
The worst-case observed complexity of EFR and AMR is given in [7] as 15.21 and
15.33 WMOPs respectively but both the bit-exact instruction weights and
methodology have changed in arriving at the complexity figures for EVS and for
AMR-WB above. The complexity of the 3GPP Codecs, beginning with GSM EFR in
1995 [7 & 8], followed by AMR in 1999 [7], AMR-WB in 2001 [13] and EVS in 2015
[3] is plotted in Figure 1.
* * *
{width="5.7756944444444445in" height="3.772222222222222in"}
* * *
Figure 15: Complexity of 3GPP Codecs over time
The computational complexity is one metric which can be considered amongst
others. It is acknowledged that there are other important complexity metrics,
such as the physical footprint or area, but these are not readily available
and not provided in the document.
### 5.1.4 Recommended requirements
It is important that at least one of the codecs supported in all MCPTT
terminals is capable of providing equivalent or better performance than 3GPP
wideband voice (\"HD Voice\") in terms of coverage, error-resiliency, speech
quality, speech intelligibility, and call capacity across all MCPTT radio
bearers.
It is recommended that a codec that is important for MCPTT communications be
mandated for MCPTT terminals.
It is recommended that a codec that has features that are only \"nice to
have\", but not essential, for MCPTT communications be recommended for MCPTT
terminals. The network transcoding functions have to support this codec if the
codec is to be used between terminals in MCPTT sessions.
Requirements for interworking with legacy public safety systems is outside the
scope of this release.
### 5.1.5 GAP Analysis and Evaluation
#### 5.1.5.1 Requirements on Audio/Voice Quality
With regard to Audio/Voice Quality (TS 22.179 [2] subclause 6.15.5), several
narrowband quality benchmarks, met by the P25 codecs and perhaps also the
TETRA codec, should be surpassed. Whilst these benchmarks are expressed in
terms of objective predictions of subjective MOS (ACR) test scores
(Recommendations ITU-T P.862 and ITU-T P.863), it is well known that such
techniques have shortcomings when comparing codecs of different technologies,
not to mention codecs with different audio bandwidths. It is nevertheless
clear that high audio quality is to be preferred.
Interestingly there is no mention in TS 22.179 about requirements for speech
intelligibility but it is quite obvious that for the MCPTT application, speech
intelligibility is a key requirement. Neither audio quality nor
intelligibility in noise is mentioned, apart from in the context of the
inherent noise reduction capabilities of the coding algorithm. Again though,
high quality and intelligibility in background noise would appear to be self-
evident requirements.
#### 5.1.5.2 Discrete/Ambient Listening and Remotely Initiated Monitoring
For Discrete/Ambient Listening (TS 22.179 [2] subclauses 6.16.1 & 6.16.2) and
Remotely Initiated Monitoring (TS 22.179 [2] subclause 6.16.3) it is clearly
desirable to encode the audio/speech signals present in the foreground and any
background signal.
These requirements clearly favour high quality audio codecs able to cope with
non-speech signals. It also seems self-evident that wider audio bandwidths,
able to capture more details, are to be preferred. It may also be preferred
for noise suppression algorithms present in UE\'s and DTX to be disabled in
discrete/ambient listening and remotely initiated monitoring for optimum
performance.
#### 5.1.5.3 Noise Reduction
From examination of the Noise Reduction requirements described in subclause
5.14 of [2] it is clear that the contributors to TS 22.179 wish to emphasize
the inherent noise suppression capabilities of the low bit rate coding
algorithms of P25 and TETRA. This emphasis, whilst one possible approach to
the problem of background noise, is however in conflict with the requirements
for high audio/voice quality and with the requirements for ambient listening
which are best delivered by accurate rendering at the decoder of the input
signal to the codec.
3GPP is well aware of the need for high quality audio in the presence of
background noise and, rather than rely on the inherent weaknesses of the
coding algorithms, has developed and encouraged the adoption of adaptive noise
suppression technologies in UE\'s prior to the audio encoding stage to address
these challenges. See [14] and [15]. As mentioned above though, a method of
disabling the noise suppression algorithms present in the UE\'s would be
advantageous for the Discrete/Ambient Listening and Remotely Initiated
Monitoring applications.
#### 5.1.5.4 Common Codec Constraints of MCPTT
MCPTT has the following scenarios/use cases that impact the use of
mandatory/recommended codecs:
\- The group communication can be off-network using the D2D physical layer, in
which case a transcoding function is not available. The lack of transcoding
requires that the codec selected has to be supported by all terminals in the
session. Furthermore, the D2D physical layer for group call uses a broadcast
channel that is received by the group members. This also requires that the
codec selected has to be supported by all terminals in the session.
\- The group communication can be on-network using a broadcast bearer. This
also requires that the codec selected has to be supported by all terminals in
the session.
The need to use a common codec among all the participants impacts the ability
to use any recommended codecs due to the following:
1) If one of the participants does not support the recommended codec then the
call set-up will fail or require codec re-negotiation. This raises the
following issues:
a) Codec renegotiation delays the call set-up and may not be acceptable in all
scenarios, especially for mission-critical communications.
b) Codec re-negotiation for MCPTT is more cumbersome than for typical point-
to-point calls due to the following:
i) The responses to the session initiator regarding its selected recommended
codec can come at different times from the other participants. If some
terminals are in poor radio conditions their responses may be lost or delayed
due to transport layer retransmissions. Thus the need to re-negotiate the
codec may not be known until later into the call. If the initiator waits for
confirmation from all participants before sending media then the media start
could be very delayed. If the initiator starts sending media immediately, it
will mean that some terminals (the ones unable to use the codec) will still
experience much delay before being able to render media to the user. The
others will be interrupted when the codec is re-negotiated, likely down to a
lower quality codec, thus causing a poor user experience.
ii) If the initiating terminal does not get any additional information about
the other session participants (aside from a call rejection), then the
initiator may have to try different recommended codecs multiple times before
selecting one that all the terminals can use.
iii) If the initiating terminal receives additional codec capability
information from the session participants in response to its proposed codec,
this requires transmission of more information (e.g. codec
capabilities/profile of the terminal) to the initiator in the reverse
direction. This will require more time to send the additional information from
multiple participants and require that the initiator wait even longer before
deciding on what to include in the codec renegotiation proposal, thus delaying
the transmission of media.
2) To avoid setting up a session that might require codec re-negotiation the
terminal can resort to the following:
a) Not use any recommended codecs and only use a mandatory codec
b) Attempt to determine out-of-band and beforehand, the codec capabilities of
all the terminals it wishes to add to the call
i) This could be done by pre-provisioning the terminals with a profile that is
shared among a group of callers, i.e., the Rennes Police Department; the
members of the MBS SWG.
ii) Or this could be obtained through some capabilities exchange performed
out-of-band which may be application- or lower-layer based.
3) Even when all the terminals in a session can support the selected
recommended codec, this still places constraints or impacts performance if the
group wants to add another caller to the existing session. This raises the
following issues:
a) The participants would have to know beforehand that the new caller can
support the codec they are using. How can this be easily done in a user-
friendly way?
b) If the above is not known, there is a chance they would have to renegotiate
their codec and \"dumb-down\" their media to match that of the new caller.
c) If there is a re-negotiation to another codec there will be disruption in
the call and the existing callers will most likely notice a degradation in
call quality, e.g. going from SWB to WB, or from WB to NB audio. This results
in a very poor user experience.
#### 5.1.5.5 Requirements on Transcoding Functions in the Network
In on-network point-to-point communications which allow use of a transcoder
function, there are some challenges that need to be considered when attempting
to use a recommended codec for MCPTT.
1) There needs to be a transcoder function to support use of recommended
codecs. How does the terminal know that there is a transcoder function in the
network?
2) The transcoder function has to support the recommended codec in order for
the terminal to be able to use the codec, even if all the other terminals in
the call support the recommended codec. An MRFC cannot allow a recommended
codec that its MRFP does not support to be included in the SDP Offers relayed
to the called participants. If some of the participants answer using the
recommended codec while others do not, the MRFP will not have the proper
codecs to support the session.
Therefore, for a MCPTT group to be able to use a recommended codec for its
own-network sessions without codec-renegotiation **requires that the network
transcoding function supports the recommended codec**. This becomes
complicated to ensure when the MCPTT group is not closely coordinated with the
MNO who owns and operates the transcoder function in the network. For example,
how does the MBS SWG user group ask/guarantee that the Orange network in
Rennes supports EVS transcoding?
### 5.1.6 Criteria with respect to MCPTT codec selection
Many factors were considered in the evaluation of codecs for use in MCPTT. In
addition to the analysis in the preceding clauses some of these factors and
trade-offs are described in this clause.
For example, public safety grade communications (e.g. MCPTT) are required to
operate with high levels of reliability and availability (e.g. minimum
downtown time). Another example is the importance of conservation of battery
across a first responder's long shift.
While the following list is not meant to be exhaustive (there are selection
factors that may not be captured here), these factors give additional
information.
1) Availability of devices that include the codec --
This can be described as time to market. The sooner a large number of UEs that
utilize the codec are available for MCPTT the better the timeline of early
MCPTT deployments can be met. Related to this factor are:
a) use of the MCPTT application on existing devices
b) large volume of devices that utilize the codec may help drive down cost
2) Maturity of the codec vs. the benefits of the latest standardized codec --
This can be described as a trade-off balancing the benefits in performance
afforded from the latest standardized codec vs. the known performance and
reliability of an existing codec that has been deployed on millions of devices
for several years. Related to this factor:
a) stability -- trade-off balancing the benefits from improvements afforded
from the latest standardized codec vs. the stability of using a codec that is
less likely to change over time
3) Flexibilty, complexity, and configuration --
This can be described as a trade-off balancing the benefits in flexibility,
and improved performance under certain conditions, afforded from the latest
standardized codec vs. code complexity and additional configuration options.
Related to this factor are:
a) use of the codec on non-3GPP terminals (wireline), e.g. consoles and
dispatch terminals
b) power consumption for terminals with chipsets containing the codec and
processing demands for terminals without chipsets containing the codec (e.g.
software downloadable)
c) integration effort to effectively utilize a codec in terminals
NOTE: Despite disagreement on the importance of the factors in this clause and
the previous clauses, a codec decision is documented in clause 6.
### 5.1.7 Solution
After consideration of all factors in Release 13 the currently widely deployed
and available AMR-WB codec meets the needs of MCPTT services and is
recommended as the mandatory codec for MCPTT. Based on operator / MCPTT
service provider policy, it is recommended that EVS operating in super-
wideband mode be supported as an optional codec that can be used for MCPTT
services.
## 5.2 Key Issue#2: User Experience
### 5.2.1 Description
A building in the business area, which is covered by cellular network, is on
fire, an MCPTT group call is set up and fire fighters involved in the mission
join this MCPTT group. Most MCPTT group members, who stay inside of building,
receive the MCPTT group call over broadcast channel, some fire fighters, who
stay outside of building, receive the MCPTT group call over unicast channel.
All fire fighters have the same experience of mouth-to-ear latency and floor
control regardless the audio is transferred over unicast or broadcast
delivery. A fire fighter carrying an injured person moves out of building and
waits the ambulance in a safe zone. After the injured person is transferred
away, he reports this information to the MCPTT group while he is moving back
into the building and helps other wounded people. He notices that the fire in
the room will be out of control; he immediately reports this information to
the MCPTT group and starts to move the wounded person away from this area.
After several hours of hard work, the fire in the building is finally put out
and the MCPTT group is dismissed.
### 5.2.2 Recommended requirements
The following recommended requirements are derived from the uses case.
\- For on-network mode case, it is recommended that the service interruption
is minimized when the MCPTT UE moves into/out of MBMS coverage.
\- For on-network mode case, it is recommended that all MCPTT users will have
the same experience, e.g. access delay regardless the MCPTT call is
transferred over UC or BC.
\- For on-network mode case, it is recommended that the difference of Mouth-
to-ear of latency of audio payload between MCPTT users using unicast delivery
method and MCPTT users using broadcast delivery method is minimized.
Note: In TS 22.179, the user experience related requirement is also copied
below:
_\"[R-6.15.3.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide the MCPTT Access time and
Mouth-to-ear latency specified in this subclause to all MCPTT Users related to
an MCPTT call regardless of call type (e.g. group, Private Call), group size
and/or user density._
NOTE: This ensures that all MCPTT Users experience the same performance
regardless of whether the audio is transferred over unicast or multicast
delivery.\"
### 5.2.3 GAP Analysis and Evaluation
#### 5.2.3.1 Longer e2e delay over BC bearer issue
Per TR 36.868, The minimum end to end delay for media transport for Group
Communications over eMBMS is about160 ms (refers to TR 36.868, clause
5.2.1.1.3), and end to end delay for media transport over unicast bearers is
about 40 ms (refers to TR 36.868, clause 5.1.1.3).
The RTP payload transmission timing sequence is depicted in figure 15a.
Figure 15a: The RTP payload timing sequence
The longer delay over BC degrades MCPTT user\'s experience. Consequently, the
delay for unicast reception and for MBMS reception may be different. This
identified gap needs to be addressed.
#### 5.2.3.2 Mobility issue
Per TS [, the GCS AS acts as the media source, the BM-SC receives the RTP
payload from the GCS-AS. The received RTP payload will be put on the MBMS
bearer without modifying any RTP headers like SSRC, SN and TS, as this
information is filled by GCS AS.
Figure 16 presents a case that the UE in a MCPTT call moving in/out of MBMS
coverage.
{width="6.5in" height="1.3229166666666667in"}
Figure 16: Handoff scenarios between UC bearer and BC bearer
When the distribution delay of unicast and broadcast is different, then the
quality may be distorted during handoffs.
##### 5.2.3.2.1 BC handoff to UC
When the UE moves out of MBMS coverage, for the break before make case (refers
to TS 23.468 [12], clause 5.3.3), the UE starts receiving DL data over unicast
after it has stopped receiving data over eMBMS. As showed in figure 17, UE
receives RTP payload (SN=1,2,...,m) at MBMS coverage, BC HO to UC occurs at
time t0, the UE receives the RTP payload with SN=m+n due to longer
transmission delay over MBMS bearer.
Figure 17: RTP advance and rewind caused by handoff between BC and UC
This SN number advancing issue impacts user\'s experience.
For the make before break case, when the UE notifies the GCS AS that the UE is
moving out of MBMS coverage and the GCS AS starts to send the data over UC.
The UE simultaneously receives data by Unicast Delivery and MBMS Delivery. As
showed in figure 17, During HO period from t0 to t1, the UE receives the RTP
payload with SN=m+1 to p-1 over MBMS bearer, the UE receives the RTP payload
with SN=m+n to q over UC bearer. UE has two sequences of RTP payloads with
discontinuous SN number.
The RTP sequence selection and SN number advancing issue needs to be fixed.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 UC handoff to BC
For switching from unicast delivery to MBMS delivery case (refers to TS
23.468, clause 5.3.2), the UE simultaneously receives data by Unicast Delivery
and MBMS Delivery. As shown in Figure 17, from t2 to t3 period, the UE
receives duplicated RTP payloads (SN number from s-j to s) over MBMS bearer.
At the same time, the UE continues receiving new RTP payloads (SN number from
s+1 to s+j+1) over unicast bearer.
The UE notifies the GCS AS via GC1 that it is in MBMS coverage and receiving
the MBMS bearer service. At time t3, the GCS AS stops sending the data over by
Unicast Delivery to this UE. The UE now receives the content only by MBMS
Delivery. The UE receives RTP payload with SN starting from s+1 over broadcast
bearer. During time t3 to t4, the UE receives RTP payload with SN starting
from s+j+1 over BC bearer.
The RTP sequence selection issue needs to be fixed during t2 to t4.
### 5.2.4 Assumptions
The following list of working assumptions is derived from the uses case.
\-- For on-network mode case, an MCPTT user\'s service experience is not
interrupted by the movement of the MCPTT UE and the change of delivery method
of audio.
\- For on-network mode case, the MCPTT service is able to grant the floor
control regardless of the MCPTT UE\'s reception mode (unicast reception,
broadcast reception).
### 5.2.5 Solution
#### 5.2.5.1 Transport delay difference adjustment
To mitigate delay differences between MBMS bearer and unicast bearers, the
transport delay difference of MBMS bearer is proposed to be reported back to
GCS AS. The GCS AS adjusts the timing of RTP payload over unicast to minimize
the transport delay between UC and BC.
The reporting method has 3 options.
\- Option A: RTCP method (RFC 3550)
\- Option B: QoE procedure of MBMS
\- Option C: GC1 interface enhancement
Option A requires RFC enhancement or 3GPP defined extensions, RTCP reporting
interval is another concern. Option B only requires QoE enhancement, however,
whether MBMS QoE procedure is applied to MCPTT is open now. Option C requires
SA6 co-ordination.
It is proposed to consider option B considering re-using existing MBMS
mechanism as much as possible.
#### 5.2.5.2 RTP payload treatment
Once UE receives 2 RTP flows from both UC and BC with same and/or different SN
value (but the same SSRCs), UE should accept those 2 RTP flows, discard
redundant RTP payloads, reorder those RTP payloads and submit ordered RTP
payloads to the upper layer.
If RTP SN advancing is detected, the UE should reports advancing information
back to GCS AS to allow transport delay adjustment if the majority of
participants use MBMS reception. The GCS may not perform any delay adjustment
if the majority of participants use unicast delivery.
## 5.3 Key Issue#3: MCPTT over MBMS support
### 5.3.1 Description
The main purpose of MCPTT is one to many communications. The speech
contributions from a single user is distributed to many receivers. A central
floor control arbitrator (here, logically located in the MCPTT server) [2]
controls the floor.
{width="6.729166666666667in" height="3.125in"}
Figure 18: PTT Groups
MCPTT needs to support many simultaneous and possibly large groups. A MCPTT
user may be affiliated to one or more groups at a time. The groups may be used
by different organizations such as police and fire brigade. MCPTT users are
typically affiliated to the groups of a single organization. MCPTT users may
also be affiliated to groups of multiple organizations. It should be assumed
that MCPTT users are generally affiliated to more than one group at a time.
MCPTT Group call media may be carried over unicast and/or MBMS bearer
services. For the media plane, the MCPTT server decides on one of the three
cases:
1: which MCPTT group call media is forwarded over unicast-only,
2: which MCPTT group call media is forwarded over broadcast-only or
3: which MCPTT group call media is forwarded over unicast for some users and
broadcast at the same time for other users.
It is unclear, whether case 2 can be regarded as a sub-case of case 3 or needs
to be explicitly supported.
Note, service continuity between unicast and broadcast needs to be supported
for case 3 (above). MCPTT devices may move into the broadcast coverage or may
leave the broadcast coverage without or without significant (ffs) service
interruption.
An MCPTT group is defined in a group management system. The group definition
includes a list of members of the group. When a MCPTT user is authenticated
and registered to the MCPTT system the user can affiliate to one or more MCPTT
groups that the user is a member of. The definition of being affiliated is
found in TS 22.179 [2]:
**Affiliated MCPTT Group Member** : An MCPTT Group Member who has indicated an
interest in the group and is prepared to receive and/or transmit Group
Communications from/to the particular MCPTT Group.
{width="6.747916666666667in" height="2.123611111111111in"}
Figure 19: Example MCPTT calls (downlink only)
The figure above illustrates some MCPTT calls of two different groups as
example. Note that user 5 belongs to both groups. Each MCPTT Group Call
consists of one or more speech contributions from different users. Each speech
contribution is called a Talk Burst. Note that User 1 in the above example had
two Talk Bursts in the first MCPTT Group Call.
An MCPTT Group Call is typically short and lasts for typically not more than
30 sec (these are only considerations, a talk burst can be 10 sec, but may be
longer or shorter) . Resources are released based on idle timers. The MCPTT
Group Call setup (Access Time) time will be below 300 ms.
In order to achieve low Group Call Setup times, the MBMS bearer is already
established and devices inside of the MBMS coverage have already activated the
reception of the bearer. MBMS MCPTT Call setup is triggered by the first floor
request. Devices will continuously receive the MBMS bearer traffic, when in
broadcast coverage, in order to receive the MBMS MCPTT floor control messages.
The MBMS Bearers used for MCPTT will be pre-established. In order to increase
efficiency, each MBMS Bearer Service is provisioned to carry the traffic of
multiple MCPTT groups. For example, an MBMS Bearer Service is provisioned to
carry 20 different MCPTT groups, but allow only talk bursts of up to 4 groups
at a time. In this example, the MBMS bearer is provisioned to carry 4
simultaneous talk bursts (e.g. GBR set to 80kbps, while each talk bursts needs
20kbps). Devices become aware about the different, possible MBMS MCPTT groups
during service announcement.
Devices will locally discard data, which belongs to not-affiliated groups (the
device may receive data, which belongs to other groups). One MBMS bearer
service should typically only carry MCPTT group data for groups within one
organization, to minimize that data that is discarded by the MCPTT client.
Speech contributions (called Talk Bursts) from one or more users can be
distributed during the MCPTT Group Call. The MCPTT server decides which user
gets the floor (floor control). For each MCPTT Group Call (or for each talk
burst), the MCPTT server decides whether to map the Call onto unicast or
broadcast. If another MCPTT Group Call with a higher priority or with a larger
receiver size becomes active (or increases in priority), the MCPTT changes the
decision and moves an ongoing MCPTT Group call to unicast. There may be
multiple different reasons why the MCPTT server decides to reallocate an on-
going MCPTT call to broadcast or to unicast. The service continuity
realization should allow the reallocation of on-going group call from unicast
to broadcast and vice versa without or with minor (ffs) service interruptions.
The MCPTT system may utilize multiple MBMS Bearers based on network operator
policy. Note, per 3GPP Rel 12 standards, existing MBMS UEs are only required
to receive a single MBMS bearer at a time. Further, per 3GPP Rel 12 standard,
existing MBMS UEs are not required to support unicast interactions while
receiving MBMS bearers (simultaneous usage of unicast & MBMS bearers). Note,
the on-going 3GPP Rel 13 PRoSE work assumes that at least relay UEs are
capable of handle unicast and multiple MBMS bearer services simultaneously.
There are requirements to allow overriding in MCPTT. An on-going MCPTT talk
burst may be overridden. Thus, the MCPTT client will monitor the reception
while talking in order to detect overrides (i.e. receive MCPTT data while
transmitting MCPTT data).
Audio rendering details (i.e. when the device needs to render contributions
from multiple sources) are left to implementation.
Any service announcement will be done well in advance, likely at the time,
when the device affiliates with the group. The precise time and procedure for
service announcement is open.
### 5.3.2 Deployment Considerations
MBMS is currently deployed in several networks. The present MCPTT architecture
assumes, that all MBMS related functions are re-implemented and realized in
the MCPTT server and the MCPTT Client.
The deployment option should be studied, where the MCPTT Server can delegate
functions into the BM-SC and whether the MCPTT client can leverage functions
from a separately implemented MBMS Client. The present MEPRO-API work
illustrates the possible realization of APIs between an App (here the MCPTT
client) and the MBMS client.
### 5.3.3 Realization (Stage 3) Considerations (On-Network)
From the general MCPTT description, a couple of Stage 3 considerations and
requirements can be derived.
The MCPTT client may be affiliated to multiple MCPTT groups.
The MCPTT clients have always established unicast uplink EPS bearer for media
for a given group (e.g. for requesting the floor and providing speech
contributions) simultaneously with downlink MBMS bearer for media plane.
The MCPTT client has established downlink EPS bearer for media plane while it
is able to receive the MBMS bearer for that group.
RTP session for broadcast may have also RTCP uplink associated to it.
The MCPTT client notifies the MCPTT server, once it is able to receive the
MBMS bearer which is associated with the group. The MCPTT server may not
provide the MCPTT Group Call over unicast EPS bearer to that MCPTT client
until the MCPTT client informs the MCPTT server that the MCPTT client has left
or is leaving the MBMS bearer coverage. Note that the MCPTT server may not
always provide the MCPTT Group Call over MBMS bearers, if other Group Calls
are given higher priority for that MBMS bearer.
Per indication by MCPTT server that MBMS bearer is established, the MCPTT
client will continuously receive and monitor the MBMS Bearer, when inside of
the broadcast coverage, in order to understand, whether the content of an
affiliated group is sent over the associated MBMS bearer. The MCPTT client
notifies the MCPTT server over GC1 interface, once it does not finding the
MBMS bearer anymore.
It is assumed, that the MCPTT client will select receiving MCPTT group call
over MBMS if it is available. When MBMS access information (see clause 5.3.7)
is provided for an MCPTT group, then the MCPTT client will activate MBMS
reception through the time of affiliation with the group.
MCPTT clients have to be prepared that traffic from non-affiliated groups is
received on MBMS bearers. The MCPTT client will silently discard the traffic
of non-affiliated groups, when receiving MCPTT via MBMS bearers.
Usage of UDP sessions and destination UDP ports (in downlink direction from
MCPTT server to the MCPTT client): In case of unicast, the UDP destination
port (scoped with the IP unicast address of the device) is allocated by the
receiver and communicated back to the MCPTT server.
Each MBMS Bearer Service may be provisioned to carry the traffic of multiple
MCPTT groups, not all Groups are active at a time. The device may need to
monitor multiple MBMS bearers.
### 5.3.4 Media Handling
In unicast delivery mode, the UE address is assigned by the P-GW. The UE
registers its IP address to the MCPTT server. The MCPTT server encapsulates
with UE\'s IP address as destination IP address of RTP payload. The P-GW
routes IP packets from the MCPTT server to the UE.
In broadcast delivery mode, the group\'s multicast IP-address is provided by
the MCPTT server to the UEs. Therefore the MCPTT server encapsulates with the
multicast IP address as used by the UEs as destination IP address of RTP
packets and floor control packets. Once the BM-SC receives UDP/IP packets over
MB2-U interface, the received packets will be put on the MBMS bearer
associated with TMGI/flow identifier for the MCPTT group without any
modification.
### 5.3.5 QoE for MCPTT over MBMS
#### 5.3.5.1 QoE for both MNO and MCPTT service provider
In TS 26.346 [11], the MBMS reception reporting server is configured by the
BM-SC, the UE reports the QoE result to the MBMS reception reporting server.
The QoE report is used by MNO to evaluate the MBMS user service and MBMS
transport network performance.
The MCPTT server may be located outside of MNO network; it will benefit MNO if
the current QoE reception report mechanism is kept to allow MNO evaluating the
eMBMS transport layer performance. Besides the benefit to MNO, it is foreseen
that the QoE result also helps MCPTT service provider evaluating the MCPTT
service QoE via MBMS bearer.
It is proposed that:
\- The MBMS client reports QoE to the network to benefit MNO for MBMS
transport network performance evaluation.
\- The MCPTT UE reports QoE to the MCPTT provider for MCPTT service quality
evaluation with maximum re-use of existing MBMS QoE support.
### 5.3.6 eNB Scheduling on the MBMS Bearer
When carrying traffic over MBMS/MBSFN, the eNB schedules and transmits the
packets received from the MCPTT AS according to the timestamp within the SYNC
packet (see clause 15.3.3 in TS 36.300 [19]) corresponding to the MCH
Scheduling Period (MSP), e.g., 40 or 80 ms, on the MBMS bearer.
It is recommended that a MCPTT UE that receives traffic over an MBSFN bearer
uses a de-jitter buffer that can manage this type of jitter.
### 5.3.7 Needed information to describe an MCPTT User Plane
Rel 13 MCPTT is limited to support to Speech related media streams. Other
media streams may be added in later releases.
In order to describe a speech related media stream over MBMS bearers, the
device needs to receive at least the following information
\- The number of media in the session.
\- The destination IP address and port number for each RTP sessions in the
MBMS bearer service.
\- The protocol ID (e.g. RTP/AVPMedia type(s) and fmt-list.
\- Mode of MBMS bearer per media.
\- Multi-Carrier deployments should be supported. The UE needs to interpret
SIB15 correctly.
\- The start time and end time of the session.
\- In case Source Specific IP Multicast (SSM) is required for MCPTT, also the
Sender IP Address will be present.
\- In order to support nation wide services through multiple PLMN-IDs, a list
of alternative TMGIs may be present. Note, it is unclear whether this case is
relevant for MCPTT.
Note, all above information except the information for Multi-Carrier support
can be encoded in SDP.
# 6 Conclusion
In this document, many issues related to MCPTT, from media handling and codec
perspective have been documented.
On the key issue \"codec for MCPTT\", analysis of various 3GPP codecs is
provided, along with a recommendation for Release 13 to mandate that the AMR-
WB codec be supported for MCPTT applications and, based on operator / MCPTT
service provider policy, have EVS in super-wideband mode supported as an
optional codec. The EVS codec was shown to provide statistically significant
performance improvements relative to the AMR-WB codec for some of the MCPTT
KPIs as studied and reported in this document
On the key issue \"User Experience\", it is recommended that the UE discards
redundant RTP payloads in the case that the received RTP payloads by the UE
contain identical SN and SSRC.
On the key issue \"MCPTT over MBMS support\", the following points have been
made
\- Realization considerations for MCPTT client operation in support of MBMS
have been documented
\- The media handling for unicast delivery mode and broadcast delivery mode
has been documented
\- It is recommended MCPTT UE uses a de-jitter buffer, when receiving traffic
over an MBMS bearer
\- The session information needed to describe the MCPTT user plane is
provided.
###### ### Annex A: Simulation Models and Parameters
# A.1 MBMS Bearer Simulation Model
## A.1.1 Coverage
As described in clause 5.1.1.6.2.1, coverage using an MBMS bearer cannot
guarantee a target FER throughout the entire coverage area. In SC-PTM, the
limitations of geometry/SNR and the interference from adjacent cells limits
the throughput and error rate that can be achieved.
Simulations of a single cell surrounded by two rings of adjacent cells that
transmit at only 50% of their total unicast traffic were performed using the
following simulation parameters:
Table A.1 Simulation parameters
| Freq (MHz) | Cell Radius (km) | Ant Height (Hb) (m) | Avg  
Clutter Height  
(m) | Dhb  
(m) | Slope | I | Avg EIRP (dBW) in 5 MHz | eNB Tx Pwr  
(dBW)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
D1 | 2000 | 0.288 | 30 | 15 | 15 | 37.6 | 128.1 | 33 | 13  
| UE  
Ant Loss (dB) | Impl. Loss (dB) | Log normal Shadowing | Down tilt (deg) | Noise  
Figure (dB) | Penetration  
Loss  
(dB) | Receive  
Height  
(m) | Vert Beam  
width (deg) | Horiz Beam  
width (deg)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
D1 | 6 | 3 | 8 | 10 | 6 | 20 | 1.5 | 10 | 70  
{width="2.4743055555555555in" height="2.3208333333333333in"}
Figure A.1.1.-1 Serving cell (green) in the center is surrounded by the two
rings of (yellow) cells that are only transmitting at 50% to reduce their
interference on the serving cell.
The results of the simulation showed that even with the two rings of
neighbouring cells reducing their load to 50%, the serving cell could not
guarantee an FER \<=1% for the entire cell (the coverage was less than 95% of
the cell). The coverage in the serving cell would be even worse when the
neighbouring cells are transmitting closer to their full load. Furthermore,
other challenging environments such as indoor, basement, elevator, stairwell,
etc.... reception would further impair the MBMS bearer error rate.
Therefore the MBMS error traces used to evaluate the performance of 3GPP
speech codecs were chosen with FER values in the range of 1 to 5%.
## A.1.2 Error Traces
During the Application Layer FEC work of Rel-12 an MBMS bearer model was
defined and documented in [20] , clause 5.3. In communication with RAN1 and
RAN2, it was agreed to use a two-state Markov model for the simulation of LTE
RLC-PDU losses as shown in Figure A.1.2-1:
{width="3.379166666666667in" height="1.8in"}
Figure A.1.2-1 Markov model for LTE RLC-PDU losses
The model was parametrized based on the D1 simulation settings of 3GPP TR
36.942..
Table A.1.2-1 Parameter Settings for MBMS LTE simulations
* * *
Parameter Setting **Center Frequency (MHz)** 2000 **Cell radius (m)** 288
**Bandwidth (MHz)** 5 **Penetration Loss (dB)** 20 **Speed (km/h)** 3
**Antenna Down tilt (degree)** 15 **Antenna Height (m)** 30 **Antenna Clutter
Height (m)** 15 **Dhb (m)** 15 **Slope** 37.6 **I** 128.1 **Average EIRP (dBW,
5MHz)** 33 **eNB Tx Power (dBW)** 13 **UE Antenna Loss (dB)** 6
**Implementation Loss (dB)** 3 **Noise Figure (dB)** 6 **Penetration Loss
(dB)** 20 **Receiver Height (m)** 1.5 **Vertical Beamwidth (degree)** 10
**Horizontal Beamwidth (degree)** 70
* * *
The simulation was carried out with a 19 sites configuration as shown in
Figure A.1.2-2:. Each site has 3 cells. All sites have 100% SFN operation. 30
UEs are uniformly dropped into the center site (dark green one) in each
simulation run of 50 sec. In total 900 UEs are dropped and the SNR is sampled
accordingly. The overall SNR distribution is also shown in Figure A.1.2-2.
{width="2.779166666666667in" height="2.615972222222222in"}{width="3.59375in"
height="2.6006944444444446in"}
Figure A.1.2-2 Simulation Grid and SNR distribution
Based on those SNR traces, two representative traces were selected that in
combination with MCS24 result in a 1%, 5%, 10% and 20% target BLER.
The parametrization of the Markov model is as follows:
\- each state persists for 10ms, and
\- a state is good if it has:
\- less than 10% packet loss probability for the 1% and 5% BLER simulations,
\- less than 40% packet loss probability for the 10% and 20% BLER simulations.
\- MCS=24 was used for all cases and then users at different \'MBMS geometry\'
were picked to get the different average error rate.
The parameters for Markov channel modelling are provided in Table A.1.2-2.
Table A.1.2-2 Markov channel parameters
* * *
Parameter Meaning {width="9.722222222222222e-2in"
height="0.19444444444444445in"} transition probability from Good state to Bad
state {width="9.722222222222222e-2in" height="0.19444444444444445in"}
transition probability from Bad state to Good state
{width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.2222222222222222in"} BLER in Good
state {width="0.16666666666666666in" height="0.19444444444444445in"} BLER in
Bad state {width="9.722222222222222e-2in" height="0.4027777777777778in"}
Average Length of Bad state segment {width="9.722222222222222e-2in"
height="0.4027777777777778in"} Average length of Good state segment
* * *
The time in a good state Tg or time in a bad state Tb may be computed by
multiplying the average length of a good (bad) segment by the sampling period.
The probability of the good state and probability of a bad state may be
computed as q/(p+q) and p/(p+q), respectively.
Specifically, the following parameters for the LTE MBMS channel simulations:
\- MCS=9 and MCS=21 with 498 byte RLC-SDU size and 1332 byte RLC-SDU size.
\- RLC-SDU distance of 10ms and 40ms for MCS=21
\- RLC-SDU distance of 10ms for MCS=9
\- Channel model with Markov model loss rate of 1%, 5%, 10% and 20% target
BLER with speed 3 kph in Table A.1.2-3.
\- Channel model with Markov model loss rate of 1%, 5%, 10% and 20% target
BLER with speed 120 km/h in Table A.1.2-4.
Table A.1.2-3: Markov parameters for 3 km/h
+---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Table 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 3 km/h | | | | | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | | BLER = 1% | BLER = 5% | BLER = 10% | BLER = 20% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | p | 0.58% | 1.80% | 2.79% | 4.61% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | q | 36.13% | 24.01% | 20.90% | 16.80% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | sg | 98.42% | 93.02% | 88.23% | 78.48% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | sb | 1.58% | 6.98% | 11.77% | 21.52% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | pg | 0.03% | 0.06% | 0.56% | 1.16% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | pb | 59.47% | 70.54% | 82.30% | 89.20% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | BLER | 0.97% | 4.98% | 10.19% | 20.12% | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Tg (ms) | 1724 | 555 | 359 | 217 | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Tb (ms) | 28 | 42 | 48 | 60 | +---------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+
Table A.1.2-4: Markov parameters for 120 km/h
+----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Table 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 120 km/h | | | | | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | | BLER = 1% | BLER = 5% | BLER = 10% | BLER = 20% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | p | 6.06% | 27.07% | 46.48% | 35.60% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | q | 94.30% | 70.95% | 50.95% | 63.29% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | sg | 93.97% | 72.39% | 52.29% | 64.00% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | sb | 6.03% | 27.61% | 47.71% | 36.00% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | pg | 0.00% | 0.00% | 0.00% | 9.72% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | pb | 17.31% | 19.54% | 22.33% | 40.40% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | BLER | 1.05% | 5.40% | 10.66% | 20.77% | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Tg (ms) | 165 | 37 | 22 | 28 | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Tb (ms) | 11 | 14 | 20 | 16 | +----------+-----------+-----------+------------+------------+
Regarding the MCS selection, the optimum operating MCS strongly depends on the
deployment scenario, including site-to-site distance, operating frequency,
interference conditions at MBSFN area boundaries, etc. Therefore, one specific
value is not suitable. Using two different MCS cases can give some diversity
in the assumptions, hence a good approach to use the following two values:
\- higher value MCS=21 resulting in RLC-SDU size of 1332 byte.
\- lower value corresponding to 1 bit/s/Hz, with MCS=9 resulting in RLC-SDU
size of 498 byte.
It is additionally from the following list of available simulation conditions
the following were selected as a good candidate representative:
\- RLC-SDU distance of 10 ms and 40 ms for MCS=21
\- RLC-SDU distance of 10 ms for MCS=9
However, in call cases above, the RLC-SDU size is sufficiently large to
contain multiple speech frames. Therefore, the focus in the simulation is on
the loss patterns and delay. We focus on 10ms and 40ms RLC-SDU distance in the
following. Also, the focus for the scenario here is on error rates of at most
5%, as it is believed that higher error rates are unrealistic if no
Application Layer FEC is applied, which is the case for MCPTT speech due to
tight latency requirements.
In order to generate appropriate error patterns, the tools attached to TR
26.947 and as described in Annex B.2 are used. Specifically the following
error patterns are generated.
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0058 0.3613 0.0003 0.5947 1 44000 0 0
errortrace_v3_b1_10ms_44000_0.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0058 0.3613 0.0003 0.5947 1 44000 1 0
errortrace_v3_b1_10ms_44000_1.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0058 0.3613 0.0003 0.5947 1 44000 2 0
errortrace_v3_b1_10ms_44000_2.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0058 0.3613 0.0003 0.5947 1 44000 3 0
errortrace_v3_b1_10ms_44000_3.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0058 0.3613 0.0003 0.5947 1 44000 4 0
errortrace_v3_b1_10ms_44000_4.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0606 0.9430 0.0000 0.1731 1 44000 0 0
errortrace_v120_b1_10ms_44000_0.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0606 0.9430 0.0000 0.1731 1 44000 1 0
errortrace_v120_b1_10ms_44000_1.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0606 0.9430 0.0000 0.1731 1 44000 2 0
errortrace_v120_b1_10ms_44000_2.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0606 0.9430 0.0000 0.1731 1 44000 3 0
errortrace_v120_b1_10ms_44000_3.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0606 0.9430 0.0000 0.1731 1 44000 4 0
errortrace_v120_b1_10ms_44000_4.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0180 0.2401 0.0006 0.7054 1 440000 0
errortrace_v3_b5_10ms_44000_0.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0180 0.2401 0.0006 0.7054 1 44000 1 0
errortrace_v3_b5_10ms_44000_1.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0180 0.2401 0.0006 0.7054 1 44000 2 0
errortrace_v3_b5_10ms_44000_2.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0180 0.2401 0.0006 0.7054 1 44000 3 0
errortrace_v3_b5_10ms_44000_3.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.0180 0.2401 0.0006 0.7054 1 44000 4 0
errortrace_v3_b5_10ms_44000_4.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.2707 0.7095 0.0000 0.1954 1 44000 0 0
errortrace_v120_b5_10ms_44000_0.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.2707 0.7095 0.0000 0.1954 1 44000 1 0
errortrace_v120_b5_10ms_44000_1.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.2707 0.7095 0.0000 0.1954 1 44000 2 0
errortrace_v120_b5_10ms_44000_2.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.2707 0.7095 0.0000 0.1954 1 44000 3 0
errortrace_v120_b5_10ms_44000_3.txt
java LossVectorGenerator 0.2707 0.7095 0.0000 0.1954 1 44000 4 0
errortrace_v120_b5_10ms_44000_4.txt
Subsampling of the traces from 10ms to 40ms is done by dropping 3 out of 4
packets from the error trace.
## A.1.3 eNB Scheduling
The eNB has scheduling opportunities on the MBMS bearer every 40ms and
transmits all the packets it has received from the MCPTT AS at the next
scheduling opportunity. The eNB is not specified to have a de-jitter buffer
and can be considered to forward whatever packets it has received in the last
40ms to the UE, without re-ordering or further buffering of the packets.
Although a de-jitter buffer is not specified at the eNB, the simulations used
introduced two cases: with and without de-jitter buffering at the eNB.
**Case1 eNB dejitter buffer** : The uplink channel conditions were simulated
with a 1% delay-error profile and the eNB includes a dejitter buffer to
compensate for jitter in the uplink.
The downlink MBMS bearer channel was simulated using the profiles described in
the previous clause for 120 km/h and 3 km/h velocities, and copied into Table
A.1.3.1. The channel models for error rates of 3.22% and 3.85% at 120km/h were
produced using a random error model since [20] did not provide traces at these
error rates and it was confirmed that the errors are very uncorrelated as this
velocity.
Table A.1.3-1: Downlink MBMS Error Profiles for different coverage areas [20]
* * *
Downlink Channel Profile Speech / Fading conditions Error rate v120_b1 120
kmph 0.88 % v120_b3 120 kmph 3.22 % v120_b4 120 kmph 3.85 % v120_b5 120 kmph
5.70 % v3_b1 3 kmph 0.81 % v3_b5 3 kmph 4.73 %
* * *
The downlink MBMS channel packets are scheduled at 40 ms intervals and there
is a playout buffer of length 60ms in the MCPTT UE. If the scheduler does not
have any of the two 20 ms VoIP packets that are supposed to send in a
particular 40 ms interval, it does not substitute the missing packet with a
future packet.
**Case2 no eNB dejitter buffer** : Two uplink scenarios are considered here
under this case.
a) uplink channel conditions were simulated with same 1% delay-error profile
as in case 1,
b) uplink channel conditions were simulated with 3% error profile
In both cases, no de-jitter buffer is present in the eNB, all packets arriving
with variable delay jitter in the uplink channel are scheduled on the downlink
MBMS bearer channel at the next 40ms scheduling opportunity interval. The
downlink MBMS bearer channel was simulated using the same profiles described
in Table A.1.3-1 with various error rates.
The simulations use a de-jitter buffer at the MCPTT UE to compensate for the
jitter introduced in both the uplink and downlink path from the talker to the
listener.
## A.2 Correlation between Subjective MOS and P.OLQA
{width="4.347916666666666in" height="2.6770833333333335in"}
Figure A.2-1: Correlation between Subjective MOS and P.OLQA for AMR-WB, EVS
Channel-Aware, and EVS Non-Channel-Aware
#