# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present technical report contains the GSM Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech
codec Study Phase Report.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Executive summary and recommendations
## Introduction
As tasked by SMG in October 1996, SMG11 and SMG2 have conducted a study into
the feasibility of the AMR codec concept. The study not only addressed
technical feasibility but also the benefits of AMR in realistic applications,
the development plan, time-scales and the resources needed to take the AMR
codec and associated network support to completion of the standards.
## Benefits
Unlike previous GSM speech codecs which operate at a fixed rate with a fixed
level of error protection, the AMR system adapts to local radio channel and
traffic conditions and selects the optimum channel (half- or full- rate) and
codec mode (speech and channel bit rates) to deliver the best combination of
speech quality and capacity. This flexibility provides a number of important
benefits:
\- improved speech quality in both half-rate and full-rate modes by means of
codec mode adaptation i.e. varying the balance between speech and channel
coding for the same gross bit-rate;
\- ability to trade speech quality and capacity smoothly and flexibly by a
combination of channel and codec mode adaptation; this can be controlled by
the network operator on a cell by cell basis;
\- improved robustness to channel errors under marginal radio signal
conditions in full-rate mode. This increased robustness to errors and hence to
interference may instead be used to increase capacity by operating a tighter
frequency re-use pattern;
\- ability to tailor AMR operation to meet the many different needs of
operators;
\- potential for improved handover and power control resulting from additional
signaling transmitted rapidly in-band.
To investigate the feasibility of realizing these benefits, a wide-ranging
study has been carried out. This has considered not only speech and channel
codec performance, but perhaps more critically, channel and codec mode
adaptation, the associated signaling and the operation of AMR in realistic
radio environments. The one-year timeframe allowed for the Study Phase has
prevented a thorough assessment of all aspects. However, it has been possible
to assess expected performance (quality and capacity) and to identify and
assess the risks of the critical areas from a feasibility perspective.
## Performance
The performance benefits have been estimated for some of the main applications
of AMR, assuming certain system assumptions such as frequency hopping and
making a number of simplifications:
\- in full-rate mode only, the robustness to high error levels is
substantially increased such that the quality level of EFR at a C/I of 10dB is
extended down to a C/I of 4 dB, measured at the input to the channel
equalizer. This will give coverage in-fill advantages in areas of marginal
radio coverage. This equates to an improvement of sensitivity of between 4 dB
and 6 dB depending on the robustness of the signaling channels;
\- quality and capacity can be traded against each other in a controlled
manner. Using as a reference an EFR/HR combination with a conventional
resource allocation, for the same capacity improvement, AMR will give an
_average_ quality _improvement_ corresponding to about 70 % of the difference
between FR and EFR. This improvement is relatively insensitive to C/I.
It has also been estimated that for a capacity improvement of about 30 %
(relative to FR only), 80 % of calls would have G.728 quality of better, i.e.
\"wireline\" quality. This tradeoff between % capacity improvement and % of
mobiles having wireline quality is sensitive to the local C/I distributions.
These have proved to be difficult to estimate reliably. Other individual
estimates have shown more optimistic results and the figures quoted probably
represent the lower end of the range.
\- In half-rate mode only which gives the maximum capacity advantage (in
excess of 100 % as for normal half-rate), quality improvements are also given
(deriving from codec mode adaptation) especially in background noise
conditions and at low errors. Under these conditions, the quality level will
be at least as good as that of FR.
\- The increased resilience channel errors in full-rate mode may allow a
tighter frequency re-use giving capacity improvements estimated at up to 30 %,
but at the expense of lower speech quality. However, it is unclear at present
how terminals without AMR e.g. with FR or EFR codecs or data terminals should
be handled, as they do not have the improved resilience to errors and the
speech quality would be degraded. This application requires further study.
## Risk areas
The main performance limitations and technical risk areas have been identified
as follows:
\- codec performance: to achieve the wireline quality benchmark of G.728 in HR
mode, the C/I threshold had to be increased from 10 dB to about 18 dB. This
will allow the speech quality target still to be achieved but at the expense
of lower capacity gain. This is already reflected in the performance results
above.
\- background noise: the original performance objective in HR mode was G.728
is better than EFR. This is too demanding and was relaxed to \"the better of
GSM-FR or G.729\" quality for each type of background noise (vehicle, street,
office). This still represents a substantial improvement over the existing HR
codec.
\- the difficulties of measuring C/I distributions representative of high
capacity networks using other capacity enhancing techniques (e.g. power
control, frequency hopping) has made it difficult to make accurate estimates
of capacity and quality. Pessimistic forecasts have therefore been made to
illustrate the lower limit. **Risk: medium.**
\- channel and codec mode adaptation algorithms. These are crucial to the
success of AMR operation and improvements to initial implementations will be
possible to optimize performance for real network operating conditions.
**Risk: medium.**
\- channel quality metric. It is important that the estimate of the channel
quality is sufficiently accurate to ensure that the optimum codec mode is
selected. While some solutions have been considered, the feasibility of
providing such an accurate metric remains a risk.
**Risk assessment by SMG2, high; by SMG11, medium.**
\- TFO. Although some potential candidate TFO solutions for AMR have been
identified, effective solutions will require significant development. **Risk
to TFO: medium.**
\- AMR system complexity. The AMR system is relatively complex and introduces
new techniques. **Risk level: medium.**
At the conclusion of the Study Phase, there remain open design issues.
However, working assumptions have been reached for most critical areas and
other open issues can be resolved in due course without prejudice.
## Codec development and selection
It is recommended that the optimum AMR solution be selected from a number of
candidate proposals. To promote integrated solutions with the greatest
flexibility for innovative techniques, designers should submit complete
solutions including not only the speech and channel codecs, but also the
control and signaling system, subject to agreed constraints and working
assumptions.
To test the codecs, in addition to traditional static testing for each mode of
the codec, dynamic tests will be essential to evaluate performance under
dynamically varying radio conditions. New test methodologies for dynamic
testing will be needed, as well as new error patterns. These are in the
process of being developed.
In response to the requirements declared by the MOU to SMG#20, the possibility
of running with a schedule which would deliver the codec and signaling
specifications in time for Release 1998 has been examined. However, so far a
schedule has not been agreed by SMG11 and SMG2, which would meet Release 1998
deadlines. The feasibility of achieving Release 1998 is therefore unclear
although it is evident that such a schedule would have to be very aggressive
and high risk. Further urgent discussions are needed by the two committees to
reach a conclusion.
For the formal codec testing, independent host and test laboratories will be
needed. They will require funding estimated at 400 k ECU.
## Recommendations
On basis of the performance benefits and risks highlighted above, the
following recommendations are submitted to SMG for approval:
\- tnitiate a program to develop, test, select and specify AMR speech and
channel codecs together with related features such as VAD, DTX and comfort
noise generation. The associated control, signaling procedures and TFO should
also be developed and specified;
\- SMG11 and SMG2 should agree an acceptable and workable time-plan as soon as
possible after SMG#23 with the priority of meeting Release 1998 deadlines;
\- approve the performance requirement specification in annex C;
\- SMG to secure funding of 400 kECU for the purposes of codec testing;
\- approve Work Item Description (see annex G);
\- decide whether to include wideband option on AMR (see separate Liaison
Statement).
# 0 Scope
The present document presents the outcome of the Study Phase initiated at
SMG#20 on the concept of the Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) codec. The AMR concept
represents a new approach to achieving consistent high quality speech combined
with efficient spectrum usage. It was recognized at SMG#20 that this would
require novel techniques whose feasibility should first be assessed before
proceeding with a full development of the AMR system and its control.
Clauses 1 to 4 provide an overview and background to the AMR concept. Clause 5
provides a basic description of the AMR system functionality including working
assumptions that have been agreed during the Study Phase. Feasibility aspects
are considered in clause 6. The requirement specification, which will form the
basis for the development phase, is contained in clause 7. Clause 8 gives an
indication of the MS and network upgrades needed to support AMR. Clause 9
outlines how the AMR codec will be developed, tested and selected including
the proposed time-plan. Clauses 10 and 11 conclude with a summary of the risks
and recommendations.
# 1 Goals of AMR codec
The principal goals of the AMR codec as presented to SMG#20 (October 1996)
(see SQSG report, Tdoc SMG 447/96) are to provide:
> • wireline quality combined with capacity advantages offered by half-rate
> operation;
>
> • increased robustness to high channel error rates when operating at full-
> rate.
This is to be achieved by controlling the channel and codec modes according to
the radio channel conditions and traffic loading.
To address the needs of certain GSM markets, especially in the US, and to
ensure the earliest provision and penetration of AMR handsets, it was also
decided at SMG#20 to set an aggressive time-scale for the development and
standardization of the AMR. This requires that the AMR specifications be ready
for GSM Release 1998, i.e. end of 1998.
# 2 Terminology
The terminology and acronyms used in this report are given in annex A.
# 3 Overview of the AMR system and its applications
## 3.1 Basic operation
Most speech codecs including the existing GSM codecs (FR, HR and EFR) operate
at a fixed coding rate. Channel protection (against errors) is added also at a
fixed rate. The coding rates are chosen as a compromise between best clear
channel performance and robustness to channel errors. The AMR system exploits
the implied performance compromises by adapting the speech and channel coding
rates according to the quality of the radio channel. This gives better clear
channel quality and better robustness to errors. These benefits are realized
whether operating in full-rate or half-rate channels.
As well as quality improvements, the need to enhance capacity by allocating
half-rate channels to some or all mobiles is also recognized. The radio
resource algorithm, enhanced to support AMR operation, allocates a half-rate
or full-rate channel according to channel quality and the traffic load on the
cell in order to obtain the best balance between quality and capacity. It is
intended that the control system should not be fixed but can be enhanced as
experience of the AMR system is gained on real networks; it may also be tuned
to meet particular operator\'s network needs.
## 3.2 Application scenarios
The AMR codec concept is adaptable not only in terms of its ability to respond
to radio and traffic conditions but also to be customized to the specific
needs of network operators. There are three levels of adaptation of the AMR
system:
\- handovers between half-rate and full-rate channels according to traffic
demands;
\- variable partitioning between speech and channel coding bit-rates to adapt
to channel conditions in order to obtain best speech quality;
\- optimization of channel and codec control algorithms to meet specific
operator needs and network conditions.
This allows the codec to be applied in many ways of which three important
examples are:
\- full-rate only for maximum robustness to channel errors but no capacity
advantage. This additional robustness may be used not only to extend coverage
in marginal signal conditions, but also to improve capacity through tighter
frequency re-use, assuming high AMR MS penetration;
\- half-rate only for maximum capacity advantage; more than 100 % capacity
increase achievable relative to FR or EFR (i.e. same as existing HR);
significant quality improvements relative to existing HR will be given for a
large proportion of mobiles as a result of codec mode adaptation to channel
conditions;
\- mixed half/full rate operation allowing a trade-off between quality and
capacity enhancements according to radio and traffic conditions and operator
priorities.
This is explained further in annex B.
# 4 Development Time-scales
A number of operators have expressed the urgent requirement for the
availability of the AMR system by 1999. This was reflected in a statement from
the MOU at SMG#20 when the AMR Study phase was initiated (see Tdoc SMG 96).
The target for the completion of the AMR codec specifications has been set for
Release 1998. Two reasons for this early availability is to reduce the cost of
introduction of AMR on networks (lower write-off costs of redundant equipment)
and to maximize the opportunity for early AMR handset penetration to optimize
the capacity advantage of the codec.
The feasibility of achieving this delivery date has formed part of the
Feasibility Study. Consistent with this goal, the Study Phase was restricted
to one year notwithstanding the complexity and novelty of the AMR system
concept.
**Phased Approach**
The early delivery of the AMR codec will reduce the cost of introduction to
operators since the network capacity will be less and the write-off costs of
redundant equipment lower. Therefore a phased approach is being followed:
[Phase 1:]{.underline} The complete AMR speech and channel codecs will be
defined, together with the _codec mode adaptation_ control processes, possible
new link performance metrics and their transmission in-band on the traffic
channel.
The _channel mode adaptation_ will be based closely on existing intra-cell
handover methods in terms of signaling procedures i.e. will rely on the
handover command. However, the _channel mode_ _adaptation_ decision algorithm
will probably be extended and use the currently available metrics, RxQual and
RxLev and possible newly defined metrics. This algorithm will be left open to
manufacturers to develop and improve with time. Re-packing of half-rate radio
channels required by AMR operation will rely again on existing signaling
procedures.
The circuit allocation procedures are assumed to be left unchanged.
Constraints on the possible codec mode changes may appear for the half-rate
mode. In particular, changes between codecs, without channel mode change, may
be allowed only if the same Ater bit rate is possible.
[Phase 2:]{.underline} This will introduce new mode _adaptation_ control
algorithms, enhanced by means e.g. of new link quality metrics, more advanced
handover, enhanced re-packing algorithms, etc.
Phase 1 should of itself deliver substantial performance benefits both in
terms of speech quality and capacity enhancements. The need or otherwise for a
more complicated Phase 2 will be determined after Phase 1 is complete.
# 5 Baseline description and working assumptions
This clause deals with the basic description of the AMR concept together with
a summary of the working assumptions agreed during the feasibility phase. The
section also explains the main constraints on the codec design.
## 5.1 Generic operation
The _AMR_ codec is a single speech and channel codec whose _channel mode_ and
_codec mode_ bit-rates can be varied to suit the prevailing channel and
traffic conditions. The codec can operate in two channel modes, _full-rate_
and _half-rate_ , corresponding to the TCH/F and TCH/H channels.
For each _channel mode_ , the codec speech and channel bit-rates (i.e. the
_codec mode_ bit-rates), can be varied rapidly (several times a second) to
track the channel error rates or C/I of the channel near-instantaneously. This
gives significant performance improvement over a corresponding fixed rate
codec, which is a compromise between the full range of channel conditions
encountered. The channel measurement reports and any other information for the
codec mode adaptation will be transmitted in-band in the traffic channel or
using stealing flag techniques. The _codec mode_ bit-rate can also be varied
in consideration of other environmental conditions like the acoustic
background noise. This would allow the well-known failures of low bit-rate
codecs with high background noise conditions to be dealt with. Adaptation of
the codec mode bit-rate driven by the encoder at the MS can be, however,
superseded by the network.
In addition, the _channel mode_ of the codec can be switched in order to
increase channel capacity while maintaining the speech quality to (operator
specified) limits. These variations are carried out by means of _AMR
handovers_ , which will occur far less frequently than the codec mode changes
(probably no more than a maximum of a few times per minute). This range of
operation of the two _channel_ -_modes_ is illustrated in Figure 5.1. AMR
handovers may be based on a combination of RxLev and RxQual measurement
reports and on new metrics derived from the measurement reports transmitted
in-band for _codec mode adaptation._ A conventional HO between HR & FR based
only on capacity considerations by the network operator is also possible.
Figure 5.1: Preferred operating ranges for HR and FR channel modes
## 5.2 Constraints
Due to the challenging quality/capacity targets of AMR, the feasibility phase
identified the need for a high degree of freedom to be left to the codec
proponents in order to meet the requirements. Nonetheless, a number of
constraints to the AMR codec design have been identified. They are reported in
the following.
**Radio interface:** The AMR codec and its control will operate without any
changes to the air-interface channel multiplexing, with the possible exception
of the interleave depth. Conventional TCH-F and TCH-H channels will be used
for FR and HR _channel modes_ of the codec.
**Channel mode handovers:** These will be executed in the same way as existing
intra-cell handovers. However, the algorithm used to determine when and
whether to perform an AMR handover will be new and specific to the BSS
manufacturer.
**Codec mode signaling:** Signaling and measurement reporting for codec mode
changes shall be transmitted on the radio interface in-band or using frame
stealing flag techniques to avoid the need for new out-of-band signaling
channel. Signaling information can be different on the up and down links.
**Frequency hopping:** The greatest quality benefits of AMR will be achieved
when frequency hopping is applied. Without it, the benefits may be reduced
especially for slow moving or stationary mobiles.
**Power control:** It shall be possible to operate power control independently
of the AMR adaptation. However, operators may choose to optimize the AMR
control according to the power control settings. Fast power control may also
be introduced provided that the measurement reports are transmitted in-band
for AMR codec adaptation control.
**TFO:** The AMR codec shall support Tandem Free Operation. TFO shall not
decrease the capacity gain achievable using the AMR codec.
**DTX:** The AMR codec shall support DTX operation. The increase in radio
channel activity in terms of average transmission power during speech
inactivity shall not significantly affect the gain of DTX operation i.e. the
interference reduction and the battery saving should be similar to that of
current DTX operation.
(See also subclause 5.6).
**A-ter Sub-multiplexing:** At least one codec mode at HR should be consistent
with 8 kbps sub-multiplexing on the A‑ter interface (see subclause 5.7).
**Complexity:** The complexity of the channel codec shall be no greater than
that of the HR channel codec. The complexity of the source codec shall be no
greater than 8 times that of the FR codec.
## 5.3 Speech and channel codecs
The AMR codec will operate at a number of different codec mode bit-rates for
each of the two channel modes (FR and HR). The precise number of modes for
each channel is left open to be decided by the codec proponent. It has a
strong dependency on the codec mode adaptation algorithm employed. Each of
these codec modes is expected to provide different performance as a function
of the channel quality (C/I) that can be represented by a family of curves
like those reported in Figure 5.2.
Figure 5.2: Family of curves showing performance for different codec modes
To achieve the expected improvements in terms of quality, the AMR concept is
based on switching among modes to the aim of tracking always the best
performance as a function of channel conditions. This corresponds, in
principle, to have the codec operating in the mode whose performance is the
highest for a given C/I value. Since _codec mode adaptation_ may occur
rapidly, _codec mode rate_ _changes_ must occur seamlessly, i.e. with no
perceptible speech degradation.
Moreover, to account for failures of the control system, a minimum level of
performance shall also be granted for any point of the family of curves. For
this reason, assessment of performance must consider the whole family of
curves as well as the performance under dynamic behavior. This implies that
testing of the AMR codec will be more extensive than for EFR.
## 5.4 Rate adaptation
Two types of rate adaptation are needed; _channel mode_ (i.e. handovers
between FR and HR) and _codec mode_ (i.e. source and channel bit-rates for a
given _channel mode_). _Conventional handovers_ can be performed independently
of AMR operation.
### 5.4.1 Channel mode adaptation
The _channel mode_ (FR or HR) is switched to achieve the optimum balance
between speech quality and capacity enhancements. The up- and down-links shall
use the same _channel mode._ The _channel mode_ is selected by the network
(probably the BSC) based on measurements of the quality of the up- and down-
links. These measurements may be combinations of conventional RxLev and RxQual
reports and additional data transmitted in-band in the traffic channel or via
flag stealing techniques.
The _channel mode_ control algorithm should limit the frequency of _AMR
handovers_ performed to minimize the associated speech degradation as well as
potential problems with channel re-packing and A-ter sub-multiplexing.
### 5.4.2 Codec mode adaptation
The _codec mode bit-rate_ , i.e. the bit-rate partitioning between the speech
and channel coding for a given _channel mode_ may be varied rapidly to track
changes in the radio link and to account for specific input conditions (speech
signal characteristics, acoustic environmental characteristics, etc.).
_Codec mode adaptation_ will operate independently on the up- and down- links.
It will be transparent to the channel allocation and operate independently of
it. Control will depend mainly on measurements of the quality of the
respective links. The radio link quality metrics currently available, RxQual
and RxLev, may not be adequate for _codec mode adaptation_ (e.g. because they
do not provide a sufficiently good measure of the impact of the link quality
on speech quality or they are not be transmitted frequently enough).
Therefore, a new metric(s) may be desirable in addition to the existing ones
and may be transmitted in-band on the traffic channels.
While the control of the _channel mode adaptation_ will be mandatory located
in the network side, there are several options of where the _codec mode
adaptation_ control algorithm could be located, e.g.:
\- uniquely from the network for both links;
\- by the relevant receiving entity (i.e. the MS for the downlink and the BTS
for the uplink);
\- by the relevant transmitter based on reported measurements.
It is however assumed that the _codec mode_ decision could be overridden by
the network entity.
The three scenarios differ in terms of signaling capacity needs and in the
delay introduced in the adaptation process.
The current working assumption is to locate the codec mode adaptation control
in the network. With such assumption, it is most likely that the in-band
signaling channels in uplink and downlink would be asymmetric. This implies
that the amount of bit-rate devoted to channel coding of the speech
information can be different in uplink and downlink, thus allowing the use of
two different channel coding algorithms for the two links. In order to
preserve TFO, the possible source coding modes, instead, shall be the same in
uplink and downlink.
The maximum rate of adaptation will be determined by the in-band signaling
data rate and the loop delay. Early analysis suggests that _codec mode rate_
changes of several times a second can be supported. A further constraint to
the maximum adaptation rate is given by the increase in the channel activity
when operating in DTX mode (see subclause 5.6 for further details).
## 5.5 Support of TFO
For the same reasons as for the existing GSM codecs (improved mobile to mobile
performance), TFO is required for AMR. The optimum solutions have yet to be
determined at this stage, however, the feasibility aspects are considered in
subclause 6.4.1.
## 5.6 Support of DTX
The AMR codec shall support DTX operation. Therefore VAD algorithm and Comfort
Noise generation algorithm are part of the specification of the AMR codec.
However, the DTX algorithms are not required to be included in the proposals
of candidates until after the selection phase.
While the DTX mechanism in today\'s GSM codecs is activated by the input
signal content only, when considering the signaling needs of the AMR codec, it
may be necessary transmit in-band signaling data even during periods where the
channel could be switched off. This could imply an increase of the SID frame
transmission rate when compared to the current situation. To limit the impact
of such effect on the DTX gain, the increase of the radio channel activity in
terms of average transmission power should not exceed [8 %].
## 5.7 Support of 8 and 16 kbit/s A-ter sub-multiplexing
The AMR codec shall support A-ter sub-multiplexing at 16 kbit/s. Sub-
multiplexing at 8 kbit/s for HR channel mode is desirable but imposes a severe
constraint on the maximum source bit-rate (in the range of 6,5 kbit/s to 7,5
kbit/s) which could undermine the performance quality target matching. In
addition, switching between codec modes of the AMR codec could imply rapid
switching between 8 and 16 kbit/s sub-multiplexing that could be difficult to
achieve and cause quality degradations. It is expected therefore that 8 kbps
sub-multiplexing would only be used when a low HR codec rate is maintained for
relatively long periods of time (e.g. 30 seconds or more).
A proposal was also received for a 6:1 multiplexing scheme, which could be
applicable, when the majority of calls are AMR. This is for further study.
## 5.8 Active noise suppression
The possibility to include a noise suppresser in the AMR codec has been
discussed. It was felt that a noise suppresser would improve the performance
in background noise conditions of any candidate, especially in half rate mode.
At the same time, it is essential to check the consistency of the improvement
with multiple noise sources and noise levels, and to verify that the noise
suppresser does not degrade the speech quality in clean speech conditions.
These additional requirements would imply a dedicated test plan incompatible
with the aggressive codec selection time frame.
As a consequence, in order to compare all solutions in the same conditions,
and select the candidate with the best intrinsic quality, it was decided that
noise suppressers would not be included during the qualification and selection
phases, or that any noise suppresser integrated to a source codec should be
turned off for these tests.
The selection and possible standardization of a noise suppresser will then be
addressed in a separate phase in parallel with the definition of the VAD
algorithm.
# 6 Feasibility issues
This Section discusses the main issues determining the feasibility of the AMR
approach.
## 6.1 Codec performance
The original performance benchmarks set by SQSG for AMR are reproduced in
Annex C. Several organizations ran extensive subjective tests of high
performance codecs, representative of the types of codecs that would be
submitted as candidates for AMR, to assess the feasibility of meeting these
performance targets.
The possibility for AMR to provide robustness in error conditions by increased
channel coding and hence lower rate speech coding on the one hand, and
increased basic speech quality (higher source coding rate) at the expense of
reduced error robustness on poor channels on the other hand, depends strongly
on the channel error statistics.
It is anticipated that the performance gain of AMR under high error conditions
will be significant under close to ideal frequency hopping situations, but
that there will be no or marginal performance improvements under slow moving
conditions without frequency hopping, due to the high frame erasure rates.
Note that in this Section, figures of C/I (carrier to interference ratios) are
referenced to the input to the channel equalizer. In GSM 05.05, a 2 dB
implementation margin is assumed in the receive path so that a C/I of 7 dB at
the channel equalizer corresponds to 9 dB at the antenna.
### 6.1.1 Basic, error and background noise performance
From the point of view of the envisaged applications for AMR (see subclause
3.2.), the critical performance benchmarks can be reduced to the following:
[Full-rate mode:]{.underline}
Clear (EP0) EFR at EP0 *
EP3 EFR at EP1
Background noise (EP0) Same as EFR
[Half-rate mode:]{.underline}
Clear (EP0) G.728
EP1 EFR at EP1
EP3 FR at EP3
Background noise at EP0 G.728
The definitions of EP0, EP1, EP2 and EP3 are given in Annex A under
\"Acronyms\".
[Full-rate mode]{.underline}
In full-rate mode, the main challenge is the EP3 performance and the tests so
far performed indicate this target could be difficult to achieve, representing
a small risk. EFR at EP0 can be met (cf. Existing EFR codec) for which a codec
bit rate approaching 12 kbps is likely to be necessary.
It is expected that the performance for lower rate codec modes in the presence
of background noise will be noticeably lower than that of EFR (in clear
conditions).
[Half-rate mode]{.underline}
More challenging is the performance that is to be achieved in half-rate mode.
The \"wireline\" criterion for HR mode was interpreted by SQSG as G.728
(similar to G.726 at 32 kbps used on DECT and CT2). The corresponding
objective at EP1 was EFR EP1 performance. EP1 corresponds to a C/I of 10 dB at
the channel equalizer input. Results from trial codecs have shown that this
C/I figure is too low to achieve EFR EP1 performance because the speech codec
bit rate needed for G.728 quality is likely to be close to 8,0 kbps, leaving
very little room for channel protection. Test results on several different
codecs have shown that a more realistic target to reach EFR EP1 quality is a
C/I threshold of 16 dB to 20 dB. Similarly, the quality objective in HR mode
at EP1 has been relaxed to FR at EP1.
This means that to maintain the quality target, a lesser proportion of calls
will be in half-rate mode; alternatively with the same proportion of half-rate
mode calls, the average quality will be degraded in half-rate mode. The
implications are discussed further in subclause 6.3.
The EP3 target can be met as evidenced by the existing GSM HR (5,6 kbps)
codec.
The background noise performance in the half-rate channel mode is a critical
AMR area. The background noise performance will be lower than in the full-rate
channel mode. On examination, the background noise target of G.728 (the
original objective for AMR in HR) was found in fact to be even higher than
that of EFR, Neither G.728 nor EFR background noise performance is likely to
be achieved at a data rate of around 8 kbps. It is recommended instead that
the background noise requirement be relaxed to \"Better than both GSM FR and
G.729\".
The reason for choosing two references is that the GSM FR codec performs
better with vehicle noise while G.729 performs better with street noise and
babble.
In the presence of background noise, the channel error performance of the AMR
half-rate code modes will be noticeably worse than without background noise.
One result showed that GSM FR performance might be difficult to achieve around
10 dB.
### 6.1.2 Tandeming
The performance under tandeming conditions has not been measured. As a general
rule, if good/excellent performance is being achieved under single codec
conditions, then it is unlikely that a serious loss of quality will be
encountered under tandeming of the AMR codecs, except possibly under
background noise and error conditions. However, this is less evidently the
case for mismatched codecs. The lack of data on tandeming performance
therefore represents a small level of risk.
When AMR reaches a significant level of penetration, it is very likely that a
large proportion of calls will be MS-to-MS. The management of the AMR by TFO
is therefore important to minimize tandeming of codecs.
Furthermore the interoperability with any GSM codec (including the AMR) will
have to be assessed.
### 6.1.3 Seamless codec mode bit-rate changes
Codec mode bit rate changes may occur rapidly (more than once a second) and it
is required that the switching between codec modes (for the same channel mode)
must occur without any audible impairment. Tests conducted by two
organizations have shown that with appropriate care to the codec structure,
this is achievable.
While the switching itself should not cause any audible glitches, the fact
that the speech codec bit rates is changing will itself cause some change in
speech quality which will be audible. However, the reason for changing codec
mode will normally be a change of channel errors and the effect of _not_
changing codec mode will be worse.
### 6.1.4 Complexity
The complexity of the AMR source and channel codecs is governed on the one
hand by the need to meet the required performance levels and on the other, to
allow AMR to be introduced at the lowest cost. To meet these needs, the
following constraints have been agreed.
Considering:
  * that an increase of the channel codec complexity may not allow significant improvement of the speech quality;
  * the high cost of BTS hardware upgrade.
The complexity requirement for:
  * the channel part of the AMR codec when in half-rate mode (including control loop management) is not to exceed the Half Rate channel codec complexity figure;
  * the channel part of the AMR codec when in full-rate mode (including control loop management) is not to exceed twice that of the Half-rate channel codec complexity figure.
Considering:
```{=html}
``` \- that quality improvements could be achieved in the speech codec with an
increase of the complexity figure;
  * the DSP technology increase in the time frame of AMR introduction (during 1999).
The complexity limit for the speech part of the AMR codec (excluding VAD/DTX)
is 8 times the complexity figure of the speech part of the Full Rate codec.
Nevertheless an AMR speech codec with a complexity figure less or equal than
the existing codecs (EFR or HR) will present significant advantage. This will
lead to a complete reuse of the existing platforms for both MS and TRAU.
**Requirements summary**
* * *
                                                                         Complexity requirement
Half-rate channel coder/decoder (including control loop management ) less than
or equal to that of the HR channel codec Full-rate channel coder/decoder
(including control loop management ) less than or equal to twice that of the
HR channel codec Speech coder/decoder (excluding VAD/DTX) less than or equal
to 8 times the FR speech codec (excluding VAD/DTX)
* * *
Appropriate ways of measuring complexity for the purposes of codec test and
selection have still to be determined.
## 6.2 Quality and Capacity benefits of AMR
AMR may be used in different ways in a system. The basic features of AMR are
the higher robustness to low C/I conditions on full rate channels and the
higher quality on half rate channels at high C/I levels. These basic features
may be used in different ways to obtain higher quality or higher capacity.
### 6.2.1 General AMR performance
A central principle of AMR is the ability to dynamically change the allocation
of source and channel coding bits, in order to always provide the highest
possible speech quality. The overall quality and capacity improvements with
AMR are dependent on several factors:
  * codec performance as a function of channel quality;
  * C/I distribution in the selected area, as well as actual C/I variations in calls;
  * precision and update frequency of the AMR control system;
  * system characteristics (type of FH, number of TRX\'s etc.).
a) The basic codec performance as a function of channel quality (e.g. C/I)
provides an upper limit to the achievable quality by AMR. I.e. the envelope of
the performance curves defines the best possible performance assuming perfect
channel quality tracking. For FH systems and non-FH systems at high speeds
different allocation of bits for the speech coder and for error protection
gives a possibility for trading capacity and quality (see subclause 3.2). A
crucial point is the estimation of channel quality, and the relation between
channel quality measurements and speech quality. This has only partly been
assessed. (See subclause 6.3.3.)
b) In general there is a relatively large spread of C/I values, indicating
that an AMR coder with adaptive allocation of speech and channel coding bits
can provide higher quality or capacity by change of working point (bit
allocation). The actual channel quality may however vary significantly between
and within calls, and the possibility to accurately track the channel with
sufficient resolution may limit the AMR gain. Limited sets of measured data
were made available, indicating very large variations within as well as
between calls. The conclusion is that AMR needs to be very robust to a large
span of channel variations.
c) Channel quality variations may be both rapid and large. In the design of
the control system there is a trade-off between in-band channel information
and speech coder bits. The performance of the channel tracking algorithm will
also highly influence the AMR performance.
d) The specifics of the system, such as the use of different FH, the number of
TRX\'s per cell, the efficiency of the power control if activated and
particular frequency and cell planning strategies etc. will have an influence
on the codec performance and the possible quality/capacity gains. The
characteristics of specific networks have indeed a direct influence on the C/I
statistical distribution, leading to potentially reduced spread of the C/I in
\"optimized\" systems and hence potential lower additional gain brought by
AMR.
### 6.2.2 Improved coverage from the improved robustness in FR mode
Under high channel errors, a FR codec mode will normally be selected which has
a low source coding rate and a high level of error protection. This will allow
good speech quality to be maintained under S/N conditions 6 dB worse than the
corresponding level for EFR. This translates to an improvement in terminal or
BTS sensitivity but is subject to the limit of robustness of the signaling
channels [not estimated during the Study Phase]. This improvement in
sensitivity is at least 2 dB and could be as high as 4 dB or 6 dB.
This extension may be exploited for improved coverage in marginal conditions
such as in buildings or potentially for range extension. The latter would only
apply to new networks where site spacing has still to be selected and where
the great majority of terminals are AMR. Even then, there could be performance
problems with terminals without AMR such as roamers and data terminals. This
was not investigated.
### 6.2.3 Capacity benefits from the improved robustness in FR mode
The GSM system capacity is a direct function of the minimum acceptable C/I
ratio for an expected Grade of Service (for example 99 % of the cell area).
The distribution of the C/I over a GSM network is in turn a function of the
frequency re-use pattern, and directly related to the activation and
performances of the radio features of the system, such as Slow FH, Power
Control, DTX etc. The capacity also depends on the propagation conditions in
the area of concern, such as shadowing characteristics, applicable propagation
losses, antenna heights and apertures. Finally the actual performances of the
infrastructure will generally impact the system capacity.
With AMR in full rate mode, the C/I threshold for an acceptable speech quality
level may be reduced by 4 dB to 6 dB compared to the system operation with the
current speech coders (FR, HR or EFR). This improvement will translate in the
possibility to operate the system with a reduced re-use cluster, or with a
higher traffic loading. For example a system operating in a 12-cell cluster
could be upgraded to a 9-cell re-use cluster providing a direct 30 % capacity
increase.
This improvement is applicable if AMR is used in Full Rate mode at low C/I
conditions or severe error conditions, i.e. for applications where AMR is used
in Full Rate mode only or in both Half and Full rate modes according to the
propagation conditions (application scenarios 1 and 3 of annex B).
However, an improvement gained by a re-planning of existing systems should be
considered with care as it does not apply to the GSM signaling channels, to
the speech service when using speech coders other than AMR or to the data
services, i.e. in networks with a mix of services where the penetration of AMR
is limited.
### 6.2.4 Quality/capacity trade-offs by use of the HR mode
A number of simplified studies on the quality/capacity aspects have been made.
It is generally agreed that there is a possibility for a trade-off between
quality and capacity using AMR; Full Rate only (for maximum quality), half
rate only (for maximum capacity) or a mix of full rate and half rate (in a
similar manner as for the existing coders). The actual quality and capacity
will however depend heavily on the system assumptions as well as the specific
AMR solution. In particular, there are significant difficulties in estimating
actual C/I distributions in systems. Two main approaches have been used to
estimate the capacity gain, as described below.
**Estimated C/I distribution approach**
In one approach the capacity increase has been estimated assuming the half
rate channel mode can be used above a certain C/I threshold, where it provides
G.728 quality. This threshold has been estimated at 16 dB to 20 dB using ideal
FH. Capacity gain, assuming full penetration of AMR mobiles, was then derived
from the instantaneous C/I distribution within the cell, by applying a
\"safety\" margin on top of the previously discussed threshold. The C/I
distribution used was a distribution used in earlier work on 14,4 kbps data,
which includes the effects of shadowing. The safety margin has to count for
all the effects not taken into account in such evaluation i.e. the channel
quality estimation error, the variability of the channel quality, the channel
adaptation control delay, the blocking of resources, imbalance in up- and
down-link etc. With that approach the corresponding capacity increase has been
_estimated to be 30% - 40%_ using a C/I threshold of 18 dB and safety margin
of 7 dB. It should be noted that the safety margin is an estimate.
Another estimation with different system assumptions using actual C/I
distributions from a planning tool (for a particular dense area of the
network) used by one operator have also been performed. The estimated C/I
distribution in each cell was then used, as well as the traffic distribution
and BTS configuration. In general, the C/I distribution obtained has a higher
mean value than the above approach, which uses a \"typical\" C/I distribution.
The higher mean value translates into a higher number of mobiles, which can
use the HR channel mode at any given time, resulting in higher capacity gains.
The study also indicated that here are clear differences in the calculated C/I
distributions for different areas. Assuming satisfactory speech quality is
obtained on the HR channel for C/I values exceeding 18 dB, and using a
\"safety\" margin of 7 dB, the resulting capacity figures for 100 % AMR
penetration are in the range 80 % up to 110 % (trunking gain included)
depending on the actual planning area. These results clearly indicate that the
capacity gain for a certain quality is strongly dependent on the C/I
distribution in the system.
**System simulator approach**
An alternative approach uses a radio system simulator to estimate the quality
and capacity. In this approach a representative family of codec performance
curves are used to describe the speech quality of the different AMR codec
modes depending on C/I. An AMR control system, which incorporates measurement
errors as well as decision delays, is used to select codec modes and perform
channel mode handovers.
Figure 6.1 indicates the trade-off between relative capacity and \"average\"
speech quality in a system, assuming 100 % AMR penetration, with ideal FH and
power control using 4 TRX\'s per cells.
{width="5.875694444444444in" height="5.186805555555556in"}
Figure 6.1: Average speech quality vs. relative capacity for AMR and EFR/HR
Speech quality is presented in equivalent dBQ. As a reference, the existing FR
has a quality of approximately 22 dBQ under error free conditions. A
comparison with a solution using the existing EFR and HR to gain capacity is
included. The quality gain of AMR is approximately 3 dBQ. At a capacity
increase of 85 % for AMR, the average quality is approximately the same as for
the EFR/HR system at a capacity increase of 25 %. The average quality if only
half rate channels are used is also noticeably increased for AMR due to the
higher basic quality of AMR. If two TRX\'s are used the quality is lowered by
approximately 1 dBQ and if six TRX\'s are used the quality is raised by
approximately 1 dBQ, but the difference between AMR and EFR/HR remains.
Figure 6.2 is similar to figure 6.1, except instead of the average speech
quality, the quality at a certain proportion of the speech quality
distribution in the system is shown.
{width="6.042361111111111in" height="5.478472222222222in"}
Figure 6.2: Speech quality for AMR and EFR/HR at the 3 % and 10 % levels
The 3 % curve can be interpreted as the quality of the 3 % of the calls (or
parts of the calls) which have the worst quality in the system. If capacity
increases are limited to approximately 70 %, there is a significant increase
in quality for the calls with the lowest quality due to the robust operation
on the full-rate channel.
### 6.2.5 System aspects of capacity/quality
In the above section, the capacity gain was computed with a number of
simplifying assumptions, given the difficulty to have a complete picture of
the actual behavior of the system. Some of the following aspects have partly,
or not, been modeled in the previously computed gain.
The re-packing of half rate and full rate channels on the air interface may
potentially cause high system load as well as degradation due to intra-cell
handovers. The results presented in the previous section do not require a
sophisticated re-packing strategy. Results have also been presented indicating
slightly higher gains if more sophisticated re-packing strategies are used.
It is desirable to limit the channel mode handovers to at most a few AMR
handovers per 2-min. call. Results have been presented indicating that the
quality/capacity degradation due to such limitations is small.
In connections where the quality of up- and down-links differ substantially,
there is potentially a loss, since the two links are required to use the same
channels (full-rate or half-rate). [Contributions needed]
A further impact on quality and capacity may be due to resource allocation
constraints. Indeed among other aspects, the assumption that time-slots within
a cell do not, on a short term basis, provide the same quality leads to the
need to combine the channel mode adaptation and the resource allocation in
order to avoid Ping-Pong between modes as explained in Section 6.3.6. This has
a direct impact on the \"re-packing efficiency\" and hence on the expected
capacity gain since mobiles cannot be simply moved onto any time-slot.
### 6.2.6 MS penetration
Studies on the impact of AMR penetration on capacity gain have been conducted
following the approach of an estimated C/I distribution in subclause 6.2.3.
The results presented in figure 6.3 gives an indication of capacity gain
depending on AMR penetration for different levels of the half rate C/I
operating thresholds (including the \"safety\" margin described in subclause
6.2.4). The case when AMR is operated in HR mode only is also indicated. The
results for 100 % AMR penetration is consistent with 30 % to 40 % capacity
gain obtained with an aggregated C/I threshold of approximately 25dB.
{width="4.78125in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 6.3: AMR capacity gain as a function of AMR penetration
## 6.3 Codec adaptation
The working assumptions for the mechanisms for codec adaptation are described
in clause 5. Here, the feasibility aspects only are addressed.
### 6.3.1 Codec mode
The codec mode (bit-rate partitioning between the source and channel coding)
should be changed rapidly to respond to the rapidly changing radio conditions.
For this an accurate channel metric is needed and measurement reports should
be reported frequently across the air-interface.
The schemes for doing this are assumed to be part of the proposals from the
AMR candidates. Nonetheless, their feasibility should be assessed here.
Signaling data transmitted over the radio interface for codec mode control may
include channel quality measurements, codec mode preferences from the MS,
codec mode commands from the network and possibly other information depending
on the specific proposal.
In the case of a very small amount of information, in principle the stealing
flag bits can be used, otherwise a certain portion of the speech frame bits
must be used.
How fast the update rate of such information should be, depends on the dynamic
behavior of the channel conditions.
An update rate of 10 times a second (five times faster than that of the RxQual
and RxLev reporting) should be adequate to maintain good quality in response
to changing radio conditions. In practice, a fading margin of typically [3 dB
- 6 dB] should be introduced to avoid quality variations (see subclause
6.3.4). With this margin, consistent quality should be maintained although
possibly at the expense of some loss of capacity enhancement (more channels
forced to full-rate). The precise trade-off will not be known until AMR
solutions are tested under realistic radio conditions. While this remains an
issue for further study, it is not seen as a particular risk factor.
On the other hand, the actual transmission rate of the in-band side
information depends on the protocol used to convey the information. This could
imply spreading the information on subsequent frames to save transmission
bits, but at the expense of an additional delay in the control loop. A
constraint to the signaling rate is due to the DTX operation that switches off
the transmitter. Although a frequent signaling of the side information is an
essential requirement for AMR operation, this has not to increase the channel
activity such that to undermine the effectiveness of DTX.
The requirements of the channel metric itself are discussed in subclause
6.3.3.
### 6.3.2 Channel mode
The execution of channel mode handovers should be identical to conventional
intra-cell handovers although the algorithm for their initiation will be
different. The frequency of such handovers should be restricted because of the
quality degradation (due to frame stealing for signaling) and more
significantly, the load on the BSC processor, associated signaling and
possible consequential re-packing. Moreover, the channel mode selection
algorithm should be integrated into the radio resource algorithm (see
subclause 6.3.6). The channel mode control will most likely be incorporated
into the radio resource algorithm and the frequency of AMR handovers
controlled by means of Hysteresis etc.
The impact of restricting handovers is that the quality in AMR HR mode could
be impaired (since it could be operating outside its intended limits) or the
capacity would be reduced, if in FR mode. It is not evident at this time how
often handover restrictions would come into play nor how significant would be
its impact on performance. Evaluations of a very limited range of actual calls
using a simple channel mode algorithm (based on RxLev and RxQual) showed that
many calls require no handovers while others require many. These results
suggest that average handover rate could be doubled as a result of AMR
operation and some calls may have fewer AMR handovers than ideal.
### 6.3.3 Channel metrics (accuracy, update rate)
The AMR link adaptation algorithm will be based on a channel metric, such a
metric being representative of the speech quality as perceived by the user. It
is anticipated that that metric will use the estimated residual error rate
available from the output of the channel decoder and a number of other factors
to assist in assessing the trend of the error rate. These may include the
burst wise RxLev, the BFI and information from the equalizer but also system
information such as DTX activation and frequency hopping activation. This
information can be vector quantized to provide information of the position on
a performance surface for the codec and the trend of channel quality, i.e.
improving or degrading. The performance surface is created through
characterizing the subjective quality of the codec as perceived by the
customer against the residual error rate.
Inputs made to SMG-11 have shown how the different codec rates can be chosen
according to an averaged residual error rate and deliver acceptable speech
quality under simplifying assumptions.
The AMR codec will operate and be controlled over a wide range of C/I
conditions. In full-rate mode, it will be possible to operate at very bad
error conditions corresponding to C/I values worse than 4 dB (at the channel
equalizer). In half‑rate mode, G.728 quality is only expected at C/I values in
excess of [18 dB]. Best performance will only be achieved by selecting the
codec mode matching the channel condition.
It is also critical that the metric is accurate since if the wrong codec mode
is selected, the quality will be reduced undermining one of the basic
principles of AMR.
It is assumed that the channel metric will form part of the candidate\'s
solution.
### 6.3.4 Channel dynamics, effects on performance
As seen above (subclause 6.4.1), the codec mode can be changed to track the
radio signal dynamics with time constants as short as [100 msec]. Assuming
that the codec mode adaptation algorithm is based on a comparison between the
channel metric and a set of thresholds, the decision thresholds should count
the codec performance crossing point and allow for a \"fading\" margin. Such a
margin should be chosen to take into account fast variations of the error
rates and hence the correlation time of the channel dynamic to avoid Ping-Pong
effects. On these time-scales, the signal dynamics are dominated by Rayleigh
fading although under some fast moving conditions, shadow fading can also come
into play as far as the useful signal is concerned, the same dynamic applying
also to the interferers Measurements and simulations of the radio channel
suggest that a margin of [?? DB] should be allowed. The exact margins will
have to be fine-tuned once AMR systems have been developed and operated in
real radio environments.
The effect on performance of allowing for this margin is estimated in
subclause 6.3.
### 6.3.5 Location of codec mode and channel mode control
[Channel mode]{.underline}
As the control of the AMR channel mode will have to be integrated with the
Radio Resource algorithm, it is assumed that they will be co-located in the
BSC or distributed between the BTS and BSC. This combined algorithm will use
the existing channel measurement reports, RxLev and RxQual and the new channel
metric yet to be defined.
[Codec mode]{.underline}
Since the additional channel measurement reports for AMR will be transmitted
in-band, there are several alternatives for the location of the codec mode
control and the associated transmission of measurement reports and mode
commands. These have been reviewed and the recommended approach is that:
\- codec mode control relating to capacity or radio link quality should be
located in the network (BSS);
\- MS can autonomously select the codec mode of the up-link on the basis of
speech source content (e.g. background noise); however, the network should
have the option to e.g. override the MS preferred selection or restrict the
range of selectable modes.
The first point is seen as important because it allows the flexibility to
upgrade the control algorithms of both the up- and down-links retrospectively.
However, this may imply an increase of the data to be exchanged between the MS
and the BTS when compared to solutions where no metric-related data are
exchanged. Advantages were also shown in using a scheme where the control is
distributed between the MS and BSS. However, unless very clear advantages over
the centralized approach are demonstrated, the centralized approach will
become the firm requirement at the start of the development.
The reason for emphasizing source-controlled selection in the MS is that it is
more difficult to achieve good quality with background noise, especially at
low codec bit-rates. Selecting the codec mode locally at the MS allows good
quality to be maintained with background noise, provided that the radio
conditions allow a possible increase of the source bit-rate, without
unnecessary reporting to the network _._ When operating in the HR channel
mode, switching to the FR channel mode may be necessary to achieve good
quality with background noise.
[Transmission of measurement and control data]{.underline}
Channel quality information will need to be transmitted via an in-band
signaling channel over-the-air with suitable protection (in the MS to BSS
direction only for the centralized control). Such quality information can be
assumed to represent an intermediate stage in the computation of the metric,
obtained by processing of the in-band information and potentially other system
parameters. It is believed that a good trade-off can be reached between the
bit rate of the implied in-band signaling, including channel protection, and
the speech coding bit rate.
As well as transmitting channel quality or control data in-band, it has also
been proposed to use frame stealing flags. This would allow greater capacity
on the radio interface for the transmission of speech data and channel
protection.
### 6.3.6 Radio resource allocation
The existing resource allocation strategies applied to Full Rate (or EFR)
codecs combined with the Half Rate codecs, or a fortiori Full rate only
codecs, will have to be revisited with the introduction of the AMR, especially
when handovers between Half Rate and Full Rate modes are allowed. Indeed, in
contrast to the already difficult case of coexistence of Half Rate and Full
Rate traffic channels, the channel mode can be modified during the call based
on the channel quality estimates.
With AMR, the resource allocation strategy and the channel mode adaptation
have to be coordinated such that the channel mode and the quality provided by
the allocated resource are well paired. The objective is to reach the best
trade-off between the carried traffic and the quality of the call.
Limitations will arise due to avoid Ping-Pong as well as too numerous channel
mode changes (i.e. AMR handovers). Otherwise extensive use of layer 3
signaling will be required and this degrades the call (speech interruption) in
addition to loading up the BSC. An important side effect of these limitations
is that it decreases the capacity gain from the AMR. It is currently difficult
to evaluate this decrease as the exact effect will depend on the AMR handover
algorithm which is manufacturer specific in a similar way to intra-cell
handover.
## 6.4 Support of other features
### 6.4.1 TFO
One example of a tandem free configuration is shown in figure 6.4.
{width="6.292361111111111in" height="0.8875in"}
Figure 6.4: Mobile to mobile communication link
TFO mode can be operated only if both mobile links in a mobile-to-mobile
direction (e.g. up-link MS-A to network and downlink, network to MS-B) use the
same speech coding bit-rate and algorithm. In principle this does not imply
that the same _channel mode_ has to be used, but can be achieved only if the
AMR decoder is capable of operating at the same source rates for both FR and
HR _channel modes._
Several options are possible to deal with the TFO management when combined
with AMR.
However, for AMR, the fact that the codec rates are varied, sometimes rapidly,
presents special difficulties not previously encountered. Alternative
approaches to this problem have been considered but the optimum method will
demand detailed evaluation outside of the scope of the Study Phase.
Nevertheless it was identified that at least the BTS would have to be informed
whether a call is TFO or not. In consequence provisions must be taken to
convey such an information between the TRAU and the BTS.
Furthermore depending on the specific solution for the TFO scheme precautions
may have to be taken in the basic AMR, e.g. the codec types designed for HR
mode may have also to be adapted for the TCH/F.
Taking all these considerations into account, it is still felt that the
implementation of TFO for AMR is feasible.
### 6.4.2 DTX
For the same reasons as for the other GSM codecs, AMR should support DTX for
which VAD and comfort noise algorithms will be needed.
One concern is that if conventional DTX is invoked, the frequency of in-band
channel measurement reports will be severely reduced. This could be offset by
transmitting SID frames more frequently. This may also provide higher quality
of the reproduced background noise. Different ways of implementing AMR DTX
operation which retain most of the DTX gains are conceivable, possibly using
lower transmission power.
How the channel measurements are to be reported during DTX will be at the
discretion of the codec proponent. However, the restrictions and their
significance need further evaluation.
This needs further study and currently represents a risk.
### 6.4.3 Power control
The availability of an accurate channel metric which is provided more
frequently than RxLev could in principle allow power control to be exercised
more precisely and rapidly than at present. This should enhance the advantages
of reduced interference and longer battery life _._ However, it could also
have the effect of reducing the C/I distribution (fewer calls at high C/I) and
potentially constricting the range of operation of the AMR codec. This would
reduce the capacity and quality gains of AMR operation.
A separate point is that there may also be interactions between a rapidly
changing power control and codec modes. To counter this, there would be
advantages to integrating the two into a common algorithm. In the shorter
term, there should not be any conflicts if the existing power control methods
are combined with the short time constants of codec mode control.
This area requires further study but is only seen as a minor risk.
### 6.4.4 Handover
In a similar way to power control, the new channel metric should also allow
(conventional) handovers to be controlled more precisely since the metric will
give a more accurate measure of channel quality and over a wider range of C/I
than is possible with RxQual. This is only highlighted here as an advantage
and has no bearing on the feasibility of AMR.
### 6.4.5 8 and 16 kbit/s A-ter sub-multiplexing
**a) Full-rate mode**
The maximum source coding rate for full-rate mode (using 16 kbit sub-
multiplexing) is about ?? kbps which is sufficient for the highest expected
AMR rate even with the inclusion of some channel protection (as for EFR).
**b) Half-rate mode**
The existing HR codec can be transmitted on the A-ter interface using 8 kbps
instead of 16 kbps sub-multiplexing thereby doubling transmission capacity.
Operators see this as a useful feature and it is desirable that this is also
available for HR mode of the AMR codec. This has been evaluated.
The maximum source coding rates that can be supported on the A-ter interface
will depend on the precise data formatting and signaling schemes. According to
the compromises selected, this rate is estimated to lie between 6,5 kbps and
7,5 kbps, although the higher figure would require significant compromises in
terms of backward compatibility with the existing TRAU frame formats leading
to dedicated TRAU for AMR or new TRAU frames for existing codecs. Codec tests
have also suggested that the bit-rates needed to achieve G.728 quality in HR
mode is likely to be close to 8 kbps. This implies that to achieve the AMR
target quality in HR mode, a sub-multiplexing rate higher than 8 kbps may be
necessary.
A new proposal was discussed based on 6:1 multiplexing (instead of 4:1 or 8:1)
which would support an 8kbs source coding rate. However, this would be most
applicable when most channels are AMR rather than a mixture of the other GSM
codec types and is seen as a longer term solution. Nonetheless, it remains a
potentially attractive solution. As the approach is new and raises a number of
issues, it is recommended the approach be studied further.
In the shorter term, attention is focused on 8 kbps and 16 kbps sub-
multiplexing [which can be mixed _\-- check_]. It is probable that there will
have to be at least two codec modes at HR, one for high C/I (e.g. > 18 dB) and
one for low C/I. Since codec mode changes can occur rapidly and switching
between 8 kbps and 16 kbps sub-multiplexing will cause quality degradations,
it is anticipated that a fixed sub-multiplexing rate will have to be used for
HR mode. Therefore to support 8 sub-multiplexing, the HR codec mode may have
to be restricted to the lower source coding rate in HR mode, significantly
limiting the quality and value of AMR. Nonetheless, as some operators may need
this flexibility under certain circumstances, it is recommended that at least
one codec mode in HR is provided which supports 8kbs sub-multiplexing.
Recommendation:
\- no constraint applied on the upper limit of the source codec bit-rate in HR
mode;
\- at least one source coding bit-rate in HR mode to be consistent with 8 kbps
sub-multiplexing;
\- study potential for 6:1 or similar compression scheme as a longer term
solution.
## 6.5 Wideband service option
The feasibility of adding a special mode to AMR, which would support a
wideband speech service (e.g. 7 kHz), has been assessed but many aspects have
not been resolved due to lack of time. The broad question of whether to add a
wideband mode to AMR was the subject of considerable discussion but there were
conflicting options. Nonetheless, there is agreement that the AMR program
should not be delayed for the sake of introducing a wideband mode. The issues
are summarized in a separate liaison statement to SMG in which SMG are
requested to decide how the development of a wideband service should proceed.
Some of the main points are identified below:
\- a wideband service would give a substantial quality uplift over narrowband
and there is foreseen to be a market for mobile-to-mobile wideband users (or
mobile-to-fixed), although the service will initially be restricted by the
number of users having the necessary wideband terminals;
\- noting the need to avoid the proliferation of GSM codec standards,
including wideband on AMR gives the best opportunity to deliver a wideband
capability in the near term;
\- a wideband mode may be accommodated within the Release 1998 AMR development
program by only testing it in the Qualification Phase and then giving
preference to AMR candidates, which include a wideband option, which meets the
performance specification. The wideband mode would be given lower priority
than narrowband. This approach has not yet been agreed by SMG11 as workable
and needs to be reviewed and elaborated;
\- there are also serious concerns that adding wideband to narrowband AMR adds
risk to the program due to the additional testing and selection tasks and
reduces the chances of meeting the Release 1998 deadline;
\- it has not been established that the wideband performance capability
achievable with a single TDMA timeslot (i.e. 13 kbps approx.) will be adequate
for a commercially competitive wideband service. This is substantiated by the
recent failure of any of the candidates to meet the performance targets for an
ITU-T 16kbs wideband speech codec under certain conditions;
\- there exist examples of wideband speech codecs with bit-rates in the range
12 kbps to 13 kbps, which show promising performance.
# 7 Requirements specification
The target performance requirements for the AMR codec was set out in the
report SQSG presented to SMG#20 in October 1996 (see Tdoc SMG 447/96). These
requirements have been reviewed and in the light of feasibility assessments
made during the Study Phase (see subclause 6.1.1), a revised requirement
specification has been produced (see annex C). This is more complete and
precise to enable the candidate codecs to be properly developed, tested and
selected. Some of the targets have also been modified in the light of
assessments of the performance that can practically be achieved. These concern
mainly the performance in HR mode under medium error conditions and the
performance in the presence of background noise.
Time has not allowed the requirements to be defined and agreed in respect of
the performance under dynamic conditions. This work is in progress but is not
ready to be approved. These requirements will have to be approved by SMG11 and
frozen for the start of the Qualification Phase in November 1997.
# 8 Implementation factors
The main logical entities in the network and MS that will need to be upgraded
to support AMR are identified in annex D.
The costs of implementation of the upgrades to existing networks will depend
on particular manufacturer\'s implementations and no attempt has been made to
estimate them here.
# 9 Codec development and selection
## 9.1 Test and selection methodologies
The candidate AMR codecs will be tested by a combination of static and dynamic
tests. For the static tests, conventional, well-established methods will be
used to evaluate each of the codec modes in clear, error conditions, with and
without background noise under specific, static radio conditions (including
Rayleigh fading, excluding shadow fading). In addition, the effects of
switching between codec modes (for a given channel mode) will be tested by
forcing rapid codec mode changes.
The dynamic tests in contrast will require completely new test methodologies.
The purpose of these tests is to evaluate the performance of complete AMR
system, including the codec adaptation system, in response to dynamic radio
conditions. This requires a system simulator (see subclause 9.3) and error
patterns corresponding to a widely varying radio path. These tests will
evaluate the performance of codec mode adaptation in the absence of channel
mode changes. New subjective test procedures will also be necessary evaluate
and score the performance. The reference condition for such tests will be
existing codec standards.
The dynamic test methodology and the system simulator is in the process of
being formulated.
## 9.2 Asymmetry of up and down links
The test methodology for static and dynamic testing needs to recognize the
asymmetry of the in-band signaling in the uplink and downlink and the
recommended approach is outlined below.
[Assumptions]{.underline}
It is assumed that for a given codec mode, the algorithm and bit rate of the
speech codec will be identical for the uplink and downlink (note that this
does not imply that the uplink and downlink must operate in the same mode
simultaneously).
[Static tests]{.underline}
If, for a given mode, there is a difference in the net channel coding rate of
the speech between the uplink and downlink (i.e. after taking in-band
signaling bits into account), the link with the least protected speech bits
will be tested.
In static tests involving bit errors and mode switching, the channel coding
will be included in the speech processing stages. However, the impact of bit
errors in the signaling channel will be ignored; the codec mode will be
determined only by the experimental condition, i.e. it will be fixed or
switched at a pre-determined rate.
[Dynamic tests]{.underline}
In dynamic tests, each experimental condition will be tested for both the
uplink and downlink directions. The signaling system used for mode adaptation
will be included in the speech processing stages, with the effect of bit-
errors on the signaling bits incorporated. If signaling bits are external to
the traffic channel, e.g. frame stealing flags, the effect of errors in these
bits must also be simulated.
## 9.3 Speech traffic channel simulation model
Due to the need to take into account the adaptation concept of AMR, the
traffic channel simulation model for AMR has to consider both transmission
links simultaneously. The high-level block diagram of such simulator is
reported in figure 9.1 referring to uplink configuration.
Figure 9.1: Block diagram of the AMR speech traffic channel simulation model
The error patterns are assumed to carry also the information on RxQual and
RxLev. The backward channel (downlink in this case) is used to take into
account the effect of delay and channel errors on the in-band signaling data
that are used to take decision on the codec mode bit-rate. The HR/FR channel
mode flag is used to simulate AMR handovers. It is also used in the EID to
select the proper error pattern.
Details of the definition of the various blocks as well as specification of
interfaces are reported in annex E.
## 9.4 Schedule
In response to the terms of reference of the AMR project, SMG11 and SMG2 have
assessed the feasibility of a schedule that would deliver the AMR
specifications in time for Release 1998. The schedule has to include the
following main activities:
\- pre-qualification phase: Performance requirements, test plans, static and
dynamic error patterns, system simulator specification, design constraints;
\- qualification phase testing;
\- optimization;
\- selection testing;
\- production of specifications followed by period of stabilization.
A draft schedule for the AMR codec testing, selection and standardization is
shown in annex F. This incorporates the standardization of the associated
control system and signaling. This schedule is itself very aggressive. Since
it was produced, SMG2 have indicated that more time will be needed to produce
the error patterns which are not expected to be available until December 1997
(static patterns) and March 1998 (dynamic patterns). The schedule therefore
needs to be reviewed urgently and at the time of writing, it is not clear that
Release 1998 can be achieved.
Since a Release 1998 schedule will carry a high degree of risk, the
Qualification Phase of testing includes dynamic as well as static tests to
reveal at the conclusion of this phase [March 1998] the extent to which the
candidate solutions meet the performance requirements. If they pass or come
close, the selection phase will proceed (possibly with a short optimization
phase). Otherwise, time will be allowed for an extended optimization period in
which case, AMR would probably be postponed to Release 1999.
## 9.5 Programme management
Prime responsibility for the AMR development will be held by SMG11 with SMG2
and SMG3 having secondary responsibilities.
The proposed Work Item description is contained in Annex G.
# 10 Open issues and risks
The feasibility study has evaluated to a greater or lesser degree the main
aspects of the function and operation of the AMR codec. Preliminary
evaluations as well as some advanced codec developments and testing have shown
to a satisfactory level of confidence that the performance requirements are
achievable. However, there remain a few areas that present some risks to the
successful realization and application of AMR.
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue | Impact on AMR | Risk levels | Risk | | | performance | assessed by | assessment. | | | | SMG2 and SMG11 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Speech quality | The | Medium | The benefits | | | performance | | are still | | | requirements | | significant | | | in HR mode | | even with the | | | under error | | relaxation. | | | and background | | | | | noise | | | | | conditions | | | | | have been | | | | | relaxed to be | | | | | realistic. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel and | The | Medium | Performance | | mode | effectiveness | | will improve | | adaptation | of these | | with | | algorithms | algorithms is | | experience | | | crucial to | | with real | | | good AMR | | networks. | | | operation. | | | | | Initial | | | | | i | | | | | mplementations | | | | | may not | | | | | realize the | | | | | full potential | | | | | of AMR. (Cf. | | | | | Handover | | | | | algorithms). | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Impact of | Performance | Medium | The main | | actual C/I | will depend on | | performance | | distribution | the actual C/I | | benefits (see | | on | distribution. | | Section | | ca | This has | | 6.2.2.) have | | pacity/quality | proved to be | | been estimated | | benefits | difficult to | | on the basis | | | estimate | | of the lower | | | reliably and | | (i.e. more | | | the C/I | | pessimistic) | | | forecasts | | C/I | | | produced so | | distributions. | | | far have shown | | | | | wide | | | | | variations. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provision of | If accuracy | SMG2: high | Proposals for | | accurate | falls below | | the complete | | channel metric | the target, | SMG11: medium | control | | over wide C/I | the | | mechanism | | range | non-optimum | | including the | | | codec mode may | | channel metric | | | be selected, | | have shown | | | significantly | | that viable | | | reducing the | | solutions can | | | quality and | | be achieved. | | | capacity | | | | | benefits. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Tracking of | This has been | SMG2: medium | If the | | rapid signal | estimated but | | estimates have | | dynamics by | its impact | SMG11: low | been | | control system | cannot be | | optimistic, an | | | properly | | additional | | | assessed until | | safety margin | | | sophisticated | | should be | | | simulation | | allowed for. | | | tools or trial | | | | | results become | | | | | available. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | TFO | Finding an | Medium. | Effective | | | effective TFO | | solutions will | | | solution for | | demand | | | AMR may | | detailed | | | require | | i | | | significant | | nvestigations. | | | effort. | | Although | | | | | highly | | | | | desirable, AMR | | | | | can operate | | | | | without TFO. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Novelty and | The AMR | Medium | The novelty of | | complexity of | concept is | | these | | AMR | introducing | | techniques is | | | new methods | | also the | | | not previously | | reason for the | | | attempted. | | advantages of | | | | | AMR. Without | | | | | the additional | | | | | complexity, | | | | | the advantages | | | | | would not be | | | | | realized. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 11 Recommendations
On basis of the performance benefits and risks highlighted above, the
following recommendations are submitted to SMG for approval:
\- initiate a program to develop, test, select and specify AMR speech and
channel codecs together with related features such as VAD, DTX and comfort
noise generation. The associated control, signaling procedures and TFO should
also be developed and specified;
\- an acceptable and workable time-plan should be agreed by SMG11 and SMG2 as
soon as possible after SMG#23 with the priority of meeting Release 1998
deadlines;
\- approve the performance requirement specification in annex C;
\- decide on whether a wideband mode should be included in AMR (see separate
liaison statement);
\- approve the allocation of 400 kECU for the purposes of codec testing;
\- approve the Work Item Description contained in annex G.
###### ### Annex A: Terminology
The terminology used in the present document and recommended for other work on
AMR is listed below.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) | Speech and channel codec capable | | codec** | of operating at gross bit-rates | | | of 11.4 kbps (\"_half-rate_ \") | | | and 22.8 kbps (\"_full-rate_ \"). | | | In addition, the codec may | | | operate at various combinations | | | of speech and channel coding | | | (_codec mode_) bit-rates for | | | each _channel mode_. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **AMR handover** | Handover between the _FR_ and | | | _HR_ _channel modes_ to optimize | | | AMR operation. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Bit-rate change** | Change of the _codec mode_ | | | bit-rates for a given (HR/FR) | | | _channel mode_. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel mode** | Half-rate or full-rate operation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel mode adaptation** | The control and selection of the | | | (FR or HR) _channel mode_. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel Re-packing** | Re-packing of HR (and FR) radio | | | channels of a given radio cell | | | to achieve higher capacity | | | within the cell. Controlled by | | | in-band signaling (future) or | | | out-of-band signaling (today). | | | May influence the A-bis / A-ter | | | interface. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Codec mode** | For a given _channel mode_ , the | | | bit partitioning between the | | | speech and channel codecs. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Codec mode adaptation** | The control and selection of the | | | _codec mode_ bit-rates. | | | Normally, implies no change to | | | the _channel mode_. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Conventional handover** | Inter- or intra- cell handover | | | performed for non-speech coding | | | reasons. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Embedded Speech Codecs** | Family of speech codecs based on | | | a \"Core Codec\" where the next | | | \"higher\" codec fully includes | | | (embeds) the next \"lower\" | | | codec. Decoding of a \"lower\" | | | codec mode is always possible | | | without loss in quality below | | | the quality of that lower codec | | | mode. As a consequence higher | | | codec modes can always be | | | \"stripped off\" to lower codec | | | modes on the way from encoder to | | | decoder. | | | | | | Embedded Speech Codecs are | | | naturally rate compatible. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Error Patterns** | Result of offline simulations | | | (or measurements?) stored on | | **Error Insertion Device** | files. To be used by the \"Error | | | Insertion Device\" to model the | | | radio transmission from the | | | output of the channel decoder | | | and interleaver to the input of | | | the deinterleaver and channel | | | decoder. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Error Profiles** | Error Patterns plus additional | | | information like RXQual, RxLev | | | etc. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Full-rate (FR)** | Full-rate channel or _channel | | | mode_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Gross bit-rate** | The bit-rate of the _channel_ | | | _mode_ selected (22.8 kbps or | | | 11.4 kbps). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Half-rate (HR)** | Half-rate channel or _channel | | | mode_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **In-Band Signaling** | Signaling for DTX, Link Control, | | | Channel and codec mode | | | modification, etc. carried | | | within the traffic channel by | | | reserving or stealing bits | | | normally used for speech | | | transmission. Maybe on the radio | | | channel or other channels inside | | | the fixed network (e.g. A-bis, | | | A-ter, A). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **ISDN Quality** | Speech quality achieved on | | | wireline telephones with a full | | | duplex transparent digital | | | connection over 64 kbit/s links. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Out-of-Band Signaling** | Signaling on the GSM control | | | channels to support link | | | control. May be on the radio | | | channel of other channels inside | | | the fixed network (e.g. A-bis, | | | A-ter, A). | | | | | | Note: Out-Of-Band Signaling on | | | the radio channel sometimes | | | \"steals\" capacity from the | | | speech traffic channel (FACCH) | | | thus creating speech distortion. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Rate compatible speech | Speech codecs (typically | | codecs** | belonging to a family) which can | | | be modified in net bit rate | | | (typically on a frame by frame | | | basis) without speech quality | | | degradation below the quality of | | | the worst mode. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **RXLEV** | GSM defined Receive Carrier | | | Level Estimates, averaged over | | | 480 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **RXQual** | GSM defined Receive Quality | | | Estimates, averaged over 480 ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Speech Codec Family** | All speech coding algorithms | | | which belong to an algorithm | | | family. | | | | | | Typically they have common | | | architectures and can share | | | program code. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Toll Quality** | Speech quality normally achieved | | | on modern wireline telephones. | | | | | | Synonym with \"ISDN quality\" in | | | most western countries. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Wireline quality** | Speech quality provided by | | | modern wireline networks. | | | Normally taken to imply quality | | | at least as good as that of | | | 32kbs G.726 or G.728 codecs. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Acronyms**
ACR Absolute Category Rating
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
C/I Carrier‑to‑Interferer ratio
CNI Comfort Noise Insertion
DCR Degradation Category Rating
DSP Digital Signal Processor
DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency
DTX Discontinuous Transmission for power consumption and interference
reduction
EFR Enhanced Full Rate
EID Error Insertion Device
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
FR Full-rate
FH Frequency Hopping
G.726 ITU 16kbs/24kbs/32kbs ADPCM codec
G.728 ITU 16kbs LD-CELP codec
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HR Half-rate
IRS Intermediate Reference System, No IRS= rather flat
ITU‑T International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunications
Standardization Sector
MNRU Modulated Noise Reference Unit
MOS Mean Opinion Score
MS Mobile Station
OVL Overload point
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
Q Speech‑to‑speech correlated noise power ratio in dB
qdu quantization distortion unit
RPE‑LTP Regular Pulse Excited codec with Long Term Prediction
SID Silence Descriptor
SMG Special Mobile Group
SNR Signal to Noise Ratio
TCH‑HS Traffic Channel Half rate Speech
TCH-FS Traffic Channel Full rate Speech
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
TFO Tandem Free Operation
UPCM Uniform or Linear PCM
VAD Voice Activity Detector
Error Patterns (EP0, EP1, EP2 and EP3):
\- EP0 without channel errors;
\- EP1 C/I=10 dB; 5 % Gross BER (well inside a cell); TU3, Ideal Frequency
Hopping
\- EP2 C/I= 7 dB; 8 % Gross BER (at a cell boundary);
\- EP3 C/I= 4 dB; 13 % Gross BER (outside a cell).
###### ### Annex B: Application scenarios
With the intrinsic flexibility of the AMR system, it will be possible to
customize the application of the codec to meet specific network and service
needs. Some of the potential application scenarios are identified below (in no
particular order) together with the advantages offered and the types of
networks to which they may be suited.
**1) Full-rate only; High quality over full range of channel errors.**
This provides improved resilience to errors compared to GSM EFR so that when
in call, the speech quality varies little with channel errors. It also
provides significantly improved quality under marginal coverage conditions
(e.g. at cell edge, coverage holes etc.).
Some capacity advantage may also be derived from the improved resilience under
low C/I conditions. May support tighter frequency re-use.
[Potential service applications]{.underline}: suitable for operators who do
not need to increase capacity through half-rate operation but wish to offer
the best speech quality possible to all users.
**2) Half-rate only; Improved quality over current HR codec.**
To gain maximum capacity advantage, the AMR codec can be operated in half-rate
channel mode only. In this case, the AMR codec is likely to provide
significant improvements in speech quality over the existing HR codec under
low error conditions by using codec mode adaptation. Other improvements under
background noise and tandeming conditions can also be expected.
[Potential service applications]{.underline}: suitable for operators who need
the greatest capacity enhancement from half-rate operation, but who are also
seeking quality improvements. Some loss of quality at high channel error rates
and in background noise can be expected (but still better than the existing HR
codec).
**3) Full- and Half-rate operation; simple HR/FR handover.**
In this case, handover between FR and HR channel modes will be supported but
probably only using the current intra-cell HR/FR handover capabilities. Such
handovers would not be expected to be frequent (e.g. less than [5] in a two-
minute call). _[Check]_
_AMR handover_ will be controlled according to whether greatest emphasis is to
be placed on quality or capacity enhancements.
This will allow combined quality and capacity enhancements but the simple
handover mechanisms may lead to some short-term variation of speech quality as
the variations of the error rate on the half-rate channel may not be tracked
sufficiently rapidly.
[Potential service applications]{.underline}: suitable for operators who want
to combine speech quality and capacity improvements (less than that achievable
through half-rate only operation).
**4) Full- and Half-rate operation; advanced HR/FR handover.**
In this case, an advanced handover scheme between FR and HR channel modes
would operate. This may involve more handovers and the aim would be to \"fine-
tune\" the selection of the FR and HR channel modes to obtain the best balance
between capacity and quality. This may involve more handovers than 3) but as
handovers themselves are a source of quality degradation, their number will
still need to be restricted.
The particular FR/HR algorithm (on the BSC) may be customized to meet the
operator\'s specific needs.
Subject to establishing the feasibility of this approach, this mode or
operation should provide consistent high speech quality subject to only small
variations in quality and an increase in capacity. The level of capacity
improvement will depend on the FR/HR handover algorithm implemented.
[Potential service applications]{.underline}: suitable for operators who want
to combine speech quality and capacity improvements (less than that achievable
through half-rate only operation).
###### ### Annex C: Codec requirement specification
# C.1 Static conditions
This annex presents performance requirements and objectives for the speech
quality of the GSM AMR system under static test conditions.
The half-rate and full-rate channels will be assessed separately. For each
channel the speech quality of the codec modes associated with that channel
will be assessed over a range of C/I and background noise conditions to
provide a \'family\' of performance curves.
Separate requirements and objectives are specified for clean speech and
background noise. The type of the background noise, e.g. babble or vehicle,
and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) are specified in the associated subjective
test plan.
The requirements and objectives for the full-rate and half-rate traffic
channels under static test conditions are specified in table 1. The following
notes apply.
NOTE 1: \'Ideal case performance\' assumes that optimum mode selection has
occurred for the given channel, and is defined as the performance of the codec
mode which provides the _best_ subjective performance under the specified C/I
and background noise condition.
NOTE 2: \'Worst case performance\' assumes that the mode selection algorithm
has made the poorest choice for the given channel, and is defined as the
performance of the codec mode which provides the _worst_ subjective
performance under the specified C/I and background noise condition.
NOTE 3: Unless otherwise stated, the requirement shall be assumed to be \'not
worse than\'. In the case where two reference codecs are specified, the
candidate codec must meet the stated requirement for both reference codecs.
NOTE 4: The \'not worse than\' and \'better than\' requirements will be
interpreted statistically at the 95% confidence levels.
Table 1a: Clean speech requirements and objectives under static test
conditions
* * *
              Full-Rate Channel                      Half-Rate Channel
C/I Ideal case performance (requirement) Worst case performance (objective)
Ideal case performance (requirement) Worst case performance (objective) no
errors EFR no errors G.728 no errors G.728 no errors FR no errors 19 dB EFR no
errors G.728 no errors G.728 no errors FR no errors 16 dB EFR no errors G.728
no errors G.728 no errors FR at 10 dB 13 dB EFR no errors G.728 no errors FR
at 13 dB FR at 7 dB 10 dB G.728 no errors EFR at 10 dB FR at 10 dB FR at 4 dB
7 dB G.728 no errors EFR at 7 dB FR at 7 dB  
4 dB EFR at 10 dB EFR at 4 dB FR at 4 dB
* * *
Table 1b: Background noise requirements and objectives under static test
conditions
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Full-Rate | Half-Rate | | | | | Channel | Channel | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C/I | Ideal case | Worst case | Ideal case | Worst case | | | performance | performance | performance | performance | | | (r | (objective) | (r | (objective) | | | equirement) | | equirement) | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | no errors | EFR no | G.729 and | better than | G.729 and | | | errors | FR | | FR | | | | | G.729 and | | | | | no errors | FR | no errors | | | | | | | | | | | no errors | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 19 dB | EFR no | G.729 and | better than | G.729 and | | | errors | FR | | FR | | | | | G.729 and | | | | | no errors | FR | no errors | | | | | | | | | | | no errors | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 dB | EFR no | G.729 and | better than | FR at 10 dB | | | errors | FR | | | | | | | G.729 and | | | | | no errors | FR | | | | | | | | | | | | no errors | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 dB | EFR no | G.729 and | FR at 13 dB | FR at 7 dB | | | errors | FR | | | | | | | | | | | | no errors | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 dB | G.729 and | FR at 10 dB | FR at 10 dB | FR at 4 dB | | | FR | | | | | | | | | | | | no errors | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 dB | G.729 and | FR at 7 dB | FR at 7 dB | | | | FR | | | | | | | | | | | | no errors | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 dB | FR at 10 dB | FR at 4 dB | FR at 4 dB | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
**Original SQSG performance benchmarks**
The performance benchmarks originally set by SQSG for AMR are reproduced
below.
[Full-rate mode]{.underline}
Speech quality, talker dependency, background noise1 and tandeming:
EP0 EFR under EP0
EP3 EFR under EP1
[Half-rate mode]{.underline}
Speech quality, talker dependency, background noise and tandeming:
EP0 G.728
EP1 EFR under EP1
EP2 FR under EP2
EP3 FR under EP3
Complexity target for speech no higher than 8 times the complexity and channel
codecs combined of the TCH-FS speech and channel codecs
Other points that need to be checked for adaptability:
\- varying channel condition test to ensure that channel adaptive technique
does not seriously degrade performance including when DTX is operated;
\- the ability for the coder to signal its need to be handed over to FR;
\- no annoying artifacts when changing channel modes.
NOTE 5: The background noise specification should recognize realistic usage
environments and the expected minimum noise differentiation performance
(DELSM) of the MS.
# C.2 Dynamic conditions
_[In the process of being defined.]_
###### ### Annex D: AMR implementation requirements
# D.1 Network
The following table lists the basic network functions, which would be impacted
by the introduction of AMR. The table also identifies whether a similar
modification was required for the introduction of EFR.
Table D.1: Overview of the network modifications
+--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | Device | Upgrade for AMR | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | BTS | New Channel Codec, | | | | | | In-band Transmission of metrics and signaling data, | | | | | | Codec mode adaptation algorithm based on the | | | characteristics of the radio channel, | | | | | | DTX, | | | | | | New TRAU frames, | | | | | | _Transmission to the BSC of information related to the | | | quality of the radio channel._ | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | BSC | Radio resource algorithm to incorporate channel mode | | | adaptation and enhanced channel re-packing | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | TRAU | New TRAU frames, | | | | | | New Speech Codec, | | | | | | Codec mode adaptation algorithm based on the | | | characteristics of the input signal, | | | | | | _G.722 may be needed in case of wideband codec_ | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | MSC | Minor signaling extensions for e.g. handover, circuit | | | pooling | | | | | | _In case of wideband extension of the ISUP might be | | | necessary to identify that wideband can be used in both | | | terminals._ | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | OMC-R | Configuration of the AMR codec (e.g. TCH/H only) | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+
The modifications in the network required for introducing the AMR will be
dependent on the level of actual adaptation desired. As a matter of fact the
AMR is a toolbox and thus does not oblige to implement all the features. This
specific aspect allows a smooth introduction of the AMR in the sense that it
can be done in several steps.
A general comment is that much more functions of the network have to be
modified. An attempt of listing the functions to be modified is provided in
table YY. Hardware upgrades may be necessary especially for the first
generation devices (BTS, BSC and TRAU).
The OMC will have also to be modified if the operators want to take advantage
of the high flexibility offered by the AMR.
Table D.2: Detailed list of network modifications
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Generic | Upgrade Required | Equivalent upgrade | | | | required for EFR | | Function | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Speech Frame Coding | Support of the | Only one new speech | | | multiple Half Rate | codec required for | | | and Full Rate Speech | EFR | | | Codecs | | | | | | | | Support of embedded | | | | In Band signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Voice Activity | Support of a new VAD | Only one new VAD | | Detection | algorithm(s) for the | algorithm for EFR | | | half rate and full | | | | rate modes of AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Ater | New TRAU frames | New TRAU frames | | | | | | | 8 and 16 kbit/s | 16 kbit/s | | | sub-multiplexing | sub-multiplexing | | | | | | | Increase of | | | | transmission means | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Codec Selection | Processing of the RX | Support of codec | | | In band signaling | selection at call | | | | set up (Bearer | | | Support of a dynamic | Capabilities) | | | codec selection on a | | | | frame basis based on | | | | the RX In Band | | | | signaling and | | | | possibly on the | | | | characteristics of | | | | the source signal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Coding | Support of new | Same channel coding | | | channel coding for | as the FR | | | each codec | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interleaving | Possible new | Same as for the FR | | | interleaving schemes | | | | for some or all | | | | channel modes of AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Stealing flag | Possible extension | No modification of | | | of the stealing flag | the stealing flag | | | use to indicate the | for the EFR | | | channel mode and/or | | | | carry some in band | | | | signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Measurement | Support of a new | No additional | | | metric for an | channel measurements | | | accurate evaluation | for the EFR | | | of the propagation | | | | conditions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Stealing Flag | Possible | Not needed | | Extraction | exploitation of the | | | | stealing to | | | | determine the | | | | channel mode and/or | | | | recover some in-band | | | | signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | De-Interleaving | Possible new | Not needed | | | De-interleaving | | | | schemes for some or | | | | all channel modes of | | | | AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Decoding | Support of a new | Minor modifications | | | channel decoding | of the TCH-FS | | | mode for each codec | channel decoder | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Speech Decoding | Support of a set of | Only one new speech | | | new speech decoding | decoding algorithm | | Bad Frame Handling | algorithms for the | for EFR. | | | full rate and half | | | In Band Signaling | rate modes of AMR | New bad frame | | | | handling needed for | | | Possible new bad | EFR. | | | frame handling | | | | algorithms | | | | | | | | Extraction of the In | | | | Band signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TX In Band signaling | Generation of an In | Not needed | | | Band signaling | | | | message containing | | | | either measurement | | | | reports and/or | | | | downlink codec | | | | requirement and/or | | | | indication. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource Management | Possible impacted | Optimization of | | | messages/procedures | existing procedure | | | include: | | | | | | | | Measurement Reports | | | | (to partially report | | | | the new metric on | | | | the SACCH) | | | | | | | | System Information | | | | (to define the | | | | operation thresholds | | | | of the channel | | | | adaptation). | | | | | | | | Channel re-packing | | | | must be implemented | | | | to achieve | | | | significant capacity | | | | gains. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Call Control Layer 3 | Codec | Codec indication at | | | n | call set up (Bearer | | | egotiation/selection | Capabilities) | | | at call set up | | | | | Channel Mode | | | (Bearer | indication in | | | Capabilities) | Assignment/Handover | | | | Commands | | | Channel Mode | | | | indication in | | | | Assignment/Handover | | | | Command | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Mode | The BSC manages the | Not needed | | adaptation | channel mode | | | | adaptation based on | | | | information received | | | | from the BTS. | | | | | | | | More layer 3 | | | | messages per call. | | | | Processing power | | | | must be increased to | | | | maintain the number | | | | of Erlang managed by | | | | a BSC. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Power Control | The Power Control | Not needed | | | may have to be | | | | modified in order to | | | | ensure a good | | | | coexistence with the | | | | Adaptation feature | | | | of the AMR | | | | (Ping-Pong effects | | | | must be avoided). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | OMC | Configuration of the | Not needed | | | operation mode of | | | | the AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Abis | Increase of the LAPD | Not needed | | | transmission | | | | capacity | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# D.2 MS
The following table lists the basic Mobile Station functions, which would be
impacted by the introduction of AMR. The table also identifies whether a
similar modification was required for the introduction of EFR. Note that it is
assumed that the management of half rate channels is already supported by the
MS and does not require any upgrade as a result of the introduction of AMR.
The figure below presents a simplified architecture of a Mobile Station. The
new functions or functions requiring an upgrade are framed by a double line.
Table D.3
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Generic | Upgrade Required | Equivalent upgrade | | | | required for EFR | | Function | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Speech Frame Coding | Support of the | Only one new speech | | | multiple Half Rate | codec required for | | | and Full Rate Speech | EFR | | | Codecs | | | | | | | | Support of embedded | | | | In Band signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Voice Activity | Support of a new VAD | Only one new VAD | | Detection | algorithm(s) for the | algorithm for EFR | | | half rate and full | | | | rate modes of AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Codec Selection | Processing of the RX | Support of codec | | | In band signaling | selection at call | | | | set up (Bearer | | | Support of a dynamic | Capabilities) | | | codec selection on a | | | | frame basis based on | | | | the RX In Band | | | | signaling and | | | | possibly on the | | | | characteristics of | | | | the source signal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Coding | Support of new | | | | channel coding for | | | | each codec | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interleaving | Possible new | | | | interleaving schemes | | | | for some or all | | | | channel modes of AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Stealing flag | Possible extension | | | | of the stealing flag | | | | use to indicate the | | | | channel mode and/or | | | | carry some in band | | | | signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Measurement | Support of a new | | | | metric for an | | | | accurate evaluation | | | | of the propagation | | | | conditions | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Stealing Flag | Possible | | | Extraction | exploitation of the | | | | stealing to | | | | determine the | | | | channel mode and/or | | | | recover some in-band | | | | signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | De-Interleaving | Possible new | | | | De-interleaving | | | | schemes for some or | | | | all channel modes of | | | | AMR | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Decoding | Support of a new | | | | channel decoding | | | | mode for each codec | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Speech Decoding | Support of a set of | New speech decoding | | | new speech decoding | algorithm for EFR | | Bad Frame Handling | algorithms for the | | | | full rate and half | New bad frame | | In Band Signaling | rate modes of AMR | handling algorithm | | | | | | | Possible new bad | | | | frame handling | | | | algorithms | | | | | | | | Extraction of the In | | | | Band signaling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TX In Band signaling | Generation of an In | | | | Band signaling | | | | message containing | | | | either measurement | | | | reports and/or | | | | downlink codec | | | | requirement and/or | | | | indication. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource Management | Possible impacted | | | | messages/procedures | | | | include: | | | | | | | | Measurement Reports | | | | (to partially report | | | | the new metric on | | | | the SACCH) | | | | | | | | System Information | | | | (to define the | | | | operation thresholds | | | | of the channel | | | | adaptation) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Call Control Layer 3 | Codec | Codec indication at | | | n | call set up (Bearer | | | egotiation/selection | Capabilities) | | | at call set up | | | | | Channel Mode | | | (Bearer | indication in | | | Capabilities) | Assignment/Handover | | | | Commands | | | Channel Mode | | | | indication in | | | | Assignment/Handover | | | | Command | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
{width="5.0881944444444445in" height="8.995138888888889in"}
Figure D.1
###### ### Annex E: Speech traffic channel simulator
This annex contains a short description of the different blocks involved in
the speech traffic channel simulator.
**AMR encoder**
It contains the algorithms for speech encoding, channel encoding as well as
voice activity detection and DTX functions. All these algorithms are
considered to be part of the _codec proposal_ and are left to the proponent.
[_DTX algorithms are not mandatory to be included in the first proposal, still
to be confirmed_ !!!]. The encoder shall be capable to operate at HR or FR
mode on demand (driven by the HR/FR flag). The encoder shall be capable to
operate at different codec modes selected on the basis of the side information
for codec control. The AMR encoder can also contain a suitable algorithm for
codec mode adaptation.
The information on the encoding rate is considered to be part of the speech
information and it is signaled in-band or using frame stealing flag techniques
according to the codec proponent algorithm.
The information on HR/FR mode is intended to be signaled out of band with the
current mechanism.
The input signal is the standard 16 bit linear PCM signal. The output signal
is the data stream at 11,4 kbit/s or 22,8 kbit/s already interleaved as in the
cases of half-rate and enhanced full-rate exercises. It also shall contain the
necessary in-band signaling for proper operation, this means for instance the
actual operating rate and the feedback on the channel quality estimation.
**EID Error Insertion Device**
The error insertion device allows error insertion with soft-chip output in
either HR or FR operating modes.
It is complying with the assumptions made in the HR and EFR specifications.
The HR/FR flag is used to properly consider the soft-chip error patterns.
The HR/FR flag is transferred without any error simulation on it.
**Error pattern**
Suitable error patterns shall be defined and made available for testing. They
should carry the information on the soft chip errors as well as associated
RxQual and RxLev.
**AMR decoder**
The AMR decoder contains the algorithms for channel decoding, error
concealment, speech decoding as well as comfort noise and DTX functions. All
the algorithms are up to the codec proponents.
The AMR decoder can also contain a suitable algorithm for codec mode
adaptation.
**Delay**
The side information for codec mode control shall be transferred to the
backward channel by taking into account the proper delay involved that can be
different for different proposals depending on the location of the codec mode
adaptation algorithm and on the in-band signaling protocol used.
**AMR signaling encoder**
The AMR signaling encoder has the purpose to encode the required side
information for codec mode adaptation. It could contain the complete AMR
encoder, or it can be a simplified version in which only the signaling part is
included. The other portion of information can be filled with random bits. It
is part of the candidate proposal.
A suitable DTX pattern must however be used in order to take into account of
switching on and off the transmitter and consequently the impact on the
signaling rate and on the performance in dynamic operation.
**AMR signaling decoder**
It contains the decoding functions of the in-band signaling. Also in this case
it can be the complete AMR decoder or a simplified version. It is again up to
the codec proponent. Its use is to decode the side information for codec mode
adaptation.
###### ### Annex F: Schedule for AMR development
The schedule for the AMR development and standardization outlined below was
produced by SMG11 at its meeting in September 1997. Subsequently, SMG2 WPB
indicated that the static and dynamic error patterns needed for the
Qualification Tests would not be available until December 1997 and March 1998
respectively. This will clearly impact the feasibility of completing the work
in time for Release 1998. The schedule therefore needs to be reviewed by SMG11
and SMG2 to arrive at a common acceptable plan.
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Date | Activity | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | October 1997 | - Definition of the Terms of Reference. | | | | | | - Approval of the Feasibility Report at TC | | | SMG#23. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | November 1997 | - Definition of the system simulator, | | | references and error profiles. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | | - Definition of qualification test plan / | | | Provision of references. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | | - Definition of qualification and selection | | | rules. | | | | | | - Declaration of intention to submit a | | | candidate. | | | | | | - Start the development of the system simulator | | | for the selection phase. | | | | | | - Start the definition of test plans for the | | | selection phase. | | | | | | - Start the organization of the host laboratory | | | session for selection phase. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | To | - Information to be provided for consideration | | | of candidate algorithms: | | March 1998 | | | | - High-level description of the proposed | | | algorithm. | | | | | | - Qualification test results of the candidate | | | algorithm according to the qualification test | | | procedure. | | | | | | - Additional information from the proponents, | | | e.g. convergence time and complexity of the | | | proposed algorithm. | | | | | | - Demo-tape, e.g. a DAT tape, with processed | | | speech (+ noise) material. - Description of the | | | acoustic/environmental conditions used for the | | | recordings (e.g. audio parts, S/N ratios, | | | frequency bandwidth, etc.) | | | | | | - Written statement on IPR (according to the | | | \"_ETSI Patent Policy\")_ | | | | | | - Continue the definition of test plan for the | | | selection phase. | | | | | | - Continue the organization of the laboratory | | | sessions for the selection phase. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | To + 2 months | - Completion of test plans for the selection | | | phase. | | (May 1998) | | | | - Submission of detailed description of | | | candidate algorithms. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | | - Completion of the system simulator | | | | | | - Submission of software simulations to host | | | laborator(y)/ies. | | | | | | - Start subjective tests for the selection | | | phase | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | To + 4 months | - Evaluation of the results of the selection | | | phase. | | (July 1998) | | | | - Evaluation of algorithm complexity. | | | | | | - Selection of one candidate for further | | | consideration (optimization). | | | | | | - Start of the definition of test plan for the | | | characterization phase. | | | | | | - TFO Outline Enhancement. | | | | | | - SMG2 Outline Channel Control Standard. | | | | | | - Start DTX definition. | | | | | | - Start development of test vectors and | | | signaling type approval testing. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | To + 6 months | - Review of available results for candidate or | | | compromise algorithm. | | (September 1998) | | | | - Agreement on selected algorithm. | | | | | | - Definition of test plan for the | | | characterization phase. | | | | | | - Definition of the laboratory session for the | | | characterization test. | | | | | | - Start development of algorithm implementation | | | verification tests. | | | | | | - Description of TFO mechanism. | | | | | | - SMG2 Channel Control metric definition. | | | | | | - Description of DTX proposal. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | To + 8 months | - Completion of the characterization phase. | | | | | (November 1998) | - Evaluation of the results of the | | | characterization test. | | | | | | - Complete the set of AMR standards. | | | | | | - Finalize Channel Control/Metric | | | specifications. | | | | | | - Finalize TFO mechanism. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | | - Complete the DTX standard. | | | | | | - STCs (SMG2/SMG3/SMG7/SMG8/SMG11) approval. | | | | | | - Implementation of algorithm on different | | | platforms | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | To + 9 months | - Completion of algorithm implementation | | | verification test procedures. | | (December 1998) | | | | - TC SMG approval. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | | Start of Phase 2 | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
###### ### Annex G: Work Item Description for AMR
**Adaptive Multi-Rate codec**
**Justification**
During 1995/6, the SQSG (Speech Quality Strategy Group) reviewed the need for
any future GSM codecs and presented its recommendations to SMG#20. It
concluded that the future needs of GSM users would be well served by the
development of a single new speech codec.
With competition in the fast changing Telecommunications environment, the
convergence of different forms of network access, and customer expectations
will place great demands on network quality. For GSM to successfully compete
in this environment, GSM must be capable of offering wireline speech quality
that is robust to adverse conditions such as channel errors, background noise
and tandeming. Whilst current codecs achieve good performance under most
conditions, there remain some shortfalls, particularly in respect of realizing
wireline quality half-rate operation and maintaining good quality under high
error conditions.
The Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) solution offers high quality half-rate operation
yielding capacity enhancements and cost savings and it also offers wireline
quality in full-rate mode that is highly robust to channel errors.
[Wideband]{.underline}
There is also growing market interest in a wideband speech service (e.g. 7
kHz) and a wideband mode may also be included in the AMR codec. If this mode
is to be included, it should not delay the development of the narrowband
speech application of AMR.
**Service Aspects**
The main requirements of the AMR codec are to provide:
\- consistent wireline quality even under variable radio channel conditions;
\- wireline half-rate operation, possibly restricted to low error rates;
\- the flexibility for operators to optimize the balance of capacity and
quality.
If the scope of AMR is extended to include a new wideband speech service
option, the nature of this service will need to be determined.
**MMI-Aspects**
None.
**Charging Aspects**
The option to be able to charge for use of the AMR codec is to be reviewed.
**Security Aspects**
None.
**Impacts**
* * *
Affects: SIM ME NW Others **Yes** **** ****  
**No** ****  
**Don\'t know**
* * *
**Expected Output and Time-scales (to be updated at each plenary)**
+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | New | | | | | | | | specifi | | | | | | | | cations | | | | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GSM No. | Title | Prime | Se | pr | a | C | | | | rsp. | condary | esented | pproved | omments | | | | STC | resp. | for | at | | | | | | STC(s) | info | SMG# | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | SMG# | | | +---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | tbd | SMG11 | SMG2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | SMG3 | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | | | | +---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
* * *
Affected existing specifications  
GSM No. CR Subject Approved at SMG# Comments tbd
* * *
[ffs]
**Rapporteur(s)**
K. Järvinen
**Others**
#