# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document specifies the Voice Activity Detector (VAD) to be used in
the Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
traffic channels within the digital cellular telecommunications system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Voice Activity Detector (VAD) to be used in
the Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) as described in GSM 06.81 [5]
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels.
The requirements are mandatory on any VAD to be used either in GSM Mobile
Stations (MS)s or Base Station Systems (BSS)s that utilize the enhanced full-
rate speech traffic channel.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 06.53: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); ANSI-C
code for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[3] GSM 06.54: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Test
vectors for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[4] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[5] GSM 06.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**noise:** signal component resulting from acoustic environmental noise.
**mobile environment:** any environment in which mobile stations may be used.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
### 3.2.1 Variables
**aav1 filter predictor values, see clause 5.2.3**
**acf the ACF vector which is calculated in the speech encoder (GSM 06.60
[4])**
**adaptcount secondary hangover counter, see clause 5.2.6**
**av0 averaged ACF vector, see clause 5.2.2**
**av1 a previous value of av0, see clause 5.2.2**
**burstcount speech burst length counter, see clause 5.2.8**
**den denominator of left hand side of equation 8 in annex B, see clause
5.2.5**
**difference difference between consecutive values of dm, see clause 5.2.4**
**dm spectral distortion measure, see clause 5.2.4**
**hangcount primary hangover counter, see clause 5.2.8**
**lagcount number of subframes in current frame meeting periodicity criterion,
see clause 5.2.9**
**lastdm previous value of dm, see clause 5.2.4**
**lags the open loop long term predictor lags for the two halves of the speech
encoder frame (GSM 06.60 [4])**
**num numerator of left hand side of equation 8 in annex B, see clause 5.2.5**
**oldlagcount previous value of lagcount, see clause 5.2.9**
**prederr fourth order short term prediction error, see clause 5.2.5**
**ptch Boolean flag indicating the presence of a periodic signal component,
see clause 5.2.9**
**pvad energy in the current filtered signal frame, see clause 5.2.1**
**rav1 autocorrelation vector obtained from av1, see clause 5.2.3**
**rc the first four unquantized reflection coefficients calculated in the
speech encoder (GSM 06.60 [4])**
**rvad autocorrelation vector of the adaptive filter predictor values, see
clause 5.2.6**
**smallag difference between consecutive lag values, see clause 5.2.9**
**stat Boolean flag indicating that the frequency spectrum of the input signal
is stationary, see clause 5.2.4**
**thvad adaptive primary VAD threshold, see clause 5.2.6**
**tone Boolean flag indicating the presence of an information tone, see clause
5.2.5**
**vadflag Boolean VAD decision with hangover included, see clause 5.2.8**
**veryoldlagcount previous value of oldlagcount, see clause 5.2.9**
**vvad Boolean VAD decision before hangover, see clause 5.2.7**
### 3.2.2 Constants
adp number of frames of hangover for secondary VAD, see clause 5.2.6
burstconst minimum length of speech burst to which hangover is added, see
clause 5.2.8
dec determines rate of decrease in adaptive threshold, see clause 5.2.6
fac determines steady state adaptive threshold, see clause 5.2.6
frames number of frames over which av0 and av1 are calculated, see clause
5.2.2
freqth threshold for pole frequency decision, see clause 5.2.5
hangconst number of frames of hangover for primary VAD, see clause 5.2.8
inc determines rate of increase in adaptive threshold, see clause 5.2.6
lthresh lag difference threshold for periodicity decision, see clause 5.2.9
margin determines upper limit for adaptive threshold, see clause 5.2.6
nthresh frame count threshold for periodicity decision, see clause 5.2.9
plev lower limit for adaptive threshold, see clause 5.2.6
predth threshold for short term prediction error, see clause 5.2.5
pth energy threshold, see clause 5.2.6
**thresh decision threshold for evaluation of stat flag, see clause 5.2.4**
### 3.2.3 Functions
**\+ addition**
**\- subtraction**
*** multiplication**
**/ division**
**\| x \| absolute value of x**
**AND Boolean AND**
**OR Boolean OR**
**b**
**MULT(x(i)) the product of the series x(i) for i=a to b**
**i=a**
**b**
**SUM(x(i)) the sum of the series x(i) for i=a to b**
**i=a**
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
**ACF Autocorrelation function**
**ANSI American National Standards Institute**
**DTX Discontinuous Transmission**
**LTP Long Term Predictor**
**TX Transmission**
**VAD Voice Activity Detector**
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
The function of the VAD is to indicate whether each 20 ms frame produced by
the speech encoder contains speech or not. The output is a Boolean flag
(vadflag) which is used by the Transmit (TX) DTX handler defined in GSM 06.81
[5].
The present document is organized as follows.
Clause 5 describes the principles of operation of the VAD. Clause 6 provides
an overview of the computational description of the VAD. The computational
details necessary for the fixed point implementation of the VAD algorithm are
given in the form of ANSI C program contained in GSM 06.53 [2].
The verification of the VAD is based on the use of digital test sequences
which are described in GSM 06.54 [3].
# 5 Functional description
The purpose of this clause is to give the reader an understanding of the
principles of operation of the VAD, whereas GSM 06.53 [2] contains the fixed
point computational description of the VAD. In the case of discrepancy between
the two descriptions, the description in GSM 06.53 [2] will prevail.
## 5.1 Overview and principles of operation
The function of the VAD is to distinguish between noise with speech present
and noise without speech present. This is achieved by comparing the energy of
a filtered version of the input signal with a threshold. The presence of
speech is indicated whenever the threshold is exceeded.
The detection of speech in a mobile environment is difficult due to the low
speech/noise ratios which are encountered, particularly in moving vehicles. To
increase the probability of detecting speech the input signal is adaptively
filtered (see clause 5.2.1) to reduce its noise content before the voice
activity decision is made (see clause 5.2.7).
The frequency spectrum and level of the noise may vary within a given
environment as well as between different environments. It is therefore
necessary to adapt the input filter coefficients and energy threshold at
regular intervals as described in clause 5.2.6.
## 5.2 Algorithm description
The block diagram of the VAD algorithm is shown in figure 1. The individual
blocks are described in the following clauses. The variables shown in the
block diagram are described in table 1.
Table 1: Description of variables in figure 1
* * *
Var Description acf The ACF vector which is calculated in the speech encoder
(GSM 06.60 [4]). av0 Averaged ACF vector. av1 A previous value of av0. lags
The open loop long term predictor lags for the two halves of the speech
encoder frame (GSM 06.60 [4]). ptch Boolean flag indicating the presence of a
periodic signal component. pvad Energy in the current filtered signal frame.
rav1 Autocorrelation vector obtained from av1. rc The first four reflection
coefficients calculated in the speech encoder (GSM 06.60 [4]). rvad
Autocorrelation vector of the adaptive filter predictor values. stat Boolean
flag indicating that the frequency spectrum of the input signal is stationary.
thvad Adaptive primary VAD threshold. tone Boolean flag indicating the
presence of an information tone. vadflag Boolean VAD decision with hangover
included. vvad Boolean VAD decision before hangover.
* * *
Figure 1: Functional block diagram of the VAD
### 5.2.1 Adaptive filtering and energy computation
The energy in the current filtered signal frame (pvad) is computed as follows:
**8**
**pvad = rvad[0] * acf[0] + 2 * SUM (rvad[i] * acf[i]) (1)**
**i=1**
This corresponds to performing an 8th order block filtering on the filtered
input samples to the speech encoder. This is explained in annex A.
### 5.2.2 ACF averaging
Spectral characteristics of the input signal have to be obtained using blocks
that are larger than one 20 ms frame. This is done by averaging the ACF
(autocorrelation function) values for several consecutive frames. The
averaging is given by the following equations:
**frames‑1**
**av0{n}[i] = SUM (acf{n-j}[i]) ; i = 0..8 (2)**
**j=0**
**av1{n}[i] = av0{n-frames}[i] ; i = 0..8 (3)**
where (n) represents the current frame, (n‑1) represents the previous frame.
The values of constants are given in table 2.
Table 2: Constants and variables for ACF averaging
* * *
Constant Value Variable Initial value frames 4 previous ACF\'s, All set to 0
av0 & av1
* * *
### 5.2.3 Predictor values computation
The filter predictor values aav1 are obtained from the autocorrelation values
av1 according to the equation:
a = R ‑1p (4)
where:
$\text{R=}\begin{bmatrix} \text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 5\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
6\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 7\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 5\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 6\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack
2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 5\rbrack \
\text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
4\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
0\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 5\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
4\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 6\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 5\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack
7\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 6\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 5\rbrack &
\text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack
2\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack & \text{av1}\lbrack 0\rbrack \
\end{bmatrix}$
and:
$p = \begin{bmatrix} \text{av1}\lbrack 1\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 2\rbrack \
\text{av1}\lbrack 3\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 4\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack
5\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 6\rbrack \ \text{av1}\lbrack 7\rbrack \
\text{av1}\lbrack 8\rbrack \ \end{bmatrix}$ $a = \begin{bmatrix}
\text{aav1}\lbrack 1\rbrack \ \text{aav1}\lbrack 2\rbrack \ \text{aav1}\lbrack
3\rbrack \ \text{aav1}\lbrack 4\rbrack \ \text{aav1}\lbrack 5\rbrack \
\text{aav1}\lbrack 6\rbrack \ \text{aav1}\lbrack 7\rbrack \ \text{aav1}\lbrack
8\rbrack \ \end{bmatrix}$
**aav1[0] = ‑1**
av1 is used in preference to av0 as the latter may contain speech. The
autocorrelated predictor values rav1 are then obtained:
**8-i**
**rav1[i] = SUM (aav1[k] * aav1[k+i]) ; i = 0..8 (5)**
**k=0**
### 5.2.4 Spectral comparison
The spectra represented by the autocorrelated predictor values rav1 and the
averaged autocorrelation values av0 are compared using the distortion measure
(dm) defined below. This measure is used to produce a Boolean value stat every
20 ms, as shown in the following equations:
**8**
**dm = (rav1[0] * av0[0] + 2*SUM (rav1[i]*av0[i])) / av0[0] (6a)**
**i=1**
**difference = \|dm - lastdm\| (6b)**
**lastdm = dm (6c)**
**stat = (difference \  thvad)**
### 5.2.8 VAD hangover addition
VAD hangover is only added to bursts of speech greater than or equal to
burstconst blocks. The Boolean variable vadflag indicates the decision of the
VAD with hangover included. The values of the constants and initial variable
values are given in table 6. The hangover algorithm is as follows:
**if (vvad)**
**increment(burstcount)**
**else**
**burstcount = 0**
**if (burstcount >= burstconst)**
**{**
**hangcount = hangconst**
**burstcount = burstconst**
**}**
**vadflag = (vvad OR (hangcount >= 0))**
**if (hangcount >= 0)**
**decrement(hangcount)**
Table 6: Constants and variables for VAD hangover addition
* * *
Constant Value Variable Initial value burstconst 3 burstcount 0 hangconst 10
hangcount ‑1
* * *
### 5.2.9 Periodicity detection
The variables thvad and rvad are updated when the frequency spectrum of the
input signal is stationary. However, vowel sounds also have a stationary
frequency spectrum. The Boolean variable ptch indicates the presence of a
periodic signal component and prevents adaptation of thvad and rvad. The
variable ptch is updated every 20 ms and is true when periodicity (a vowel
sound) is detected. The periodicity detector identifies the vowel sounds by
comparing consecutive Long Term Predictor (LTP) lag values lags[1..2] which
are obtained during the open loop pitch lag search from the speech codec
defined in GSM 06.60 [4]. Cases in which one lag value is near the other are
catered for, however the cases in which one lag value is a factor of the
other, or in which both lag values have a common factor, are not.
**lagcount = 0**
**for (j = 1; j \ = nthresh)**
The values of constants and initial values are given in table 7. lags[0] =
lags[2] of the previous frame.
ptch is calculated after the VAD decision and when the current LTP lag values
lags[1..2] are available. This reduces the delay of the VAD decision.
Table 7: Constants and variables for periodicity detection
* * *
Constant Value Variable Initial value lthresh 2 ptch 1 nthresh 4 oldlagcount 0
veryoldlagcount 0 lags[0] 18
* * *
# 6 Computational description overview
The computational details necessary for the fixed point implementation of the
speech transcoding and DTX functions are given in the form of an American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) C program contained in GSM 06.53 [2]. This
clause provides an overview of the modules which describe the computation of
the VAD algorithm.
## 6.1 VAD modules
The computational description of the VAD is divided into three ANSI C modules.
These modules are:
\- vad_reset;
\- vad_computation;
\- periodicity_update.
The vad_reset module sets the VAD variables to their initial values.
The vad_computation module is divided into nine sub-modules which correspond
to the blocks of figure 1 in the high level description of the VAD algorithm.
The vad_computation module can be called as soon as the acf[0..8] and rc[1..4]
variables are known. This means that the VAD computation can take place after
the levinson routine of the second half of the frame in the speech encoder
(GSM 06.60 [4]). The vad_computation module also requires the value of the
ptch variable calculated in the previous frame.
The ptch variable is calculated by the periodicity_update module from the
lags[1..2] variable. The individual lag values are calculated by the open loop
pitch search routine in the speech encoder (GSM 06.60 [4]). The
periodicity_update module is called after the VAD decision and when the
current LTP lag values lags[1..2] are available.
## 6.2 Pseudo-floating point arithmetic
All the arithmetic operations follow the precision and format used in the
computational description of the speech codec in GSM 06.53 [2]. To increase
the precision within the fixed point implementation, a pseudo-floating point
representation of some variables is used. This applies to the following
variables (and related constants) of the VAD algorithm:
\- pvad: Energy of filtered signal;
\- thvad: Threshold of the VAD decision;
\- acf0: Energy of input signal.
For the representation of these variables, two 16-bit integers are needed:
\- one for the exponent (e_pvad, e_thvad, e_acf0);
\- one for the mantissa (m_pvad, m_thvad, m_acf0).
The value e_pvad represents the lowest power of 2 just greater or equal to the
actual value of pvad and the m_pvad value represents an integer which is
always greater or equal to 16 384 (normalized mantissa). It means that the
pvad value is equal to:
pvad = 2e_pvad * (m_pvad/32768) (7)
This scheme provides a large dynamic range for the pvad value and always keeps
a precision of 16 bits. All the comparisons are easy to make by comparing the
exponents of two variables. The VAD algorithm needs only one pseudo-floating
point addition and multiplication. All the computations related to the pseudo-
floating point variables require simple 16- or 32-bit arithmetic operations
defined in the detailed description of the speech codec.
Some constants, represented by a pseudo-floating point format, are needed and
symbolic names (in capital letters) for their exponent and mantissa are used;
table 8 lists all these constants with the associated symbolic names and their
numerical constant values.
Table 8: List of floating point constants
* * *
Constant Exponent Mantissa pth E_PTH = 17 M_PTH = 32500 margin E_MARGIN = 27
M_MARGIN = 16927 plev E_PLEV = 19 M_PLEV = 21667
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Simplified block filtering operation
Consider an 8th order transversal filter with filter coefficients a0..a8,
through which a signal is being passed, the output of the filter being:
**8**
**s\'[n] = - SUM (a[i]*s[n-i]) (1)**
**i=0**
If we apply block filtering over 20 ms segments, then this equation becomes:
**8**
**s\'[n] = - SUM (a[i]*s[n-i]) ; n = 0..167 (2)**
**i=0 ; 0 \ <= n-i \<= 159**
If the energy of the filtered signal is then obtained for every 20 ms segment,
the equation for this is:
**167 8**
**pvad = SUM (- SUM (a[i]*s[n-i]))2 ; 0 \ <= n-i \<= 159 (3)**
**n=0 i=0**
We know that:
**159**
**acf[i] = SUM (s[n]*s[n-i]) ; i = 0..8 (4)**
**n=0 ; 0 \ <= n-i \<= 159**
If equation (3) is expanded and acf[0..8] are substituted for s[n] then we
arrive at the equations:
**8**
**pvad = r[0]*acf[0] + 2*SUM (r[i]*acf[i]) (5)**
**i=1**
Where:
**8-i**
**r[i] = SUM (a[k]*a[k+i]) ; i = 0..8 (6)**
**k=0**
###### ## Annex B (informative): Pole frequency calculation
This annex describes the algorithm used to determine whether the pole
frequency for a second order analysis of the signal frame is less than 385 Hz.
The filter coefficients for a second order synthesis filter are calculated
from the first two unquantized reflection coefficients rc[1..2] obtained from
the speech encoder. This is done using the step up routine described in GSM
06.53 [2]. If the filter coefficients a[0..2] are defined such that the
synthesis filter response is given by:
**H(z) = 1/(a[0] + a[1]z‑1 + a[2]z‑2) (1)**
Then the positions of the poles in the Z-plane are given by the solutions to
the following quadratic:
**a[0]z2 + a[1]z + a[2] = 0, a[0] = 1 (2)**
The positions of the poles, z, are therefore:
**z = re [+]{.underline} j*sqrt(im), j2 = ‑1 (3)**
where:
**re = - a[1] / 2 (4)**
**im = (4*a[2] - a[1]2)/4 (5)**
If im is negative then the poles lie on the real axis of the Z-plane and the
signal is not a tone and the algorithm terminates. If re is negative then the
poles lie in the left hand side of the Z-plane and the frequency is greater
than 2000 Hz and the prediction error test can be performed.
If im is positive and re is positive then the poles are complex and lie in the
right hand side of the Z-plane and the frequency in Hz is related to re and im
by the expression:
**freq = arctan(sqrt(im)/re)*4000/pi (6)**
Having ensured that both im and re are positive the test for a pole frequency
less than 385 Hz can be derived by substituting equations 4 and 5 into
equation 6 and re-arranging:
**(4*a[2] - a[1]2 )/a[1]2 \ < tan2(pi*385/4000) (7)**
or
**(4*a[2] - a[1]2)/a[1]2 \ < 0.0973 (8)**
If this test is true then the signal is not a tone and the algorithm
terminates, otherwise the prediction error test is performed.
#