# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum UE RF characteristics for shared
spectrum channel access.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
> [3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
> [5] 3GPP TS 36.521-1 : \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
> (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio transmission
> and reception; Part 1: Conformance testing\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 37.213: \"Physical layer procedures for shared spectrum channel
> access\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 36.521-1 [5] Annex F
defines Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for
each test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in
this specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [2].
## 4.2 Applicability of minimum requirements
a) In this specification the Minimum Requirements are specified as general
requirements and additional requirements. Where the Requirement is specified
as a general requirement, the requirement is mandated to be met in all
scenarios
b) For specific scenarios for which an additional requirement is specified, in
addition to meeting the general requirement, the UE is mandated to meet the
additional requirements.
c) The requirements in this specification for E-UTRA TDD operating bands apply
for downlink and uplink operations using Frame Structure Type 3.
# 5 Channel access procedures
## 5.1 Uplink channel access procedure
For uplink operation in Band 46 and Band 49, a channel access procedure for
PUSCH transmission as described in TS 37.213 [6], Clause 4.2.1 is specified.
### 5.1.1 Channel access parameters
Channel access related parameters for PUSCH are listed in Table 5.1.1-1.
Table 5.1.1-1: Channel access parameters for PUSCH
Parameter Unit Value
* * *
LBT measurement bandwidth (BW) MHz 20 10 Energy detection threshold dBm/BW -72
-75 Detection timing microseconds 25
### 5.1.2 Minimum requirement
The UE shall be able to assess whether the medium is busy or idle with at
least 90% probability, using a channel access procedure with the parameters in
Table 5.1.1-1.
#