# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the minimum Radio Frequency (RF)
characteristics, minimum performance requirements, and the RF test methods and
conformance requirements for E-UTRA with LAA Base Stations (BS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[3] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: \"Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 37.213: \"Physical layer procedures for shared spectrum channel
access\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
LBT Listen-Before-Talk
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
RF Radio Frequency
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between minimum requirements and test requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 36.141 [2] Annex G defines
Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [3].
# 5 Channel access procedures (core part)
## 5.1 Downlink channel access procedure
For downlink operation in Band 46 and Band 49, a channel access procedure for
PDSCH transmission as described in TS 37.213 [5], Clause 4.1.1 is specified.
### 5.1.1 Channel access parameters
Channel access related parameters for PDSCH are listed in Table 5.1.1-1.
Table 5.1.1-1: Channel access parameters for PDSCH
+-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | **Parameter** | **Unit** | **Value** | +=======================================================+===========+===========+ | LBT measurement bandwidth | MHz | 10, 20 | +-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | Energy detection threshold | dBm/20MHz | -72 | | | | | | | dBm/10MHz | or | | | | | | | | X (Note) | | | | | | | | -75 | +-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | Maximum channel occupancy time | ms | 8 | +-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | NOTE: The specific value X is declared by the vendor. | | | +-------------------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
### 5.1.2 Minimum requirement
The Base Station shall be able to assess whether the medium is busy or idle
with at least 90% probability, using a channel access procedure with the
parameters in Table 5.1.1-1.
# 6 Channel access procedures (performance part)
## 6.1 Downlink channel access procedure
### 6.1.1 Definition and applicability
Channel access procedure for downlink operation in Band 46 and Band 49 for
PDSCH transmission is described in TS 37.213 [5], Clause 4.
### 6.1.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in clause 5.1.
### 6.1.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the accuracy of the energy detection threshold,
maximum channel occupancy time (MCOT) and minimum idle time under normal
conditions for all band 46 and band 49 transmitters in the BS.
### 6.1.4 Method of test
6.1.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see Annex D.2 of TS 36.141 [2].
RF channels to be tested for single carrier: B, M and T; see clause 4.7 of TS
36.141 [2].
Connect the signal analyzer to the base station antenna connector as shown in
Annex I of TS 36.141 [2].
6.1.4.2 Procedure
**[MCOT and minimum idle time]{.underline}**
1) Set the base station to transmit a signal according to E-TM 1.1 at
manufacturer's declared rated output power with corresponding channel
bandwidth (i.e. 10 MHz or 20 MHz). Channel Access Priority Class 3 parameters
are selected to be tested based on Table 4.1.1-1 in TS 37.213.
2) Measure the transmitter ON period during the continuous transmission (after
the first channel access).
3) Measure the transmitter OFF period between two consecutive transmitter ON
periods.
4) Verify minimum idle time as follows:
The transmitter OFF period between two consecutive transmitter ON periods
shall not be less than 25 µs.
5) Verify maximum channel occupancy time (MCOT) as follows:
a) The duration of each transmitter ON period continuous transmission shall
not exceed the maximum channel occupancy time (MCOT) requirement specified in
clause 6.1.5.
**[Energy detection accuracy]{.underline}**
6) Generate the interfering signal of AWGN with corresponding channel
bandwidth (i.e. 10 MHz or 20 MHz) at the same centre frequency as the tested
channel. The interfering signal shall be at a level as specified in table
6.1.5-1. The base station shall stop transmission on the current operating
channel and will not resume normal transmissions as long as the interference
signal is present.
7) The step 6) is repeated multiple times considering the following sub-steps:
\- Interferer ON: if the interfering signal is present, the interfering signal
should be present for 10ms.
\- Interferer OFF: if the interfering signal is removed, the interfering
signal should be absent for 10ms.
\- The total number of interferer ON duration is assumed to be N and the total
number of interferer OFF duration is assumed to be M. The value N, M and the
sequence of interferer ON/OFF pattern shall be generated randomly for the
test.
8) In the test, a counter is maintained with initial value set to 0 when the
test starts.
9) For every 10ms Interferer ON period, the counter is increased by 1 if there
is either an ON/OFF transition or no transmission by the DUT. To pass the
test, the counter shall not be less than N*0.9.
### 6.1.5 Test Requirements
In normal conditions, the measurement result shall meet channel access related
test requirements for PDSCH as listed in Table 6.1.5-1.
Table 6.1.5-1: Channel access test requirements for PDSCH
+---------------------------------------+-----------+----------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +=======================================+===========+================+ | LBT measurement bandwidth | MHz | 10, 20 | +---------------------------------------+-----------+----------------+ | Maximum energy detection threshold | dBm/20MHz | -72 + 4dB | | | | | | | dBm/10MHz | or | | | | | | | | X + 4dB (Note) | | | | | | | | -75 + 4dB | +---------------------------------------+-----------+----------------+ | Maximum channel occupancy time | ms | 8 | +---------------------------------------+-----------+----------------+ | NOTE: The specific value X is | | | | declared by the vendor. | | | +---------------------------------------+-----------+----------------+
The Base Station shall be able to assess whether the medium is busy or idle
with at least 90% probability, using a channel access procedure with the
parameters in Table 6.1.5-1.
#