# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
Z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overview of the multi-connectivity operation
using E-UTRA and NR radio access technologies. Details of the network and
radio interface protocols are specified in companion specifications of the 36
and 38 series.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.423: \"NG-RAN; Xn application protocol (XnAP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.425: \"NG-RAN; NR user plane protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NG-RAN; Requirements for support of radio resource
management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[13] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[14] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other radios\".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP) specification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".
[17] Void
[18] Void
[19] Void
[20] Void
[21] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] and TS 36.300 [2].
**En-gNB:** node providing NR user plane and control plane protocol
terminations towards the UE, and acting as Secondary Node in EN-DC.
**Master Cell Group** : in MR-DC, a group of serving cells associated with the
Master Node, comprising of the SpCell (PCell) and optionally one or more
SCells.
**Master node** : in MR-DC, the radio access node that provides the control
plane connection to the core network. It may be a Master eNB (in EN-DC), a
Master ng-eNB (in NGEN-DC) or a Master gNB (in NR-DC and NE-DC).
**MCG bearer** : in MR-DC, a radio bearer with an RLC bearer (or two RLC
bearers, in case of CA packet duplication) only in the MCG.
**MN terminated bearer:** in MR-DC, a radio bearer for which PDCP is located
in the MN.
**MCG SRB** : in MR-DC, a direct SRB between the MN and the UE.
**Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity:** Dual Connectivity between E-UTRA and NR
nodes, or between two NR nodes.
**Ng-eNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [3].
**PCell** : SpCell of a master cell group.
**PSCell** : SpCell of a secondary cell group.
**RLC bearer:** RLC and MAC logical channel configuration of a radio bearer in
one cell group.
**Secondary Cell Group** : in MR-DC, a group of serving cells associated with
the Secondary Node, comprising of the SpCell (PSCell) and optionally one or
more SCells.
**Secondary node** : in MR-DC, the radio access node, with no control plane
connection to the core network, providing additional resources to the UE. It
may be an en-gNB (in EN-DC), a Secondary ng-eNB (in NE-DC) or a Secondary gNB
(in NR-DC and NGEN-DC).
**SCG bearer** : in MR-DC, a radio bearer with an RLC bearer (or two RLC
bearers, in case of CA packet duplication) only in the SCG.
**SN terminated bearer:** in MR-DC, a radio bearer for which PDCP is located
in the SN.
**SpCell** : primary cell of a master or secondary cell group.
**SRB3** : in EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, a direct SRB between the SN and the
UE.
**Split bearer:** in MR-DC, a radio bearer with RLC bearers both in MCG and
SCG.
**Split PDU Session (or PDU Session split):** a PDU Session whose QoS Flows
are served by more than one SDAP entities in the NG-RAN.
**Split SRB** : in MR-DC, a SRB between the MN and the UE with RLC bearers
both in MCG and SCG.
**User plane resource configuration:** in MR-DC with 5GC, encompasses radio
network resources and radio access resources related to either one or more PDU
sessions, one or more QoS flows, one or more DRBs, or any combination thereof.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1] and TS 36.300 [2].
DC Intra-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity
EN-DC E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity
MCG Master Cell Group
MN Master Node
MR-DC Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity
NE-DC NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity
NGEN-DC NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity
NR-DC NR-NR Dual Connectivity
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SMTC SS/PBCH block Measurement Timing Configuration
SN Secondary Node
# 4 Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity
## 4.1 General
### 4.1.1 Common MR-DC principles
Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity (MR-DC) is a generalization of the Intra-E-UTRA
Dual Connectivity (DC) described in TS 36.300 [2], where a multiple Rx/Tx
capable UE may be configured to utilise resources provided by two different
nodes connected via non-ideal backhaul, one providing NR access and the other
one providing either E-UTRA or NR access. One node acts as the MN and the
other as the SN. The MN and SN are connected via a network interface and at
least the MN is connected to the core network.
NOTE 1: MR-DC is designed based on the assumption of non-ideal backhaul
between the different nodes but can also be used in case of ideal backhaul.
NOTE 2: All MR-DC normative text and procedures in this version of the
specification show the aggregated node case. The details about non-aggregated
node for MR-DC operation are described in TS 38.401 [7].
### 4.1.2 MR-DC with the EPC
E-UTRAN supports MR-DC via E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (EN-DC), in which a UE
is connected to one eNB that acts as a MN and one en-gNB that acts as a SN.
The eNB is connected to the EPC via the S1 interface and to the en-gNB via the
X2 interface. The en-gNB might also be connected to the EPC via the S1-U
interface and other en-gNBs via the X2-U interface.
The EN-DC architecture is illustrated in Figure 4.1.2-1 below.
Figure 4.1.2-1: EN-DC Overall Architecture
### 4.1.3 MR-DC with the 5GC
#### 4.1.3.1 E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity
NG-RAN supports NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity (NGEN-DC), in which a UE is
connected to one ng-eNB that acts as a MN and one gNB that acts as a SN.
#### 4.1.3.2 NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity
NG-RAN supports NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity (NE-DC), in which a UE is
connected to one gNB that acts as a MN and one ng-eNB that acts as a SN.
#### 4.1.3.3 NR-NR Dual Connectivity
NG-RAN supports NR-NR Dual Connectivity (NR-DC), in which a UE is connected to
one gNB that acts as a MN and another gNB that acts as a SN. In addition, NR-
DC can also be used when a UE is connected to two gNB-DUs, one serving the MCG
and the other serving the SCG, connected to the same gNB-CU, acting both as a
MN and as a SN.
## 4.2 Radio Protocol Architecture
### 4.2.1 Control Plane
In MR-DC, the UE has a single RRC state, based on the MN RRC and a single
C-plane connection towards the Core Network. Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates the
Control plane architecture for MR-DC. Each radio node has its own RRC entity
(E-UTRA version if the node is an eNB or NR version if the node is a gNB)
which can generate RRC PDUs to be sent to the UE.
RRC PDUs generated by the SN can be transported via the MN to the UE. The MN
always sends the initial SN RRC configuration via MCG SRB (SRB1), but
subsequent reconfigurations may be transported via MN or SN. When transporting
RRC PDU from the SN, the MN does not modify the UE configuration provided by
the SN.
In E-UTRA connected to EPC, at initial connection establishment SRB1 uses
E-UTRA PDCP. If the UE supports EN-DC, regardless whether EN-DC is configured
or not, after initial connection establishment, MCG SRBs (SRB1 and SRB2) can
be configured by the network to use either E-UTRA PDCP or NR PDCP (either SRB1
and SRB2 are both configured with E-UTRA PDCP, or they are both configured
with NR PDCP). Change from E-UTRA PDCP to NR PDCP (or vice-versa) is supported
via a handover procedure (reconfiguration with mobility) or, for the initial
change of SRB1 from E-UTRA PDCP to NR PDCP, with a reconfiguration without
mobility before the initial security activation.
If the SN is a gNB (i.e. for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC), the UE can be
configured to establish a SRB with the SN (SRB3) to enable RRC PDUs for the SN
to be sent directly between the UE and the SN. RRC PDUs for the SN can only be
transported directly to the UE for SN RRC reconfiguration not requiring any
coordination with the MN. Measurement reporting for mobility within the SN can
be done directly from the UE to the SN if SRB3 is configured.
Split SRB is supported for all MR-DC options, allowing duplication of RRC PDUs
generated by the MN, via the direct path and via the SN. Split SRB uses NR
PDCP. This version of the specification does not support the duplication of
RRC PDUs generated by the SN via the MN and SN paths.
In EN-DC, the SCG configuration is kept in the UE during suspension. The UE
releases the SCG configuration (but not the radio bearer configuration) during
resumption initiation.
In MR-DC with 5GC, the UE stores the PDCP/SDAP configuration when moving to
RRC Inactive but it releases the SCG configuration.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Control plane architecture for EN-DC (left) and MR-DC with 5GC
(right).
### 4.2.2 User Plane
In MR-DC, from a UE perspective, three bearer types exist: MCG bearer, SCG
bearer and split bearer. These three bearer types are depicted in Figure
4.2.2-1 for MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC) and in Figure 4.2.2-2 for MR-DC with 5GC
(NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).
In E-UTRA connected to EPC, _if the UE supports EN-DC,_ regardless whether EN-
DC is configured or not, _the network can configure either E-UTRA PDCP or NR
PDCP for MN terminated MCG bearers while NR PDCP is always used for all other
bearers_.
_In MR-DC with 5GC, NR PDCP is always used for all bearer types. I_ n NGEN-DC,
E-UTRA RLC/MAC is used in the MN while NR RLC/MAC is used in the SN. _I_ n NE-
DC, NR RLC/MAC is used in the MN while E-UTRA RLC/MAC is used in the SN. In
NR-DC, NR RLC/MAC is used in both MN and SN.
Figure 4.2.2-1: Radio Protocol Architecture for MCG, SCG and split bearers
from a UE perspective in MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC)
Figure 4.2.2-2: Radio Protocol Architecture for MCG, SCG and split bearers
from a UE perspective in MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).
From a network perspective, each bearer (MCG, SCG and split bearer) can be
terminated either in MN or in SN. Network side protocol termination options
are shown in Figure 4.2.2-3 for MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC) and in Figure 4.2.2-4
for MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).
NOTE 1: Even if only SCG bearers are configured for a UE, for SRB1 and SRB2
the logical channels are always configured at least in the MCG, i.e. this is
still an MR-DC configuration and a PCell always exists.
NOTE 2: If only MCG bearers are configured for a UE, i.e. there is no SCG,
this is still considered an MR-DC configuration, as long as at least one of
the bearers is terminated in the SN.
Figure 4.2.2-3: Network side protocol termination options for MCG, SCG and
split bearers in MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC).
Figure 4.2.2-4: Network side protocol termination options for MCG, SCG and
split bearers in MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC).
## 4.3 Network interfaces
### 4.3.1 Control Plane
#### 4.3.1.1 Common MR-DC principles
In MR-DC, there is an interface between the MN and the SN for control plane
signalling and coordination. For each MR-DC UE, there is also one control
plane connection between the MN and a corresponding CN entity. The MN and the
SN involved in MR-DC for a certain UE control their radio resources and are
primarily responsible for allocating radio resources of their cells.
Figure 4.3.1.1-1 shows C-plane connectivity of MN and SN involved in MR-DC for
a certain UE.
Figure 4.3.1.1-1: C-Plane connectivity for EN-DC (left) and MR-DC with 5GC
(right).
#### 4.3.1.2 MR-DC with EPC
In MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC), the involved core network entity is the MME. S1-MME
is terminated in MN and the MN and the SN are interconnected via X2-C.
#### 4.3.1.3 MR-DC with 5GC
In MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and NR-DC), the involved core network entity
is the AMF. NG-C is terminated in the MN and the MN and the SN are
interconnected via Xn-C.
### 4.3.2 User Plane
#### 4.3.2.1 Common MR-DC principles
There are different U-plane connectivity options of the MN and SN involved in
MR-DC for a certain UE, as shown in Figure 4.3.2.1-1. The U-plane connectivity
depends on the bearer option configured:
\- For _MN terminated bearers_ , the user plane connection to the CN entity is
terminated in the MN;
\- For _SN terminated bearers_ , the user plane connection to the CN entity is
terminated in the SN;
\- The transport of user plane data over the Uu either involves MCG or SCG
radio resources or both:
\- For _MCG bearers_ , only MCG radio resources are involved;
\- For _SCG bearers_ , only SCG radio resources are involved;
\- For _split bearers_ , both MCG and SCG radio resources are involved.
\- For split bearers, _MN terminated SCG bearers_ and _SN terminated MCG
bearers_ , PDCP data is transferred between the MN and the SN via the MN-SN
user plane interface.
Figure 4.3.2.1-1: U-Plane connectivity for EN-DC (left) and MR-DC with 5GC
(right).
#### 4.3.2.2 MR-DC with EPC
For MR-DC with EPC (EN-DC), X2-U interface is the user plane interface between
MN and SN, and S1-U is the user plane interface between the MN, the SN or both
and the S-GW.
#### 4.3.2.3 MR-DC with 5GC
For MR-DC with 5GC (NGEN-DC, NE-DC and inter-gNB NR-DC), Xn-U interface is the
user plane interface between MN and SN, and NG-U is the user plane interface
between the MN, the SN or both and the UPF.
# 5 Layer 1 related aspects
In MR-DC, two or more Component Carriers (CCs) may be aggregated over two cell
groups. A UE may simultaneously receive or transmit on multiple CCs depending
on its capabilities. The maximum number of configured CCs for a UE is 32 for
DL and UL. Depending on UE\'s capabilities, up to 31 CCs can be configured for
an E-UTRA cell group when the NR cell group is configured. For the NR cell
group, the maximum number of configured CCs for a UE is 16 for DL and 16 for
UL.
A gNB may configure the same Physical Cell ID (PCI) to more than one NR cell
it serves. To avoid PCI confusion for MR-DC, NR PCIs should be allocated in a
way that an NR cell is uniquely identifiable by a PCell identifier. This PCell
is in the coverage area of an NR cell included in the MR-DC operation. In
addition, NR PCIs should only be re-used in NR cells on the same SSB frequency
sufficiently distant from each other. X2-C/Xn-C signalling supports
disambiguation of NR PCIs by including the CGI of the PCell in respective
X2AP/XnAP messages (e.g. SGNB ADDITION REQUEST/S-NODE ADDITION REQUEST) and by
providing neighbour cell relationship via non-UE associated signaling (e.g.
via the Xn Setup procedure or the NG-RAN node Configuration Update procedure).
In this version of the specification, NR-DC assumes slot-level synchronization
between PCell and PSCell, with no assumption on SFN synchronization. However,
some UEs may indicate they support NR-DC only if SFN synchronization between
PCell and PSCell is also ensured.
In (NG)EN-DC and in NE-DC, power sharing can be performed within a frequency
range with either semi-static or dynamic power sharing. With semi-static power
sharing, the maximum UE transmission power is semi-statically split between
MCG and SCG by RRC configuration. With dynamic power sharing:
\- when determining the UL transmission power of an SCG transmission in
(NG)EN-DC, the UE takes into account transmission(s) on MCG overlapping with
any part of the SCG transmission;
\- when determining the UL transmission power of an MCG transmission in NE-DC,
the UE takes into account transmission(s) on SCG overlapping with any part of
the MCG transmission.
Details are specified in TS38.213 [21].
# 6 Layer 2 related aspects
## 6.1 MAC Sublayer
In MR-DC, the UE is configured with two MAC entities: one MAC entity for the
MCG and one MAC entity for the SCG. The serving cells of the MCG other than
the PCell can only be activated/deactivated by the MAC Control Element
received on MCG, and the serving cells of the SCG other than PSCell can only
be activated/ deactivated by the MAC Control Element received on SCG. The MAC
entity applies the bitmap for the associated cells of either MCG or SCG.
PSCell in SCG is always activated like the PCell (i.e. deactivation timer is
not applied to PSCell). With the exception of PUCCH SCell, one deactivation
timer is configured per SCell by RRC.
In MR-DC, semi-persistent scheduling (SPS) resources and configured grant (CG)
resources can be configured on serving cells in both MCG and SCG.
In MR-DC, contention based random access (CBRA) procedure is supported on both
PCell and PSCell while contention free random access (CFRA) procedure is
supported on all serving cells in both MCG and SCG.
In MR-DC, the BSR configuration, triggering and reporting are independently
performed per cell group. For split bearers, the PDCP data is considered in
BSR in the cell group(s) configured by RRC.
In MR-DC, separate DRX configurations are provided for MCG and SCG.
In MR-DC, PHR is independently configured per cell group. Events in one cell
group can trigger power headroom reporting in both MCG and SCG. Power headroom
information for one cell group is also included in a PHR transmitted in the
other cell group.
## 6.2 RLC Sublayer
Both RLC AM and UM can be configured for MR-DC, for all bearer types (MCG, SCG
and split bearers).
## 6.3 PDCP Sublayer
In EN-DC, CA duplication (see [3]) can be applied in the MN and in the SN, but
MCG bearer CA duplication can be configured only in combination with E-UTRAN
PDCP and MCG bearer CA duplication can be configured only if DC duplication is
not configured for any split bearer.
In NGEN-DC, CA duplication can only be configured for SCG bearer. In NE-DC, CA
duplication can only be configured for MCG bearer. In NR-DC, CA duplication
can be configured for both MCG and SCG bearers.
In MR-DC, RoHC (as described in TS 36.323 [15] and TS 38.323 [16]) can be
configured for all the bearer types.
## 6.4 SDAP Sublayer
In MR-DC with 5GC, the network may host up to two SDAP protocol entities for
each individual PDU session, one for MN and another one for SN (see clause
8.1). The UE is configured with one SDAP protocol entity per PDU session.
# 7 RRC related aspects
## 7.1 System information handling
In MR-DC, the SN is not required to broadcast system information other than
for radio frame timing and SFN. System information for initial configuration
is provided to the UE by dedicated RRC signalling via the MN. The UE acquires,
at least, radio frame timing and SFN of SCG from the PSS/SSS and MIB (if the
SN is an eNB) / NR-PSS/SSS and PBCH (if the SN is a gNB) of the PSCell.
NOTE: The option that the SN does not broadcast system information other than
radio frame timing and SFN relies on proper OAM configuration.
Additionally, upon change of the relevant system information of a configured
SCell, the network releases and subsequently adds the concerned SCell (with
updated system information), via one or more _RRC reconfiguration_ messages
sent on SRB1 or SRB3, if configured.
## 7.2 Measurements
If the measurement is configured to the UE in preparation for the Secondary
Node Addition procedure described in clause 10.2, the Master node should
configure the measurement to the UE.
In case of the intra-secondary node mobility described in clause 10.3, the SN
should configure the measurement to the UE in coordination with the MN, if
required.
The Secondary Node Change procedure described in clause 10.5 can be triggered
by both the MN (only for inter-frequency secondary node change) and the SN.
For secondary node changes triggered by the SN, the RRM measurement
configuration is maintained by the SN which also processes the measurement
reporting, without providing the measurement results to the MN.
Measurements can be configured independently by the MN and by the SN (intra-
RAT measurements on serving and non-serving frequencies). The MN indicates the
maximum number of frequency layers and measurement identities of intra-
frequency and inter-frequency measurement that can be used in the SN to ensure
that UE capabilities are not exceeded. In MR-DC, to assist MN to identify the
measurement type, the SN indicates to the MN the list of SCG serving
frequencies. In NR-DC, to assist SN to identify the measurement type, the MN
indicates also to SN the list of MCG serving frequencies.
If MN and SN both configure measurements on the same carrier frequency then
the configurations need to be consistent (if the network wants to ensure these
are considered as a single measurement layer). Each node (MN and SN) can
configure independently a threshold for the SpCell quality. In (NG)EN-DC
scenario, when the PCell quality is above the threshold configured by the MN,
the UE is still required to perform inter-RAT measurements configured by the
MN on the SN RAT (while it\'s not required to perform intra-RAT measurements);
when the PSCell quality is above the threshold configured by the SN, the UE is
not required to perform measurements configured by the SN. In NR-DC or NE-DC
scenario, when the PCell quality is above the threshold configured by the MN,
the UE is not required to perform measurements configured by the MN; when the
PSCell quality is above the threshold configured by the SN, the UE is not
required to perform measurements configured by the SN.
NOTE: The SN cannot renegotiate the number of frequency layers allocated by
the MN in this version of the protocol.
In MR-DC, both the MN and the SN can configure CGI reporting. The MN can
configure CGI reporting for intra-RAT and inter-RAT cells but the SN can only
configure CGI reporting of intra-RAT cells. At any point in time, the UE can
be configured with at most one CGI reporting configuration. For CGI reporting
coordination, the SN sends the CGI measurement request and the embedded CGI
reporting configuration to the MN. Optionally, the SN sends the unknown cell
information to the MN. If there is no ongoing CGI reporting measurement on UE
side, the MN forwards the SN CGI measurement configuration to UE. Otherwise
the MN rejects the request by sending X2/Xn reject message. In case the SN
indicates the unknown cell information, and the CGI information of the
requested cell is already available in the MN, the MN can also reject the
request, and sends the CGI information of the requested cell to the SN. The SN
cannot configure the CGI measurement using the SRB3.
When SRB3 is not configured, reports for measurements configured by the SN are
sent on SRB1. When SRB3 is configured, reports for measurements configured by
the SN are sent on SRB3.
Measurement results related to the target SN can be provided by MN to target
SN at MN initiated SN change procedure. Measurement results of target SN can
be forwarded from source SN to target SN via MN at SN initiated SN change
procedure. Measurement results related to the target SN can be provided by
source MN to target MN at Inter-MN handover with/without SN change procedure.
Measurement results according to measurement configuration from the MN are
encoded according to SN RRC when they are provided by MN to SN in _SgNB
Addition Request_ message / _SN Addition Request_ message. During SN initiated
SN change procedure, measurement results according to measurement
configuration from SN are encoded according to SN RRC when they are provided
by MN to SN in _SgNB Addition Request_ message / _SN Addition Request_
message.
Per-UE or per-FR measurement gaps can be configured, depending on UE
capability to support independent FR measurement and network preference. Per-
UE gap applies to both FR1 (E-UTRA and NR) and FR2 (NR) frequencies. For per-
FR gap, two independent gap patterns (i.e. FR1 gap and FR2 gap) are configured
for FR1 and FR2 respectively. The UE may also be configured with a per-UE gap
sharing configuration (applying to per-UE gap) or with two separate gap
sharing configurations (applying to FR1 and FR2 measurement gaps respectively)
[8].
A measurement gap configuration is always provided:
\- In EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NE-DC, for UEs configured with E-UTRA inter-frequency
measurements as described in table 9.1.2-2 in TS 38.133 [8];
\- In EN-DC and NGEN-DC, for UEs configured with UTRAN and GERAN measurements
as described in table 9.1.2-2 in TS 38.133 [8];
\- In NR-DC, for UEs configured with E-UTRAN measurements as described in
table 9.1.2-3 in TS 38.133 [8];
\- In MR-DC, for UEs that support either per-UE or per-FR gaps, when the
conditions to measure SSB based inter-frequency measurement or SSB based
intra-frequency measurement as described in clause 9.2.4 in TS 38.300 [3] are
met;
If per-UE gap is used, the MN decides the gap pattern and the related gap
sharing configuration. If per-FR gap is used, in EN-DC and NGEN-DC, the MN
decides the FR1 gap pattern and the related gap sharing configuration for FR1,
while the SN decides the FR2 gap pattern and the related gap sharing
configuration for FR2; in NE-DC and NR-DC, the MN decides both the FR1 and FR2
gap patterns and the related gap sharing configurations.
In EN-DC and NGEN-DC, the measurement gap configuration from the MN to the UE
indicates if the configuration from the MN is a per-UE gap or an FR1 gap
configuration. The MN also indicates the configured per-UE or FR1 measurement
gap pattern and the gap purpose (per-UE or per-FR1) to the SN. Measurement gap
configuration assistance information can be exchanged between the MN and the
SN. For the case of per-UE gap, the SN indicates to the MN the list of SN
configured frequencies in FR1 and FR2 measured by the UE. For the per-FR gap
case, the SN indicates to the MN the list of SN configured frequencies in FR1
measured by the UE and the MN indicates to the SN the list of MN configured
frequencies in FR2 measured by the UE.
In NE-DC, the MN indicates the configured per-UE or FR1 measurement gap
pattern to the SN. The SN can provide a gap request to the MN, without
indicating any list of frequencies.
In NR-DC, the MN indicates the configured per-UE, FR1 or FR2 measurement gap
pattern and the gap purpose to the SN. The SN can indicate to the MN the list
of SN configured frequencies in FR1 and FR2 measured by the UE.
In (NG)EN-DC and NR-DC, SMTC can be used for PSCell addition/PSCell change to
assist the UE in finding the SSB in the target PSCell. In case the SMTC of the
target PSCell is provided by both MN and SN it is up to UE implementation
which one to use.
## 7.3 UE capability coordination
In (NG)EN-DC and NE-DC, the capabilities of a UE supporting MR-DC are carried
by different capability containers. Some MR-DC related capabilities are in the
MR-DC container e.g. MR-DC band combinations, while other MR-DC related
capabilities are contained in the E-UTRA and NR capability containers e.g.
feature sets as described in TS 38.300 [3]. The MR-DC capabilities in the MR-
DC container need to be visible to both MN and SN, while the capabilities in
the E-UTRA and NR containers only need to be visible to the node of the
concerned RAT.
In NR-DC, all NR-DC related capabilities are in the NR capability container
and are visible to both MN and SN.
When retrieving MR-DC related capabilities, the MN shall provide an MR-DC
filter that affects the MR-DC related capabilities in MR-DC, E-UTRA and NR
capability containers. When using different _UE capability enquiry_ messages
to retrieve the different containers, the MN shall employ the same MR-DC
filter in all enquiry messages. In the E-UTRA RRC UE capability enquiry, the
MR-DC filter is also used for retrieval of NR capabilities i.e. there is in
fact one MR-DC/NR filter (while there is a separate filter for E-UTRA
capabilities). Furthermore, the MN stores the retrieved capabilities and the
corresponding filter, used to retrieve those capabilities, in the core network
for later use.
For the UE capabilities requiring coordination between E-UTRA and NR (i.e.
band combinations, feature sets and the maximum power for FR1 the UE can use
in SCG) or between NR MN and NR SN (i.e. band combinations, feature sets), it
is up to the MN to decide on how to resolve the dependency between MN and SN
configurations. The MN then provides the resulting UE capabilities usable for
SCG configuration to the SN, including the list of allowed MR-DC band
combinations and feature sets, and the SN indicates the selected band
combination and feature set to the MN. When subsequently reconfiguring the
SCG, the SN should inform the MN whenever the band combination and/or feature
set it selected for the SCG changes (i.e. even if the selection concerns a
band combination and feature set that is allowed). As part of an SN initiated
SN modification, the SN may also indicate the desired UE capabilities usable
for SCG configuration (e.g. a band combination and a feature set) outside
those allowed by the MN (i.e. it may re-negotiate the UE capabilities for SCG
configuration), and it is up to the MN to make the final decision whether to
accept or reject the request. If the MN accepts the request, the MN may
provide the resulting UE capabilities e.g. by indicating the allowed band
combinations and feature sets. If MN accepts but does not provide resulting UE
capabilities, SN assumes the UE capabilities usable for SCG configuration are
updated in accordance with the modification it requested. Otherwise, the MN
rejects the request by sending X2/Xn refuse message.
## 7.4 Handling of combined MN/SN RRC messages
When both MCG and SCG reconfiguration is required due to the need for
coordination with the MN, the _SN RRC reconfiguration_ message is encapsulated
in an MN RRC message that also carries the corresponding MCG reconfiguration
that ensures that the combined configuration can be jointly processed by the
UE. If the MN terminates a bearer using NR PDCP, the NR PDCP configuration is
generated by the MN itself. If the SN terminates the bearer, the SN generates
the NR PDCP configuration and sends it to the MN as a separate container.
The UE uses a joint success/failure procedure for messages in an encapsulating
MN RRC message. A failure of the MN RRC messages, including one encapsulated
SN RRC message with or without any MCG reconfiguration fields, triggers a re-
establishment procedure. Each _SN RRC reconfiguration_ message should have its
own RRC response message even when the SN RRC message is encapsulated in an MN
RRC message. The SN RRC response message is forwarded over X2/Xn to the SN. If
a _SN RRC reconfiguration_ message is contained in a MN RRC message, the UE
sends a MN RRC response message that encapsulates the SN RRC response message.
NOTE: If the MN RRC message does not encapsulate an _SN RRC reconfiguration_
message (i.e. an SCG configuration) but only information elements generated by
the SN (e.g. the PDCP configuration for an SN terminated bearer), the UE will
not send an SN RRC response message.
## 7.5 SRB3
SRB3 is supported in EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, but not in NE-DC.
The decision to establish SRB3 is taken by the SN, which provides the SRB3
configuration using an SN RRC message. SRB3 establishment and release can be
done at Secondary Node Addition and Secondary Node Change. SRB3
reconfiguration can be done at Secondary Node Modification procedure.
SRB3 may be used to send _SN RRC Reconfiguration_ , _SN RRC Reconfiguration
Complete_ , _SN Measurement Report, and SN Failure Information_ messages
_(i.e., in case of failure for an SCG RLC bearer)_ , only in procedures where
the MN is not involved. _SN RRC Reconfiguration Complete_ messages are mapped
to the same SRB as the message initiating the procedure. _SN Measurement
Report_ messages are mapped to SRB3, if configured, regardless of whether the
configuration is received directly from the SN or via the MN. No MN RRC
messages are mapped to SRB3.
SRB3 is modelled as one of the SRBs defined in TS 38.331 [4] and uses the NR-
DCCH logical channel type. RRC PDUs on SRB3 are ciphered and integrity
protected using NR PDCP, with security keys derived from S-K~gNB~. The SN
selects ciphering and integrity protection algorithms for the SRB3 and
provides them to the MN within the SCG Configuration for transmission to the
UE.
NOTE: A NR SCG RRC message sent via E-UTRA MCG SRB is protected by E-UTRA MCG
SRB security (NR security is not used in this case).
SRB3 is of higher scheduling priority than all DRBs. The default scheduling
priorities of split SRB1 and SRB3 are the same.
There is no requirement on the UE to perform any reordering of RRC messages
between SRB1 and SRB3.
When SCG is released, SRB3 is released.
## 7.6 Split SRB
Split SRB is supported for both SRB1 and SRB2 (split SRB is not supported for
SRB0 and SRB3) in all MR-DC cases. RRC PDUs on split SRB are ciphered and
integrity protected using NR PDCP.
Split SRB can be configured by the MN in Secondary Node Addition and/or
Modification procedure, with SN configuration part provided by the SN. A UE
can be configured with both split SRB and SRB3 simultaneously. SRB3 and the
SCG leg of split SRB can be independently configured.
For the split SRB, the selection of transmission path in downlink depends on
network implementation. For uplink, the UE is configured via MN RRC signalling
whether to use MCG path or duplicate the transmission on both MCG and SCG.
## 7.7 SCG/MCG failure handling
RLF is declared separately for the MCG and for the SCG.
If radio link failure is detected for MCG, the UE initiates the RRC connection
re-establishment procedure.
The following SCG failure cases are supported:
\- SCG RLF;
\- SN change failure;
\- For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, SCG configuration failure (only for messages
on SRB3);
\- For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, SCG RRC integrity check failure (on SRB3).
Upon SCG failure the UE suspends SCG transmissions for all radio bearers and
reports the SCG Failure Information to the MN, instead of triggering re-
establishment.
In all SCG failure cases, the UE maintains the current measurement
configurations from both the MN and the SN and the UE continues measurements
based on configuration from the MN and the SN if possible. The SN measurements
configured to be routed via the MN will continue to be reported after the SCG
failure.
NOTE: UE may not continue measurements based on configuration from the SN
after SCG failure in certain cases (e.g. UE cannot maintain the timing of
PSCell).
The UE includes in the _SCG Failure Information_ message the measurement
results available according to current measurement configuration of both the
MN and the SN. The MN handles the _SCG Failure Information_ message and may
decide to keep, change, or release the SN/SCG. In all the cases, the
measurement results according to the SN configuration and the SCG failure type
may be forwarded to the old SN and/or to the new SN.
## 7.8 UE identities
In MR-DC, two C-RNTIs are independently allocated to the UE: one for MCG, and
one for SCG.
## 7.9 Inter-node Resource Coordination
For MR-DC operations, MN and SN may coordinate their UL and DL radio resources
in semi-static manner via UE associated signalling.
# 8 Bearer handling aspects
## 8.1 QoS aspects
In EN-DC, the E-UTRAN QoS framework defined in TS 36.300 [2] applies:
\- An S1-U bearer is established between the EPC and the SN for SN terminated
bearers;
\- An X2-U bearer is established between the MN and the SN for split bearers,
MN terminated SCG bearers and SN terminated MCG bearers;
\- MN terminated and SN terminated bearers may have either MCG or SCG radio
resources or both, MCG and SCG radio resources, established;
In MR-DC with 5GC:
\- The NG-RAN QoS framework defined in TS 38.300 [3] applies;
\- QoS flows belonging to the same PDU session may be mapped to different
bearer types (see clause 4.2.2) and as a result there may be two different
SDAP entities for the same PDU session: one at the MN and another one at the
SN, in which case the MN decides which QoS flows are assigned to the SDAP
entity in the SN. If the SN decides that its SDAP entity cannot host a given
QoS flow any longer, the SN informs the MN and the MN cannot reject the
request. If the MN decides that its SDAP entity can host a given QoS flow
which has already been relocated to SN, the MN informs the SN;
\- The MN or SN node that hosts the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow decides
how to map the QoS flow to DRBs;
\- If the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow is hosted by the MN and the MN
decides that SCG resources are to be configured it provides to the SN
\- DRB QoS flow level QoS parameters, which the SN may reject, and
\- QoS flow to DRB mapping information and the respective per QoS flow
information;
\- If the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow is hosted by the SN and the SN
configures MCG resources, based on offered MCG resource information from the
MN, the SN provides to the MN
\- DRB QoS flow level QoS parameters, which the MN may reject, and
\- QoS flow to DRB mapping information and the respective per QoS flow
information.
\- If the SDAP entity for a given QoS flow is hosted by the SN, the MN
provides sufficient QoS related information to enable the SN to configure
appropriate SCG resources and to request the configuration of appropriate MCG
resources. The MN may offer MCG resources to the SN and may indicate for GBR
QoS flows the amount offered to the SN on a per QoS flow level. Otherwise, the
SN can only use SCG resources for the concerned QoS flow. The SN may request
the MN to release QoS flows from the SDAP entity hosted by the SN that the MN
cannot reject.
\- MN decides the DL PDU session AMBR and UL PDU session AMBR limits to be
assigned to the SN, and indicates these to the SN:
\- The PDCP entity at the SN applies the received DL PDU session AMBR limi t
to the set of all bearers for which the SN hosts PDCP for the UE;
\- The MAC entity at the SN applies the received UL PDU session AMBR limit to
the scheduled uplink radio traffic at the SN for the UE.
> \- The MN can decide to reallocate one or more QoS flows from the MN to the
> SN. In such case, the SN decides which DRBs the offloaded QoS flows are
> mapped to. It is possible to avoid/ minimise loss and ensure in-order
> delivery when reallocating all QoS flows mapped to a given DRB in the MN by
> keeping the QoS flows mapped to the same DRB in the SN. To achieve this, the
> SN should behave similar to what is specified for the target NG-RAN node
> upon handover, see TS 38.300 clause 9.2.3.2.2 [3]. The corresponding
> behaviour applies when QoS flows are re-allocated from the SN to the MN.
In all MR-DC cases:
\- The MN decides the DL UE AMBR and UL UE AMBR limits to be assigned to the
SN, and indicates these to the SN:
\- The PDCP entity at the SN applies the received DL UE AMBR limit to the set
of all bearers for which the SN hosts PDCP for the UE;
\- The MAC entity at the SN applies the received UL UE AMBR limit to the
scheduled uplink radio traffic at the SN for the UE.
To support PDU sessions mapped to different bearer types, MR-DC with 5GC
provides the possibility for the MN to request the 5GC:
\- For some PDU sessions of a UE: Direct the User Plane traffic of the whole
PDU session either to the MN or to the SN. In that case, there is a single
NG-U tunnel termination at the NG-RAN for such PDU session.
\- The MN may request to change this assignment during the life time of the
PDU session.
\- For some other PDU sessions of a UE: Direct the User Plane traffic of a
subset of the QoS flows of the PDU session to the SN (respectively MN) while
the rest of the QoS flows of the PDU session is directed to the MN
(respectively SN). In that case, there are two NG-U tunnel terminations at the
NG-RAN for such PDU session.
\- The MN may request to change this assignment during the life time of the
PDU session.
To support notification control indication for GBR QoS flows along the QoS
framework specified in 38.300 [3] for MR-DC with 5GC, SN and MN may mutually
indicate whenever QoS requirements for GBR QoS flows cannot be fulfilled
anymore or can be fulfilled again.
## 8.2 Bearer type selection
In EN-DC, for each radio bearer the MN decides the location of the PDCP entity
and in which cell group(s) radio resources are to be configured. Once an SN
terminated split bearer is established, e.g. by means of the Secondary Node
Addition procedure or MN initiated Secondary Node Modification procedure, the
SN may remove SCG resources for the respective E-RAB, as long as the QoS for
the respective E-RAB is guaranteed. In case an SN terminated bearer is
released or reconfigured to an MN terminated bearer, only the MN generates the
corresponding configuration and the SN does not generate the release
configuration.
In MR-DC with 5GC, the following principles apply:
\- The MN decides per PDU session the location of the SDAP entity, i.e.
whether it shall be hosted by the MN or the SN or by both (split PDU session);
\- If the MN decides to host an SDAP entity it may decide some of the related
QoS flows to be realized as MCG bearer, some as SCG bearer, and others to be
realized as split bearer;
\- If the MN decides that an SDAP entity shall be hosted in the SN, some of
the related QoS flows may be realized as SCG bearer, some as MCG bearer, while
others may be realized as split bearer. In this case, the SN decides how to
realise the QoS flow, but if the MN does not offer MCG resources, the SN can
only realize the QoS flow as SCG bearer. The SN may remove or add SCG
resources for the respective QoS flows, as long as the QoS for the respective
QoS flow is guaranteed
\- If the MN decides that an SDAP entity shall be hosted in the SN,
coordination of DRB IDs between the MN and the SN is needed to ensure unique
allocation of DRBs for a UE. The SN is responsible to assign the DRB IDs for
the DRBs it terminates, based on the DRB IDs indicated by the MN.
\- For each PDU session, including split PDU sessions, at most one default DRB
may be configured (see [3]). The MN decides whether the SN is allowed to setup
the default DRB or not;
\- In case an SN terminated bearer is released or reconfigured to an MN
terminated bearer, the MN generates the corresponding configuration and the SN
does not generate the release configuration. The only exceptional case where
SN generates the release configuration is for the DRB release due to QoS flow
to DRB remapping within SN.
## 8.3 Bearer type change
In MR-DC, all the possible bearer type change options are supported:
\- MCG bearer to/from split bearer;
\- MCG bearer to/from SCG bearer;
\- SCG bearer to/from split bearer.
Bearer termination point change is supported for all bearer types, and can be
performed with or without bearer type change:
\- MN terminated bearer to/from SN terminated bearer.
For MR-DC:
\- when the security key is changed for a bearer due to a termination point
change, the associated PDCP and RLC entities are re-established, while MAC
behavior might depend on the solution selected by the network, e.g. MAC reset,
change of LCID, etc. (see Annex A);
\- for MCG bearer, split bearer and SCG bearer, during MN security key change
the MCG/SCG PDCP and RLC are re-established and MCG/SCG MAC is reset;
\- if a bearer type change happens together with MN security key change then
for MCG bearer, split bearer and SCG bearer, the MCG/SCG PDCP and RLC are re-
established and MCG/SCG MAC is reset;
\- if a bearer type change happens through SN change procedure, then SN
terminated PDCP and SCG RLC are re-established and SCG MAC is reset. MCG
RLC/MAC behavior depends on the solution selected by the network, see Annex A;
\- one step (direct) bearer type change between MN terminated bearer types
without using the handover procedure is supported;
\- one step (direct) bearer type change between SN terminated bearer types
without using the handover or SN change procedure is supported;
\- one step (direct) bearer type change from/to MN terminated bearer to/from
SN terminated bearer without using the handover procedure is supported;
\- PDCP version change for DRB (only applicable for EN-DC) or PDCP SN length
change for an AM DRB or RLC mode change for DRB is performed using a release
and add of the DRBs (in a single message) or full configuration;
\- One step (direct) bearer type change with PDCP version change (only
applicable for EN-DC) is supported.
For MR-DC with 5GC:
\- in a bearer termination point change of a DRB from a source NG-RAN node to
a target NG-RAN node, for each DRB for which the source NG-RAN node provides
QoS flow to DRB mapping information to the target NG-RAN node, the source NG-
RAN node also offers the indicated DRB ID for usage at the target NG-RAN node.
The target NG-RAN node informs the source NG-RAN node if it accepts the DRB
offloading and takes the DRB ID into use.
NOTE 1: In this clause the term \"handover\" refers to an E-UTRA handover or
to an NR synchronous reconfiguration not necessarily implying a P(S)Cell
change with or without security key change.
NOTE 2: L2 handling for bearer type change in MR-DC is also summarized in
Annex A (the table does not consider the cases that PDCP SN length is changed
and avoiding reuse of COUNT).
## 8.4 User data forwarding
Upon EN-DC specific activities, user data forwarding may be performed for
E-RABs for which the bearer type change from/to MN terminated bearer to/from
SN terminated bearer is performed. The behaviour of the node from which data
is forwarded is the same as specified for the \"source eNB\" for handover, the
behaviour of the node to which data is forwarded is the same as specified for
the \"target eNB\" for handover.
For MR-DC with 5GC, user data forwarding may be performed between NG-RAN nodes
whenever the logical node hosting the PDCP entity changes. The behaviour of
the node from which data is forwarded is the same as specified for the
\"source NG-RAN node\" for handover, the behaviour of the node to which data
is forwarded is the same as specified for the \"target NG-RAN node\" for
handover.
For SN change involving full configuration, the source SN behaviour is the
same as the description as specified in intra-system data forwarding in TS
36.300 [2] for the source eNB or TS 38.300 [3] for the source NG-RAN node,
respectively. In case that a DRB DL forwarding tunnel was established, the
target SN may identify the PDCP SDUs for which delivery was attempted by the
source SN, by the presence of the PDCP SN in the forwarded GTP-U packet and
may discard them.
For mobility scenarios which involve more than two RAN nodes, either direct or
indirect data forwarding may be applied. Two transport layer addresses of
different versions may be provided to enable that the source RAN node can
select either IPv4 or IPv6.
For MR-DC with 5GC, offloading of QoS flows within one PDU session may be
performed between NG-RAN nodes. The handling of End Marker packets in case of
NG-RAN initiated PDU session split is described in clause 10.14.3 and 10.14.4.
# 9 Security related aspects
MR-DC can only be configured after security activation in the MN.
In EN-DC and NGEN-DC, for bearers terminated in the MN the network configures
the UE with K~eNB~; for bearers terminated in the SN the network configures
the UE with S-K~gNB~. In NE-DC, for bearers terminated in the MN the network
configures the UE with K~gNB~; for bearers terminated in the SN the network
configures the UE with S-K~eNB~. In NR-DC, for bearers terminated in the MN
the network configures the UE with K~gNB~; for bearers terminated in the SN
the network configures the UE with S-K~gNB~.
In NE-DC and NR-DC, a PCell change without K~gNB~ change does not require a
S-K~eNB~ change (NE-DC case) or a S-K~gNB~ change (NR-DC case).
In EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC, for a PSCell change that does not require a
K~eNB~ change (i.e. no simultaneous PCell handover in EN-DC and NGEN-DC) or a
K~gNB~ change (in NR-DC), S-K~gNB~ key refresh is not required if the PDCP
termination point of the SN is not changed. In NE-DC, a PSCell change always
requires a S-K~eNB~ change.
In EN-DC, the UE supports the NR security algorithms corresponding to the
E-UTRA security algorithms signalled at NAS level and the UE NR AS Security
capability is not signalled to the MN over RRC. Mapping from E-UTRA security
algorithms to the corresponding NR security algorithms, where necessary, is
performed at the MN.
For MR-DC with 5GC, UP integrity protection can be configured on a per radio
bearer basis. All DRBs which belong to the same PDU session always have the
same UP integrity protection activation, i.e., either on or off:
\- For NR-DC: MN and/or SN terminated DRBs of a PDU session can have UP
integrity protection activation either on or off.
\- For NE-DC: MN terminated DRBs of a PDU session can have UP integrity
protection activation on; however, in this case, the MN will not at any point
offload any DRB of such PDU session to the SN. SN terminated DRBs of a PDU
session always have UP integrity protection activation off.
\- For NGEN-DC: Both MN terminated and SN terminated DRBs of a PDU session
always have UP integrity protection activation off.
# 10 Multi-Connectivity operation related aspects
## 10.1 General
Similar procedures as defined under clause 10.1.2.8 (Dual Connectivity
operation) in TS 36.300 [2] apply for MR-DC.
## 10.2 Secondary Node Addition
### 10.2.1 EN-DC
The Secondary Node Addition procedure is initiated by the MN and is used to
establish a UE context at the SN to provide resources from the SN to the UE.
For bearers requiring SCG radio resources, this procedure is used to add at
least the first cell of the SCG. This procedure can also be used to configure
an SN terminated MCG bearer (where no SCG configuration is needed). Figure
10.2.1-1 shows the Secondary Node Addition procedure.
Figure 10.2.1-1: Secondary Node Addition procedure
1\. The MN decides to request the SN to allocate resources for a specific
E-RAB, indicating E-RAB characteristics (E-RAB parameters, TNL address
information corresponding to bearer type). In addition, for bearers requiring
SCG radio resources, MN indicates the requested SCG configuration information,
including the entire UE capabilities and the UE capability coordination
result. In this case, the MN also provides the latest measurement results for
SN to choose and configure the SCG cell(s). The MN may request the SN to
allocate radio resources for split SRB operation. The MN always provides all
the needed security information to the SN (even if no SN terminated bearers
are setup) to enable SRB3 to be setup based on SN decision. In case of bearer
options that require X2-U resources between the MN and the SN, the MN provides
X2-U TNL address information for the respective E-RAB, X2-U DL TNL address
information for SN terminated bearers, X2-U UL TNL address information for MN
terminated bearers. In case of SN terminated split bearers the MN provides the
maximum QoS level that it can support. The SN may reject the request.
NOTE 1: For split bearers, MCG and SCG resources may be requested of such an
amount, that the QoS for the respective E-RAB is guaranteed by the exact sum
of resources provided by the MCG and the SCG together, or even more. For MN
terminated split bearers, the MNs decision is reflected in step 1 by the E-RAB
parameters signalled to the SN, which may differ from E-RAB parameters
received over S1.
NOTE 2: For a specific E-RAB, the MN may request the direct establishment of
an SCG or a split bearer, i.e., without first having to establish an MCG
bearer. It is also allowed that all E-RABs can be configured as SN terminated
bearers, i.e. there is no E-RAB established as an MN terminated bearer.
2\. If the RRM entity in the SN is able to admit the resource request, it
allocates respective radio resources and, dependent on the bearer option,
respective transport network resources. For bearers requiring SCG radio
resources, the SN triggers Random Access so that synchronisation of the SN
radio resource configuration can be performed. The SN decides the PSCell and
other SCG SCells and provides the new SCG radio resource configuration to the
MN in a _NR RRC configuration_ message contained in the _SgNB Addition Request
Acknowledge_ message. In case of bearer options that require X2-U resources
between the MN and the SN, the SN provides X2-U TNL address information for
the respective E-RAB, X2-U UL TNL address information for SN terminated
bearers, X2-U DL TNL address information for MN terminated bearers. For SN
terminated bearers, the SN provides the S1-U DL TNL address information for
the respective E-RAB and security algorithm. If SCG radio resources have been
requested, the SCG radio resource configuration is provided.
NOTE 3: For the SN terminated split bearer option, the SN may either decide to
request resources from the MN of such an amount, that the QoS for the
respective E-RAB is guaranteed by the exact sum of resources provided by the
MN and the SN together, or even more. The SNs decision is reflected in step 2
by the E-RAB parameters signalled to the MN, which may differ from E-RAB
parameters received in step 1. The QoS level requested from the MN shall not
exceed the level that the MN offered when setting up the split bearer in step
1.
NOTE 4: In case of MN terminated bearers, transmission of user plane data may
take place after step 2.
NOTE 5: In case of SN terminated bearers , data forwarding and the SN Status
Transfer may take place after step 2.
3\. The MN sends to the UE the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message
including the NR RRC configuration message, without modifying it.
4\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies to MN with
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message, including a NR RRC response
message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.
5\. The MN informs the SN that the UE has completed the reconfiguration
procedure successfully via _SgNB ReconfigurationComplete_ message, including
the encoded NR RRC response message, if received from the UE.
6\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE performs
synchronisation towards the PSCell of the SN. The order the UE sends the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message and performs the Random Access
procedure towards the SCG is not defined. The successful RA procedure towards
the SCG is not required for a successful completion of the RRC Connection
Reconfiguration procedure.
7\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the SN for bearers using RLC AM,
and when RRC full configuration is not used, the MN sends the SN Status
Transfer.
8\. For SN terminated bearers moved from the MN, dependent on the bearer
characteristics of the respective E-RAB, the MN may take actions to minimise
service interruption due to activation of EN-DC (Data forwarding).
9-12. If applicable, the update of the UP path towards the EPC is performed.
### 10.2.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The Secondary Node (SN) Addition procedure is initiated by the MN and is used
to establish a UE context at the SN in order to provide resources from the SN
to the UE. For bearers requiring SCG radio resources, this procedure is used
to add at least the initial SCG serving cell of the SCG. This procedure can
also be used to configure an SN terminated MCG bearer (where no SCG
configuration is needed). Figure 10.2.2-1 shows the SN Addition procedure.
Figure 10.2.2-1: SN Addition procedure
1\. The MN decides to request the target SN to allocate resources for one or
more specific PDU Sessions/QoS Flows, indicating QoS Flows characteristics
(QoS Flow Level QoS parameters, PDU session level TNL address information, and
PDU session level Network Slice info). In addition, for bearers requiring SCG
radio resources, MN indicates the requested SCG configuration information,
including the entire UE capabilities and the UE capability coordination
result. In this case, the MN also provides the latest measurement results for
SN to choose and configure the SCG cell(s). The MN may request the SN to
allocate radio resources for split SRB operation. In NGEN-DC and NR-DC, the MN
always provides all the needed security information to the SN (even if no SN
terminated bearers are setup) to enable SRB3 to be setup based on SN decision.
For MN terminated bearer options that require Xn-U resources between the MN
and the SN, the MN provides Xn-U UL TNL address information. For SN terminated
bearers, the MN provides a list of available DRB IDs. The S-NG-RAN node shall
store this information and use it when establishing SN terminated bearers. The
SN may reject the request.
For SN terminated bearer options that require Xn-U resources between the MN
and the SN, the MN provides in step 1 a list of QoS flows per PDU Sessions for
which SCG resources are requested to be setup upon which the SN decides how to
map QoS flows to DRB.
NOTE 1: For split bearers, MCG and SCG resources may be requested of such an
amount, that the QoS for the respective QoS Flow is guaranteed by the exact
sum of resources provided by the MCG and the SCG together, or even more. For
MN terminated split bearers, the MN decision is reflected in step 1 by the QoS
Flow parameters signalled to the SN, which may differ from QoS Flow parameters
received over NG.
NOTE 2: For a specific QoS flow, the MN may request the direct establishment
of SCG and/or split bearers, i.e. without first having to establish MCG
bearers. It is also allowed that all QoS flows can be mapped to SN terminated
bearers, i.e. there is no QoS flow mapped to an MN terminated bearer.
2\. If the RRM entity in the SN is able to admit the resource request, it
allocates respective radio resources and, dependent on the bearer type
options, respective transport network resources. For bearers requiring SCG
radio resources the SN triggers UE Random Access so that synchronisation of
the SN radio resource configuration can be performed. The SN decides for the
PSCell and other SCG SCells and provides the new SCG radio resource
configuration to the MN within an SN RRC configuration message contained in
the _SN Addition Request Acknowledge_ message. In case of bearer options that
require Xn-U resources between the MN and the SN, the SN provides Xn-U TNL
address information for the respective DRB, Xn-U UL TNL address information
for SN terminated bearers, Xn-U DL TNL address information for MN terminated
bearers. For SN terminated bearers, the SN provides the NG-U DL TNL address
information for the respective PDU Session and security algorithm. If SCG
radio resources have been requested, the SCG radio resource configuration is
provided.
NOTE 3: In case of MN terminated bearers, transmission of user plane data may
take place after step 2.
NOTE 4: In case of SN terminated bearers, data forwarding and the SN Status
Transfer may take place after step 2.
NOTE 5: For MN terminated NR SCG bearers for which PDCP duplication with CA is
configured, the MN allocates 2 separate Xn-U bearers and the SN provides a
logical channel ID for primary path to the MN.
For SN terminated NR MCG bearers for which PDCP duplication with CA is
configured, the SN allocates 2 separate Xn-U bearers and the MN provides a
logical channel ID for primary path to the SN via an additional MN-initiated
SN modification procedure.
2a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U DL TNL
address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
3\. The MN sends the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message to the UE including the
SN RRC configuration message, without modifying it.
4\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies to MN with _MN RRC
reconfiguration complete_ message, including an SN RRC response message for
SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the
configuration included in the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs
the reconfiguration failure procedure.
5\. The MN informs the SN that the UE has completed the reconfiguration
procedure successfully via _SN Reconfiguration Complete_ message, including
the SN RRC response message, if received from the UE.
6\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE performs
synchronisation towards the PSCell configured by the SN. The order the UE
sends the _MN RRC reconfiguration complete_ message and performs the Random
Access procedure towards the SCG is not defined. The successful RA procedure
towards the SCG is not required for a successful completion of the RRC
Connection Reconfiguration procedure.
7\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the SN for bearers using RLC AM,
and when RRC full configuration is not used, the MN sends the SN Status
Transfer.
8\. For SN terminated bearers or QoS flows moved from the MN, dependent on the
characteristics of the respective bearer or QoS flow, the MN may take actions
to minimise service interruption due to activation of MR-DC (Data forwarding).
9-12. If applicable, the update of the UP path towards the 5GC is performed
via a PDU Session Path Update procedure _._
## 10.3 Secondary Node Modification (MN/SN initiated)
### 10.3.1 EN-DC
The Secondary Node Modification procedure may be initiated either by the MN or
by the SN and be used to modify, establish or release bearer contexts, to
transfer bearer contexts to and from the SN or to modify other properties of
the UE context within the same SN. It may also be used to transfer an NR RRC
message from the SN to the UE via the MN and the response from the UE via MN
to the SN (e.g. when SRB3 is not used).
The Secondary Node modification procedure does not necessarily need to involve
signalling towards the UE.
**MN initiated SN Modification**
Figure 10.3.1-1: SN Modification procedure - MN initiated
The MN uses the procedure to initiate configuration changes of the SCG within
the same SN, e.g. the addition, modification or release of SCG bearer(s) and
the SCG RLC bearer of split bearer(s), as well as configuration changes for SN
terminated MCG bearers. Bearer termination point change is realized by adding
the new bearer configuration and releasing the old bearer configuration within
a single MN initiated SN Modification procedure for the respective E-RAB. The
MN uses this procedure to perform handover within the same MN while keeping
the SN. The MN also uses the procedure to query the current SCG configuration,
e.g. when delta configuration is applied in an MN initiated SN change. The MN
also uses the procedure to provide the S-RLF related information to the SN.
The MN may not use the procedure to initiate the addition, modification or
release of SCG SCells. The SN may reject the request, except if it concerns
the release of SN terminated bearer(s) or the SCG RLC bearer of MN terminated
bearer(s), or if it is used to perform handover within the same MN while
keeping the SN. Figure 10.3.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for an MN
initiated SN Modification procedure.
1\. The MN sends the _SgNB Modification Request_ message, which may contain
bearer context related or other UE context related information, data
forwarding address information (if applicable) and the requested SCG
configuration information, including the UE capability coordination result to
be used as basis for the reconfiguration by the SN. In case a security key
update in the SN is required, a new **_SgNB Security Key_ is included.** In
case of SCG RLC re-establishment for E-RABs configured with an MN terminated
bearer with an SCG RLC bearer for which no bearer type change is performed,
the MN provides a new UL GTP tunnel endpoint to the SN. The SN shall continue
sending UL PDCP PDUs to the MN with the previous UL GTP tunnel endpoint until
it re-establishes the RLC and use the new UL GTP tunnel endpoint after re-
establishment. In case of PDCP re-establishment for E-RABs configured with an
SN terminated bearer with an MCG RLC bearer for which no bearer type change is
performed, the MN provides a new DL GTP tunnel endpoint to the SN. The SN
shall continue sending DL PDCP PDUs to the MN with the previous DL GTP tunnel
endpoint until it performs PDCP re-establishment and use the new DL GTP tunnel
endpoint starting with the PDCP re-establishment.
2\. The SN responds with the _SgNB Modification Request Acknowledge_ message,
which may contain SCG radio resource configuration information within a NR RRC
configuration message and data forwarding address information (if applicable).
In case of a security key update (with or without PSCell change), for E-RABs
configured with the MN terminated bearer option that require X2-U resources
between the MN and the SN, for which no bearer type change is performed, the
SN provides a new DL GTP tunnel endpoint to the MN. The MN shall continue
sending DL PDCP PDUs to the SN with the previous DL GTP tunnel endpoint until
it performs PDCP re-establishment or PDCP data recovery, and use the new DL
GTP tunnel endpoint starting with the PDCP re-establishment or data recovery.
In case of a security key update (with or without PSCell change), for E-RABs
configured with the SN terminated bearer option that require X2-U resources
between the MN and the SN, for which no bearer type change is performed, the
SN provides a new UL GTP tunnel endpoint to the MN. The MN shall continue
sending UL PDCP PDUs to the SN with the previous UL GTP tunnel endpoint until
it re-establishes the RLC and use the new UL GTP tunnel endpoint after re-
establishment.
NOTE 00: In case SN includes the indication of full RRC configuration in _SgNB
Modification Request Acknowledge_ message to MN e.g. comprehension failure
upon intra-CU inter-DU change, MN performs release and add of the NR SCG part
of the configuration but does not release SN terminated radio bearers towards
the UE.
3-5. The MN initiates the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure, including
the NR RRC configuration message. The UE applies the new configuration,
synchronizes to the MN (if instructed, in case of intra-MN handover) and
replies with _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ , including a NR RRC
response message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of)
the configuration included in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.
6\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of the
procedure is indicated in the _SgNB Reconfiguration Complete_ message.
7\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN as described in SgNB addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE may perform UL
transmission after having applied the new configuration.
> 8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and when
> RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes place
> between the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.1-1 depicts the case where a bearer
> context is transferred from the MN to the SN).
NOTE 0: The SN may not be aware that a SN terminated bearer requested to be
released is reconfigured to a MN terminated bearer. The SN Status for the
released SN terminated bearers with RLC AM may also be transferred to the MN.
9\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place (Figure
10.3.1-1 depicts the case where a bearer context is transferred from the MN to
the SN).
10\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE over the NR
radio for the E-RABs to be released and for the E-RABs for which the S1 UL GTP
Tunnel endpoint was requested to be modified.
NOTE 1: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.
11\. If applicable, a path update is performed.
**SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement**
Figure 10.3.1-2: SN Modification procedure - SN initiated with MN involvement
The SN uses the procedure to perform configuration changes of the SCG within
the same SN, e.g. to trigger the release of SCG bearer(s) and the SCG RLC
bearer of split bearer(s) (upon which the MN may release the bearer or
maintain current bearer type or reconfigure it to an MCG bearer, either MN
terminated or SN terminated), to trigger the release of SCG resources (e.g.,
release SCG lower layer resources but keep SN), and to trigger PSCell change
(e.g. when a new security key is required or when the MN needs to perform PDCP
data recovery). The MN cannot reject the release request of SCG bearer and the
SCG RLC bearer of a split bearer and the release request of SCG resources. The
MN shall either accept modification of all of the requested SCG bearer(s) and
the SCG RLC bearer of split bearer(s), or fail the procedure. Figure 10.3.1-2
shows an example signalling flow for an SN initiated SgNB Modification
procedure, with MN involvement.
1\. The SN sends the _SgNB Modification Required_ message including a NR RRC
configuration message, which may contain bearer context related, other UE
context related information and the new SCG radio resource configuration. For
bearer release or modification, a corresponding E-RAB list is included in the
_SgNB Modification Required_ message. In case of change of security key, the
_PDCP Change_ _Indication_ indicates that a S-K~gNB~ update is required. In
case the MN needs to perform PDCP data recovery, the _PDCP Change_
_Indication_ indicates that PDCP data recovery is required. In case SN decides
to trigger SCG release, the E-RABs to be modified list includes all the E-RABs
of the UE with SCG resource indicated as not present for each E-RAB.
The SN can decide whether the change of security key is required.
NOTE 1a: In case SN includes the indication of full RRC configuration in _SgNB
Modification Required_ message to MN e.g. comprehension failure upon intra-CU
inter-DU change, MN performs release and add of the NR SCG part of the
configuration but does not release SN terminated radio bearers towards the UE.
2/3. The MN initiated SN Modification procedure may be triggered by the _SN
Modification Required_ message (e.g. to provide information such as data
forwarding addresses, new SN security key, measurement gap, etc.)
NOTE 2: If only SN security key is provided in step 2, the MN does not need to
wait for the reception of step 3 to initiate the RRC connection
reconfiguration procedure.
4\. The MN sends the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message including a NR RRC
configuration message to the UE including the new SCG radio resource
configuration.
5\. The UE applies the new configuration and sends the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message, including an encoded NR RRC
response message, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of)
the configuration included in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it
performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.
6\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of the
procedure is indicated in the _SgNB Modification Confirm_ message containing
the encoded NR RRC response message, if received from the UE.
7\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN as described in SN addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE may perform UL
transmission after having applied the new configuration.
8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and when
RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes place between
the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.1-2 depicts the case where a bearer context is
transferred from the SN to the MN).
NOTE 2a: The SN may not be aware that a SN terminated bearer requesting to
release is reconfigured to a MN terminated bearer. The SN Status for the
released SN terminated bearers with RLC AM may also be transferred to the MN.
9\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place (Figure
10.3.1-2 depicts the case where a bearer context is transferred from the SN to
the MN).
10\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE over the NR
radio for the E-RABs to be released.
NOTE 3: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.
11\. If applicable, a path update is performed.
**SN initiated SN Modification without MN involvement**
Figure 10.3.1-3: SN modification - SN initiated without MN involvement
The SN initiated modification without MN involved procedure is used to modify
the configuration within SN in case no coordination with MN is required,
including the addition/modification/release of SCG SCell and PSCell change
(e.g. when the security key does not need to be changed and the MN does not
need to be involved in PDCP recovery). Figure 10.3.1-3 shows an example
signalling flow for SN initiated SN modification procedure, without MN
involvement. The SN can decide whether the Random Access procedure is
required.
1\. The SN sends the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message to the UE through
SRB3. The UE applies the new configuration. In case the UE is unable to comply
with (part of) the configuration included in the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.
2\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN.
3\. The UE replies with the _RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message.
**Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE (when SRB3 is not used)**
Figure 10.3.1-4: Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE
The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC message to
the UE and SRB3 is not used.
1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the SgNB Modification Required
to the MN.
2\. The MN forwards the NR RRC message to the UE in the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message.
3\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies with the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message.
4\. The MN forwards the NR RRC response message, if received from the UE, to
the SN in the _SgNB Modification Confirm_ message.
5\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN as described in SgNB Addition procedure. Otherwise the UE may perform UL
transmission after having applied the new configuration.
### 10.3.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The SN Modification procedure may be initiated either by the MN or by the SN
and be used to modify the current user plane resource configuration (e.g.
related to PDU session, QoS flow or DRB) or to modify other properties of the
UE context within the same SN. It may also be used to transfer an RRC message
from the SN to the UE via the MN and the response from the UE via MN to the SN
(e.g. when SRB3 is not used). In NGEN-DC and NR-DC, the RRC message is an NR
message (i.e., _RRCReconfiguration_) whereas in NE-DC it is an E-UTRA message
(i.e., _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_).
The SN modification procedure does not necessarily need to involve signalling
towards the UE.
**MN initiated SN Modification**
Figure 10.3.2-1: SN Modification procedure - MN initiated
The MN uses the procedure to initiate configuration changes of the SCG within
the same SN, including addition, modification or release of the user plane
resource configuration. The MN uses this procedure to perform handover within
the same MN while keeping the SN, when the SN needs to be involved (i.e. in
NGEN-DC). The MN also uses the procedure to query the current SCG
configuration, e.g. when delta configuration is applied in an MN initiated SN
change. The MN also uses the procedure to provide the S-RLF related
information to the SN or to provide additional available DRB IDs to be used
for SN terminated bearers. The MN may not use the procedure to initiate the
addition, modification or release of SCG SCells. The SN may reject the
request, except if it concerns the release of the user plane resource
configuration, or if it is used to perform handover within the same MN while
keeping the SN. Figure 10.3.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for an MN
initiated SN Modification procedure.
1\. The MN sends the _SN Modification Request_ message, which may contain user
plane resource configuration related or other UE context related information,
PDU session level Network Slice info and the requested SCG configuration
information, including the UE capabilities coordination result to be used as
basis for the reconfiguration by the SN. In case a security key update in the
SN is required, a new **_SN Security Key_ is included.** In case the PDCP data
recovery in the SN is required, the _PDCP Change_ _Indication_ is included
which indicates that PDCP data recovery is required in SN.
2\. The SN responds with the _SN Modification Request Acknowledge_ message,
which may contain new SCG radio configuration information within an SN RRC
reconfiguration message _,_ and data forwarding address information (if
applicable).
NOTE 1: For MN terminated NR SCG bearers to be setup for which PDCP
duplication with CA is configured, the MN allocates 2 separate Xn-U bearers
and the SN provides a logical channel ID for primary path to the MN.
For SN terminated NR MCG bearers to be setup for which PDCP duplication with
CA is configured, the SN allocates 2 separate Xn-U bearers and the MN provides
a logical channel ID for primary path to the SN via an additional MN-initiated
SN modification procedure.
2a. When applicable, the MN provides data forwarding address information to
the SN. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U DL
TNL address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
3/4. The MN initiates the RRC reconfiguration procedure, including an _SN RRC
reconfiguration_ message. The UE applies the new configuration, synchronizes
to the MN (if instructed, in case of intra-MN handover) and replies with _MN
RRC reconfiguration complete_ message, including an SN RRC response message,
if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration
included in the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs the
reconfiguration failure procedure.
5\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of the
procedure is indicated in the _SN Reconfiguration Complete_ message.
6\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN as described in SN addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE may perform UL
transmission after having applied the new configuration.
7\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and when
RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes place between
the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.2-1 depicts the case where a bearer context is
transferred from the MN to the SN).
8\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place (Figure
10.3.2-1 depicts the case where a user plane resource configuration related
context is transferred from the MN to the SN).
9\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as described
in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.
10\. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is performed.
**SN initiated SN Modification with MN involvement**
Figure 10.3.2-2: SN Modification procedure - SN initiated with MN involvement
The SN uses the procedure to perform configuration changes of the SCG within
the same SN, e.g. to trigger the modification/release of the user plane
resource configuration, to trigger the release of SCG resources (e.g., release
SCG lower layer resources but keep SN), and to trigger PSCell changes (e.g.
when a new security key is required or when the MN needs to perform PDCP data
recovery). The MN cannot reject the release request of PDU session/QoS flows
and the release request of SCG resources. The SN also uses the procedure to
request the MN to provide more DRB IDs to be used for SN terminated bearers or
to return DRB IDs used for SN terminated bearers that are not needed any
longer. Figure 10.3.2-2 shows an example signalling flow for SN initiated SN
Modification procedure.
1\. The SN sends the _SN Modification Required_ message including an SN RRC
reconfiguration message, which may contain user plane resource configuration
related context, other UE context related information and the new radio
resource configuration of SCG. In case of change of security key, the _PDCP
Change_ _Indication_ indicates that an SN security key update is required. In
case the MN needs to perform PDCP data recovery, the _PDCP Change_
_Indication_ indicates that PDCP data recovery is required.
The SN can decide whether the change of security key is required.
2/3. The MN initiated SN Modification procedure may be triggered by _SN
Modification Required_ message, e.g. when an SN security key change needs to
be applied.
NOTE 3: For SN terminated NR MCG bearers to be setup for which PDCP
duplication with CA is configured the SN allocates 2 separate Xn-U bearers and
the MN provides a logical channel ID for primary path to the SN via the nested
MN-initiated SN modification procedure.
4\. The MN sends the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message to the UE including the
SN RRC reconfiguration message with the new SCG radio resource configuration.
5\. The UE applies the new configuration and sends the _MN RRC reconfiguration
complete_ message, including an SN RRC response message, if needed. In case
the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
_MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.
6\. Upon successful completion of the reconfiguration, the success of the
procedure is indicated in the _SN Modification Confirm_ message including the
SN RRC response message, if received from the UE.
7\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell
configured by the SN as described in SN Addition procedure. Otherwise, the UE
may perform UL transmission directly after having applied the new
configuration.
8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, and when
RRC full configuration is not used, the SN Status Transfer takes place between
the MN and the SN (Figure 10.3.2-2 depicts the case where a bearer context is
transferred from the SN to the MN).
9\. If applicable, data forwarding between MN and the SN takes place (Figure
10.3.2-2 depicts the case where a user plane resource configuration related
context is transferred from the SN to the MN).
10\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as described
in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 4: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.
11\. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is performed.
**SN initiated SN Modification without MN involvement**
This procedure is not supported for NE-DC.
Figure 10.3.2-3: SN Modification -- SN initiated without MN involvement
The SN initiated SN modification procedure without MN involvement is used to
modify the configuration within SN in case no coordination with MN is
required, including the addition/modification/release of SCG SCell and PSCell
change (e.g. when the security key does not need to be changed and the MN does
not need to be involved in PDCP recovery). Figure 10.3.2-3 shows an example
signalling flow for SN initiated SN modification procedure without MN
involvement. The SN can decide whether the Random Access procedure is
required.
1\. The SN sends the _SN RRC reconfiguration_ message to the UE through SRB3.
2\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies with the _SN RRC
reconfiguration complete_ message. In case the UE is unable to comply with
(part of) the configuration included in the _SN RRC reconfiguration_ message,
it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.
3\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN as described in SN Addition procedure. Otherwise the UE may perform UL
transmission after having applied the new configuration.
**Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE (when SRB3 is not used)**
This procedure is supported for all the MR-DC options.
Figure 10.3.2-4: Transfer of an NR RRC message to/from the UE
The SN initiates the procedure when it needs to transfer an NR RRC message to
the UE and SRB3 is not used.
1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the _SN Modification Required_
to the MN including the SN RRC reconfiguration message.
2\. The MN forwards the SN RRC reconfiguration message to the UE including it
in the _RRC reconfiguration_ message.
3\. The UE applies the new configuration and replies with the _RRC
reconfiguration complete_ message by including the SN RRC reconfiguration
complete message.
4\. The MN forwards the SN RRC response message, if received from the UE, to
the SN by including it in the _SN Modification Confirm_ message.
5\. If instructed, the UE performs synchronisation towards the PSCell of the
SN as described in SN Addition procedure. Otherwise the UE may perform UL
transmission after having applied the new configuration.
## 10.4 Secondary Node Release (MN/SN initiated)
### 10.4.1 EN-DC
The Secondary Node Release procedure may be initiated either by the MN or by
the SN and is used to initiate the release of the UE context at the SN. The
recipient node of this request can reject it, e.g., if a SN change procedure
is triggered by the SN.
It does not necessarily need to involve signalling towards the UE, e.g., in
case of the RRC connection re-establishment due to Radio Link Failure in MN.
**MN initiated SN Release**
Figure 10.4.1-1: SN Release procedure -- MN initiated
Figure 10.4.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated
Secondary Node Release procedure when SN Release is confirmed by SN.
1\. The MN initiates the procedure by sending the _SgNB Release Request_
message. If applicable, the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the SN.
2\. The SN confirms SN Release by sending the _SgNB Release Request
Acknowledge_ message. If appropriate, the SN may reject SN Release, e.g. if
the SN change procedure is triggered by the SN.
3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_
message towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG configuration.
In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included
in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.
NOTE 1: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps 1 and
2 may minimize gaps in service provision, this is however regarded to be an
implementation matter.
5\. For bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the SN Status Transfer.
6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.
7\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE over the NR
radio for the related E-RABs.
NOTE 2: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the _Secondary
RAT Data Usage Report_ message and starts data forwarding with MN is not
defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to
wait for the end of data forwarding to send the _Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report_ message.
8\. If applicable, the path update procedure is initiated.
9\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the SN releases radio
and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data
forwarding may continue.
**SN initiated SN Release**
Figure 10.4.1-2: SN Release procedure -- SN initiated
Figure 10.4.1-2 shows an example signalling flow for the SN initiated
Secondary Node Release procedure.
1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the _SgNB Release Required_
message which does not contain inter-node message.
2\. If applicable, the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the SN in the
_SgNB Release Confirm_ message. The SN may start data forwarding and stop
providing user data to the UE as early as it receives the _SgNB Release
Confirm_ message.
3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_
message towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG configuration.
In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included
in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.
NOTE 3: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps 2 and
3 may minimize gaps in service provision. This is however regarded to be an
implementation matter.
5\. For bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the SN Status Transfer.
6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.
7\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE over the NR
radio for the related E-RABs.
NOTE 4: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the _Secondary
RAT Data Usage Report_ message and starts data forwarding with MN is not
defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to
wait for the end of data forwarding to send the _Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report_ message.
8\. If applicable, the path update procedure is initiated.
9\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the SN releases radio
and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data
forwarding may continue.
### 10.4.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The SN Release procedure may be initiated either by the MN or by the SN and is
used to initiate the release of the UE context and relevant resources at the
SN. The recipient node of this request can reject it, e.g., if an SN change
procedure is triggered by the SN.
**MN initiated SN Release**
Figure 10.4.2-1: SN release procedure - MN initiated
Figure 10.4.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated SN
Release procedure.
1\. The MN initiates the procedure by sending the _SN Release Request_
message.
2\. The SN confirms SN Release by sending the _SN Release Request Acknowledge_
message. If appropriate, the SN may reject SN Release, e.g., if the SN change
procedure is triggered by the SN.
2a. When applicable, the MN provides forwarding address information to the SN.
NOTE 0: The MN may send the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message to provide
forwarding address information before step 2.
3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message
towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG configuration. In case
the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
_MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.
NOTE 1: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps 1 and
2 may minimize gaps in service provision, this is however regarded to be an
implementation matter.
5\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the MN for bearers using RLC AM,
the SN sends the SN Status Transfer.
6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.
7\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as described
in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 1a: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the _Secondary
RAT Data Usage Report_ message and starts data forwarding with MN is not
defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to
wait for the end of data forwarding to send the _Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report_ message.
8\. If applicable, the PDU Session path update procedure is initiated.
9\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the SN releases radio
and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data
forwarding may continue.
**SN initiated SN Release**
Figure 10.4.2-2: SN release procedure - SN initiated
Figure 10.4.2-2 shows an example signalling flow for the SN initiated SN
Release procedure.
1\. The SN initiates the procedure by sending the _SN Release Required_
message which does not contain any inter-node message.
2\. If data forwarding is requested, the MN provides data forwarding addresses
to the SN in the _SN Release Confirm_ message. The SN may start data
forwarding and stop providing user data to the UE as early as it receives the
_SN Release Confirm_ message.
3/4. If required, the MN indicates in the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message
towards the UE that the UE shall release the entire SCG configuration. In case
the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
_MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.
NOTE 2: If data forwarding is applied, timely coordination between steps 2 and
3 may minimize gaps in service provision. This is however regarded to be an
implementation matter.
5\. If PDCP termination point is changed to the MN for bearers using RLC AM,
the SN sends the _SN Status Transfer_.
6\. Data forwarding from the SN to the MN may start.
7\. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and
includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as described
in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 3: If data forwarding is applied, the order the SN sends the _Secondary
RAT Data Usage Report_ message and starts data forwarding with MN is not
defined i.e., step 7 can take place before step 6. The SN does not need to
wait for the end of data forwarding to send the _Secondary RAT Data Usage
Report_ message.
8\. If applicable, the PDU Session path update procedure is initiated.
9\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the SN releases radio
and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data
forwarding may continue.
## 10.5 Secondary Node Change (MN/SN initiated)
### 10.5.1 EN-DC
The Secondary Node Change procedure is initiated either by MN or SN and used
to transfer a UE context from a source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG
configuration in UE from one SN to another.
NOTE 1: Inter-RAT SN change procedure with single RRC reconfiguration is not
supported in this version of the protocol (i.e. no transition from EN-DC to
DC).
The Secondary Node Change procedure always involves signalling over MCG SRB
towards the UE.
**MN initiated SN Change**
Figure 10.5.1-1: SN Change -- MN initiated
Figure 10.5.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated
Secondary Node Change:
1/2. The MN initiates the SN change by requesting the target SN to allocate
resources for the UE by means of the SgNB Addition procedure. The MN may
include measurement results related to the target SN. If forwarding is needed,
the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the MN. The target SN includes
the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
NOTE 2: The MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (to the
source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration before step 1.
NOTE 2a: In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC
configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer
configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part towards the
UE.
3\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN initiates
the release of the source SN resources including a Cause indicating SCG
mobility. The Source SN may reject the release. If data forwarding is needed
the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the source SN. If direct data
forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers, the MN provides data forwarding
addresses as received from the target SN to source SN. Reception of the _SgNB
Release Request_ message triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to
the UE and, if applicable, to start data forwarding.
4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN indicates
to the UE the new configuration in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message
including the NR RRC configuration message generated by the target SN. The UE
applies the new configuration and sends the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message, including the encoded NR RRC
response message for the target SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to
comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.
6\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the MN
informs the target SN via _SgNBReconfigurationComplete_ message with the
encoded NR RRC response message for the target SN, if received from the UE.
7\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.
8\. For SN terminated bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the SN Status
Transfer, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if needed.
9\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It may be
initiated as early as the source SN receives the _SgNB Release Request_
message from the MN.
10\. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to
the MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.
NOTE 3: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.
11-15. If applicable, a path update is triggered by the MN.
16\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.
**SN initiated SN Change**
Figure 10.5.1-2: SN Change -- SN initiated
Figure 10.5.1-2 shows an example signalling flow for the Secondary Node Change
initiated by the SN:
1\. The source SN initiates the SN change procedure by sending _SgNB Change
Required_ message which contains target SN ID information and may include the
SCG configuration (to support delta configuration) and measurement results
related to the target SN.
2/3. The MN requests the target SN to allocate resources for the UE by means
of the SgNB Addition procedure, including the measurement results related to
the target SN received from the source SN. If forwarding is needed, the target
SN provides forwarding addresses to the MN. The target SN includes the
indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
NOTE 3a: In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC
configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer
configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part towards the
UE.
4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN indicates
the new configuration to the UE in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message
including the NR RRC configuration message generated by the target SN. The UE
applies the new configuration and sends the
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message, including the encoded NR RRC
response message for the target SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to
comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
_RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration
failure procedure.
6\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN confirms
the release of the source SN resources. If data forwarding is needed the MN
provides data forwarding addresses to the source SN. If direct data forwarding
is used for SN terminated bearers, the MN provides data forwarding addresses
as received from the target SN to source SN. Reception of the _SgNB Change
Confirm_ message triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to the UE
and, if applicable, to start data forwarding.
7\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the MN
informs the target SN via _SgNB Reconfiguration Complete_ message with the
encoded NR RRC response message for the target SN, if received from the UE.
8\. The UE synchronizes to the target SN.
9\. For SN terminated bearers using RLC AM, the source SN sends the SN Status
Transfer, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if needed.
10\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It may be
initiated as early as the source SN receives the _SgNB Change Confirm_ message
from the MN.
11\. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to
the MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.
NOTE 4: The order the source SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_
message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined. The
SgNB may send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is
stopped.
12-16. If applicable, a path update is triggered by the MN.
17\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.
### 10.5.2 MR-DC with 5GC
**MN initiated SN Change**
The MN initiated SN change procedure is used to transfer a UE context from the
source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in UE from one SN
to another.
The Secondary Node Change procedure always involves signalling over MCG SRB
towards the UE.
Figure 10.5.2-1: SN change procedure - MN initiated
Figure 10.5.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the SN Change initiated
by the MN:
1/2. The MN initiates the SN change by requesting the target SN to allocate
resources for the UE by means of the SN Addition procedure. The MN may include
measurement results related to the target SN. If data forwarding is needed,
the target SN provides data forwarding addresses to the MN. The target SN
includes the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
NOTE 1: The MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (to the
source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration and to allow provision of
data forwarding related information before step 1.
2a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U DL TNL
address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
3\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN initiates
the release of the source SN resources including a Cause indicating SCG
mobility. The Source SN may reject the release. If data forwarding is needed
the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the source SN. If direct data
forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers, the MN provides data forwarding
addresses as received from the target SN to source SN. Reception of the _SN
Release Request_ message triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to
the UE.
4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN indicates
the new configuration to the UE in the _MN RRC reconfiguration message_
including the target SN RRC reconfiguration message. The UE applies the new
configuration and sends the _MN RRC reconfiguration complete_ message,
including the SN RRC response message for the target SN, if needed. In case
the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the
_MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs the reconfiguration failure
procedure.
6\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the MN
informs the target SN via _SN Reconfiguration Complete_ message with the
included SN RRC response message for the target SN, if received from the UE.
7\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.
8\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the source
SN sends the SN Status Transfer, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if
needed.
9\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It may be
initiated as early as the source SN receives the _SN Release Request_ message
from the MN.
10\. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the
MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as
described in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.
11-15. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is triggered by the
MN.
16\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue
**SN initiated SN Change**
The SN initiated SN change procedure is used to transfer a UE context from the
source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in UE from one SN
to another.
Figure 10.5.2-2: SN change procedure - SN initiated
Figure 10.5.2-2 shows an example signalling flow for the SN Change initiated
by the SN:
1\. The source SN initiates the SN change procedure by sending the _SN Change
Required_ message, which contains a candidate target node ID and may include
the SCG configuration (to support delta configuration) and measurement results
related to the target SN.
2/3. The MN requests the target SN to allocate resources for the UE by means
of the SN Addition procedure, including the measurement results related to the
target SN received from the source SN. If data forwarding is needed, the
target SN provides data forwarding addresses to the MN. The target SN includes
the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
3a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the MN provides Xn-U DL TNL
address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
4/5. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN indicates
the new configuration to the UE in the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message
including the SN RRC reconfiguration message generated by the target SN. The
UE applies the new configuration and sends the _MN RRC reconfiguration
complete_ message, including the SN RRC response message for the target SN, if
needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration
included in the _MN RRC reconfiguration_ message, it performs the
reconfiguration failure procedure.
6\. If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN confirms
the change of the source SN. If data forwarding is needed the MN provides data
forwarding addresses to the source SN. If direct data forwarding is used for
SN terminated bearers, the MN provides data forwarding addresses as received
from the target SN to source SN. Reception of the _SN Change Confirm_ message
triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to the UE and, if
applicable, to start data forwarding.
7\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the MN
informs the target SN via _SN Reconfiguration Complete_ message with the
included SN RRC response message for the target SN, if received from the UE.
8\. The UE synchronizes to the target SN.
9\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the source
SN sends the SN Status Transfer, which the MN sends then to the target SN, if
needed.
10\. If applicable, data forwarding from the source SN takes place. It may be
initiated as early as the source SN receives the _SN Change Confirm_ message
from the MN.
11\. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the
MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE as
described in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 3: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined. The SN may send
the report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.
12-16. If applicable, a PDU Session path update procedure is triggered by the
MN.
17\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the source SN
releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any
ongoing data forwarding may continue.
## 10.6 PSCell change
In MR-DC, a PSCell change does not always require a security key change.
If a security key change is required, this is performed through a synchronous
SCG reconfiguration procedure towards the UE involving random access on PSCell
and a security key change, during which the MAC entity configured for SCG is
reset and RLC configured for SCG is re-established regardless of the bearer
type(s) established on SCG. For SN terminated bearers, PDCP is re-established.
In all MR-DC options, to perform this procedure within the same SN, the SN
Modification procedure as described in clause 10.3 is used, setting the _PDCP
Change Indication_ to indicate that a S-K~gNB~ (for EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC)
or S-K~eNB~ (for NE-DC) update is required when the procedure is initiated by
the SN or including the _SgNB Security Key_ / _SN Security Key_ when the
procedure is initiated by the MN. In all MR-DC options, to perform a PSCell
change between different SN nodes, the SN Change procedure as described in
clause 10.5 is used.
If a security key change is not required (only possible in EN-DC, NGEN-DC and
NR-DC), this is performed through a synchronous SCG reconfiguration procedure
without security key change towards the UE involving random access on PSCell,
during which the MAC entity configured for SCG is reset and RLC configured for
SCG is re-established regardless of the bearer type(s) established on SCG. For
DRBs using RLC AM mode PDCP data recovery applies, and for DRBs using RLC UM
no action is performed in PDCP. For SRB3 PDCP may discard all stored SDUs and
PDUs. Unless MN terminated SCG or split bearers are configured, this does not
require MN involvement. In this case, if location information was requested
for the UE, the SN informs the MN about the PSCell change (as part of location
information) using the SN initiated SN modification procedure independently
from the reconfiguration of the UE. In case of MN terminated SCG or split
bearers, the SN initiated SN Modification procedure as described in clause
10.3 is used, setting the _PDCP Change Indication_ to indicate that a PDCP
data recovery is required.
## 10.7 Inter-Master Node handover with/without Secondary Node change
### 10.7.1 EN-DC
Inter-Master Node handover with/without MN initiated Secondary Node change is
used to transfer context data from a source MN to a target MN while the
context at the SN is kept or moved to another SN. During an Inter-Master Node
handover, the target MN decides whether to keep or change the SN (or release
the SN, as described in clause 10.8).
NOTE 1: Inter-system Inter-Master node handover with/without SN change is not
supported in this version of the protocol (e.g. no transition from EN-DC to
NGEN-DC or NR-DC).
Figure 10.7.1-1: Inter-MN handover with/without MN initiated SN change
Figure 10.7.1-1 shows an example signaling flow for inter-Master Node handover
with or without MN initiated Secondary Node change:
NOTE 2: For an inter-Master Node handover without Secondary Node change, the
source SN and the target SN shown in Figure 10.7.1-1 are the same node.
1\. The source MN starts the handover procedure by initiating the X2 Handover
Preparation procedure including both MCG and SCG configuration. The source MN
includes the (source) SN UE X2AP ID, SN ID and the UE context in the (source)
SN in the _Handover Request_ message.
NOTE 3: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure
(to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration before step 1.
2\. If the target MN decides to keep the UE context in SN, the target MN sends
_SN Addition Request_ to the SN including the SN UE X2AP ID as a reference to
the UE context in the SN that was established by the source MN. If the target
MN decides to change the SN allowing delta configuration, the target MN sends
the _SgNB Addition Request_ to the target SN including the UE context in the
source SN that was established by the source MN. Otherwise, the target MN may
send the _SgNB Addition Request_ to the target SN including neither the SN UE
X2AP ID nor the UE context in the source SN that was established by the source
MN.
3\. The (target) SN replies with _SN Addition Request Acknowledge_. The
(target) SN may include the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
NOTE 3a: In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC
configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer
configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part towards the
UE.
4\. The target MN includes within the _Handover Request Acknowledge_ message a
transparent container to be sent to the UE as an RRC message to perform the
handover, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source MN. The
target MN indicates to the source MN that the UE context in the SN is kept if
the target MN and the SN decided to keep the UE context in the SN in step 2
and step 3.
5\. The source MN sends _SN Release Request_ to the (source) SN including a
Cause indicating MCG mobility. The (source) SN acknowledges the release
request. The source MN indicates to the (source) SN that the UE context in SN
is kept, if it receives the indication from the target MN. If the indication
as the UE context kept in SN is included, the SN keeps the UE context.
6\. The source MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration.
7/8. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message.
9\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the (target) SN.
NOTE 3b: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the MN (step 7) and
performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 9) is not defined.
10\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MN informs the (target) SN via _SgNB Reconfiguration Complete_ message.
11a. The SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to the
source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.
NOTE 4: The order the source SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_
message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined. The
SgNB may send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is
stopped.
11b. The source MN sends the _Secondary RAT Report_ message to MME to provide
information on the used NR resource.
12\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source MN sends the SN Status Transfer,
including, if needed, SN Status received from the source SN to the target MN.
The target forwards the SN Status to the target SN, if needed.
13\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side. If the
SN is kept, data forwarding may be omitted for SN-terminated bearers kept in
the SN.
14-17. The target MN initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.
NOTE 5: If new UL TEIDs of the S-GW are included, the target MN performs the
MN initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the SN.
18\. The target MN initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards the
source MN.
19\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the (source) SN
releases C-plane related resources associated to the UE context towards the
source MN. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue. The SN shall not release
the UE context associated with the target MN if the UE context kept indication
was included in the _SgNB_ _Release Request_ message in step 5.
### 10.7.2 MR-DC with 5GC
Inter-MN handover with/without MN initiated SN change is used to transfer UE
context data from a source MN to a target MN while the UE context at the SN is
kept or moved to another SN. During an Inter-Master Node handover, the target
MN decides whether to keep or change the SN (or release the SN, as described
in clause 10.8). Only intra-RAT Inter-Master node handover with/without SN
change is supported (e.g. no transition from NGEN-DC to NR-DC).
Figure 10.7.2-1: Inter-MN handover with/without MN initiated SN change
procedure
Figure 10.7.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for inter-MN handover with or
without MN initiated SN change:
NOTE 1: For an Inter-Master Node handover without Secondary Node change, the
source SN and the target SN shown in Figure 10.7.2-1 are the same node.
1\. The source MN starts the handover procedure by initiating the Xn Handover
Preparation procedure including both MCG and SCG configuration. The source MN
includes the source SN UE XnAP ID, SN ID and the UE context in the source SN
in the _Handover Request_ message.
NOTE 2: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure
(to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration and to allow
provision of data forwarding related information before step 1.
2\. If the target MN decides to keep the UE context in source SN, the target
MN sends _SN Addition Request_ to the SN including the SN UE XnAP ID as a
reference to the UE context in the SN that was established by the source MN.
If the target MN decides to change the SN allowing delta configuration, the
target MN sends the _SN Addition Request_ to the target SN including the UE
context in the source SN that was established by the source MN. Otherwise, the
target MN may send the _SN Addition Request_ to the target SN including
neither the SN UE XnAP ID nor the UE context in the source SN that was
established by the source MN.
3\. The (target) SN replies with _SN Addition Request Acknowledge_. The
(target) SN may include the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
3a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the target MN provides Xn-U
DL TNL address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
4\. The target MN includes within the _Handover Request Acknowledge_ message
the MN RRC reconfiguration message to be sent to the UE in order to perform
the handover, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source MN. If
PDU session split is performed in the target side during handover procedure,
more than one data forwarding addresses corresponding to each node are
included in the _Handover Request Acknowledge_ message. The target MN
indicates to the source MN that the UE context in the SN is kept if the target
MN and the SN decided to keep the UE context in the SN in step 2 and step 3.
5a/5b. The source MN sends _SN Release Request_ message to the (source) SN
including a Cause indicating MCG mobility. The (source) SN acknowledges the
release request. The source MN indicates to the (source) SN that the UE
context in SN is kept, if it receives the indication from the target MN. If
the indication as the UE context kept in SN is included, the SN keeps the UE
context.
5c. The source MN sends XN-U Address Indication message to the (source) SN to
transfer data forwarding information. More than one data forwarding addresses
may be provided if the PDU session is split in the target side.
6\. The source MN triggers the UE to perform handover and apply the new
configuration.
7/8. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with _MN RRC
reconfiguration complete_ message.
9\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the (target) SN.
NOTE 2a1: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the MN (step 7) and
performs the Random Access procedure towards the SN (step 9) is not defined.
10\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the
target MN informs the (target) SN via _SN Reconfiguration Complete_ message.
11a. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to
the source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the
UE over the NR/E-UTRA radio as described in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 2a2: The order the source SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_
message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined. The SN
may send the report when the transmission of the related QoS is stopped.
11b. The source MN sends the _Secondary RAT Report_ message to AMF to provide
information on the used NR/E-UTRA resource.
12\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source MN sends the _SN Status Transfer_ to
the target MN, including, if needed, SN Status received from the source SN.
The target forwards the SN Status to the target SN, if needed.
13\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side. If the
SN is kept, data forwarding may be omitted for SN terminated bearers or QoS
flows kept in the SN.
14-17. The target MN initiates the Path Switch procedure _._ If the target MN
includes multiple DL TEIDs for one PDU session in the _Path Switch Request_
message, multiple UL TEID of the UPF for the PDU session should be included in
the _Path Switch Ack_ message in case there is TEID update in UPF.
NOTE 3: If new UL TEIDs of the UPF for SN are included, the target MN performs
MN initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the SN.
18\. The target MN initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards the
source MN.
19\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message from source MN, the
(source) SN releases C-plane related resources associated to the UE context
towards the source MN. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue. The SN shall
not release the UE context associated with the target MN if the UE contest
kept indication was included in the _SN Release Request_ message in step 5.
## 10.8 Master Node to eNB/gNB Change
### 10.8.1 EN-DC
The Master Node to eNB Change procedure is used to transfer context data from
a source MN/SN to a target eNB.
Figure 10.8.1-1: Master Node to eNB Change procedure
Figure 10.8.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the Master Node to eNB
Change procedure:
1\. The source MN starts the MN to eNB Change procedure by initiating the X2
Handover Preparation procedure, including both MCG and SCG configuration.
NOTE 1: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure
(to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration before step 1.
2\. The target eNB includes the field in HO command which releases SCG
configuration, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source MN.
3\. If the allocation of target eNB resources was successful, the MN initiates
the release of the source SN resources towards the source SN including a Cause
indicating MCG mobility. The SN acknowledges the release request. If data
forwarding is needed, the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the source
SN. Reception of the _SgNB Release Request_ message triggers the source SN to
stop providing user data to the UE and, if applicable, to start data
forwarding.
4\. The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. Upon receiving the
new configuration, the UE releases the entire SCG configuration.
5/6. The UE synchronizes to the target eNB.
7\. For SN terminated bearers using RLC AM, the SN sends the SN Status
Transfer, which the source MN sends then to the target eNB.
8\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side.
9a. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usagee Report_ message to
the source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the
UE over the NR radio for the related E-RABs.
NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.
9b. The source MN sends the _Secondary RAT Report_ message to MME to provide
information on the used NR resource.
10-14. The target eNB initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.
15\. The target eNB initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards the
source MN.
16\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message, the SN releases radio
and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data
forwarding may continue.
NOTE 3: Inter-system HO from E-UTRA with EN-DC configuration to NR or to
E-UTRA connected to 5GC is also supported.
### 10.8.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The MN to ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure is used to transfer UE context data from
a source MN/SN to a target ng-eNB/gNB. Both the cases where the source MN and
the target node belong to the same RAT (i.e. they are both ng-eNBs or both
gNBs) and the cases where the source MN and the target node belong to
different RATs are supported.
NOTE 0: Inter-system HO from ng-eNB/gNB MN to eNB is also supported.
Figure 10.8.2-1: MN to ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure
Figure 10.8.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN to ng-eNB/gNB
Change procedure:
1\. The source MN starts the MN to ng-eNB/gNB Change procedure by initiating
the Xn Handover Preparation procedure, including both MCG and SCG
configuration.
NOTE 1: The source MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure
(to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration and to allow
provision of data forwarding related information before step 1.
2\. The target ng-eNB/gNB includes the field in HO command which releases the
SCG configuration, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source MN.
3\. If the resource allocation of target ng-eNB/gNB was successful, the MN
initiates the release of the source SN resources towards the source SN
including a Cause indicating MCG mobility. The SN acknowledges the release
request. If data forwarding is needed, the MN provides data forwarding
addresses to the source SN. Reception of the _SN Release Request_ message
triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to the UE and, if
applicable, to start data forwarding.
4\. The MN triggers the UE to perform HO and apply the new configuration. Upon
receiving the new configuration, the UE releases the entire SCG configuration.
5/6. The UE synchronizes to the target ng-eNB/gNB.
7\. If PDCP termination point is changed for bearers using RLC AM, the SN
sends the SN Status Transfer, which the source MN sends then to the target ng-
eNB/gNB.
8\. If applicable, data forwarding takes place from the source side.
9a. The source SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to the
source MN and includes the data volumes delivered to and received from the UE
as described in clause 10.11.2.
NOTE 2: The order the SN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message
and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the
report when the transmission of the related QoS flow is stopped.
9b. The source MN sends the _Secondary RAT Report_ message to AMF to provide
information on the used NR/E-UTRA resource.
10-14. The target ng-eNB/gNB initiates the Path Switch procedure _._
15\. The target ng-eNB/gNB initiates the UE Context Release procedure towards
the source MN.
16\. Upon reception of the _UE Context Release_ message from the MN, the
source SN releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE
context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.
## 10.9 eNB/gNB to Master Node change
### 10.9.1 EN-DC
The eNB to Master Node change procedure is used to transfer context data from
a source eNB to a target MN that adds an SN during the handover.
Figure 10.9.1-1: eNB to Master Node change
Figure 10.9.1-1 shows an example signaling flow for eNB to Master Node change:
1\. The source eNB starts the handover procedure by initiating the X2 Handover
Preparation procedure.
2\. The target MN sends _SgNB Addition Request_ to the target SN.
3\. The target SN replies with _SgNB Addition Request Acknowledge_. If data
forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the
target MN.
4\. The target MN includes within the _Handover Request Acknowledge_ message a
transparent container to be sent to the UE as an E-UTRA RRC message, including
a NR RRC configuration message which also includes the SCG configuration, to
perform the handover, and may also provide forwarding addresses to the source
eNB.
5\. The source eNB triggers the UE to apply the new configuration.
6/7. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_ message.
8\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.
NOTE 0: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the target MN (step 6)
and performs the Random Access procedure towards the target SN (step 8) is not
defined.
9\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the target
MN informs the target SN.
10\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source eNB sends the SN Status Transfer,
which the target MN forwards then to the target SN, if needed.
11\. Data forwarding from the source eNB takes place.
12-15. The target MN initiates the S1 Path Switch procedure.
NOTE 1: If new UL TEIDs of the S-GW are included, the target MN performs MN
initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the target SN.
16\. The target MN initiates the _UE Context Release_ procedure towards the
source eNB.
NOTE 2: Inter-system HO from NR or from E-UTRA connected to 5GC to E-UTRA with
EN-DC configuration is not supported. Inter-system HO from E-UTRA with EPC to
MR-DC with 5GC is also not supported.
### 10.9.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The ng-eNB/gNB to MN change procedure is used to transfer UE context data from
a source ng-eNB/gNB to a target MN that adds an SN during the handover. Only
the cases where the source node and the target MN belong to the same RAT (i.e.
they are both ng-eNBs or both gNBs) are supported.
Figure 10.9.2-1: ng-eNB/gNB to MN change procedure
Figure 10.9.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for ng-eNB/gNB to MN change:
1\. The source ng-eNB/gNB starts the handover procedure by initiating the Xn
Handover Preparation procedure.
2\. The target MN sends _SN Addition Request_ to the target SN.
3\. The target SN replies with _SN Addition Request Acknowledge_. If data
forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the
target MN.
3a. For SN terminated bearers using MCG resources, the target MN provides Xn-U
DL TNL address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
4\. The target MN includes within the _Handover Request Acknowledge_ message
the SN RRC reconfiguration message to be sent to the UE that includes the SCG
configuration to perform the handover, and may also provide forwarding
addresses to the source ng-eNB/gNB.
5\. The source ng-eNB/gNB triggers the UE to perform handover and apply the
new configuration.
6/7. The UE synchronizes to the target MN and replies with _MN RRC
reconfiguration_ complete message including the SN RRC reconfiguration
complete message.
8\. If configured with bearers requiring SCG radio resources, the UE
synchronizes to the target SN.
NOTE 1: The order the UE performs Random Access towards the target MN (step 6)
and performs the Random Access procedure towards the target SN (step 8) is not
defined.
9\. If the RRC connection reconfiguration procedure was successful, the target
MN informs the target SN via _SN Reconfiguration Complete_ message.
10\. For bearers using RLC AM, the source ng-eNB/gNB sends the SN Status
Transfer, which the target MN forwards then to the target SN, if needed.
11\. Data forwarding from the source ng-eNB/gNB takes place.
12-15. The target MN initiates the PDU Session Path Switch procedure.
NOTE 2: If new UL TEIDs of the UPF are included, the target MN performs MN
initiated SN Modification procedure to provide them to the target SN.
16\. The target MN initiates the _UE Context Release_ procedure towards the
source ng-eNb/gNB.
## 10.10 RRC Transfer
### 10.10.1 EN-DC
The RRC Transfer procedure is used to deliver an RRC message, encapsulated in
a PDCP PDU between the MN and the SN (and vice versa) so that it may be
forwarded to/from the UE using split SRB. The RRC transfer procedure is also
used for providing a NR measurement report or NR failure information from the
UE to the SN via the MN. Additional details of the RRC transfer procedure are
defined in TS 36.423 [9].
**Split SRB:**
Figure 10.10.1-1: RRC Transfer procedure for the split SRB (DL operation)
Figure 10.10.1-1 shows an example signaling flow for the DL RRC Transfer in
case of the split SRB:
1\. The MN, when it decides to use the split SRBs, starts the procedure by
initiating the RRC Transfer procedure. The MN encapsulates the RRC message in
a PDCP-C PDU and ciphers with own keys.
NOTE: The usage of the split SRBs shall be indicated in the Secondary Node
Addition procedure or Modification procedure.
2\. The SN forwards the RRC message to the UE.
3\. The SN may send PDCP delivery acknowledgement of the RRC message forwarded
in step 2.
Figure 10.10.1-2: RRC Transfer procedure for the split SRB (UL operation)
Figure 10.10.1-2 shows an example signaling flow for the UL RRC Transfer in
case of the split SRB:
1\. When the UE provides response to the RRC message, it sends it to the SN.
2\. The SN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers the
received PDCP-C PDU with encapsulated RRC message.
**NR measurement report or NR failure information:**
Figure 10.10.1-3: RRC Transfer procedure for NR measurement report or NR
failure information
Figure 10.10.1-3 shows an example signaling flow for RRC Transfer in case of
the forwarding of the NR measurement report or NR failure information from the
UE:
1\. When the UE sends a measurement report or NR failure information, it sends
it to the MN in a container called _ULInformationTransferMRDC_ as specified in
TS 36.331 [10].
2\. The MN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers the
received NR measurement report or NR failure information as an octet string.
### 10.10.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The RRC Transfer procedure is used to exchange RRC messages, encapsulated in a
PDCP PDU, between the MN and the UE via the SN (split SRB) and to provide SN
measurement reports or failure information report from the UE to the SN.
Additional details of the RRC transfer procedure are defined in TS 38.423 [5].
**Split SRB:**
Figure 10.10.2-1: RRC Transfer procedure for split SRB (DL operation)
Figure 10.10.2-1 shows an example signaling flow for DL RRC Transfer in case
of the split SRB:
1\. The MN, when it decides to use the split SRBs, starts the procedure by
initiating the RRC Transfer procedure. The MN encapsulates the RRC message in
a PDCP PDU and ciphers with own keys.
NOTE: The usage of the split SRBs shall be indicated in the Secondary Node
Addition procedure or Modification procedure.
2\. The SN forwards the RRC message to the UE.
3\. The SN may send PDCP delivery acknowledgement of the RRC message forwarded
in step 2.
Figure 10.10.2-2: RRC Transfer procedure for split SRB (UL operation)
Figure 10.10.2-2 shows an example signaling flow for UL RRC Transfer in case
of the split SRB:
1\. When the UE provides response to the RRC message, it sends it to the SN.
2\. The SN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers the
received PDCP PDU with encapsulated RRC message.
**SN measurement report or failure information report:**
Figure 10.10.2-3: RRC Transfer procedure for SN measurement report or failure
information report
Figure 10.10.2-3 shows an example signaling flow for RRC Transfer in case of
the forwarding of the SN measurement report or failure information report from
the UE:
1\. When the UE sends an SN measurement report or failure information report,
it sends it to the MN in a container called _ULInformationTransferMRDC_ as
specified in TS 38.331 [4].
2\. The MN initiates the RRC Transfer procedure, in which it transfers the
received SN measurement report or failure information as an octet string.
## 10.11 Secondary RAT data volume reporting
### 10.11.1 EN-DC
The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is used to report the data
volume of secondary RAT to CN. In EN-DC, if configured, the MN reports the
uplink and downlink data volumes of used NR resources to the EPC on a per EPS
bearer basis as specified in TS 36.300 [2]. Periodic reporting is performed by
periodically sending the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ messages to the
MME.
The data volume is counted by the node hosting PDCP. Downlink data volume is
counted in bytes of PDCP SDUs successfully delivered to the UE over NR (for
RLC AM) or transmitted to the UE over NR (for RLC UM). Uplink data volume is
counted in bytes of PDCP SDUs received by the node hosting PDCP over NR.
Forwarded packets shall not be counted when PDCP entity is relocated. When
PDCP duplication is activated, packets shall be counted only once.
Figure 10.11.1-1: Secondary RAT data volume periodic reporting - EN-DC
Figure 10.11.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for secondary RAT data
volume periodic reporting:
1\. If the periodic reporting is configured, then the SN periodically sends
the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to the MN and includes the
data volumes of used NR radio resources for the related SN-terminated E-RABs.
2\. The MN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to MME to
provide information on the used NR resource.
NOTE: The _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message sent by the MN may also
include secondary RAT report information of MN-terminated bearers.
### 10.11.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The secondary RAT data volume reporting function is used to report the data
volume of secondary RAT to the 5GC. In MR-DC with 5GC, if configured, the MN
reports the uplink and downlink data volumes of used secondary RAT resources
to the 5GC as specified in TS 23.501 [11]. Configuration for reporting of
secondary RAT data volume may happen separately for NR and E-UTRA. Secondary
RAT data volume reporting indicates the secondary RAT type. For each PDU
session, it contains data volumes consumed for the whole PDU Session, or for
selected QoS flow, or both. Periodic reporting is performed by periodically
sending the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ messages to the 5GC.
The data volume is counted by the node hosting PDCP. Downlink data volume is
counted in bytes of SDAP SDUs successfully delivered to the UE (for RLC AM) or
transmitted to the UE (for RLC UM). Uplink data volume is counted in bytes of
SDAP SDUs received by the node hosting PDCP. Forwarded packets shall not be
counted when PDCP entity is relocated. When PDCP duplication is activated,
packets shall be counted only once.
Figure 10.11.2-1: Secondary RAT data volume periodic reporting - MR-DC with
5GC
Figure 10.11.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for secondary RAT data
volume periodic reporting:
1\. For SN terminated bearers, the SN sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage
Report_ message to the MN and includes the data volumes of used secondary RAT
resources for PDU Sessions or selected QoS flows or both mapped to SN-
terminated bearers. If periodic reporting is configured, then the SN
periodically sends the _Secondary RAT_ _Data Usage Report_ message to the MN
and includes the data volumes of used radio resources.
2\. The MN sends the _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message to the 5GC to
provide information on the used radio resources.
NOTE: The _Secondary RAT Data Usage Report_ message sent by the MN may also
include secondary RAT data volumes of used secondary RAT resources for MN
terminated bearers.
## 10.12 Activity Notification
### 10.12.1 EN-DC
The Activity Notification function is used to report user plane activity
within SN resources. It can either report inactivity or resumption of activity
after inactivity was reported. In EN-DC the Activity Reporting is provided
from the SN only. The MN may take further actions.
**EN-DC Activity Notification**
Figure 10.12.1-1: Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC
Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC is used to keep the MN informed
about user traffic activity in resources owned by the SN. The MN may take
appropriate action upon receiving such notification.
1\. The SN informs the MN about user data inactivity of resources owned by the
SN.
2\. The MN decides to keep SN resources.
3\. After a while the SN reports resumption of user plane activity.
**EN-DC with suspended RRC connection -- SCG configuration released in SN**
The Activity Notification function may be used to enable EN-DC with suspended
RRC connected operation. The MN node may decide, after inactivity is reported
from the SN and also MN resources show no activity, to send the UE to
suspended RRC connection. Resumption to RRC_CONNECTED may take place after
activity is reported from the SN for SN terminated bearers.
Figure 10.12.1-2: Support of Activity Notification in EN-DC with suspended RRC
connection -- SCG configuration released in SN
Figure 10.12.1-2 shows how Activity Notification function interacts with
E-UTRAN functions for suspended RRC connection and SgNB Modification
procedures in order to keep the higher layer EN-DC E-UTRAN resources
established for UEs in suspended RRC connection, including S1 and X2 interface
C-plane, U-plane and bearer contexts established while lower layer MCG and SCG
resources are released. E-UTRAN memorises the cell group configuration for MCG
in order to apply delta signalling at resume, as specified in TS 36.331 [4].
After the UE has transited successfully back to RRC_CONNECTED, lower layer SCG
resources are established afterwards by means of RRC Connection
Reconfiguration.
1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity for SN terminated
bearers.
2\. The MN decides to send the UE to suspended RRC connection.
3/4. The MN triggers the MN initiated SgNB Modification procedure, requesting
the SN to release lower layers.
5\. The UE is sent to suspended RRC connection.
6-8. After a period of suspended RRC connection, upon activity notification
from the SN, the UE returns to RRC_CONNECTED.
8bis. MN decides whether to reactivate the SN terminated bearers. If (e.g. due
to UE mobility), MN decides not to reactivate the SN terminated bearers, it
initiates the MN initiated SN release procedure and the procedure ends.
9/10. The MN triggers the MN initiated SgNB Modification procedure to re-
establish lower layers. The SN provides configuration data within an SN RRC
configuration message.
11-14. The RRCConnectionReconfiguration procedure commences.
### 10.12.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The Activity Notification function is used to report user plane activity
within SN resources or to report a RAN Paging Failure event to the SN. It can
either report inactivity or resumption of activity after inactivity was
reported. In MR-DC with 5GC the Activity Reporting is provided from the SN
only. The MN may take further actions. RAN Paging Failure Reporting is
provided from the MN only.
**MR-DC with 5GC Activity Notification**
Figure 10.12.2-1: Support of Activity Notification in MR-DC with 5GC
1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity.
2\. The MN decides further actions that impact SN resources (e.g. send UE to
RRC_INACTIVE, bearer reconfiguration). In the case shown, MN takes no action.
3\. The SN notifies the MN that the (UE or PDU Session or QoS flow) is no
longer inactive.
**MR-DC with 5GC with RRC_INACTIVE**
The Activity Notification function may be used to enable MR-DC with 5GC with
RRC_INACTIVE operation. The MN node may decide, after inactivity is reported
from the SN and also MN resources show no activity, to send the UE to
RRC_INACTIVE. Resumption to RRC_CONNECTED may take place after activity is
reported from the SN for SN terminated bearers.
Figure 10.12.2-2: Support of Activity Notification in MR-DC with 5GC with
RRC_Inactive
Figure 10.12.2-2 shows how Activity Notification function interacts with NG-
RAN functions for RRC_INACTIVE and SN Modification procedures in order to keep
the higher layer MR-DC NG-RAN resources established for UEs in RRC_INACTIVE,
including NG and Xn interface C-plane, U-plane and bearer contexts established
while lower layer MCG and SCG resources are released. NG-RAN memorises the
cell group configuration for MCG in order to apply delta signalling at resume,
as specified in TS 38.331 [4]. After the UE has transited successfully back to
RRC_CONNECTED, lower layer SCG resources are established afterwards by means
of RRC Connection Reconfiguration.
1\. The SN notifies the MN about user data inactivity for SN terminated
bearers.
2\. The MN decides to send the UE to RRC_INACTIVE.
3/4. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure, requesting
the SN to release lower layers.
5\. The UE is sent to RRC_INACTIVE.
6-8. After a period of inactivity, upon activity notification from the SN, the
UE returns to RRC_CONNECTED.
8bis. MN decides whether to reactivate the SN terminated bearers. If (e.g. due
to UE mobility), MN decides not to reactivate the SN terminated bearers, it
initiates the MN initiated SN release procedure and the procedure ends.
9/10. The MN triggers the MN initiated SN Modification procedure to re-
establish lower layers. The SN provides configuration data within an _SN RRC
configuration_ message.
11-14. The RRCConnectionReconfiguration procedure commences.
## 10.13 Notification Control Indication
### 10.13.1 EN-DC
Notification Control Indication procedure is not supported in EN-DC.
### 10.13.2 MR-DC with 5GC
The Notification Control Indication procedure may be initiated either by the
MN or by the SN and is used to indicate that GFBR for one or several QoS flows
cannot be fulfilled any more or can be fulfilled again by the reporting node.
Figure 10.13.2-1: Notification Control Indication procedure
Figure 10.13.2-1 shows an example signalling flow for the Notification Control
Indication procedure.
1\. The MN may, for an SN terminated bearer, indicate, that the GFBR requested
from the MN cannot be fulfilled anymore.\ In case the SN terminated bearer is
configured as a split bearer, the SN may decide to increase the share provided
by the SN or it may decide to notify the MN that resources requested for the
SN terminated bearer cannot fulfill the GFBR any more.
2\. Continuing the example message flow from step 1, the SN informs the MN
that the GFBR for an SN terminated bearer cannot be fulfilled any more.
3\. The MN decides to inform the 5GC that NG-RAN cannot fulfill the GFBR for a
GBR QoS flow any more.
## 10.14 PDU Session Split at UPF
### 10.14.1 PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource setup
When a new PDU session needs to be established, the 5GC may provide two UL
TEID addresses during PDU Session Resource Setup in order to allow for PDU
session split. The MN may perform the SN Addition or the MN-initiated SN
Modification procedure. If the MN decides to split the PDU session, the MN
provides two DL TEID addresses and also the QoS flows associated with each
tunnel.
Figure 10.14.1-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource setup
1\. The 5GC provides two UL TEID addresses during PDU Session Resource Setup,
to be applied as the first UL tunnel on the NG-U interface and the additional
NG-U tunnel in case the MN decides to split the PDU session.
2\. The MN decides to setup two tunnels. The MN uses the SN Addition procedure
(as described in 10.2.2) or the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (as
described in 10.3.2) up to step 6.
3\. The MN provides a DL TEID address to be applied as the first and an
additional DL tunnel address on the NG-U interface. The MN also provides which
QoS flows are associated with which tunnel.
### 10.14.2 PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource modify (5GC
initiated)
The 5GC may provide an additional UL TEID address during PDU Session Resource
Modify in order to allow the MN to split the PDU session. The MN may perform
the SN Addition or the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure. If the MN
decides to split the PDU session, the MN provides a DL TEID address to be
applied as the additional DL tunnel address and the QoS flows associated with
that tunnel.
Figure 10.14.2-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during PDU session resource modify
1\. The 5GC provides an additional UL TEID address during PDU Session Resource
Modify, to be applied as the additional NG-U tunnel in case the MN decides to
split the PDU session.
2\. The MN decides to setup two tunnels. If the new tunnel is to be setup at
the SN, the MN uses the SN Addition procedure (as described in 10.2.2) or the
MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (as described in 10.3.2) up to step 6,
or up to step 8 if a QoS flow is moved to the SN and data forwarding applies.
3\. The MN provides a DL TEID address to be applied as the additional DL
tunnel address on the NG-U interface and the QoS flows associated with that
tunnel.
### 10.14.3 PDU Session Split at UPF (RAN initiated QoS flows offloading from
MN to SN)
When some QoS flows are offloaded from the MN to the SN, the MN may decide to
split the PDU session served by the MN into more than one NG-U tunnels. The MN
sends the _SN Addition/Modification Request_ message including UPF UL TEID
address used at the MN. Later on, if the MN receives a new UL TEID in the _PDU
Session Resource Modify Confirm_ message, the MN may provide the new UL TEID
to the SN.
Figure 10.14.3-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during RAN initiated PDU session
resource modify (QoS flows offloading from MN to SN)
1-2. If the MN decides to split a PDU session, it uses the SN Addition
procedure or the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure, including current UPF
UL NG-U tunnel used at the MN. If in-order delivery is required for some QoS
flows, an UL forwarding tunnel may be setup for the PDU session at this stage.
NOTE 1: In case the MN offloads some QoS flows to the SN within a PDU session
already split between the MN and the SN, the MN initiated SN Modification
procedure is used.
3-6d. If in-order delivery is required, the SN buffers the first packets
received from the UE for a certain QoS flow until it receives an GTP-U end
marker packet over the UL forwarding tunnel indicating that the MN has
delivered all UL packets from the source side to UPF for that QoS flow. Then
the SN starts delivering UL packets to UPF for that QoS flow using the UPF UL
TEID address used at the MN received at step 1.
7-8. The MN uses the _PDU Session Resource Modify Indication_ message to
inform 5GC that the PDU session is split into two tunnels and indicate which
QoS flows are associated with which DL tunnel. The 5GC triggers the sending of
DL End Marker packets without QFI tag at step 7a and confirms with the _PDU
Session Resource Modify Confirm_ message and allocates corresponding uplink
tunnels.
After receiving the End Marker packet(s) from UPF at step 7a, the MN
determines that the End Marker packets only work on the offloaded QoS flows,
and may stop delivering and discard DL packets of the offloaded QoS flows, and
the MN shall continue transmiting DL packets for the not offloaded QoS flows,
if any.
7a./7b. After receiving the DL end marker from 5GC at step 7a, the MN may
generate at step 7b DL End Marker packets without QFI tag towards the SN.
9-10. If the MN receives a new UL TEID in the _PDU Session Resource Modify
Confirm_ message for itself, the MN will use it to deliver UL packets to UPF.
If the MN receives a new UL TEID for the SN, then the MN-initiated SN
Modification procedure (i.e., step 9 and step 10) is used to provide the new
UL TEID to the SN and then the SN switches to use the new UL TEID to deliver
UL packets.
10.14.4 PDU Session Split at UPF (RAN initiates QoS flows offloading from SN
to MN)
When some QoS flows are offloaded from the SN to the MN, the MN may decide to
split the PDU session served by the SN into more than one NG-U tunnels. If the
MN requests to offload, the MN sends the _SN Modification Request_ message to
the SN. In case the SN requests to offload, the SN sends the _SN Modification
Required_ message to the MN.
Figure 10.14.4-1: PDU Session Split at UPF during RAN initiated PDU session
resource modify (QoS flows offloading from SN to MN)
1a-1c. When the MN requests to offload some QoS flows from the SN to the MN
for a PDU session, it sends the _SN Modification Request_ message. If in-order
delivery is required for some of the QoS flows, an UL forwarding tunnel may be
setup for the PDU session at this stage and the MN provides the UL forwarding
tunnel address information in the _Xn-U Address Indication_ message.
2a-2b. When the SN requests to offload some QoS flows to the MN for a PDU
session, the SN sends the _SN Modification Required_ message. If in-order
delivery is required for some of the QoS flows, an UL forwarding tunnel may be
setup for the PDU session at this stage and the MN provides the UL forwarding
tunnel address information in the _SN Modification Confirm_ message.
3-6d. If in-order delivery is required, the MN buffers the first packets
received from the UE for a certain QoS flow until it receives an GTP-U end
marker packet over the UL forwarding tunnel indicating that the SN has
delivered all UL packets from the source side to UPF for that QoS flow.
7-8. The MN uses the _PDU Session Resource Modify Indication_ message to
inform 5GC that the PDU session is split into two tunnels and indicate which
QoS flows are associated with which DL tunnel. The 5GC triggers the sending of
DL End Marker packets without QFI tag at step 7a and confirms with the _PDU
Session Resource Modify Confirm_ message and allocates corresponding uplink
tunnels.
After receiving the End Marker packet(s) from UPF at step 7a, the SN
determines that the End Marker packets only work on the offloaded QoS flows,
and may stop delivering and discard DL packets of the offloaded QoS flows, and
the SN shall continue transmiting DL packets for the not offloaded QoS flows,
if any.
7a./7b. After receiving the DL end marker from 5GC at step 7a, the SN may
generate at step 7b DL End Marker packets without QFI tag towards the MN.
9-10. If the MN receives a new UL TEID in the _PDU Session Resource Modify
Confirm_ message for itself, the MN will use it to deliver UL packets to UPF.
If the MN receives a new UL TEID for the SN, then the MN-initiated SN
Modification procedure (i.e., the step 9 and step 10) is used to provide the
new UL TEID to the SN and then the SN switches to use the new UL TEID to
deliver UL packets.
# 11 Service related aspects
## 11.1 Roaming and Access Restrictions
The principles for conveying roaming and access restriction info for EN-DC are
described in TS 36.300 [2].
For MR-DC with 5GC, SCG (re)selection at the SN is based on roaming and access
restriction information in SN. If roaming and access restriction information
is not available at the SN, the SN shall consider that there is no restriction
for SCG (re)selection. Therefore, MN needs to convey the up-to-date roaming
and access restriction information to SN via XnAP messages.
## 11.2 Support of Network Sharing
E-UTRAN and NG-RAN aspects of network sharing are specified in TS 36.300 [2]
and TS 38.300 [3].
# 12 X2/Xn Interface related aspects
Stage 2 specification for X2-C procedures for EN-DC is contained in TS 36.300
[2].
Xn-C procedures for MR-DC with 5GC are specified in TS 38.423 [5].
X2-U procedures for EN-DC and Xn-U procedures for MR-DC with 5GC are specified
in TS 38.425 [6].
# 13 Other aspects
## 13.1 Interference avoidance for in-device coexistence
In-Device Coexistence (IDC) solution as described in TS 36.300 [2] is extended
to address EN-DC operation. Only FDM solution, where the list of NR carriers
suffering from IDC problems is signalled in IDC indication, is supported in
this version of the specifications. The requirement on RRM/RLM/CSI
measurements in different phases of IDC interference defined in TS 36.300 [2]
is applicable except that for NR serving cell, the requirements in TS 38.133
[8] and TS 38.101-1 [12], TS 38.101-2 [13], TS 38.101-3 [14] apply.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Layer 2 handling for bearer type change
This clause provides for information an overview on L2 handling for bearer
type change in MR-DC, with and without a security key change due to a change
of the termination point.
Table A-1: L2 handling for bearer type change with and without a security key
change due to a change of the termination point.
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Bearer | MCG | Split | SCG | | | | | type | | | | | | | | change | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | row\ | | | | | | | | to col | | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | no | change | no | change | no | change | | | change | of | change | of | change | of | | | of | term | of | term | of | term | | | term | ination | term | ination | term | ination | | | ination | point | ination | point | ination | point | | | point | | point | | point | | | | | (key | | (key | | (key | | | (no key | change) | (no key | change) | (no key | change) | | | change) | | change) | | | | | | | | | | change) | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCG | N/A | PDCP: | PDCP: | PDCP: | PDCP: | PDCP: | | | | | Reco | | | | | | | Re-es | nfigure | Re-es | R | Re-es | | | | tablish | | tablish | ecovery | tablish | | | | | MCG | | | | | | | MCG | RLC: No | MCG | MCG | MCG | | | | RLC: | action | RLC: | RLC: | RLC: | | | | | | | | | | | | See | MCG | See | See | See | | | | Note 1 | MAC: No | Note 1 | Note 3 | Note 3 | | | | | action | | | | | | | MCG | | MCG | MCG | MCG | | | | MAC: | SCG | MAC: | MAC: | MAC: | | | | | RLC: | | | | | | | See | Es | See | Reco | Reco | | | | Note 1 | tablish | Note 1 | nfigure | nfigure | | | | | | | | | | | | SCG | SCG | SCG | SCG | SCG | | | | RLC: | MAC: | RLC: | RLC: | RLC: | | | | | Reco | | | | | | | No | nfigure | Es | Es | Es | | | | action | | tablish | tablish | tablish | | | | | | | | | | | | SCG | | SCG | SCG | SCG | | | | MAC: | | MAC: | MAC: | MAC: | | | | | | | | | | | | No | | Reco | Reco | Reco | | | | action | | nfigure | nfigure | nfigure | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Split | PDCP: | PDCP:\ | N/A | PDCP: | PDCP: | PDCP: | | | | Re-es | | | R | | | | R | tablish | | Re-es | ecovery | Re-es | | | ecovery | | | tablish | | tablish | | | | MCG | | | MCG | | | | MCG | RLC: | | MCG | RLC: | MCG | | | RLC: | See | | RLC: | | RLC: | | | | Note 1 | | | See | | | | No | | | See | Note 3 | See | | | action | MCG | | Note 1 | | Note 3 | | | | MAC: | | | MCG | | | | MCG | See | | MCG | MAC: | MCG | | | MAC: | Note 1 | | MAC: | | MAC: | | | | | | | Reco | | | | No | SCG | | See | nfigure | Reco | | | action | RLC: | | Note 1 | | nfigure | | | | See | | | SCG | | | | SCG | Note 4 | | SCG | RLC:\ | SCG | | | RLC: | | | RLC:\ | No | RLC:\ | | | | SCG | | See | action | See | | | See | MAC: | | Note 1 | | Note 1 | | | Note 4 | Reco | | | SCG | | | | | nfigure | | SCG | MAC:\ | SCG | | | SCG | | | MAC:\ | No | MAC:\ | | | MAC: | | | See | action | See | | | | | | Note 1 | | Note 1 | | | Reco | | | | | | | | nfigure | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | SCG | PDCP: | PDCP: | PDCP: | PDCP: | N/A | PDCP: | | | | | | | | | | | R | Re-es | Reco | Re-es | | Re-es | | | ecovery | tablish | nfigure | tablish | | tablish | | | | | | | | | | | MCG | MCG | MCG | MCG | | MCG | | | RLC: | RLC: | RLC: | RLC: | | RLC: | | | Es | | Es | | | | | | tablish | Es | tablish | Es | | No | | | | tablish | | tablish | | action | | | MCG | | MCG | | | | | | MAC: | MCG | MAC: | MCG | | MCG | | | Reco | MAC: | Reco | MAC: | | MAC: | | | nfigure | | nfigure | | | | | | | Reco | | Reco | | No | | | SCG | nfigure | SCG | nfigure | | action | | | RLC: | | RLC: No | | | | | | See | SCG | action | SCG | | SCG | | | Note 4 | RLC: | | RLC: | | RLC: | | | | | SCG | | | | | | SCG | See | MAC: No | See | | See | | | MAC: | Note 4 | action | Note 1 | | Note 1 | | | Reco | | | | | | | | nfigure | SCG | | SCG | | SCG | | | | MAC: | | MAC:\ | | MAC: | | | | | | See | | | | | | Reco | | Note 1 | | See | | | | nfigure | | | | Note 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
NOTE 1: For EN-DC and NGEN-DC MCG, NE-DC SCG: the MAC/RLC behaviour depends on
the solution selected by the network. It can be PCell handover (for EN-DC and
NGEN-DC) or PSCell change (for NE-DC), which triggers MAC reset and RLC re-
establishment. Alternatively, the logical channel identity can be changed,
either via RLC bearer release and add for the same DRB (including RLC re-
establishment), or via reconfiguration of the RLC bearer with RLC-re-
establishment.
For EN-DC and NGEN-DC SCG, NE-DC MCG, NR-DC MCG and SCG: the MAC/RLC behaviour
depends on the solution selected by the network. It can be reconfiguration
with sync, with MAC reset and RLC re-establishment. Alternatively, the logical
channel identity can be changed via RLC bearer release and add.
NOTE 2: Void
NOTE 3: For EN-DC and NGEN-DC: Re-establishment and release. For NE-DC and NR-
DC: Release.
NOTE 4: For NE-DC: Re-establishment and release. For EN-DC, NGEN-DC and NR-DC:
Release.
###### ##
###### ## Annex B (informative): Supported MR-DC Handover Scenarios
Table B-1 summarizes the supported handover scenarios involving MR-DC
configurations.
Table B-1: Supported MR-DC handover scenarios.
* * *
**To (column)\** E-UTRA with EPC**** E-UTRA with 5GC**** NR**** GERAN or
UTRAN**** EN-DC**** NGEN-DC**** NE-DC**** NR-DC**\  
HO from (row)**
* * *
**E-UTRA with EPC** YES YES YES YES YES NO NO NO
**E-UTRA with 5GC** YES YES YES NO NO YES NO NO
**NR** YES YES YES NO NO NO YES YES
**GERAN or UTRAN** YES NO NO YES NO NO NO NO
**EN-DC** YES YES YES YES YES NO NO NO
**NGEN-DC** YES YES YES NO NO YES NO NO
**NE-DC** YES YES YES NO NO NO YES NO
**NR-DC** YES YES YES NO NO NO NO YES
* * *
###### ##
#