# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part TS:
> 3GPP TS 37.571-1: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved UTRA
> (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification.
>
> **3GPP TS 37.571-2: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-3: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 3: Implementation
> Conformance Statement (ICS).**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-4: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 4: Test suites.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-5: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 5: Test scenarios and
> assistance data.**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for UTRAN,
E-UTRAN and NR User Equipment (UE) supporting UE positioning.
This is the second part of a multi-part test specification. The following
information can be found in this part:
\- the overall protocol conformance test structure;
\- the protocol conformance test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure, the specific test requirements
and short message exchange table.
The Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) pro-forma could be found in the
3^rd^ part of the present document.
The present document is valid for UE supporting UE positioning implemented
according to 3GPP releases starting from Release 99 up to the Release
indicated on the cover page of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document in the same
Release as the present document unless the context in which the reference is
made suggests a different Release is relevant (information on the applicable
release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case title,
description or applicability, message description or content).
> [1] to [30] (void)
[31] 3GPP TS 37.571-2 Release 16: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA)
and Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification for UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Default Conditions for UTRAN
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 37.571-2
Release 16 [31].
# 5 to 9 Void
#