# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary to
have a statement of which capabilities and options have been implemented for a
telecommunication specification. Such a statement is called an Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
The present document is part 3 of a multi-parts TS:
> 3GPP TS 37.571-1: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved UTRA
> (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 1: Conformance test specification.
>
> **3GPP TS 37.571-2: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 2: Protocol conformance.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.571-3: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
> UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
> specification for UE positioning; Part 3: Implementation Conformance
> Statement (ICS).**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-4: Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and**
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 4: Test suites.**
>
> **3GPP TS 37.** 571**-5:** Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and
> Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
> conformance specification for UE positioning; **Part 5: Test scenarios and
> assistance data.**
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for UTRAN, E-UTRAN and NR User Equipment (UE) supporting UE
positioning, in compliance with the relevant requirements, and in accordance
with the relevant guidance given in ISO/IEC 9646-1 [7] and ISO/IEC 9646-7 [8].
The present document also specifies a recommended applicability statement for
the test cases included in 3GPP TS 37.571-1 [5] and 3GPP TS 37.571-2 [6].
These applicability statements are based on the features implemented in the
UE.
Special conformance testing functions can be found in 3GPP TS 34.109 [10] for
UTRA, 3GPP TS 36.509 [2] for E-UTRA and 3GPP TS 38.509 [14] for NR. The common
test environments are included in 3GPP TS 34.108 [9] for UTRA, in 3GPP TS
36.508 [3] for E-UTRA and in 3GPP TS 38.508-1 [15] for NR.
The present document is valid for UE supporting UE positioning implemented
according to 3GPP releases starting from Release 99 up to the Release
indicated on the cover page of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
> [1] to [16] (void)
[17] 3GPP TS 37.571-3 Release 16: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA)
and Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification for UE positioning; Part 3: Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS)\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended Test Case Applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 37.571-3
Release 16 [17].
#