# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for inter-band NR CA (nDL/2UL
bands) (n are FFS) under Rel-15 time frame. The purpose is to gather the
relevant background information and studies in order to address inter-band NR
CA (nDL/2UL bands) (n are FFS) for the Rel-15 band combinations in Table 1-1.
Table 1-1: Release 15 Inter-band NR CA
* * *
CA combination REL independent from CA_n8A-n78A Rel-15 CA_n8A-n258A Rel-15
CA_n77A-n257A Rel-15 CA_n78A-n257A Rel-15 CA_n79A-n257A Rel-15 CA_n77A-n79A
Rel-15 CA_n78A-n79A Rel-15 CA_n3A-n78A Rel-15
* * *
This TR contains a general part and band specific combination part. The actual
requirements are added to the corresponding technical specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Aggregated Channel Bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth in which a UE transmits and
receives multiple contiguously aggregated carriers.
**Carrier aggregation: Aggregation of two or more component carriers in order
to support wider transmission bandwidths.**
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: Carrier aggregation of component carriers in
different operating bands**.
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
DL DownLink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IMD Inter-modulation
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Deduction
NR New RAT
SCS Subcarrier spacing
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL UpLink
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for Carrier Aggregation (CA) band
combinations of inter-band NR (nDL/2UL bands) under Rel-15 time frame. It
covers both the UE and BS side. The document is divided in two different
parts:
\- General part: this part covers BS and UE specific which is band combination
independent.
\- Specific band combination part: this part covers each band combination and
its specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is
defined per band combination)
The specific band combination parts are independent and therefore, the working
speed also differs.
## 4.1 TR Maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
current TR, i.e. TR editor. However, it is the responsibility of the contact
person of each band combination to ensure that the TPs related to the band
combination have been implemented.
# 5 Inter-Band Carrier Aggregation NR: General Part
# 6 Inter-Band Carrier Aggregation NR: Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 CA_n8A-n78A
### 6.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.1.1-1: CA band combination of band n8+n78
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR CA | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | c | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | ombin | | band | band | mode | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | n8 | 880 | -- | 915 | 925 | -- | 960 | FDD | | _n8A | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | -n78A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n78 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.1.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n8+n78
CA configuration / channel bandwidth [MHz] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
NR CA Configuration | UL Configuration | NR Band | SCS [kHz] | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 100 | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz]  
CA_n8A-n78A | CA_n8A-n78A | n8 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 120  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
### 6.1.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.1.3-1 lists Band n8 +Band n78 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics
and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence
analysis.
Table 6.1.3-1: Band n8 and Band n78 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 880 915 3300
3800 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1760 1830 6600 7600 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 2640 2745 9900 11400 2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low
-- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2385 2920 4180 4715 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD
products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low --
fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 2040 1470 5685
6720 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 5060 5630 7480 8515 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low -- max BW
fy) (fx_high + max BW fy) (fy_low -- max BW fx) (fy_high + max BW fx) IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 780 1015 3290 3810 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products
\|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\|
\|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1160 555 8985 10520 Two-
tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --2*
fy_low\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5840 4770  
Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +
1*fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 5940 6545 10780 12315 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\|  
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 8360 9430  
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 14320 12285 360 280 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low
- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high - 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low - 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high
-3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 9640 8070 3855 4960 Two-tone 5^th^
order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low +
4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 14080 16115 6820
7460 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 11660 13230 9240 10345
* * *
Based on Table 6.1.3-1:
2nd order harmonic may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 3
3rd order harmonic may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 7, 41
2nd order IMD may also fall into Rx frequencies of band 7, 40, 41, 69, n79
3rd order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band 8 and Rx frequencies of bands
2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36,
37, 39, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 68, 70,and n77
4th order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band 8 and Rx frequencies of bands
5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 26, 27, 28, 29, 44, 46, 67, 68 and n79
5th order IMD may also fall into Rx frequencies of bands n77 and n79
When 2UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 6.1.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.1.3-2: 2UL Band n8 +Band n78 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD3 | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | IMD2 | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | IMD3, 4 | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | IMD3, 4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | Yes | | IMD3, 4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | IMD3, 4 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 6.1.3-3 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL CA configuration.
Table 6.1.3-3: Protected bands for the 2UL CA configuration
* * *
NR CA Configuration Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) NOTE  
CA_n8A-n78A E-UTRA Band 1,8, 20, 28, 34, 39, 40,65 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50
1  
E-UTRA Band 3, 7,41 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 Harmonic exception E-UTRA
Band 11, 21 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 RB restriction and centre frequency
range restriction Frequency range 860 - 890 -40 1 RB restriction and centre
frequency range restriction Frequency range 1884.5 - 1915.7 -41 0.3 PHS NR
Band n257 26500 - 29500 [-5] 100  
NR Band n258 24250 - 27500 [-5] 100  
NOTE 1: To simplify Table, E-UTRA band numbers are listed for bands which are
specified only for E-UTRA operation or both E-UTRA and NR operation. NR band
numbers are listed for bands which are specified only for NR operation.
* * *
### 6.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n8A-n78A with 2 uplink, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in
the tables below.
Table 6.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n8A-n78A n8 0.6 n78 0.8
NOTE 1: HTF is assumed for Band n8.
* * *
Table 6.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n8A-n78A n8 0.2 n78 0.5
NOTE 1: HTF is assumed for Band n8.
* * *
### 6.1.5 MSD
Table 6.1.5-1 lists the MSD required for the 4th harmonic issue for this CA
combination.
Table 6.1.5-1:MSD due to 4th harmonic issue
MSD due to harmonic exception for the DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHZ | 80 MHZ | 100 MHZ  
|  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
n8 | n78 | NA | 10.8 | 9.1 | 8.0 | 5.1 | 4.2 | 3.5 | 2.3 | 1.4  
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of a low band for which the 4th transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a high band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.1.5-2 lists the UL configuration for the CA configuration CA_n8A-n78A.
Table 6.1.5-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to UL harmonic interference
**UL band** | **DL band** | **5 MHz** | **10 MHz** | **15 MHz** | **20 MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40 MHz** | **50 MHz** | **60 MHz** | **80 MHz** | **100 MHz**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
n8 | n78 | 8 | 16 | 25 | 251 252 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: The configuration is used for measurement of MSD for NR channel bandwidth of 20 MHz. NOTE 2: The configuration is used for measurement of MSD for NR channel bandwidth of equal or larger than 40 MHz. NOTE 3: 15 kHz SCS is assumed for UL bands |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Although Table 6.1.3-1 shows that 3rd and 4th order IMD may fall into own Rx
of Band n8,only impact from 4th order IMD shall be considered. because
according to R4-1711846, MSD caused by IM3 of "F~LTE\ UL~ - max NR BW" should
not be specified due to lower PSD of NR transmission.
Table 6.1.5-3 lists the MSD required for the dual uplink configuration.
Table 6.1.5-3: MSD due to IMD issue
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | Oper | S | | | | | | | | | ating | ource | | | | | | | | | band | of | | | | | | | | | / | IMD | | | | | | | | | Ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | CA | Oper | UL | UL/DL | UL\ | DL | MSD\ | D | | | | ating | F~c~\ | BW\ | C | F~c~ | (dB) | uplex | | | Con | band | (MHz) | (MHz) | ~LRB~ | (MHz) | | mode | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | CA | n8 | 897.5 | 5 | 25 | 942.5 | 8.3 | FDD | IMD4 | | _n8A | | | | | | | | | | -n78A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+ | | n78 | 3635 | 10 | 52 | 3635 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-------+------+
## 6.2 CA_n8A-n258A
### 6.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.2.1-1: CA band combination of n8+n258
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | n8 | 880 | -- | 915 | 925 | -- | 960 | FDD | | _n8A- | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | n258A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n258 | 24250 | -- | 27500 | 24250 | -- | 27500 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.2.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of n8+n258
**CA configuration / channel bandwidth [MHz]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **50** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]**  
CA_n8A-n258A | CA_n8A-n258A | n8 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  | 420  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n258 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.2.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.2.3-1 lists Band n8 +Band 258 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics
and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence
analysis.
Table 6.2.3-1: Band n8 and Band n258 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency 880 915 24250 27500
2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 1760 1830 48500 55000 3^rd^ order
harmonics frequency range (MHz) 2640 2745 72750 82500 2^nd^ order IMD products
\|fy_low-fx_high\| \|fy_high-fx_low\| \|fy_low+fx_low\| \|fy_high+fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 23335 26620 25130 28415 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD
products \|fy_high -- 2*fx_low\| \|fy_low -- 2*fx_high\| \|2*fy_low --
fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 25740 22420 47585
54120 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +
fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 26010 29330 49380 55915 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products (fx_low -- max
BW fy) (fx_high + max BW fy) (fy_low -- max BW fx) (fy_high + max BW fx) IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 480 1315 24240 27510 Two-tone 4th order IMD products
\|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 53240 46670 50260 56830
Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1* fy_high\| \|3*fx_high --
1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- 1*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 24860 21505 71835 81620 Two-tone 4th order IMD products
\|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +1* fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\|
\|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 26890 30245 73630 83380
Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 109120 96085 20590 23980 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low
+ 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high +
4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 97880 110915 27770 31160 Two-tone 5th
order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
80740 70920 45755 52360 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 74510 84330 51140 57745
* * *
Based on Table 6.2.3-1;
\- 2^nd^ order harmonic may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 3
\- 3^rd^ order harmonic may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 7 and 41.
\- 2^nd^ order and 4^th^ IMD may also fall into own Rx of band n258 and Rx
frequencies of band n257. However, TDD band does not transmit and receive
simultaneously in a single band, thus the own band of n258 would not be
interfered.
\- 3^rd^ order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band 8 and n258 and Rx
frequencies of bands 5, 6, 12\~14, 17\~20, 26\~29, 44, 67, 68 and n257.
\- 5^th^ order IMD may also fall into Rx frequencies of bands n257.
When 2UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 6.2.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.2.3-2: 2UL Band n8 +Band n258 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | Victim Systems | Frequency range [MHz] | Impact | Regions | Comments | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | (Beidou) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | ISM band | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US/Europe | | | | | | | | | | | (2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | ISM band | 5150 | - | 5925 | No | US | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+
Table 6.2.3-3 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL CA configuration.
Table 6.2.3-3: Protected bands for the 2UL CA configuration
* * *
NR CA Configuration Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) NOTE  
CA_n8A-n258A E-UTRA Band 1,8, 20, 28, 34, 39, 40,65 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50
1  
E-UTRA Band 3, 7,41,42,n78,n79 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 Harmonic exception
E-UTRA Band 11, 21 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1 RB restriction and centre
frequency range restriction Frequency range 860 - 890 -40 1 RB restriction and
centre frequency range restriction Frequency range 1884.5 - 1915.7 -41 0.3 PHS
NOTE 1: To simplify Table, E-UTRA band numbers are listed for bands which are
specified only for E-UTRA operation or both E-UTRA and NR operation. NR band
numbers are listed for bands which are specified only for NR operation.
* * *
### 6.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n8A-n258A with 2 uplink, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in
the tables below.
Table 6.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n8A-n258A n8 0 n258 0
* * *
Table 6.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n8A-n258A n8 0 n258 0
* * *
### 6.2.5 MSD
No IMD issues are expected for this CA configuration with dual uplink carrier.
Furthermore,there is also no MSD issue for harmonics since it was concluded
that 7th order harmonic has no impact to Rx frequency of NR bands in FR2.
## 6.3 CA_n3A-n78A
### 6.3.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.3.1-1: CA band combination of band n3+n78
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | Band | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | com | | b | b |** m | | | | | | binat | | and**| and** | ode**| | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | n3 | 1710 | -- | 1785 | 1805 | -- | 1880 | FDD | | _n3A | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | -n78A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n78 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.3.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.3.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of band n3+n78
**CA operating / channel bandwidth** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **5** **MHz** | **10MHz** | **15MHz** | **20MHz** | **25MHz** | **30MHz** | **40MHz** | **50MHz** | **60MHz** | **80MHz** | **100MHz** | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]**  
CA_n3A-n78A | CA_n3A-n78A | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 130  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
### 6.3.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.3.3-1 lists Band n3 +Band n78 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics
and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence
analysis.
Table 6.3.3-1: Band n3 and Band n78 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency 1710 1785 3300 3800
2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*fy_low
2*fy_high 2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3420 3570 6600 7600
2^nd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3*fy_low
3*fy_high 3^rd^ order harmonics frequency range (MHz) 5130 5355 9900 11400
2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low-fx_high\| \|fy_high-fx_low\|
\|fy_low+fx_low\| \|fy_high+fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1515 2090
5010 5585 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|fy_high -- 2*fx_low\| \|fy_low
-- 2*fx_high\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 380 270 4815 5890 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 6720 7370 8310 9385 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD
products (fx_low -- max BW fy) (fx_high + max BW fy) (fy_low -- max BW fx)
(fy_high + max BW fx) IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1610 1885 3270 3830 Two-tone
4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\|
\|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
4180 3030 10020 11170 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1*
fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high --
1*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 1330 2055 8115 9690 Two-tone 4th order
IMD products \|3*fx_low +1* fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +1* fy_high\| \|3*fy_low +
1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + 1*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 8430 9155
11610 13185 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high
-- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 13490 11415 3840 3040 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low +
4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high +
4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 14910 16985 10140 10940 Two-tone 5th
order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
7980 6330 1245 2470 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 13320 14970 11730 12955
* * *
Based on Table 6.3.3-1:
2nd order harmonic may fall into Rx frequencies of bands 22, 42, 48, n77 and
n78.
3rd order harmonic may fall into Rx frequencies of band 46.
2nd order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band n3 and Rx frequencies of bands
2, 9, 24, 25, 33\~37, 39, 46, 50, 70, 74 and 75.
3rd order IMD may also fall into Rx frequencies of bands 46, 47 and n79. In
addition, when considering the maximum supported channel bandwidth of each
band, then the 3^rd^ order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band n3 and n78,
and and Rx frequencies of bands 9, 22, 35, 39, 42, 43, 45, 48 and n77.
4rd order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band n3 and n78, and Rx frequencies
of bands 2, 9, 11, 21, 22, 24, 25, 32\~37, 39, 42, 43, 48, 70, 74, 75, 76 and
n77
5rd order IMD may also fall into own Rx of band n3 and n78, and Rx frequencies
of bands 1, 2, 4, 9\~11, 21\~25, 30, 32\~37, 39, 40, 42, 43, 45, 48, 50, 51,
65, 66, 70, 74, 75, 76, and n77.
The 3rd, 4^th^ and 5th IMD will be impact to the own received band n78.
However, the NR TDD band has no impact from dual uplink transmission since
there was no simultaneous Tx/Rx transmission in the band n78.
When 2UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 6.3.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.3.3-2: 2UL Band n3 +Band n78 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD2, | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | Yes | | IMD2, | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | Yes | | IMD2, | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | Yes | | IMD2, | | | | | | | | 4, 5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | IMD5 | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | Har | | band | | | | | | monic3, | | | | | | | | IMD2, 3 | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | Har | | | | | | | | monic3, | | | | | | | | IMD2, 3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | Yes | | IMD2, 3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | Har | | | | | | | | monic3, | | | | | | | | IMD2, 3 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 6.3.3-3 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL CA configuration.
Table 6.3.3-3: Protected bands for the 2UL CA configuration
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **Spurious emission**  
**Protected band** **Frequency range (MHz)** **Maximum Level (dBm)** **MBW
(MHz)** **NOTE**  
CA_n3A-n78A E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21, 26, 28, 34, 39, 40,
41, 65 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 1884.5 - 1915.7 -41 0.3 PHS NR Band n257 26500 - 29500 [-5]
100
* * *
### 6.3.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n3A-n78A, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are given in the tables below.
Table 6.3.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n3A-n78A n3 0.6 n78 0.8
NOTE 1: HTF is assumed for Band n3.
* * *
Table 6.3.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB] CA_3A-n78A n3 0.2 n78 0.5 NOTE
1: HTF is assumed for Band n3.
* * *
### 6.3.5 MSD
Although Table 6.3.3-1 shows that 3rd order IMD may fall into own Rx of Band
n3, according to R4-1711846, MSD caused by IM3 of "F~LTE\ UL~ - max NR BW"
should not be specified due to lower PSD of NR transmission.
Tables below lists the MSD required for the IMD2 and IMD4 for this CA
combination.
Table 6.3.5-2: MSD for the CA configuration for IMD2 and IMD4
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **NR |** S | | | | | | | | | Band | ource | | | | | | | | | / | of | | | | | | | | | Ch | IMD**| | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | N~RB~ | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | | uplex | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | ode** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **NR |** NR | **UL | ** |** UL\ | **DL | * |** D | | | CA**| b | F~c~\ | UL/DL | C~L | F~c~ | *MSD\ | uplex | | | | and** | (M | BW\ | RB~**| (M | ( | m | | | ** | | Hz)** | (M | | Hz)**| dB)** | ode**| | | Confi | | | Hz)** | | | | | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | | ion** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA | n3 | 1740 | 5 | 25 | 1835 | \ | FDD | IM | | _n3A | | | | | | [26] | | D2^4^ | | -n78A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [28.7 | | | | | | | | | | ^5^] | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3575 | 10 | 25 | 3575 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3710 | 10 | 25 | 3710 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CA | n3 | 1765 | 5 | 25 | 1860 | [ | FDD | IM | | _n3A | | | | | | 8.0] | | D4^4^ | | -n78A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [10.7 | | | | | | | | | | ^5^] | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | n78 | 3435 | 10 | 25 | 3435 | N/A | TDD | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Both | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | tters | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | n(+20 | | | | | | | | | | dBm, | | | | | | | | | | P~C | | | | | | | | | | MAX_ | | | | | | | | | | L,c~) | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | | .2.5A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | RB~S | | | | | | | | | | TART~ | | | | | | | | | | = 0 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | bject | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | MSD | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | speci | | | | | | | | | | fied. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | | ports | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | supp | | | | | | | | | | orted | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | 15kHz | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | | umed. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
MSD values for Band n78 due to 2nd harmonic of Band n3 in CA Band n3+ Band n78
are captured in Table 6.3.5-3.
Table 6.3.5-3: MSD due to harmonic issue
MSD due to harmonic exception for the DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | **5 MHz** | **10 MHz** | **15 MHz** | **20 MHz** | **25 MHz** | **40 MHz** | **50 MHz** | **60 MHz** | **80 MHz** | **100 MHz**  
|  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
n3 | n781,2 |  | 23.9 | 22.1 | 20.9 |  | 17.9 | 16.9 | 16.1 |  |   
| n783 |  | 1.1 | 0.8 | 0.3 |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 2nd transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 2: The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that $f_{\text{UL}}^{\text{LB}} = \left\lfloor \frac{f_{\text{DL}}^{\text{HB}}}{0}\text{.}2 \right\rfloor 0\text{.}1$in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. NOTE 3: The requirements are only applicable to channel bandwidths with a carrier frequency at $\pm \left( \text{20} + \frac{\text{BW}_{\text{Channel}}^{\text{HB}}}{2} \right)$ MHz offset from 2 _f_ ULLB in the victim (higher band) with , whereandBWChannelHBare the channel bandwidths configured in the aggressor (lower) and victim (higher) bands in MHz, respectively. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Regarding the uplink configuration, 40MHz, 50MHz and 60MHz for n78 should be
considered additionally.
Table 6.3.5-3 Uplink configuration for the low band (exceptions) for NR
* * *
                                            NR Band / Channel bandwidth of the high band
UL band DL band 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 20 MHz 25 MHz 30 MHz 40 MHz 50 MHz
60 MHz 80 MHz 100 MHz n3 n78 26 39 53 106 133 160  
NOTE: 15kHz SCS is assumed for UL band.
* * *
## 6.4 CA_n77-n257
### 6.4.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.4.1-1: CA band combination of n77+n257
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR CA | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | c | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | ombin | | band | band | mode | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | n77 | 3300 | -- | 4200 | 3300 | -- | 4200 | TDD | | _n77 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | -n257 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n257 | 26500 | -- | 29500 | 26500 | -- | 29500 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.4.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.4.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of n77+n257
**CA configuration / channel bandwidth [MHz]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]**  
CA_n77A-n257A | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 500  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n77A-n257D | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 500  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77A-n257E | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 700  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257E in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77A-n257F | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 900  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257F in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77C-n257A | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | See CA_n77C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 600 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n77C-n257D | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | See CA_n77C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 600 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77C-n257E | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | See CA_n77C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 800 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257E in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77C-n257F | CA_n77A-n257A | n77 | See CA_n77C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 1000 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257F in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.4.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.4.3-1 lists Band n77+Band n257 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics
and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence
analysis.
Table 6.4.3-1: Band n77 and Band n257 UL harmonics and IMD products
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **UE UL |** fx_low**| * |** fy_low**| * | | carriers** | | _fx_high_ _| |_ fy_high __| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL | 3300 | 4200 | 26500 | 29500 | | frequency | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ | 2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | 2* fy_low | 2* | | harmonics | | | | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ | 6600--8400 | 5 | | | | harmonics | | 3000--59000 | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3^rd^ | 3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | 3* fy_low | 3* | | harmonics | | | | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3^rd^ | 9900--12600 | 79500-- | | | | harmonics | | 88500 | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ order | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | fx_low\| | + | | products | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | | fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 22300-- | 29800-- | | | | frequency | 26200 | 33700 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3^rd^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 1 | 48800-- | | | | frequency | 8100--22900 | 54800 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3^rd^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + fy_low\| | + | + fx_low\| | + | | products | | fy_high\| | | fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 33100-- | 56300-- | | | | frequency | 37900 | 63200 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | (fx_low -- | (fx_high + | (fy_low -- | (fy_high + | | 3^rd^ order | max BW fy) | max BW fy) | max BW fx) | max BW fx) | | IMD | | | | | | products | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 2900-- 4600 | 26400-- | | | | frequency | | 29600 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4^th^ order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | --1* | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | 1 | 1\ | 1 | | | | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 1 | 75300-- | | | | frequency | 3900--19600 | 85200 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | --2* | --2* | | | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 44600-- | | | | | frequency | 81900 | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4^th^ order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | +1* | + | + | + | | products | fy_low\| | 1\ | 1 | 1\ | | | | _fy_high\| | *fx_low\| | _fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 36400-- | 82800-- | | | | frequency | 41200 | 92700 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | +2* | +2* | | | | products | fy_low\| | fy_high\| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 59600-- | | | | | frequency | 67400 | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low | \|fx_high | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | | 5^th^ order | -- | -- | -- | -- | | IMD | 4\ | 4 | 4\ | 4 | | products |_ fy_high\| | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 101800-- | 9700-- | | | | frequency | > 114700 | 16300 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | - | - | - | -3 | | products | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | *fx_low\| | | | _fy_high\| | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 71100-- | 40400-- | | | | frequency | 81900 | 49100 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low + | \|fx_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | 5^th^ order | 4 | + | 4 | + | | IMD | *fy_low\| | 4\ | *fx_low\| | 4\ | | products | |_ fy_high\| | | _fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 109300-- | 39700-- | | | | frequency | 122200 | 46300 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + | + | + | + | | products | 3 | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | | | *fy_low\| |_ fy_high\| | *fx_low\| | *fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 86100-- | 62900-- | | | | frequency | 96900 | 71600 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Based on Table 6.4.3-1, the co-existence status is summarized as below
\- No harmonic may fall into own Rx of band n77 and n257.
\- 3nd order IMD may fall into Rx frequencies of bands n77, n78, n79, n257,
n258, n260 and n261.
\- 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD may fall into RX frequencies of bands n259 and
n260.
When 2UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 8.X.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.4.3-2: 2UL Band x +Band y harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | Victim Systems | Frequency range [MHz] | Impact | Regions | Comments | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | (Beidou) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | ISM band | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US/Europe | | | | | | | | | | | (2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | ISM band | 5150 | - | 5925 | No | US | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+
Table 6.4.3-3 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL CA configuration.
Table 6.4.3-3: Protected bands for the 2UL CA configuration
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | **U |** Spu | | | | | | | | plink | rious | | | | | | | | NR | emiss | | | | | | | | CA**| ion** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | CA_ | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | n77A- | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | n257A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | PHS | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
### 6.4.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n77-n257, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.4.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n77-n257 n77
0 n257 0
* * *
Table 6.4.4-2: ΔR~IB~
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB~ [dB]** CA_n77-n257 n77 0
n257 0
* * *
### 6.4.5 MSD
As mentioned in 6.4.3, there is no need to specify additional MSD requirement
for this UL CA configuration._._
## 6.5 CA_n78-n257
### 6.5.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.5.1-1: CA band combination of n78+n257
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR CA | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | c | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | ombin | | band | band | mode | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | n78 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | 3300 | -- | 3800 | TDD | | _n78 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | -n257 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n257 | 26500 | -- | 29500 | 26500 | -- | 29500 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.5.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.5.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of n78+n257
**CA configuration / channel bandwidth [MHz]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]**  
CA_n78A-n257A | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 500  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n78A-n257D | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 500  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78A-n257E | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 700  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257E in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78A-n257F | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 900  
|  |  | 30 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257F in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78C-n257A | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | See CA_n78C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 600 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n78C-n257D | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | See CA_n78C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 600 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78C-n257E | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | See CA_n78C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 800 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257E in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78C-n257F | CA_n78A-n257A | n78 | See CA_n78C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 1000 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257F in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.5.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.5.3-1 lists Band n77+Band n257 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics
and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence
analysis.
Table 6.5.3-1: Band n77 and Band n257 UL harmonics and IMD products
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **UE UL |** fx_low**| * |** fy_low**| * | | carriers** | | _fx_high_ _| |_ fy_high __| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL | 3300 | 4200 | 26500 | 29500 | | frequency | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ | 2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | 2* fy_low | 2* | | harmonics | | | | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ | 6600--8400 | 5 | | | | harmonics | | 3000--59000 | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3^rd^ | 3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | 3* fy_low | 3* | | harmonics | | | | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3^rd^ | 9900--12600 | 79500-- | | | | harmonics | | 88500 | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ order | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | fx_low\| | + | | products | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | | fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 22300-- | 29800-- | | | | frequency | 26200 | 33700 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3^rd^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 1 | 48800-- | | | | frequency | 8100--22900 | 54800 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3^rd^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + fy_low\| | + | + fx_low\| | + | | products | | fy_high\| | | fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 33100-- | 56300-- | | | | frequency | 37900 | 63200 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | (fx_low -- | (fx_high + | (fy_low -- | (fy_high + | | 3^rd^ order | max BW fy) | max BW fy) | max BW fx) | max BW fx) | | IMD | | | | | | products | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 2900-- 4600 | 26400-- | | | | frequency | | 29600 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4^th^ order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | --1* | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | 1 | 1\ | 1 | | | | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 1 | 75300-- | | | | frequency | 3900--19600 | 85200 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | --2* | --2* | | | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 44600-- | | | | | frequency | 81900 | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4^th^ order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | +1* | + | + | + | | products | fy_low\| | 1\ | 1 | 1\ | | | | _fy_high\| | *fx_low\| | _fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 36400-- | 82800-- | | | | frequency | 41200 | 92700 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | +2* | +2* | | | | products | fy_low\| | fy_high\| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 59600-- | | | | | frequency | 67400 | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low | \|fx_high | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | | 5^th^ order | -- | -- | -- | -- | | IMD | 4\ | 4 | 4\ | 4 | | products |_ fy_high\| | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 101800-- | 9700-- | | | | frequency | > 114700 | 16300 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | - | - | - | -3 | | products | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | *fx_low\| | | | _fy_high\| | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 71100-- | 40400-- | | | | frequency | 81900 | 49100 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low + | \|fx_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | 5^th^ order | 4 | + | 4 | + | | IMD | *fy_low\| | 4\ | *fx_low\| | 4\ | | products | |_ fy_high\| | | _fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 109300-- | 39700-- | | | | frequency | 122200 | 46300 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + | + | + | + | | products | 3 | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | | | *fy_low\| |_ fy_high\| | *fx_low\| | *fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 86100-- | 62900-- | | | | frequency | 96900 | 71600 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Based on Table 6.5.3-1, the co-existence status is summarized as below
\- No harmonic may fall into own Rx of band n77 and n257.
\- 3nd order IMD may fall into Rx frequencies of bands n77, n78, n79, n257,
n258, n260 and n261.
\- 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD may fall into RX frequencies of bands n259 and
n260.
When 2UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 8.X.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.5.3-2: 2UL Band x +Band y harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | **Victim |** F | ** | **R |** Co | | | | S | requency | Impact**| egions** | mments**| | | | ystems** | range | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | [MHz]** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | (Beidou) | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | ISM band | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | U | | | | | | | | S/Europe | | | (2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | ISM band | 5150 | - | 5925 | No | US | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | No | Asia | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
Table 6.5.3-3 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL CA configuration.
Table 6.5.3-3: Protected bands for the 2UL CA configuration
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | **U |** Spu | | | | | | | | plink | rious | | | | | | | | NR | emiss | | | | | | | | CA**| ion** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | CA_ | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | n78A- | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | n257A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | PHS | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
### 6.5.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n78-n257, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.5.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n78-n257 n78
0 n257 0
* * *
Table 6.5.4-2: ΔR~IB~
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB~ [dB]** CA_n78-n257 n78 0
n257 0
* * *
### 6.5.5 MSD
As mentioned in 8.x.3, there is no need to specify additional MSD requirement
for this UL CA configuration.
## 6.6 CA_n79-n257
### 6.6.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.6.1-1: CA band combination of n79+n257
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR CA | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | c | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | ombin | | band | band | mode | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA | n79 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | TDD | | _n79 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | -n257 | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n257 | 26500 | -- | 29500 | 26500 | -- | 29500 | | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.6.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.6.2-1: Supported bandwidths per CA band combination of n79+n257
**CA configuration / channel bandwidth [MHz]** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]**  
CA_n79A-n257A | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | 15 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 500  
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n79A-n257D | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | 15 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 500  
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n79A-n257E | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | 15 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 700  
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257E in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n79A-n257F | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | 15 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  | 900  
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257F in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n79C-n257A | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | See CA_n79C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 600 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n79C-n257D | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | See CA_n79C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 600 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n79C-n257E | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | See CA_n79C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 800 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257E in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n79C-n257F | CA_n79A-n257A | n79 | See CA_n79C in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-1 [2] | 1000 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257F in Table 5.5A1-2 in TS 38.101-2 [3] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.6.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.6.3-1 lists Band n79+Band n257 2UL CA 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics
and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence
analysis.
Table 6.6.3-1: Band n79 and Band n257 UL harmonics and IMD products
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **UE UL |** fx_low**| * |** fy_low**| * | | carriers** | | _fx_high_ _| |_ fy_high __| +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL | 4400 | 5000 | 26500 | 29500 | | frequency | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ | 2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | 2* fy_low | 2* | | harmonics | | | | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ | 8800--10000 | 5 | | | | harmonics | | 3000--59000 | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3^rd^ | 3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | 3* fy_low | 3* | | harmonics | | | | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3^rd^ | 1 | 79500-- | | | | harmonics | 3200--15000 | 88500 | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2^nd^ order | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | fx_low\| | + | | products | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | | fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 21500-- | 30900-- | | | | frequency | 25100 | 34500 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3^rd^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 1 | 48000-- | | | | frequency | 6500--20700 | 54000 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3^rd^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + fy_low\| | + | + fx_low\| | + | | products | | fy_high\| | | fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 35300-- | 57400-- | | | | frequency | 39500 | 64000 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | (fx_low -- | (fx_high + | (fy_low -- | (fy_high + | | 3^rd^ order | max BW fy) | max BW fy) | max BW fx) | max BW fx) | | IMD | | | | | | products | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 4000-- 5400 | 26400-- | | | | frequency | | 29600 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4^th^ order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | --1* | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | 1 | 1\ | 1 | | | | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 1 | 74500-- | | | | frequency | 1500--16300 | 84100 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | --2* | --2* | | | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 43000-- | | | | | frequency | 50200 | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4^th^ order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | +1* | + | + | + | | products | fy_low\| | 1\ | 1 | 1\ | | | | _fy_high\| | *fx_low\| | _fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 36400-- | 82800-- | | | | frequency | 41200 | 92700 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | +2* | +2* | | | | products | fy_low\| | fy_high\| | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 66200-- | | | | | frequency | 69000 | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low | \|fx_high | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | | 5^th^ order | -- | -- | -- | -- | | IMD | 4\ | 4 | 4\ | 4 | | products |_ fy_high\| | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | > 101000-- | 6500-- | | | | frequency | > 113600 | 11900 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | - | - | - | -3 | | products | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | *fx_low\| | | | _fy_high\| | *fy_low\| | _fx_high\| | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 69500-- | 38000-- | | | | frequency | 79700 | 45800 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low + | \|fx_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | 5^th^ order | 4 | + | 4 | + | | IMD | *fy_low\| | 4\ | *fx_low\| | 4\ | | products | |_ fy_high\| | | _fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 110400-- | 44100-- | | | | frequency | 123000 | 49500 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5^th^ order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + | + | + | + | | products | 3 | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | | | *fy_low\| |_ fy_high\| | *fx_low\| | *fx_high\| | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMD | 88300-- | 66200-- | | | | frequency | 98500 | 74000 | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Based on Table 6.6.3-1, the co-existence status is summarized as below
\- No harmonic may fall into own Rx of band n79 and n257.
\- 3nd order IMD may fall into Rx frequencies of bands n77, n79, n257, n258,
n260 and n261.
\- 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD may fall into RX frequencies of bands n259 and
n260.
When 2UL inter-band CA UE is operating with other systems such as WiFi,
Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have
impact on these systems. Table 8.X.3-2 lists if up to 3^rd^ order harmonics
and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.6.3-2: 2UL Band n79 +Band n257 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | Victim Systems | Frequency range [MHz] | Impact | Regions | Comments | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | (Beidou) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | ISM band | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US/Europe | | | | | | | | | | | (2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | ISM band | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | IMD3 | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | IMD3 | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | IMD3 | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+
Table 6.6.3-3 lists the protected bands required for the 2UL CA configuration.
Table 6.6.3-3: Protected bands for the 2UL CA configuration
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | **U |** Spu | | | | | | | | plink | rious | | | | | | | | NR | emiss | | | | | | | | CA**| ion** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gurat | | | | | | | | | ion**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | | * | * |** Ma | **MBW |** N | | | | | _Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE**| | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)** | | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and**| (M | Bm)** | | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | CA_ | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | n79A- | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | n257A | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | PHS | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-----+
### 6.6.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n79-n257, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 8.x.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n79-n257 n79
0 n257 0
* * *
Table 8.x.4-2: ΔR~IB~
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB~ [dB]** CA_n79-n257 n79 0
n257 0
* * *
### 6.6.5 MSD
As mentioned in 6.6.3, there is no need to specify additional MSD requirement
for this UL CA configuration.
#