# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the results of Study on architecture evolution
for E-UTRAN in RP-170843 [2]. It identifies to study LTE CU and DU split
architecture, including new interface and relative procedures.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-172090: \"New SID on Architecture Evolution for E-UTRAN \".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300, \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 37.340, \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.300, \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
_**eNB Central Unit (eNB-CU):** a logical node hosting RRC and PDCP layers._
_**eNB Distributed Unit (eNB-DU):** a logical node hosting RLC, MAC and PHY
layers._
_**ng-eNB Central Unit (ng-eNB-CU):** a logical node hosting RRC, SDAP and
PDCP layers._
_**ng-eNB Distributed Unit (ng-eNB-DU):** a logical node hosting RLC, MAC and
PHY layers._
_Note that the \"eNB-CU\" and \"eNB-DU\" are used to describe both the \"eNB-
CU\", \"ng-eNB-CU\" and \"eNB-DU\", \"ng-eNB-DU\" in this specification, the
relevant parts that need to distinguish them will be explicitly stated._
# 4 General
The aim of the study is as captured in the SI description document [2]:
• Study the deployment topology and feasibility of CU/DU functional split for
the nodes providing E-UTRA access, i.e. eNB connecting to EPC and ng-eNB
connecting to 5GC, based on the selected higher layer split option for gNB,
see reference TR 38.801 [3];
• Identify, evaluate, and recommend the functions and procedures required in
the interface(s) to support the above functional split, harmonizing with NR as
much as possible (CP/UP separation should also be aligned).
\- Note: LTE high layer split should be consistent with high layer split
defined for NR.
# 5 Principles
\- An eNB may consist of an eNB-CU and eNB-DUs. An eNB-CU and an eNB-DU is
connected via V1 logical interface.
\- One eNB-CU controls one or more eNB-DUs. Max number of eNB-DUs per eNB-CU
is only limited by implementation.
\- One eNB-DU supports one or multiple cells. One cell is supported by only
one eNB-DU.
\- eNB-CU ID is not needed.
\- eNB-DU ID isused to identify eNB-DU only over V1AP procedures, eNB-DU ID is
not connected to cell identifier.
\- The eNB-CU terminates V1 interface connected with the eNB-DU.
\- The eNB-DU terminates V1 interface connected with the eNB-CU.
\- The standard should not prevent to separated CP and UP.
\- The V1 interface shall separate Radio Network Layer and Transport Network
Layer.
\- The V1 interface shall enable exchange of UE associated information and
non-UE associated information.
\- Multiple SCTP associations may be allowed between one ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-
DU.
\- C-RNTI allocation at the eNB-DU for initial UE access.
# 6 Architecture evolution and scenarios for E-UTRAN and NG-RAN
## 6.1 eNB CU-DU deployment scenario
### 6.1.1 eNB CU-DU deployment scenario -- EPC connected
S1 and X2 connectivity is specified in TS 36.300 [3] and TS 37.340 [4].
Figure 6.1.1-1 depicts a basic scenario for eNB CU/DU split with connectivity
to EPC.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Basic Scenario for eNB CU/DU split - connected to EPC
For EN DC with the eNB-CU and eNB-DU split is assumed to be supported, as
shown below.
Figure 6.1.1-2: EN-DC MGC split bearer option
Figure 6.1.1-3: EN-DC SCG bearer option
Figure 6.1.1-4: EN-DC SCG split bearer option
### 6.1.2 eNB CU-DU deployment scenario -- NGC connected
NG and Xn connectivity is specified in TS 38.300 [5] and TS 37.340 [4].
Figure 6.1.2-1 depicts the basic scenario for ng-eNB CU/DU split with
connectivity to 5GC.
Figure 6.1.2-1: Basic Scenario for ng-eNB CU/DU split - connected to 5GC
For MR-DC, ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DU split is assumed to be supported as shown
below.
Figure 6.1.2-2: MR-DC -- MCG split bearer option
Figure 6.1.2-3: MR-DC -- MCG split bearer option
Figure 6.1.2-4: MR-DC -- SCG bearer option
Figure 6.1.2-5: MR-DC -- SCG bearer option
Figure 6.1.2-6: MR-DC -- SCG split bearer option
## 6.2 Architecture of eNB CU-DU splitting
The functional splits between eNB central unit and eNB distributed unit is
illustrated in Figure 6.2-1.
Figure 6.2-1: Function Split between eNB-CU and eNB-DU
For ng-eNB, the function split between ng-eNB central unit and ng-eNB
distributed unit is illustrated in Figure 6.2-2.
Figure 6.2-2: Function Split between ng-eNB-CU and ng-eNB-DU
# 7 V1 Interface
_Note:_ Further decide in potential normative phase whether to reuse/enhance
F1 interface or V1.
## 7.1 V1 interface protocol stack
### 7.1.1 V1 Control Plane Protocol (V1-C)
Figure 7.1.1-1 shows the interface protocol structure for V1-C. The TNL is
based on IP transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. The application layer
signalling protocol is referred to as V1AP (V1 Application Protocol).
Figure 7.1.1-1: Interface protocol structure for V1-C
### 7.1.2 V1 User Plane Protocol (V1-U)
Figure 7.1.2-1 shows the interface protocol structure for V1-U. The TNL is
based on IP transport, comprising the UDP and GTP-U on top of IP.
Figure 7.1.2-1: Interface protocol structure for V1-U
## 7.2 V1 interface functions
_Editor\'s note:_ The functionality in this section may need alignment with
the latest F1 status in a potential normative phase.
The V1 interface functions include:
\- Interface Management functions
\- System Information management function
\- Paging function
\- UE Context Management functions
\- Bearer Management function
\- RRC Message Transfer function
\- Transfer of user data
\- Flow Control function
Note: The support of Load Management may be discussed during a potential
normative phase.
## 7.3 V1 interface Control Plane procedures
### 7.3.1 Interface Management procedures
\- V1 Setup: To establish a V1 interface between the eNB-CU and eNB-DU.
\- V1 Reset: To reset the V1 interface.
\- eNB-CU/eNB-DU Configuration Update: To update the configuration information
needed between the eNB-CU and eNB-DU to interoperate correctly on the V1
interface.
\- Error Indication: To report detected errors in one incoming message.
### 7.3.2 UE Context Management procedures
\- UE Context Setup: To establish the UE Context.
\- UE Context Modification: To modify the established UE Context.
\- UE context Release Request (eNB-DU initiated): to enable the eNB-DU to
request the eNB-CU to release the UE-associated logical V1-connection.
\- UE context Release (eNB-CU initiated): to enable the eNB-CU to order the
release of the UE-associated logical connection.
### 7.3.3 RRC Message Transfer Procedures
\- Initial UL RRC Message Transfer
\- Uplink RRC Message Transfer
\- Downlink RRC Message Transfer
### 7.3.4 Paging Procedures
\- Paging: to provide the paging information to enable eNB-DU to page a UE.
## 7.4 V1 interface User Plane procedures
### 7.4.1 User Data Transfer
### 7.4.2 Flow Control
V1 interface uses the same Flow Control mechanism and procedures as F1, X2,
Xn, possible enhancements are not precluded.
# 8 Conclusions
During the SI phase, the eNB CU-DU deployment scenarios to support
connectivity with EPC and 5GC were discussed for all possible deployment
scenarios. The eNB CU-DU split architecture, protocol stack, functions and
relative CP/UP procedures were defined and aligned with F1 interface as much
as possible. LTE features, such as NB-IoT, eMTC, eDRX, V2X, etc., which are
not supported over F1, may be potentially supported over high-layer split for
E-UTRAN and/or NG-RAN (E-UTRA). Further details of these features over F1/V1
need additional analysis. Nonetheless, it seems feasible to specify high-layer
split for E-UTRAN and/or NG-RAN (E-UTRA) during a potential normative phase.
#