# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on
evaluation methodology of new V2X use cases for LTE and NR\" [2]. The purpose
of this TR is to document the evaluation methodology to be used in evaluating
technical solutions to support the full set of 5G V2X use cases as identified
in [3] and the full set of 5G RAN requirements in [4].
This document addresses completion of the evaluation methodology in [4] and
[5] to compare the performance of different technical options for the new 5G
V2X use cases.
This document captures identification of the regulatory requirements and
design considerations of potential operation of direct communications between
vehicles in spectrum allocated to ITS beyond 6GHz in different regions.
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-170837: \"New SI proposal: Study on evaluation methodology of new
V2X use cases for LTE and NR\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.886: \"Study on enhancement of 3GPP Support for 5G V2X
Services\".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation
Access Technologies\".
[5] 3GPP TR 38.802: \"Study on New Radio Access Technology; Physical Layer
Aspects\".
[6] ITU-R M.1452-2 (05/2012): \"Millimetre wave vehicular collision avoidance
radars and radiocommunication systems for intelligent transport system
applications\"
[7] ECC/DEC/(09)01: \"The harmonised use of the 63-64 GHz frequency band for
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS)\"
[8] ETSI TR 102 400 v1.2.1(2006-07): \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio
spectrum Matters (ERM); Short Range Devices (SRD); Intelligent Transport
Systems (ITS); Road Traffic and Transport Telematics (RTTT); Technical
characteristics for communications equipment in the frequency band from 63 GHz
to 64 GHz; System Reference Document\".
[9] ETSI EN 302 686 V1.1.1(2011-02): \"Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS);
Radiocommunications equipment operating in the 63 GHz to 64 GHz frequency
band; Harmonized EN covering the essential requirements of article 3.2 of the
R&TTE Directive\"
[10] ERMTG37(17)026012: \"ITS in 60GHz proposal, FBConsulting, ETSI ERM-
TG37#26\"
[11] IEEE 802.18-17/0097: \"ITS in 60GHz - An updated proposal discussed in
ETSI TC BRAN and TC ITS, Friedbert Berens, Markus Mueck\"
[12] Republic of Korea table of frequency allocations,
https://spectrum.or.kr:5017/download.php?dnfile=%EC%A3%BC%ED%8C%8C%EC%88%98%EB%B6%84%EB%B0%B0%EB%8F%84%ED%91%9C%282015%EB%85%84+1%EC%9B%94%29.pdf&file=/www/spectrum_or_kr/webapp/../upload_dir/banner/175666235554bdd5483c499.pdf
[13] 3GPP TR 36.885: \"Study on LTE-based V2X services\".
[14] 3GPP TR 36.873: \"Study on 3D channel model for LTE\".
[15] 3GPP TR 38.901: \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\".
[16] 3GPP TR 36.872: \"Small cell enhancements for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN \-
Physical layer aspects\".
[17] 3GPP TR 36.814: \"Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer
aspects\".
[18] 3GPP TR 22.872: \"Study on positioning use cases\".
[19] F. Gil et al., \"A 3-D extrapolation model for base station antenna\'s
radiation patterns\" in Proc. IEEE VTC-Fall, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Sep.
1999, pp. 1341--1345.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
B2R Base station to road side unit
P2B Pedestrian to base station
P2P Pedestrian to pedestrian
R2R Road side unit to road side unit
RSU Road side unit
V2B Vehicle to base station
V2P Vehicle to pedestrian
V2V Vehicle to vehicle
V2R Vehicle to road side unit
# 4 Introduction
To expand the 3GPP platform to the automotive industry, the initial standard
on support of V2V services was completed in September 2016. Further
enhancements that focusing on additional V2X operation scenarios leveraging
the cellular infrastructure, also for inclusion in Release 14, is targeting
completion in March 2017 as 3GPP V2X phase 1.
Currently, SA1 is working on enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X services in
FS_eV2X. SA1 has identified 25 use cases for advanced V2X services and they
are categorized into four use case groups: vehicles platooning, extended
sensors, advanced driving and remote driving. The detailed description of each
use case group is provided as below.
1) Vehicles Platoonning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a platoon
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon obtain information from
the leading vehicle to manage this platoon. These information allow the
vehicles to drive closer than normal in a coordinated manner, going to the
same direction and travelling together.
2) Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video images among vehicles, road site units,
devices of pedestrian and V2X application servers. The vehicles can increase
the perception of their environemnt beyond of what their own sensors can
detect and have a more broad and holistic view of the local situation. High
data rate is one of the key characteristics.
3) Advanced Driving enables semi-automated or full-automated driving. Each
vehicle and/or RSU shares its own perception data obtained from its local
sensors with vehicles in proximity and that allows vehicles to synchronize and
coordinate their trajectories or manoeuvres. Each vehicle shares its driving
intention with vehicles in proximity too.
4) Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive by themselves or remote
vehicles located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. High reliability and low latency are the
main requirements.
The consolidated requirements for each use case group are captured in TR
22.886. Based on the input from FS_eV2X, SA1 will generate a set of normative
requirements for Release 15. Inline with these requirements, TSG RAN has been
defining a set of corresponding 5G RAN requirements within 3GPP TR38.913.
In order to study technical solutions for the new V2X use cases, new
evaluation methodology needs to be defined.
# 5 Regulation for ITS operation in frequency band above 6 GHz
## 5.1 International recommendation
ITU-R recommends technical and operational characteristics for millimeter wave
radiocommunication systems for ITS applications for V2V and V2I in the
frequency band 57.0-66.0 GHz [Annex 2 in 6]. Channel arrangements will be
specified by regions or countries separately. ITU-R identifies the
transmission parameter requirements for ITS with three types of system
bandwidth as follows:
Table 5.1-1 Transmission parameter requirements in [6].
                     System A         System B         System C
* * *
System bandwidth 63-64 GHz 59-66 GHz 57-64 GHz E.I.R.P 40 dBm  
Transmit power 10mW 10mW Antenna Gain 23 dBi or less 47 dBi or less 17 dBi or
less
## 5.2 European regulation
CEPT states that 63-64 GHz frequency bands are allowed for ITS on harmonized
use basis and the maximum radiated power should be limited to 40 dBm E.I.R.P
[7]. ETSI also indicates that this frequency band can be used for ITS
providing traffic safety and traffic efficiency applications (including V2V
and V2I) all over Europe, and the following transmission parameters were
considered in the analysis in [8, 9]:
\- E.I.R.P
\- 40 dBm (E.I.R.P. max mean power), 43 dBm (E.I.R.P. max peak power)
\- Transmit power
\- 27 dBm (max peak conducted power)
\- Unwanted emission level
\- Less than -30 dBm
\- Antenna gain
\- RSU : 23 dBi, Vehicle : 21 dBi (for V2V), 14 dBi (for V2I)
The definition of RF output power \"the RF output power is the mean equivalent
isotropic radiated power (e.i.r.p.) for the equipment during a transmission
burst. The mean e.i.r.p. refers to the highest power level of the transmitter
power control range during the transmission cycle if the transmitter power
control is implemented\" in [9] may need to be clarified, e.g., the notion of
\"transmission burst.\"
It is noted that there is ongoing discussion in ETSI to adjust ITS spectrum at
63-64 GHz because this spectrum overlaps with two RLAN channels [10, 11].
Based on further progress, ITS frequency allocation above 6 GHz in Europe may
be updated, e.g., shift the center frequency of ITS band to 62.64 or 64.80 GHz
and enlarge its bandwidth up to 2.16 GHz.
## 5.3 Korean regulation
In Korean regulations, frequency band 57.0-66.0 GHz is currently assigned for
the purpose of communications for earth exploration satellite(Passive), fixed
and Inter-satellite [12], but no specific use cases are determined yet and the
spectrum is being underutilized [Footnote K176C in 12].
## 5.4 Chinese regulation
There is no Chinese regulation for using ITS application in above 6GHz.
# 6 Evaluation methodology
The evaluation methodology in this document is used as a baseline for
evaluating technical solutions and can be modified later as necessary.
## 6.1 System level simulation assumptions
### 6.1.1 Evaluation scenarios
For both below and above 6 GHz, the road configuration for urban grid and
highway in [4] is used and the details are provided in Annex A.
Parameters regarding evaluation scenarios below 6 GHz are given in the
following table:
Table 6.1.1-1: Evaluation scenarios below 6 GHz
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Urban grid for eV2X | Highway for eV2X | +======================+======================+======================+ | Carrier frequency | Macro to/from | Macro to/from | | | vehicle/pedestrian | vehicle/pedestrian | | | UE : 4 GHz | UE : 2 GHz or 4GHz\ | | | | Between | | | Between | vehicle/pedestrian | | | vehicle/pedestrian | UE: 6 GHz\ | | | UE: 6 GHz | Micro BS to/from | | | | vehicle/pedestrian | | | Micro BS to/from | UE : 4 GHz\ | | | vehicle/pedestrian | UE-type-RSU to/from | | | UE : 4 GHz | vehicle/pedestrian | | | | UE: 6 GHz\ | | | UE-type-RSU to/from | Note: Agreed value | | | vehicle/pedestrian | does not mean | | | UE: 6 GHz | non-ITS band is | | | | precluded for real | | | Note: Agreed value | deployment for | | | does not mean | sidelink | | | non-ITS band is | | | | precluded for real | | | | deployment for | | | | sidelink | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Aggregated system | Up to 200 MHz | Up to 200 MHz | | bandwidth | (DL+UL) | (DL+UL) | | | | | | | Up to 100 MHz (SL) | Up to 100 MHz (SL) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Simulation bandwidth | 20 or 40 MHz (DL+UL) | 20 or 40 MHz (DL+UL) | | | | | | | 10 and 20 MHz | 10 and 20 MHz | | | (baseline for SL) | (baseline for SL) | | | | | | | 100 MHz (optional | 100 MHz (optional | | | for SL) | for SL) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Tx power | Macro BS: 49dBm PA | Macro BS: 49dBm PA | | | scaled down | scaled down | | | proportionally with | proportionally with | | | simulation BW when | simulation BW when | | | system BW is higher | system BW is higher | | | than simulation BW. | than simulation BW. | | | Otherwise, 49dBm\ | Otherwise, 49dBm\ | | | Micro BS: 24dBm PA | Micro BS: 24dBm PA | | | scaled down with | scaled down with | | | simulation BW when | simulation BW when | | | system BW is higher | system BW is higher | | | than simulation BW. | than simulation BW. | | | Otherwise, 24dBm | Otherwise, 24dBm | | | | | | | Note: 33dBm for RSU | Note: 33dBm for RSU | | | is not precluded | is not precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Tx power | Vehicle/pedestrian | Vehicle/pedestrian | | | UE or UE type RSU: | UE or UE type RSU: | | | 23dBm | 23dBm | | | | | | | Note: 33dBm is not | Note: 33dBm is not | | | precluded | precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS receiver noise | 5dB | 5dB | | figure | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE receiver noise | 9 dB | | | figure | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note #1: Aggregated sidelink bandwidth of 100 MHz at 6GHz is not available in
the current frequency allocations for ITS and its future availability is
subject to the progress in the potential additional ITS spectrum allocation.
Note #2: Simulated sidelink bandwidth of 100 MHz is available in licensed
spectrum at this moment and not supported in the current ITS spectrum
allocation.
Parameters regarding evaluation scenarios above 6 GHz are given in the
following table:
Table 6.1.1-2: Evaluation scenarios above 6 GHz
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Urban grid for eV2X | Highway for eV2X | +======================+======================+======================+ | Carrier frequency | Macro to/from | Macro to/from | | | vehicle/pedestrian | vehicle/pedestrian | | | UE : 30 GHz | UE : 30 GHz\ | | | | Between | | | Between | vehicle/pedestrian | | | vehicle/pedestrian | UE: 30 or 63 GHz\ | | | UE: 30 or 63 GHz | Micro BS to/from | | | | vehicle/pedestrian | | | Micro BS to/from | UE : 30 GHz\ | | | vehicle/pedestrian | UE-type-RSU to/from | | | UE : 30 GHz | vehicle/pedestrian | | | | UE: 30 or 63 GHz\ | | | UE-type-RSU to/from | Note: Agreed value | | | vehicle/pedestrian | does not mean | | | UE: 30 or 63 GHz | non-ITS band is | | | | precluded for real | | | Note: Agreed value | deployment for | | | does not mean | sidelink | | | non-ITS band is | | | | precluded for real | | | | deployment for | | | | sidelink | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Aggregated system | Up to 1 GHz (DL+UL) | Up to 1 GHz (DL+UL) | | bandwidth | | | | | Up to 1 GHz (SL) | Up to 1 GHz (SL) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Simulation bandwidth | 200 MHz (DL+UL) | 200 MHz (DL+UL) | | | | | | | 200 MHz (SL) | 200 MHz (SL) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Tx power | Macro BS: 43dBm PA | Macro BS: 43dBm PA | | | scaled down | scaled down | | | proportionally with | proportionally with | | | simulation BW when | simulation BW when | | | system BW is higher | system BW is higher | | | than simulation BW. | than simulation BW. | | | Otherwise, 43dBm. | Otherwise, 43dBm. | | | EIRP should not | EIRP should not | | | exceed 78 dBm and is | exceed 78 dBm and is | | | also subject to | also subject to | | | appropriate scaling | appropriate scaling | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Tx power | Vehicle/pedestrian | Vehicle/pedestrian | | | UE or UE type RSU: | UE or UE type RSU: | | | 23 dBm for 30 GHz, | 23 dBm for 30 GHz, | | | 21 dB baseline for | 21 dB baseline for | | | 63 GHz, 27 dBm | 63 GHz, 27 dBm | | | optional for 63 GHz. | optional for 63 GHz. | | | For both 30 and 63 | For both 30 and 63 | | | GHz, EIRP should not | GHz, EIRP should not | | | exceed 43 dBm. | exceed 43 dBm. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS receiver noise | 7 dB | 7 dB | | figure | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE receiver noise | 13 dB (baseline), 10 | | | figure | dB (optional) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note #1: Further consideration is needed on how to scale the performance of
sidelink.
### 6.1.2 UE drop and mobility modeling
Three vehicle types are defined as follows:
\- Type 1 (passenger vehicle with lower antenna position): length 5 meters,
width 2.0 meters, height 1.6 meters, antenna height 0.75 meters
\- Type 2 (passenger vehicle with higher antenna position): length 5 meters,
width 2.0 meters, height 1.6 meters, antenna height 1.6 meters
\- Type 3 (truck/bus): length 13 meters, width 2.6 meters, height 3 meters,
antenna height 3 meters
Vehicles are dropped according to the following process:
\- The distance between the rear bumper of a vehicle and the front bumper of
the following vehicle in the same lane is max {2 meter, an exponential random
variable with the average of the speed * 2 sec}.
\- All the vehicles in the same lane have the same speed.
\- Vehicle type distribution is not dependent of the lane.
Clustered vehicle UE dropping is defined as follows:
\- A cluster consists of a number vehicle UEs located in the same lane and
having the same direction/speed. Two closest UEs belonging to the same cluster
are separated with a fixed distance and no other UEs can be located between
them.
\- The distance between a platoon and a vehicle not belonging to the platoon
follows the statistics of the distance between two vehicles not belonging to
any platoon.
\- Only Type 3 vehicles form a cluster.
\- Clustered UE dropping is used only in the highway scenario.
The following UE dropping options are supported for the highway scenario:
\- Option A
\- Vehicle type distribution: 100% vehicle type 2.
\- Clustered dropping is not used.
\- Vehicle speed is 140 km/h in all the lanes as baseline and 70 km/h in all
the lanes optionally.
\- Option B
\- Vehicle type distribution: 20% vehicle type 1, 60% vehicle type 2, 20%
vehicle type 3.
\- Clustered dropping is not used.
\- Vehicle speed in each lane is as follows:
\- Speed in Lane 1: 80km/h
\- Speed in Lane 2: 100km/h
\- Speed in Lane 3: 140km/h
\- Speed in Lane 4: 40km/h
\- Speed in Lane 5: 30km/h
\- Speed in Lane 6: 20km/h
\- Option C
\- Vehicle type distribution: 0% vehicle type 1, 67% vehicle type 2, 33%
vehicle type 3.
\- Clustered dropping is used. Each cluster consists of 6 Type 3 vehicles with
a gap of 2 meters.
\- Vehicle speed is 140 km/h in all the lanes.
The following UE dropping options are supported for the urban grid scenario:
\- Option A
\- Vehicle type distribution: 100% vehicle type 2.
\- Clustered dropping is not used.
\- Vehicle speed is 60 km/h in all the lanes.
\- In the intersection, a UE goes straight, turns left, turns right with the
probability of 0.5, 0.25, 0.25, respectively.
\- Option B
\- Vehicle type distribution: 20% vehicle type 1, 60% vehicle type 2, 20%
vehicles type 3.
\- Clustered dropping is not used.
\- Vehicle speed in each lane is as follows:
\- In the East-West direction:
\- Speed in Lane 1: 60km/h
\- Speed in Lane 2: 50km/h
\- Speed in Lane 3: 25km/h
\- Speed in Lane 4: 15km/h
\- In the North-South direction:
\- 0 km/h in all the lanes.
\- No vehicles are dropped at the intersections in the North-South direction.
Vehicles do not change their direction at the intersection.
Pedestrian UEs are dropped following the procedure in [13].
Cellular UEs are dropped according to the following process:
\- Cellular UEs are dropped inside vehicles as follows:
\- In each vehicle of type 1 or type 2, the number of cellular UEs inside the
vehicle is uniformly random in the range between 1 and 4.
\- In each vehicle of type 3, the number of cellular UEs inside the vehicle is
uniformly random in the range between 10 and 20.
\- The portion of the active cellular UEs is 20, 50, 80%.
\- Note that the traffic for the cellular UE is to use licensed spectrum.
### 6.1.3 BS and UE-type RSU deployment
Parameters regarding BS and RSU deployment below 6 GHz are given in the
following table:
Table 6.1.3-1: BS and UE-type RSU deployment below 6 GHz
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameters | Urban grid for eV2X | Highway for eV2X | +===================+=======================+=======================+ | Layout | Baseline: Macro only | Baseline: Macro only | | | (with the road | (straight line BS | | | configuration in | placement with Road | | | Figure 6.1.9-1 in | configuration in | | | [4] and BS | [13]) | | | placement as depicted | | | | in Figure A.1.3-1 in | Note #1: Out of | | | [13]) | coverage can be | | | | evaluated assuming BS | | | Note #1: Out of | to be disabled. | | | coverage can be | | | | evaluated assuming BS | Note #2: Companies | | | to be disabled. | are not precluded to | | | | evaluate a scenario | | | Note #2: Companies | with additional micro | | | are not precluded to | BS. | | | evaluate a scenario | | | | with additional micro | | | | BS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Inter-BS distance | Inter Macro: 500m | Inter Macro: 1732m, | | | | 500m (optional) | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | UE-type RSU | UE-type RSU | UE-type RSU | | | deployment as defined | deployment as defined | | | in [13] | in [13] | | | | | | | Note #3: Companies | Note #3: Companies | | | are not precluded to | are not precluded to | | | evaluate a scenario | evaluate a scenario | | | with additional | with additional | | | UE-type RSU. | UE-type RSU. | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
Parameters regarding BS and RSU deployment above 6 GHz are given in the
following table:
Table 6.1.3-2: BS and UE-type RSU deployment above 6 GHz
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameters | Urban grid for eV2X | Highway for eV2X | +===================+=======================+=======================+ | Layout | Baseline: Macro only | Baseline: Macro only | | | (with the road | (with BS placement as | | | configuration in | depicted in Figure | | | Figure 6.1.9-1 in | A.1.3-3 in [13]) | | | [4] and BS | | | | placement as depicted | Note #1: Out of | | | in Figure A.1.3-1 in | coverage can be | | | [13]) | evaluated assuming BS | | | | to be disabled. | | | Note #1: Out of | | | | coverage can be | Note #2: Companies | | | evaluated assuming BS | are not precluded to | | | to be disabled. | evaluate a scenario | | | | with additional micro | | | Note #2: Companies | BS. | | | are not precluded to | | | | evaluate a scenario | | | | with additional micro | | | | BS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Inter-BS distance | Inter Macro: 500m | Inter Macro: 500m | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | UE-type RSU | UE-type RSU | UE-type RSU | | | deployment as defined | deployment as defined | | | in [13] | in [13] | | | | | | | Note #3: Companies | Note #3: Companies | | | are not precluded to | are not precluded to | | | evaluate a scenario | evaluate a scenario | | | with additional | with additional | | | UE-type RSU. | UE-type RSU. | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.1.4 Antenna model
Parameters regarding antenna height are given in the following table:
Table 6.1.4-1: Antenna height
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Parameters | Urban grid for eV2X | Highway for eV2X | +===================+=======================+=======================+ | BS antenna height | Macro BS: 25m | Macro BS: | | | | | | | Micro BS: 5m | 35m for ISD 1732m | | | | | | | | 25m for ISD 500m | | | | | | | | Micro BS: 5m | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | UE antenna height | Vehicle UE: As | Vehicle UE: As | | | defined in Subclause | defined in Subclause | | | 6.1.2 | 6.1.2 | | | | | | | Pedestrian UE, | Pedestrian UE, | | | cellular UE: 1.5 m | cellular UE: 1.5 m | | | | | | | UE-type-RSU: 5 m | UE-type-RSU: 5 m | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
Note #1: The values for UE antenna may be revised after discussions on antenna
placement, etc., if any.
Macro BS antenna element pattern and array configuration are given in the
following tables:
Table 6.1.4-2: Antenna element pattern for Macro BS
                                            For 4 GHz   For 30 GHz
* * *
Antenna element gain vertical pattern  
Antenna element gain horizontal pattern  
Pattern combining method for 3D  
Max direct. gain of the antenna element 8 dBi
Table 6.1.4-3: Antenna array configuration for Macro BS
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | For 4 GHz | For 30 GHz | +======================+======================+======================+ | TXRU mapping | Up to proponents | Up to proponents | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of antenna | **Up to 256 TX/RX | Up to 256 Tx /Rx | | elements across all | antenna elements** | antenna elements | | panels | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | (8, 8, 2, 1, 1) | (4, 8, 2, 2, 2) | | configuration\ | | | | (M, N, P, M~g~, | | | | N~g~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | | spacing | 0.8)λ | 0.5)λ | | (d~H~ | | | | ,d~V~,d~H,g~,d~V,g~) | | (d~H,g~, d~V,g~) = | | | | (4.0, 2.0)λ | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna polarization | Declare which | Declare which | | | polarization model | polarization model | | | in [15] is used | in [15] is used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna tilt, deg | 102 degree for 500m | 102 degree for 500m | | | ISD, 96 degree for | ISD, 96 degree for | | | 1732m ISD | 1732m ISD | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Others | TXRUs within a panel | | | | can be assumed to be | | | | synchronized and | | | | phase-calibrated (at | | | | least to the same | | | | level as in LTE) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
UE-type RSU antenna element pattern and array configuration are given in the
following tables:
Table 6.1.4-4: Antenna element pattern for UE-Type RSU
For 6 GHz
* * *
Antenna element gain vertical pattern  
Antenna element gain horizontal pattern  
Pattern combining method for 3D $$A_{m} = 20\ \text{dB}$$ Max direct. gain of
the antenna element 3 dBi For 30 and 63 GHz  
Antenna element gain vertical pattern  
Antenna element gain horizontal pattern {width="3.390972222222222in"
height="0.5305555555555556in"} Pattern combining method for 3D
{width="2.6173611111111112in" height="0.2520833333333333in"} Max direct. gain
of the antenna element 5 dBi
Table 6.1.4-5: Antenna array configuration for UE-Type RSU
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | For 6 GHz | For 30 and 63 GHz | +======================+======================+======================+ | TXRU mapping | Up to proponents | Up to proponents | | | decision | decision | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of antenna | Up to 8 Tx /Rx | Up to 32 Tx /Rx | | elements across all | antenna elements | antenna elements | | panels | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | Baseline: (1, 2, 2, | (1, 4, 2, 1, 4) | | configuration\ | 1, 1) | | | (M, N, P, M~g~, | | Panel bearing angle: | | N~g~) | Optional: (1, 4, 2, | | | | 1, 1) | Ω~0,1~=Ω~0,0~+90°; | | | | Ω~0,2~=Ω~0,0~+180°; | | | | Ω~0,3~=Ω~0,0~+270°; | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | | spacing | 0.8)λ | 0.5)λ | | (d~H~ | | | | ,d~V~,d~H,g~,d~V,g~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna polarization | Declare which | Declare which | | | polarization model | polarization model | | | in [15] is used | in [15] is used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna tilt, deg | 96 degree | 96 degree | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Pedestrian UE and cellular UE antenna element pattern and array configuration
are given in the following tables:
Table 6.1.4-6: Antenna element pattern for pedestrian UE and cellular UE
                                            Pedestrian UE and cellular UE
* * *
                                            For 6 GHz                       For 30 and 63 GHz
Antenna element gain vertical pattern Omni-directional
{width="3.321527777777778in" height="0.5215277777777778in"} Antenna element
gain horizontal pattern {width="3.35625in" height="0.5215277777777778in"}
Pattern combining method for 3D {width="3.026388888888889in"
height="0.28680555555555554in"} Max direct. gain of the antenna element 0 dBi
5 dBi
Table 6.1.4-7: Antenna array configuration for pedestrian UE and cellular UE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Pedestrian UE and | | | | cellular UE | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | For 6 GHz | For 30 and 63 GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TXRU mapping | Up to proponents | Up to proponents | | | decision | decision | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of antenna | Up to 8 Tx /Rx | Up to 32 Tx /Rx | | elements across all | antenna elements | antenna elements | | panels | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | (1, 2, 2, 1, 1) | (2, 4, 2, 1, 2) | | configuration\ | | | | (M, N, P, M~g~, | | Panel bearing angle: | | N~g~) | | Ω~0,1~=Ω~0,0~+180° | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | | spacing | 0.5)λ | 0.5)λ; (d~H,g~, | | (d~H~ | | d~V,g~) = (0, 0)λ | | ,d~V~,d~H,g~,d~V,g~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna polarization | Declare which | Declare which | | | polarization model | polarization model | | | in [15] is used | in [15] is used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna tilt, deg | 90 | 90 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note: Antenna pattern can be different in different carrier frequencies.
Two options are defined for vehicle UE antenna element pattern and array
configuration. Companies are encouraged to provide evaluation results using
both options.
\- Option 1: Vehicle UE antenna is modelled in Table 6.1.4-8 and 6.1.4-9:
Table 6.1.4-8: Antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option 1
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | For 6 GHz | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | | | pattern | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | [Vehicle Type 2:]{.underline} | | pattern | | | | {width="0.8833333333333333in" | | | height="0.2513888888888889in"} | | | | | | [Vehicle Type 1 and Type | | | 3:]{.underline} | | | {width="3.453472222222222in" | | | height="0.5368055555555555in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | {width="2.6173611111111112in" | | | height="0.2520833333333333in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 3 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | For 30 and 63 GHz | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain vertical | | | pattern | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | {width="3.392361111111111in" | | | height="0.5277777777777778in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | {width="2.6173611111111112in" | | | height="0.2520833333333333in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 5 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-9: Antenna array configuration for vehicle UE in Option 1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Vehicle UE | | +======================+======================+======================+ | | For 6 GHz | For 30 and 63 GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TXRU mapping | Up to proponents | Up to proponents | | | decision | decision | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of antenna | Up to 8 Tx /Rx | Up to 32 Tx /Rx | | elements across all | antenna elements | antenna elements | | panels | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | Vehicle Type 1 and | Vehicle Type 1 and | | configuration\ | Type 3: | 3: | | (M, N, P, M~g~, | | | | N~g~) | Front and rear | Front and rear | | | antennas: | antennas: | | | | | | | Baseline: (1, 1, 2, | (2, 4, 2, 1, 1) for | | | 1, 1) for each | each location | | | location | | | | | Front antenna array | | | Optional: (1, 2, 2, | bearing angle: | | | 1, 1) for each | Ω~Front~ = 0° | | | location | | | | | Rear antenna array | | | Front antenna array | bearing angle: | | | bearing angle: | Ω~Rear~ = 180° | | | ΩFront = 0° | | | | | Vehicle Type 2: | | | Rear antenna array | | | | bearing angle: ΩRear | Multi-panel at | | | = 180° | rooftop: | | | | | | | Vehicle Type 2: | (1, 4, 2, 1, 4) | | | | | | | Rooftop antenna: | Panel bearing angle: | | | | | | | Baseline: (1, 2, 2, | Ω~0,1~=Ω~0,0~+90°; | | | 1, 1) | Ω~0,2~=Ω~0,0~+180°; | | | | Ω~0,3~=Ω~0,0~+270° | | | Optional: (1, 4, 2, | | | | 1, 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna array | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | (d~H~, d~V~) = (0.5, | | spacing | 0.5)λ | 0.5)λ | | (d~H~ | | | | ,d~V~,d~H,g~,d~V,g~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna polarization | Declare which | Declare which | | | polarization model | polarization model | | | in [15] is used | in [15] is used | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna tilt, deg | 90 | 90 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
\- Option 2: Two panels are placed in the vehicle as follows and the antenna
pattern for each location is given by Tables 6.1.4-10 and, 6.1.4-11. The
antenna array configuration is given by Table 6.1.4-12.
\- For vehicle type 1, one panel at the front bumper and one panel at the rear
bumper
\- For vehicle type 2, one panel at the front rooftop and one panel at the
rear rooftop
\- For vehicle type 3, one panel at the front rooftop and one panel at the
rear rooftop
Table 6.1.4-10A: Front bumper antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option
2 for 6 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Front bumper | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 27.855 0.9281 -1.3062 | | | 2 | | | 31.967 2.7336 1.4674 | | | 3 | | | 23.665 3.0514 -1.8167 | | | 4 | | | 1.8441 7.7354 -0.6126 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 146.47 1.095 -1.6043 | | | 2 | | | 131.87 1.192 1.4566 | | | 3 | | | 5.2383 3.9996 -0.8389 | | | 4 | | | 1.9429 9.0248 1.6705 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_ | | pattern | {\theta 2}\left( \phi \right) = | | | a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k}\c | | | os\left( \text{ϕk} \right) + b_{ | | | k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ \phi \in \le | | | ft\lbrack 0,2\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -20.793 - | | | 1 -3.4026 0.0721 | | | 2 1.3366 0.1213 | | | 3 2.1764 -0.0595 | | | 4 0.5881 0.0102 | | | 5 -2.4068 0.0675 | | | 6 1.7561 -0.1513 | | | 7 0.7899 -0.0133 | | | 8 -1.0144 0.0177 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | The 3D radiation power pattern | | | $A | | | ^{''}\left( \theta,\phi \right)$ | | | shall be generated according to | | | [19], i.e. | | | | | | $$A^{''}\left( \theta,\phi \righ | | | t) = \frac{\left\lbrack \phi_{1} | | | G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta \right) | | | + \phi_{2}G_{\phi 1}\left( \thet | | | a \right) \right\rbrack\frac{\th | | | eta_{1}\theta_{2}}{\left( \theta | | | _{1} + \theta_{2} \right)^{2}} + | | | \left\lbrack \theta_{1}G_{\thet | | | a 2}\left( \phi \right) + \theta | | | _{2}G_{\theta 1}\left( \theta \r | | | ight) \right\rbrack\frac{\phi_{1 | | | }\phi_{2}}{\left( \phi_{1} + \ph | | | i_{2} \right)^{2}}}{\left\lbrack | | | \phi_{1} + \phi_{2} \right\rbra | | | ck\frac{\theta_{1}\theta_{2}}{\l | | | eft( \theta_{1} + \theta_{2} \ri | | | ght)^{2}} + \left\lbrack \theta_ | | | {1} + \theta_{2} \right\rbrack\f | | | rac{\phi_{1}\phi_{2}}{\left( \ph | | | i_{1} + \phi_{2} \right)^{2}}}$$ | | | | | | for | | | $0 \leq \theta \leq \pi\ \te | | | xt{and}\ 0 \leq \phi \leq 2\pi$, | | | and $\theta_{1}$, $\theta_{2}$, | | | $\phi_{1}$, $\phi_{2}$ are | | | defined as | | | | | | $\th | | | eta_{1} = \left{ \begin{matrix} | | | \theta & \text{for}\ 0 \ | | | leq \theta \leq \frac{\pi}{2} \ | | | \pi - \theta & \text{for}\ \frac | | | {\pi}{2} \leq \theta \leq \pi \ | | | \end{matrix} \right.\ $, | | | $\theta_{2} = \left| | | | \theta - \frac{\pi}{2} \right|$ | | | | | | $\ | | | phi_{1} = \left{ \begin{matrix} | | | \phi & \te | | | xt{for}\ 0 \leq \phi \leq \pi \ | | | 2\pi - \phi & \text{ | | | for}\ \pi \leq \phi \leq 2\pi \ | | | \end{matrix} \right.\ $, | | | $\phi_{2} = |\phi - \pi|$ | | | | | | where | | | $\theta_{ | | | 1} + \theta_{2} = \frac{\pi}{2}$ | | | and $\phi_{1} + \phi_{2} = \pi$, | | | and $G_{\theta 1}(\theta)$ is | | | given by | | | | | | $$G_{\theta 1}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \left{ \begin{matrix} | | | \frac{G_{\phi 1}\le | | | ft( 0 \right) + G_{\phi 2}\left( | | | 0 \right)}{2} & \text{for}\ 0 \ | | | leq \theta \leq \frac{\pi}{2} \ | | | \frac{G_{\phi 1}\left( \p | | | i \right) + G_{\phi 2}\left( \pi | | | \right)}{2} & \text{for}\ \frac | | | {\pi}{2} \leq \theta \leq \pi \ | | | \end{matrix} \right.\ $$ | | | | | | Note that | | | $\left( \theta = \fr | | | ac{\pi}{2},\ \phi = \pi \right)$ | | | points to the front of the car, | | | while | | | $\left( \theta = \ | | | frac{\pi}{2},\ \phi = 0 \right)$ | | | points to the back of the car. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 13 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-10B: Front rooftop antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in
Option 2 for 6 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Front rooftop | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 27.156 0.8354 -0.9866 | | | 2 | | | 10.637 1.2651 1.9323 | | | 3 | | | 2.1018 3.7081 -1.6452 | | | 4 | | | 0.9267 12.057 -2.9006 | | | 5 | | | 0.8573 8.5269 3.5787 | | | 6 | | | 0.7456 15.27 -2.9591 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 18.648 1.0206 -0.9611 | | | 2 | | | 11.099 2.2755 1.7808 | | | 3 | | | 213.68 3.7367 -1.6448 | | | 4 | | | 208.11 3.7558 1.492 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -11.719 - | | | 1 -2.4504 0.0053 | | | 2 -0.9825 -0.0508 | | | 3 -0.0419 -0.0225 | | | 4 0.2384 0.0065 | | | 5 0.2406 -0.0023 | | | 6 0.1532 0.006 | | | 7 0.1285 0.0062 | | | 8 0.1407 0.0038 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 3 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-10C: Rear rooftop antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option
2 for 6 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Rear rooftop | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 21.785 0.7541 -2.5975 | | | 2 | | | 122 2.0393 -0.3421 | | | 3 | | | 4.5185 4.4006 2.4657 | | | 4 | | | 25.257 3.2885 -0.6558 | | | 5 | | | 125.16 2.3309 2.7194 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 89.841 0.5245 -0.2707 | | | 2 | | | 64.942 0.6058 2.9391 | | | 3 | | | 2.4779 4.1726 -1.4849 | | | 4 | | | 1.097 7.9882 -1.7998 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -12.399 - | | | 1 -0.6788 -0.0034 | | | 2 -1.025 -0.0364 | | | 3 -0.0755 -0.0404 | | | 4 0.4216 0.014 | | | 5 -0.6139 -0.0053 | | | 6 0.2297 0.0063 | | | 7 -0.4418 -0.0038 | | | 8 0.0055 -0.0141 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 3 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-10D: Rear bumper antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option
2 for 6 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Rear bumper | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 28.64 0.6822 -1.6819 | | | 2 | | | 17.941 1.0841 0.8466 | | | 3 | | | 10.034 4.5559 -2.317 | | | 4 | | | 9.9931 4.9505 0.8248 | | | 5 | | | 103.05 9.2847 0.5153 | | | 6 | | | 102.49 9.3113 -2.6065 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 29.045 0.2614 -0.7172 | | | 2 | | | 7.9836 2.8649 2.965 | | | 3 | | | 5.1881 3.3343 -0.1509 | | | 4 | | | 0.4384 7.4621 1.8565 | | | 5 | | | 1.0833 47.882 2.0727 | | | 6 | | | 1.131 35.828 -0.901 | | | 7 | | | 1.0114 33.576 -0.1873 | | | 8 | | | 1.0014 39.562 -1.0305 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -17.964 - | | | 1 4.1952 0.0073 | | | 2 -0.3746 -0.0202 | | | 3 1.2325 0.005 | | | 4 0.2862 -0.0764 | | | 5 -0.2796 0.0252 | | | 6 -0.063 -0.0114 | | | 7 -1.0205 0.0298 | | | 8 -0.2964 0.0095 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 11 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-11A: Front bumper antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option
2 for 30 and 63 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Front bumper | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 103.4 1.2756 -1.4588 | | | 2 | | | 93.054 1.4402 1.6919 | | | 3 | | | 1.2433 16.391 -0.2701 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 97.485 1.2777 -1.5428 | | | 2 | | | 88.914 1.4458 1.5626 | | | 3 | | | 1.6315 6.6824 -1.4228 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -14.712 - | | | 1 -0.814 -0.0126 | | | 2 4.5025 -0.4615 | | | 3 0.6572 -0.0404 | | | 4 0.3252 0.5985 | | | 5 -2.0187 0.0372 | | | 6 -1.6555 0.2589 | | | 7 -0.843 0.6858 | | | 8 -0.2954 -0.2211 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 16.6 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-11B: Front rooftop antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in
Option 2 for 30 and 63 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Front rooftop | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 53.19 1.0466 -0.9824 | | | 2 | | | 171.45 2.3513 2.2593 | | | 3 | | | 154.83 2.4609 -0.8176 | | | 4 | | | 2.166 6.2024 0.5122 | | | 5 | | | 1.2277 9.599 0.5604 | | | 6 | | | 1.1363 14.311 -0.4448 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 34.284 1.0869 -1.1043 | | | 2 | | | 36.721 2.2823 1.4488 | | | 3 | | | 4.2902 5.2423 1.1692 | | | 4 | | | 1.7681 7.7706 -3.641 | | | 5 | | | 14.094 2.7398 -1.5731 | | | 6 | | | 1.2267 10.465 2.0934 | | | 7 | | | 1.0796 14.285 2.8759 | | | 8 | | | 0.8846 31.578 -1.1871 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -16.085 - | | | 1 -7.903 0.1101 | | | 2 -0.2972 -1.4639 | | | 3 0.4083 -0.0866 | | | 4 0.6706 1.0598 | | | 5 -0.9804 -2.5714 | | | 6 -0.9085 0.1326 | | | 7 0.1433 -0.1372 | | | 8 -0.1282 -0.2697 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 11.5 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-11C: Rear rooftop antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option
2 for 30 and 63 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Rear rooftop | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 55.839 1.0927 -1.1273 | | | 2 | | | 95.402 2.0245 2.1133 | | | 3 | | | 2.9533 6.0111 1.5482 | | | 4 | | | 1.5696 12.462 3.2683 | | | 5 | | | 1.2073 10.016 2.2276 | | | 6 | | | 70.244 2.1361 -0.8181 | | | 7 | | | 1.4093 13.127 0.6659 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 42.818 0.9167 -0.9757 | | | 2 | | | 18.065 1.895 1.5513 | | | 3 | | | 8.8444 3.6653 -0.1862 | | | 4 | | | 9.5301 7.6263 0.1674 | | | 5 | | | 15.018 9.0456 0.2995 | | | 6 | | | 20.098 8.565 -2.8308 | | | 7 | | | 1.5077 12.14 -1.3725 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -18.471 - | | | 1 3.6106 -0.1824 | | | 2 -1.4888 1.3614 | | | 3 0.5772 0.5331 | | | 4 1.7125 1.3205 | | | 5 -0.0573 -2.5904 | | | 6 0.0628 -1.0024 | | | 7 -1.0526 -1.2366 | | | 8 0.0433 -0.1443 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 12.5 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-11D: Rear bumper antenna element pattern for vehicle UE in Option
2 for 30 and 63 GHz
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Rear bumper | | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element gain vertical | $$G_{\phi 1}\left( \theta | | pattern | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 87.458 0.0103 -2.9955 | | | 2 | | | 4.1908 2.1185 1.8618 | | | 3 | | | 1.0935 127.65 2.3653 | | | 4 | | | 1.2773 16.837 1.1214 | | | | | | $$G_{\phi 2}\left( \theta | | | \right) = \sum_{k = 1}^{K}{a_{k} | | | \sin\left( b_{k}\left( \frac{\pi | | | }{2} - \theta \right) + c_{k} \r | | | ight)},\ \ \ \ \ \ \theta \in \l | | | eft\lbrack 0,\pi \right\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $ | | | $a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ $$c_{k}$$ | | | --- --- | | | -------- ----------- ----------- | | | 1 | | | 17.631 0.823 -1.5005 | | | 2 | | | 12.155 1.9599 1.2643 | | | 3 | | | 15.226 5.6698 2.2669 | | | 4 | | | 15.495 5.7995 -0.9411 | | | 5 | | | 0.3371 10.294 -3.8515 | | | 6 | | | 0.5965 11.41 0.4383 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element gain horizontal | $$G_{\theta 2}\left( \ph | | pattern | i \right) = a_{0} + \sum_{k = 1} | | | ^{K}{a_{k}\cos\left( \text{ϕk} \ | | | right) + b_{k}\sin(}\phi k),\ \ | | | \phi \in \lbrack 0,2\pi\rbrack$$ | | | | | | k $$a_{k}$$ $$b_{k}$$ | | | --- ----------- ----------- | | | 0 -12.742 - | | | 1 -1.2007 0.2451 | | | 2 4.1916 -0.5651 | | | 3 0.1901 0.453 | | | 4 0.4235 0.6884 | | | 5 -1.3848 -0.4145 | | | 6 -0.2381 0.2875 | | | 7 0.4488 0.5441 | | | 8 0.1606 -0.2555 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pattern combining method for 3D | Same method as in Table | | | 6.1.4-10A. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max direct. gain of the antenna | 13.6 dBi | | element | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 6.1.4-12: Antenna array configuration for vehicle UE in Option 2
* * *
                                                    Vehicle UE
* * *
                                                    For 6 GHz                                            For 30 and 63 GHz
TXRU mapping Up to proponents decision Up to proponents decision
Number of antenna elements across all panels Up to 8 Tx /Rx antenna elements
Up to 32 Tx /Rx antenna elements
Antenna array configuration\ (1, 1, 2, 1, 1) for each location (2, 4, 2, 1, 1)
for each location (M, N, P, M~g~, N~g~)
Antenna array spacing (d~H~,d~V~,d~H,g~,d~V,g~) (dH, dV) = (0.5, 0.5)λ (dH,
dV) = (0.5, 0.5)λ
Antenna polarization Declare which polarization model in [15] is used Declare
which polarization model in [15] is used
Antenna tilt, deg 0 0
* * *
Determination between LOS and NLOSv states is decided per vehicle pair. Note
that self-blockage effect is captured Option 2 in the antenna pattern. Self-
blockage effect in Option 1 can be further discussed later if necessary.
### 6.1.5 Traffic model
The following options are supported for the traffic model:
\- Periodic traffic
\- Model 1 (low traffic intensity)
\- Inter-packet arrival time: 100 ms
\- Packet size: Pattern of {300 bytes, 190 bytes, 190 bytes, 190 bytes, 190
bytes} with random starting point for each UE
\- Latency requirement: 100 ms
\- Model 2 (medium traffic intensity)
\- Inter-packet arrival time: 10 ms
\- Other value(s) are not precluded, e.g., 100ms
\- Packet size: 1200 bytes with probability of 0.2 and 800 bytes with
probability of 0.8
\- Latency requirement: 10 ms
\- Model 3 (high traffic intensity)
\- Inter-packet arrival time: 30 ms
\- Packet size: Uniformly random in the range between 30000 bytes and 60000
bytes with the quantization step of 10000 bytes
\- Latency requirement: 30 ms
\- Aperiodic traffic
\- Model 1 (medium traffic intensity)
\- Inter-packet arrival time: 50 ms + an exponential random variable with the
mean of 50 ms
\- Packet size: Uniformly random in the range between 200 bytes and 2000 bytes
with the quantization step of 200 bytes
\- Latency requirement: 50 ms
\- Model 2 (high traffic intensity)
\- Inter-packet arrival time: 10 ms + an exponential random variable with the
mean of 10 ms
\- Packet size: Uniformly random in the range between 10000 bytes and 30000
bytes with the quantization step of 4000 bytes
\- Latency requirement: 10 ms
\- For evaluations of UE-network relaying or coexistence of sidelink and Uu in
licensed spectrum, cellular UEs generate packets using FTP model 3 [16].
Baseline is to evaluate unicast, groupcast, and broadcast in separate
simulations. It is noted that, in evaluating technical solutions, scenarios
such as mixture of unicast, groupcast, and broadcast, mixture of periodic and
aperiodic traffic, etc., may be discussed.
In evaluating broadcast, the baseline is all the vehicles generate messages.
For each transmitter for unicast, the target receiver is randomly selected
among the UEs within X meters.
\- For the clustered vehicle dropping, the target receiver should be in the
same cluster as the transmitter.
\- X is to be discussed as a part of technical solutions.
\- This transmitter-receiver association assumption can be revisited if an
issue is identified.
For each transmitter for groupcast, the target receivers are all the UEs
within Y meters.
\- For the clustered vehicle dropping, the target receivers should be in the
same cluster as the transmitter.
\- Y is to be discussed as a part of technical solutions.
### 6.1.6 Performance metric
Packet reception ratio (PRR) has two types and is defined as follows:
\- PRR type 1: For one Tx packet, the PRR is calculated by X/Y, where Y is the
number of UE/vehicles that located in the range (a, b) from the TX, and X is
the number of UE/vehicles with successful reception among Y. CDF of PRR and
the following average PRR are used in evaluation
\- CDF of PRR with a = 0, b = baseline of 320 meters for highway and 150
meters for urban. Optionally, b = 50 meters for urban with 15 km/h vehicle
speed.
\- Average PRR, calculated as (X1+X2+X3....+Xn)/(Y1+Y2+Y3...+Yn) where n
denotes the number of generated messages in simulation. with a = i*20 meters,
b = (i+1)*20 meters for i=0, 1, ..., 25
\- PRR type 2: For one Tx packet, the PRR is calculated by S/Z, where Z is the
number of UEs in the intended set of receivers, and S is the number of UE with
successful reception among Z.
\- Unicast is the special case where Z includes a single UE, where the PRR is
average of packets of the unicast link
PRR type 1 is included as a performance metric at least for the broadcast-type
use cases.
PRR type 2 is supported and can be used as performance metric in scenarios
such as groupcast/unicast or to see the performance of links in a certain
condition (e.g., links blocked by a building). When used, the company needs to
clarify how the intended set of receivers is determined and what the
motivation is.
Packet Inter-Reception (PIR) is defined as follows and used as an additional
metric for persistent collision at least for the use cases requiring
reliability higher than that of LTE V2X:
\- PIR type 1: For a given distance D, PIR is the time Ti elapsed between two
successive successful receptions of two different packets transmitted from
node A to node B for the same application, if the distances at the two
packets\' receiving time between node A and node B is within the range of
(0,D].
\- Average PIR within given distance D, calculated as (T1+T2+T3+...+Tn)/n
where n denotes the number of collected PIR in simulation.
\- CDF of PIR with given distance D.
\- PIR type 2: PIR is the time Ti elapsed between two successive successful
receptions of two different packets transmitted from node A to node B for the
same application, if the node B is one of the intended set of receivers of the
node A.
\- Average PIR with intended set of receives, calculated as
(T1+T2+T3+...+Tn)/n where n denotes the number of collected PIR in simulation.
\- CDF of PIR with intended set of receives.
PIR type 1 is included as a performance metric at least for the broadcast-type
use cases.
PIR type 2 is supported and can be used as performance metric in scenarios
such as groupcast/unicast or to see the performance of links in a certain
condition (e.g., links blocked by a building) or links in a specific area
(e.g., lanes with high congestion in highway scenario). When used, the company
needs to clarify how the intended set of receivers is determined and what the
motivation is.
Packet throughput defined in [17] is used as a performance metric.
## 6.2 Channel model
The V2V sidelink channel is modeled according to the following three states:
\- LOS:
\- A V2V link is in LOS state if the two vehicles are in the same street and
the LOS path is not blocked by vehicles.
\- NLOS: LOS path blocked by buildings
\- A V2V link is in NLOS state if the two vehicles are in different streets.
\- NLOSv: LOS path blocked by vehicles
\- A V2V link is in NLOSv state if the two vehicles are in the same street and
the LOS path is blocked by vehicles.
A link between two vehicles in the same street is either in LOS state or NLOSv
state. The probability of LOS and NLOSv is given by Table 6.2-1. Baseline is
the state is not updated between LOS and NLOSv, and evaluation with state
update between LOS and NLOSv is not precluded.
Table 6.2-1: Probability of LOS and NLOSv states (d denotes the distance
between transmit and receive UEs).
+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Highway | | +=========+===========================================================+ | LOS | If $d \leq 475\ m$, | | | $P\left( \tex | | | t{LOS} \right) = min\left{ 1,a _d^{2} + b_ d + c \right}$ | | | | | | where $a = 2.1013 _10^{- 6}$, | | | $b = - 0.002\ and\ c = 1.0193$ | | | | | | If $d > 475\ m$, | | | $P\left( \text{LOS} | | | \right) = max\left{ 0,\ 0.54 - 0.001_(d - 475) \right}$ | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | NLOSv | $$P\left( \text{NLOSv} \right) = 1 - P(LOS)$$ | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Urban | | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | LOS | $$P\left( \text{LOS} | | | \right) = min\left{ 1,\ 1.05 _exp( - 0.0114_ d) \right}$$ | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | NLOSv | $$P\left( \text{NLOSv} \right) = 1 - P(LOS)$$ | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
Vehicle UE location is updated every 100 ms. State transition between
LOS/NLOSv and NLOS is checked for each link at each location update during the
SLS runtime. At each state, each link uses pathloss, shadowing, and fast
fading parameters corresponding to the state as described in the subsequent
subsections.
For the channel model between vehicle UE acting as relay and cellular UE,
baseline is to use V2P channel model. 3 meters are assumed for the link
between antenna of a cellular UE inside a vehicle and the antenna of the same
vehicle UE.
### 6.2.1 Pathloss model
Pathloss model for V2V links is given in the following table:
Table 6.2.1-1: Pathloss for V2V links
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | LOS/NLOS/NLOSv | Pathloss [dB] | Shadow fading std | | | | [dB]^2^ | +======================+======================+======================+ | LOS, NLOSv | For Highway case, | σ~SF~ = 3 | | | | | | | PL = 32.4 + 20 | | | | log~10~(d~3D~) + 20 | | | | log~10~(f~c~) | | | | | | | | For Urban case, | | | | | | | | PL= 38.77 + 16.7 | | | | log~10~(d~3D~) + | | | | 18.2 log~10~(f~c~) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NLOS | PL= 36.85 + 30 | σ~SF~ = 4 | | | log~10~(d~3D~) + | | | | 18.9 log~10~(f~c~) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: f~c~ denotes | | | | the center frequency | | | | in GHz and d~3D~ | | | | denotes the | | | | Euclidean distance | | | | between TX and RX in | | | | 3D space in meters. | | | | | | | | Note 2: The model | | | | for spatial | | | | correlation of | | | | shadow fading | | | | defined in [13] | | | | applies. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
When a V2V link is in NLOSv, additional vehicle blockage loss is added as
follows:
\- The blocker height is the vehicle height which is randomly selected out of
the three vehicle types according to the portion of the vehicle types in the
simulated scenario.
\- The additional blockage loss is max {0 dB, a log-normal random variable}.
\- Case 1: Minimum antenna height value of TX and RX > Blocker height
\- No additional blockage loss
\- Case 2: Maximum antenna height value of TX and RX \= | | | 750 m NOTE2 | 2000 m. Wrap around | | | | should be applied to | | | | the simulation area. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE1: 3 m is | | | | reserved for | | | | sidewalk per | | | | direction (i.e., no | | | | vehicle or building | | | | in this reserved | | | | space). | | | | | | | | NOTE2: This value is | | | | tentative and could | | | | be modified after | | | | SA1\'further input. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A-1 and A-2 show illustrative diagrams of urban grid and highway,
respectively.
{width="5.3277777777777775in" height="5.759722222222222in"}
Figure A-1: Road configuration for urban grid
{width="6.111805555555556in" height="1.5840277777777778in"}
Figure A-2: Road configuration for highway scenario
#