# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification provides the stage 1 description for a lawful
interception function to be implemented in a given GSM PLMN in order for a
network operator to be able to fulfil national lawful requirements. It shall
be noted that national variation may exist but it is not the intention for
this specification to encompass all of them. The purpose of this specification
is to cover the options which may be selectable according to national
regulations or as required by the GSM PLMN operator in co-operation with their
suppliers.
In the preparation of this specification general reference was made to the
European Union Council Resolution, January 1995: \"International Requirements
for the Lawful Interception of Telecommunications\".
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] The European Union Council Resolution reference: "International
Requirements for The Lawful Interception of Telecommunications" (January
1995), (JAI_24_Rev 2, 8197/2/95)
[3] CCITT Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Target** : is the subject of an interception. Different identities might be
used (i.e. Mobile Station International ISDN number (MSISDN), optionally
International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI) or International Mobile
Equipment Identity (IMEI)).
Interception Area: is a subset of the Public Lands Mobile Network (PLMN)
service area comprised of a set of cells which define a geographical zone.
**Intercept product** : data sent or received by the target, such as speech,
fax or data generated by the users of the telecommunication services.
**Intercept related information** : collection of information associated to
telecommunication services involving the target.
**Law enforcement agency** : a body authorized by law to carry out
telecommunication interceptions.
**Location Dependent Interception:** is interception within a PLMN service
area that is restricted to one or several Interception Areas (IA).
**Warrant reference number** : is a reference number that links a specific
intercept activity to an agency\'s lawful Interception request.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
In addition to those below abbreviations used in the specification are listed
in GSM 01.04.
LEA: Law Enforcement Agency
IA: Interception Area
# 4 Description
## 4.1 General principle
GSM Public Lands Mobile Network (PLMN) shall provide access to the intercept
product and the intercept related information of the mobile target on behalf
of Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs).
A mobile target in a given PLMN can be a subscriber of that PLMN, or a
subscriber of another PLMN. The intercept product and the related information
can only be delivered for activities on that given PLMN.
An unambiguous correlation shall be established between the intercept related
information and the intercept product. The intercept related information and
the intercept product shall be delivered in as near real time as possible.
Location Dependent Interception allows a PLMN to service multiple interception
jurisdictions within its service area. Multiple law agencies with their own
interception areas can be served by the PLMN. All the information or rules
given for interception within a PLMN apply to interception within an IA when
Location Dependent Interception is invoked. A target may be marked in one or
more different IAs within the same PLMN. Interception is not required nor
prohibited by this standard when Location Dependent Interception is active and
the location of the target subscriber is not known or available.
Additional GPRS interception requirements are contained in annex A.
## 4.2 Applicability to telecommunications services
### 4.2.1 Tele and bearer services (TS/BS)
All teleservices and bearer services are subject to interception of the
target.
Interception is applicable to Short Message Service (SMS) point-to-point, but
not SMS Cell Broadcast (SMSCB).
Impact of application to the Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) and the Voice
Broadcast Service (VBS) is for further study (FFS).
### 4.2.2 Supplementary services (SS)
#### 4.2.2.1 General
It shall be possible to report any activities regarding supplementary services
to the LEA. It may be a national or operator/supplier option to implement this
function.
#### 4.2.2.2 Impact
The application of the following supplementary services has no impact on the
interception function: Calling Line Identity Presentation/Calling Line
Identity Restriction (CLIP/CLIR), Connected Line Identity
Presentation/Connected Line Identity Restriction (COLP/COLR), Call Barring
(CB) services, Advice of Charge (AoC) services, Closed User Group (CUG),
Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS).
#### 4.2.2.3 Intercept of forwarding calls - option
Activation by the target of any Call Forwarding (CF) service, Call Deflection
(CD) , or Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) shall result in the capability to
intercept the forwarded, diverted or transferred product.
It may be a national or operator/supplier option which of these are
implemented.
#### 4.2.2.4 Intercept of calls placed on HOLD (call waiting and multi party
services) - option
In some countries it is a national requirement that when the target puts other
parties on HOLD (call waiting (CW) and multi party services (MPTY) the other
parties product will be interrupted. When the other parties rejoin the call,
the intercept product shall be reconnected.
#### 4.2.2.5 Network operator specific services
Impact on a network operator's specific services is not covered in this
specification.
### 4.2.3 Other activities
Location information in the format of cell global identity (CGI) should be
available with call related activities. Conversion to other formats of
location information (e.g. latitude/longitude) is not covered by this
specification. It is a matter of national or operator/supplier option whether
location information shall be provided in connection with non call related
activities, e.g. location update.
# 5 Normal Operation
## 5.1 Intercept administration
A secure means of administrating the service by the PLMN operator and/or
intercept requesting entity is necessary. This mechanism shall provide means
to activate, deactivate, show, or list targets in the GSM PLMN as quick as
technically possible. The function shall be policed by appropriate
authentication and audit procedures.
The administration function shall allow specific IAs to be associated with
target subscribers when Location Dependent Interception is being used.
### 5.1.1 Activation
As a result of the activation it shall be possible to request for the
specified target either the intercept product, the intercept related
information or both, and the LEA destination addresses for the delivery of the
intercept product and intercept related information if required. These shall
be selectable on a PLMN basis according to national options.
### 5.1.2 Deactivation
As a result of deactivation it shall be possible to stop all interception
activities for the specified target.
### 5.1.3 Security
The intercept function shall only be accessible by authorised personnel.
No indication shall be given to any PLMN staff except authorised personnel
that the intercept function has been activated on a target.
#### 5.1.3.1 Password rules
Password rules are specially defined for local and remote administrative and
maintenance access. More specifically:
\- The minimum length of a password shall be eight characters;
\- The password shall be valid for a limited number of days. e. g. 30 days;
\- The system shall support password history, i.e. the last e.g. 20 passwords
are not allowed.
#### 5.1.3.2 Log files
An audit log of the use of the intercept function (successful or failed) shall
be maintained, accessible only to authorised users.
It shall be configurable to maintain a log file for all Lawful Interception
commands or intercept relevant events on all network elements. The following
events shall be logged with both time and date stamp and if available User-ID,
Target-ID etc.:
\- activation, deactivation and interrogation of lawful interception;
\- attempt of unauthorised access of lawful interception;
\- communication failures at network element interfaces;
\- interception system failures;
\- maintenance work.
The log file shall be password protected.
The log file shall be maintainable separately from other non intercept
operations (read, delete, download).
The log file shall be cyclic deleted. The policy of how the log file is
deleted is a matter of national option.
The log file shall be divided from regular operation of the network elements.
Lawful Interception commands shall not be logged at any other file.
## 5.2 Intercept invocation
### 5.2.1 General
#### 5.2.1.1 Invocation events for lawful interception
Lawful interception is invoked when:
\- a voice call is requested - either originated from or terminated to the
target;
\- a circuit switched data call is requested - either originated from or
terminated to the target;
\- location information related to the subscriber is modified by the
subscriber attaching or detaching from the network, or if there is a change in
location, (see subclause 4.2.3);
\- an SMS transfer is requested - either originated from or terminated to the
target.
#### 5.2.1.2 Invocation of interception regarding normal GSM service
The invocation of lawful interception shall not alter the operation of a
target\'s services or provide indication to any party involved in
communication with the target. Lawful interception shall not alter the
standard function of GSM network elements. If lawful interception is activated
during a call, the call shall not be intercepted. If lawful interception is
deactivated all ongoing intercept activities shall continue till they are
completed.
#### 5.2.1.3 Correlation of information and product
When lawful interception is invoked, intercept related information and/or
intercept product shall be sent to the LEA. Where both intercept related
information and intercept product are sent to the LEA, then these two types of
information shall be able to be correlated by the LEA, and they should be sent
to the LEA in as near real time as possible.
### 5.2.2 Intercept related information
This subclause describes the service requirements for the provision of
intercept related information when the target is using the following basic
services:
#### 5.2.2.1 Intercept related information events
Intercept related information concerning call progress may be provided to the
LEA when the target is using the following basic services:
\- telephony - teleservice 11;
\- alternate speech and facsimile - teleservice 61;
\- automatic facsimile group 3 - teleservice 62;
\- data services - bearer services 2x, 3x;
\- alternate speech and data - bearer service 61;
\- speech followed by data - bearer service 81.
The following intercept related information events concerning call progress
may, if applicable to the Tele Service/Bearer Service (TS/BS) and available,
be provided to the LEA:
\- the call establishment attempt;
\- the answer of the call;
\- the disconnecting of the call;
\- changes of location of the target.
For the case of an SMS transaction the intercept related information is
provided in conjunction with the SMS intercepted product to the LEA (see
subclause 5.2.3.3).
#### 5.2.2.2 Intercept related information provided to the LEA
The specific information provided by the intercept related information events
will vary depending upon: the specific event, and the availability of
information in a particular scenario (for example when interworking with
network of different capabilities - i.e. non-ISDN networks).
A list of the type of information that may be provided to the LEA by intercept
related information events, includes:
\- an activation reference identity;
\- the target identity which has been intercepted (e.g. MSIDSN, IMSI, IMEI if
applicable);
\- called number;
\- calling number;
\- numbers related to forwarding and multi party calls;
\- type of service used;
\- location information of target (Cell Global Identity);
\- time of event;
\- call release reason.
#### 5.2.2.3 Delivery of intercept related information
Intercept related information shall be delivered to the LEA using the specific
address information that has been provided as part of the activation of the
service.
### 5.2.3 Intercept product
#### 5.2.3.1 Speech and single channel circuit switched data/fax
This subclause describes the service requirements for the provision of
intercept product when the target is using the following basic services:
\- telephony - teleservice 11;
\- alternate speech and facsimile - teleservice 61;
\- automatic facsimile group 3 - teleservice 62;
\- data services - bearer services 2x, 3x;
\- alternate speech and data - bearer service 61;
\- speech followed by data - bearer service 81.
Intercept product should be in \"clear\" form - no GSM radio interface or PLMN
generated radio interface encoding or encryption should be present, (the PLMN
can not remove subscriber encryption). Intercept product shall be maintained
during handover.
#### 5.2.3.2 Delivery of intercept product
Intercept product shall be delivered to the LEA using the specific address
information provided as part of the lawful intercept activation.
Any additional delay in setting up the call caused by the invocation of lawful
interception should not be noticeable to the target or other users on the
call.
#### 5.2.3.3 SMS
Intercept product for SMS is sent to the LEA along with the intercept related
information for both SMS mobile originated and SMS mobile terminated.
### 5.2.4 Correlation between intercept product and intercept related
information
Intercept product and intercept related information shall be presented to the
LEA in a way that allows for accurate correlation between these two
components.
### 5.2.5 Security related to intercept invocation
There shall be arrangements between the GSM PLMN and the LEA to ensure
uncorrupted and confidential delivery of information and product related to
lawful interception.
### 5.2.6 Warrant Reference Number
The Warrant Reference Number may be used by an LEA for an indirect
identification of a specific intercept activity.
# 6 Exceptional procedures
When a failure occurs while establishing the connection towards the LEA to
transfer the intercept product this shall not result in any interruption of
the ongoing telecommunications service. No further specific requirements apply
for the intercept product in the GSM PLMN.
When failure occurs while trying to provide the interception related
information it shall be temporarily stored in the GSM PLMN and some further
attempts shall be made to deliver it if available.
# 7 Interworking considerations
While it is recognised that speech encoding in CCITT G.711 format presently
does not raise any problem, the transmission of GSM encoded speech in the
future - speech transmission for mobile to mobile calls without transcoding -
will create difficulties to provide the product in the correct format to the
LEA. It shall be noted that forcing transcoding for the intercepted calls will
result in a noticeable and perceived systematic degradation in the speech
quality for the mobile parties.
# 8 Charging aspects
## 8.1 Charging principles
The PLMN may require to raise charges for lawful interception. Charging may be
based on one or more of the following:
\- use of network resources;
\- activation and deactivation of the target; or
\- every intercept invocation.
The PLMN shall be capable of producing intercept charging data. It shall be
possible to produce this data in such a way that access by non authorised
personnel or the target is precluded.
## 8.2 Charging characteristics
Some of parameters listed below might not be applicable in specific GSM PLMNs:
### 8.2.1 Activation of the target
\- Activation reference;
\- Mobile target identity;
\- Date of activation;
\- Time of activation;
\- Destination address;
\- Specified output(s);
\- Network identity.
### 8.2.2 Deactivation of the target
\- Activation reference;
\- Mobile target identity;
\- Date of deactivation;
\- Time of deactivation;
\- Network identity.
### 8.2.3 Intercept invocation
\- Activation reference;
\- Mobile target identity;
\- Date of activity;
\- Start time of activity;
\- Stop time or duration of the activity;
\- Service type, Speech, data, SMS.
# 9 Minimum Service Requirements
Quality of service, capacity and reliability are the subject of bilateral
agreement between the Regulation (Licensing) authorities and the GSM PLMN
operator.
###### ## Annex A (Normative): GPRS and Lawful Interception
## A.1 Introduction
In GPRS interception is applicable to Point-To-Point (PTP) services, Point-To-
Multipoint Group call (PTM-G) and Short Message Service (SMS). Interception is
not applicable to Point-To-Multipoint Multicast (PTM-M).
## A.2 Intercept Invocation
Lawful interception is invoked when a GPRS PDP mobile is attached. If lawful
interception is activated when a PDP context is already activated, the next
packet transmitted shall be intercepted. If lawful interception is
deactivated, the next packets transmitted shall not be intercepted.
### A.2.1 Intercept related information events
Intercept related information concerning call progress may be provided to the
LEA when the target is using the GPRS service. The following intercept related
information events may be provided to the LEA:
  * GPRS attach;
  * GPRS detach;
\- the PDP context activation (GPRS);
\- the start of interception with PDP context active;
\- the PDP context deactivation (GPRS);
  * Cell and/or RA update;
\- SMS.
For the case of an SMS transaction the intercept related information is
provided in conjunction with the SMS intercepted product to the LEA.
### A.2.2 Intercept related information provided to the LEA
The specific information provided by the intercept related information events
will vary depending upon: the specific event, and the availability of
information in a particular scenario.
For GPRS, a list of the type of information that may be provided to the LEA by
intercept related information events, includes:
\- an activation reference identity;
\- the target identity which has been intercepted (e.g., MSISDN, IMSI, IMEI if
applicable);
\- type of protocol activated (e.g. Internet Protocol or X.25);
\- PDP address used by the target;
\- location information of target (Cell Global Identity);
\- time of event;
\- Access Point Name.
### A.2.3 GPRS intercept product
GPRS is capable of carrying many different protocols at the application level.
The intercept product shall be the packet as sent by the application without
interpretation or modification except for possible reframing, segmentation, or
enveloping required to transport the packet to the LEA. No PLMN encryption,
compression or encoding shall be present in the intercepted product. The
intercepted product should be delivered to the LEA using a standard or widely
used protocol.
### A.3 Interworking considerations
For GPRS, the PLMN, visited or roaming, shall not be responsible to interpret
the protocol used by the target, or to remove user level compression or
encryption.
#