# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In this document are specified three ciphering algorithms: A5/4 for GSM, A5/4
for ECSD, and GEA4 for GPRS (including EGPRS). The algorithms are stream
ciphers that are used to encrypt/decrypt blocks of data under a
confidentiality key KC. Each of these algorithms is based on the KASUMI
algorithm that is specified in TS 35.202 [5]. The three algorithms are all
very similar. We first define a core keystream generator function KGCORE
(clause 4); we then specify each of the three algorithms in turn (clauses 5, 6
and 7) in terms of this core function.
Note that:
\- GSM A5/4 is the same algorithms as GSM A5/3 but with KLEN changed from 64
to 128 bits.
\- and ECSD A5/4 is the same algorithms as ECSD A5/3 but with KLEN changed
from 64 to 128 bits.
\- and GEA 4 is the same algorithms as GEA3 but with KLEN changed from 64 to
128 bits.
# 1 Scope
This specification of the **A5/4** encryption algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and
of the **GEA4** encryption algorithm for GPRS has been derived from TS 55.516
[1]: Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the
**GEA3** Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. The only essential change is the
change of external key length input from 64 bits to 128 bits.
This document should be read in conjunction with the entire specification of
the **A5/3** and **GEA3** algorithms:
\- Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the
GEA3 Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. Document 1: A5/3 and GEA3 Specifications.
\- Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the
GEA3 Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. Document 2: Implementors' Test Data.
\- Specification of the A5/3 Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the
GEA3 Encryption Algorithm for GPRS. Document 3: Design Conformance Test Data.
The normative part of the specification of the block cipher (**KASUMI**) on
which the **A5/3** , **A5/4** , **GEA3** and **GEA4** algorithms are based can
be found in TS 35.202 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [5] (void)
[6] 3GPP Task Force Specification: \"3G Security; Specification of the A5/4
Encryption Algorithms for GSM and ECSD, and the GEA4 Encryption Algorithm for
GPRS\", version 9.0.0.
Note: Reference [6] is available via
http://www.etsi.org/WebSite/OurServices/Algorithms/algorithms.aspx and is
subject to licensing conditions described at this site.
# 3 Technical provisions
The technical provisons of the current document are contained in the 3GPP Task
Force Specification [6].
#