# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the physical layer on the Base Station System
(BSS) to Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) interface (Gb interface) and
references layer 1 standards to be used on this interface.
The protocol stack on the Gb interface is defined in the stage 2 3GPP TS
23.060.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 48.004: \"Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre
(BSS-MSC) interface; Layer 1 specification\".
[5] FRF.1.2 (July 2000): \"User-to-Network Interface (UNI) Implementation
Agreement\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation G.704 (Blue Book): \"Synchronous frame structures
used at 1 544, 6 312, 2 048, 8 488 and 44 736 kbit/s hierarchical levels\".
[7] ANSI T1.403-1999: \"Network and Customer Installation Interfaces - DS1 -
Electrical Interface\".
[8] Bellcore TR-NWT-001203 Issue 2 (December 1992): \"Generic Requirements for
the Switched DS1/Switched Fractional DS1 Service Capability From an ISDN
Interface (SWF-DS1/ISDN)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation V.35: \"Data transmission at 48 kilobits per second
using 60-108 kHz group band circuits\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation G.703: \"Physical/electrical characteristics of
hierarchical digital interfaces\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation X.21: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
and Data Circuit‑terminating Equipment for synchronous operation on public
data networks\".
[12] TIA/EIA-530-A: \"High Speed 25-Position Interface for Data Terminal
Equipment and Data Circuit-Terminating Equipment, Including Alternative
26-Position Connector (ANSI/TIA/EIA‑530-A-92) (R98)\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 and 3GPP TS 23.060, and the following apply:
DCE Data Circuit-terminating Equipment
DTE Data Terminal Equipment
FRF Frame Relay Forum
# 4 Definitions
## 4.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 22.060 and the following apply:
**E1:** a four wire symmetrical digital transmission path carrying PCM signal
at 2 048 kbit/s.
**T1:** a four wire symetrical digital transmission path carrying PCM signal
at 1 544 kbit/s.
## 4.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the symbols given in 3GPP TS 23.060
apply.
# 5 Layer 1 specification
Since Frame Relay shall be used on the Gb interface for phase 1 of GPRS, see
3GPP TS 23.060, the present document refers to \"The Frame Relay Forum User-
to-Network Implementation Agreement (UNI)\" which recommends physical layer
interfaces to be used in conjunction with Frame Relay.
## 5.1 Physical configuration of the Gb interface
The detailed physical configuration of the Gb interface is subject to
negociation between operators and equipment providers and is out of the scope
of the present document.
EXAMPLE: Point-to-point physical lines or an intermediate Frame Relay network
may be used. In the latter case, the two ends of the Gb interface may use
different types of physical interfaces.
## 5.2 Physical layer interface
Each of the physical layer of the Gb interface shall conform to one of the
following FRF 1.2 clauses. This does not mean that each BSS and SGSN equipment
has to support all of these physical interfaces, it means that the supported
physical interfaces shall be compliant with the corresponding clause of FRF
1.2.
a) clause 2.1.1: ANSI T1.403.
b) clause 2.1.2: V.35, physical circuit and DTE/DCE interface clauses.
c) clause 2.1.3: G.703.
d) clause 2.1.4: G.704.
e) clause 2.1.5: X.21.
f) clause 2.1.6: TIA/EIA-530-A.
g) clause 2.1.7: HSSI.
The Gb interface may be multiplexed with the A interface on the same E1 (2 048
kbit/s), or T1 (15 44 kbit/s) digital path. In case of E1 interface, ITU-T
Recommendation G.704 shall be applied according to FRF 1.2 and 3GPP TS 48.004
as appropriate, and in case of T1 interface ANSI T1.403 shall be applied
according to FRF 1.1 and 3GPP TS 48.004 as appropriate.
In the case where multiple 64 kbit/s channels are used on an E1 (2048 kbit/s),
digital path on the Gb interface, it is recommended to aggregate them into one
nx64 kbit/s channel, see ITU-T Recommendation G.704, clause 5 and included
clauses. In case where multiple 64 kbit/s channels are used on a T1 (1 544
kbit/s) digital path on the Gb interface, it is recommended to aggregate them
into nx64kbit/s (where 2 ≤ n ≤ 24) channel, see Bellcore TR‑NWT‑1203. This
approach optimises the use of the available bandwidth by taking advantage of
the statistical multiplexing at the upper layer. However, this approach
requires that no slipping occurs between individual 64 kbit/s channels e.g.
when passing through intermediate equipment between BSS and SGSN.
## 5.3 Error rate
The error rate experienced at the physical layer between the BSS and the SGSN
shall be compatible with the operation of the upper layers.
## 5.4 Provision of physical channels
The physical channels on the Gb interface shall be permanently reserved by
means of administrative procedures.
#