# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The use and general aspects of the A-bis interface are given in 3GPP TS
48.051.
The present document gives the principle basis for the rest of the
specifications specifying the interface between the Base Station Controller,
BSC, and the Base Transceiver Station, BTS, with its transceivers, TRX. These
components together form the Base Station System, BSS. (The interface between
MSC and the BSS is specified in 3GPP TS 48.001 and 3GPP TS 48.020).
The intention with this interface is to get a unified way of connecting
remotely located BTSs/TRXs to a BSC allowing for the interconnection of BSCs
and BTSs/TRXs from different manufacturers.
In order to keep the BTS as simple as possible, BTS contains only those
functions which have to recide close to the radio interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 48.001: \"Base Station System ‑ Mobile services Switching Centre
(BSS ‑ MSC) interface; General aspects\".
[3] 3GPP TS 48.002: \"Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre
(BSS - MSC) interface Interface principles\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS-MSC) interface\".
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TS 48.020: \"Rate adaption on the Base Station System ‑
Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS‑MSC) interface\".
[8] 3GPP TS 48.051: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station
(BSC‑BTS) interface; General aspects\".
[9] 3GPP TS 48.058: \"Base Station Controller ‑ Base Transceiver Station
(BSC‑BTS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 48.060: \"Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for full rate traffic channels\".
[11] 3GPP TS 48.061: \"Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for half rate traffic channels\".
[12] Void.
[13] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Base Station System (BSS):** system of base station equipment (transceivers,
controllers, etc..) which is viewed by the MSC through a single interface as
defined by the 3GPP TS 48.0xx series of recommendations, as being the entity
responsible for communicating with Mobile Stations in a certain area. The
radio equipment of a BSS may cover one or more cells. A BSS may consist of one
or more base stations. If an internal interface according to the 3GPP TS
48.05x series at recommendations is implemented, then the BSS shall consist of
one Base Station Controller (BSC) and several Base Transceiver Stations
(BTSs).
NOTE: The functionality is described in 3GPP TS 48.001.
**Base Station Controller (BSC):** network component in the PLMN with the
functions for control of one or more Base Transceiver Stations (BTSs).
**Base Transceiver Station (BTS):** network component which serves one cell,
and is controlled by a Base Station Controller. The BTS can consist of one or
more TRXs with or without common control equipment.
**Cell:** See 3GPP TS 23.002.
**Transceiver (TRX):** in the GSM PLMN is the functional entity which supports
the 8 basic radio channels of the same TDMA-frame.
**Base Control Function (BCF):** functional entity which handles common
control functions within a BTS, e.g. frequency hopping sequences etc.\ At a
multi BTS site, one of the BCFs can also be choosen to perform functions
common to the site (e.g. external alarms, power supply, time base).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 apply.
# 4 General
3GPP TS 48.001 and 3GPP TS 48.020 specify the functional split and interface
between MSC and the Base Station System, BSS, the A- interface.
The BSS can be further subdivided into one BSC controlling one or more BTSs,
each consisting of one or more TRXs. The interface treated by the present
document is the interface between a BSC and a BTS. It is denoted the A-bis-
interface.
The A-bis-interface is capable of supporting three different internal BTS
configurations:
\- one single TRX;
\- a collection of TRXs where all are served by a common physical connection;
\- a collection of TRXs, each served by its own physical connection.
Figure 4.1 shows some possible configurations.
> BSS
>
> \
>
> \| +-----+ A-bis +-----+
>
> \| +--------┼-------\| TRX \| BTS1
>
> \| \| \| + - - \|
>
> \| \| \| BCF \|
>
> \| \| \| +-----+
>
> \| \| +-----+
>
> \| \| \| \| TRX \|
>
> \| \| A-bis + - - \|
>
> \| \| +--------┼-------\| TRX \| BTS2
>
> \| \| + - - \|
>
> \| \| \| \| TRX \|
>
> \| \| + - - \|
>
> \| \| \| \| BCF \|
>
> \| \| +-----+
>
> +-----+ A \| \| \| +- - -+
>
> \| MSC +--------┼-----------\| BSC \| A-bis \|+---+\|
>
> +-----+ \| \| +--------┼--------\|TRX\|
>
> \| \| \|+---+\|
>
> \| \| \| \|+---+\|
>
> \| +--------┼--------\|TRX\|
>
> \| \| \| \|+---+\| BTS3
>
> \| \| \|+---+\|
>
> \| \| +--------┼--------\|TRX\|
>
> \| \| \|+---+\|
>
> \| \| \| \|+---+\|
>
> \| +--------┼--------\|BCF\|
>
> \| \| \| \|+---+\|
>
> +-----+ +-- - +
Figure 4.1: BSS Subdivision and Interfaces
The present document is based on the use of digital transmission system
interfaces, either at 2 048 kbit/s or at 64 kbit/s. Furthermore, the use of a
subrate of 16 kbit/s and/or 8 kbit/s is supported for coded speech or rate
adapted data.
This interface will support the transcoder positioned either inside or outside
BTS. In the latter case, remote control (synchronisation) of the transcoder is
used.
# 5 Functional division between BSC and BTS
## 5.1 General
In Technical Specification 3GPP TS 48.001 the functional division between MSC
and BSS is described. This clause describes the further subdivision of
functions between BSC and BTS/TRX required for the A-bis interface. A summary
can be found in table 5.1. Some general requirements on the functionality of
the A-bis interface are also specified.
## 5.2 Terrestrial channel management
There is a unique mapping from traffic channels on the radio path to the
terrestrial traffic channels. BSC makes the choice of radio channel and
thereby also of the terrestrial channel for a call.
## 5.3 Radio channel management
### 5.3.1 Channel configuration management
The channel configuration is controlled between the BSC and OMC. Current
configuration is downloaded from OMC to BSC which then controls the use of the
radio channels (TDMA time slots for BCCH/CCCH, TCHs, SDCCHs etc).
### 5.3.2 SDCCH (Stand alone DCCH) and TCH management
#### 5.3.2.1 Frequency hopping management
The hopping sequences for each BTS (cell) is downloaded from OMC to BSC. It is
then the responsibility of BSC to download this information to each BTS and
also to send the corresponding BCCH information to be transmitted in the BCCH
time slots.
#### 5.3.2.2 Channel selection, link supervision and channel release
These functions are controlled by BSC. For channel selection BSC has to have
information on blocked radio channels and also on interference level on idle
channels.
In the assignment messages to MS (Immediate Assign, Assign Command and
Handover Command), a Starting Time parameter is included. This starting time
is based on the frame number on the (new) BTS. Before sending the assign
message to MS, BSC has to be informed on the current frame number in BTS.
When assigning a channel, BSC shall inform BTS on relevant parameters, e.g.
channel type, channel coding, rate adaption, starting time.
#### 5.3.2.3 Power control
The ordered MS power level is sent in the 16 bit L1-header of SACCH- blocks on
the downlink and the actual power level used by MS is reported in the
corresponding L1-header on the uplink. This header is inserted (downlink) and
extracted (uplink) by BTS/TRX.
The determination of required power level in MS is based on uplink radio
measurements made by BTS/TRX and reported to BSC. The basic control of this
power is performed by BSC and the dynamic regulation is performed by BSC or
optionally by BTS. If BTS supports dynamic MS power regulation, BSC can
indicate whether BTS is to regulate the MS power and if so, also the
parameters required by BTS.
The required TRX transmission power level on a channel is based on reported
measurements performed by MS. The dynamic control of this power is optional.
If supported, the basic control is performed by BSC and the dynamic regulation
is performed by BSC or optionally by BTS. If BTS supports dynamic TRX
transmission power regulation, BSC can indicate whether BTS is to regulate the
transmission power and if so, also the parameters required by BTS.
#### 5.3.2.4 Idle channel observation
Idle channels are monitored by BTS.
### 5.3.3 BCCH/CCCH management
TRX knows the timing of BCCH/CCCH slots (not known by BSC). The actual timing
of BCCH/CCCH blocks therefore has to be made by BTS/TRX, including the
scheduling of Paging Request messages on paging sub-channels.
BCCH information is downloaded to BTS.
### 5.3.4 Random access
Detection of a random access attempt has to be made by TRX which then sends a
message to BSC containing the required timing advance, the frame number of the
access attempt and the 8 bit Channel Request message sent by MS in the access
burst. This information is then included by BSC in the following Immediate
Assign message sent to MS.
### 5.3.5 Channel coding/decoding
The error protection coding and decoding is made by BTS/TRX.
Different coding and interleaving schemes are used for speech and data calls.
This information has to be signalled from BSC to BTS on a per call basis.
### 5.3.6 Transcoding/rate adaption
The A-bis interface has to allow for the transcoder/rate adaptor being
positioned either inside or outside BTS.
### 5.3.7 Timing advance
Timing advance has to be determined by TRX.
When MS is on a dedicated channel (SDCCH, TCH), the required timing advance
(TA) is sent to MS and the actual timing advance is reported by MS in the 16
bit L1-header of the SACCH blocks.
At handover access, TA is determined by TRX and reported to MS in the PHYsical
INFOrmation message sent by BTS/TRX.
At random access, TA is determined by TRX but in those cases, TA has to be
reported to BSC for inclusion in the IMMediate ASSIGN message sent to MS by
BSC.
### 5.3.8 Radio resource indication
BTS reports on status (interference level, blocking etc.) of idle channels to
BSC on a regular basis.
### 5.3.9 Measurements
MS measures the downlink received level and quality from the serving cell and
the received level from surrounding cells. The results from these measurements
are reported by MS in Measurement Report messages on SACCH.
Uplink received level and quality are measured by BTS/TRX. The parameters for
the uplink measurements are equivalent to the parameters used by MS for the
corresponding downlink measurements (averaging period and dynamic range).
The support of forwarding this basic raw measurement data over the A-bis
interface is mandatory. Additionally, BTS and BSC may optionally support some
pre-processing in BTS of this data.
### 5.3.10 LAPDm functions (Layer 2)
Layer 2 on the radio interface (LAPDm) is terminated at BTS/TRX. Between BTS
and BSC, LAPD is used.
### 5.3.11 Paging
Paging is initiated by MSC via BSC.
BSC determines the paging group to be used based on IMSI of the MS to be
paged. The paging group value is sent to BTS together with the TMSI or IMSI.
Based on the paging group information, BTS/TRX will build the relevant PAGING
REQUEST message and execute the transmission of the message in the correct
paging sub-channel.
### 5.3.12 Handover
No handover recognition or decision is made by BTS.
However, BTS/TRX has to detect the handover access made by a handed over MS.
BTS/TRX also checks the Handover Reference value sent by MS in the handover
access burst against the Handover Reference value received from BSC in the
channel activation command. In case of an asynchronous handover, BTS/TRX then
builds the PHYsical INFOrmation message (including the Timing Advance value)
and sends it to MS. The handover access is also reported to BSC.
### 5.3.13 Encryption
Encryption and decryption is made of the complete outgoing bit stream (except
for preambles/synch words). This therefore has to be made by TRX. The
encryption key has to be downloaded to BTS/TRX before encryption starts.
Special control messages are therefore required between BSC and BTS/TRX.
### 5.3.14 Mobility management and call control
All mobility management and call control functions recide in MSC.
Table 5.1: Summary of functional division between BTS and BSC/MSC
+-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | FUNCTION | Location | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | BTS | BSC/MSC | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | TERRESTRIAL CHANNEL MANAGEMENT | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | MSC-BSC channels | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel allocation | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Blocking indication | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | BSC-BTS channels | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel allocation | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Blocking indication | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | RADIO CHANNEL MANAGEMENT | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel configuration management | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Frequency Hopping | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Management | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Execution | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | TCH management | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel allocation (choice) | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Link supervision | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel release | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Idle channel observation | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Power control determination (note 3) | x | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | SDCCH management (Stand alone DCCH) | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | SDCCH allocation | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Link supervision | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel release | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Power control determination (note 3) | x | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | BCCH/CCCH management | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Scheduling of messages | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Management | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Execution | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Random access | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Access detection | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Immediate assign (access grant) | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Channel coding/decoding | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Transcoding/rate adaption (note 1) | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Measurements | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Uplink measuring (note 2) | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Processing of reports from MS/TRX (note 4) | x | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Traffic measurements | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Timing advance | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Calculation | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Signalling to MS at random access | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Signalling to MS at handover | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Signalling to MS during call | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Radio resource indication | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Report status of idle channels | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | LAPDm functions (Layer 2) | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Encryption | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Management | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Execution (Key from BSC) | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Paging | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Initiation | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | DRX paging | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Management | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Execution | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Handover | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | BSC internal, one cell | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | BSC internal, between cells | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | BSC external | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | recognition, radio reason | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | recognition, traffic reason | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | decision | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | execution | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Handover access detection | x | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | MOBILITY MANAGEMENT | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Authentication | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | Location updating | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | CALL CONTROL | | x | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+ | NOTE 1: Although the transcoder is always | | | | controlled by the BTS, it can optionally be | | | | located outside the BTS (e.g. at the BSC or | | | | at the MSC site). In that case, remote | | | | control is performed by BTS using inchannel | | | | signalling. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Including averaging comparable to | | | | what is done in the MS. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The support of power level | | | | determination in BTS is optional. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The support of forwarding all raw | | | | measurement data from MS/TRX over the A-bis | | | | interface and the processing of it in BSC is | | | | mandatory. The BTS/BSC may additionally | | | | support also some pre- processing in BTS of | | | | this raw data. | | | +-----------------------------------------------+----------+---------+
# 6 Transcoding/rate adaption and multiplexing
The interface supports two options: transcoding/rate adaption performed in BTS
or outside BTS.
## 6.1 Transcoding/rate adaption in BTS
The transcoding of speech to normal 64 kbit/s A-law is performed within BTS.
Data may be rate adapted or submultiplexed to 64 kbit/s circuits.
## 6.2 Transcoding/rate adaption outside BTS
In this case the transcoder/rate adaptor is considered as part of the BSC.
The channel coding/decoding is performed by BTS/TRX. The choice of
coding/interleaving has to be signalled from BSC to BTS.
The remote speech transcoder has to have knowledge of some radio parameters
for an efficient decoding. In addition, the timing of the transcoder has to be
aligned with the transmission of the frames over radio such that the frames
from BSC arrive synchronized with the transmission over radio (minimizes delay
due to remote transcoder). For this control and time alignment of the
transcoder, inband signalling is used within a 16 kbit/s or an 8 kbit/s
channel carrying speech or data, signalling and synchronisation. This remote
control of the transcoder is specified in Technical Specifications 3GPP TS
48.060 (full rate traffic channels, 16 kbit/s submultiplexing only) and 3GPP
TS 48.061 (half rate traffic channels, 16 or 8 kbit/s submultiplexing).
For data, rate adaption to subrate 16 or 8 kbit/s is performed within BTS.
For the link BTS-BSC, the following possibilities are foreseen:
\- rate adaption of 16 kbit/s or 8 kbit/s speech + control or 16 kbit/s data +
control to 64 kbit/s (one radio traffic channel per 64 kbit/s terrestrial
channel);
\- multiplexing of 16 kbit/s or 8 kbit/s speech + control or 16 kbit/s or 8
kbit/s data + control into one 64 kbit/s channel (up to eight radio traffic
channels per 64 kbit/s terrestrial channel).
# 7 Interface structures
## 7.1 Communication channels
The A-bis interface is considered to have two types of communication channels
(see figure 7.1):
\- traffic channel (SDC) at 8 kbit/s, 16 kbit/s or 64 kbit/s carrying speech
or data of one radio traffic channel (Bm or Lm channel);
\- signalling channels (SCH) at 16 kbit/s, 32 kbit/s or 64 kbit/s, carrying
signalling information (both BSC-MS and BSC-BTS signalling).
B T S
+-------------------+
\------------\| SDCs \|
\------------\| Speech and Data \|
\------------\| 8, 16 or 64 kbit/s\|
B S C \| \|
\| \|
\------------\| SCHs \|
\------------\| Signalling \|
\------------\|16, 32 or 64 kbit/s\|
+-------------------+
Figure 7.1: Communication Channel Types
## 7.2 Signalling links
The addressing of TRXs and BCF is made using separate TEIs for each TRX and
BCF.
Three logical links are defined for each TEI:
> RSL: Radio Signalling Link used for supporting traffic management procedures
> (MS to network communication). One link per TRX.
>
> OML: Operations and Maintenance Link used for supporting network management
> procedures (transferring operations and maintenance messages). One link per
> TRX and BCF.
>
> L2ML: Layer 2 Management Link used for transferring layer 2 management
> messages to TRX or BCF. One link per TRX and BCF.
A logical diagram for the architecture of the signalling links is given in
figure 7.2.
Only point to point signalling links are used.
SMS messages are also carried on the signalling links.
BSC BTS
+-------------------+ +---------------------+
\| +--------+ \| \| \|
\| \| \| +-+ \| \| +-+ +-----+ \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- RSL --------------\| +--\| \| \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- OML --------------\| +--\| TRX \| TEI1 \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- L2ML--------------\| +--\| \| \|
\| \| \| +-+ \| \| +-+ + - - \| \|
\| \| \| \| \| \| BCF \| \|
\| \| \| \| \| +-----+ \|
\| \| LAYER 2\| +-+ \| \| +-+ +-----+ \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- RSL --------------\| +--\| \| \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- OML --------------\| +--\| TRX \| TEI2 \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- L2ML--------------\| +--\| \| \|
\| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| + - - \| \|
\| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| BCF \|
\| \| T E I \| \| \| \| \| \| \| + - - + \|
\| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| +-----+ \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- RSL --------------\| +--\| \| \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- OML --------------\| +--\| TRX \| TEI3 \|
\| \| \| \| +-------- L2ML--------------\| +--\| \| \|
\| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| + - - \| \|
\| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| \| BCF \|
\| \| MANAGE-\| \| \| \| \| \| \| + - - + \|
\| \| MENT \| +-+ \| \| +-+ \|
\| \| \| +-+ \| \| +-+ +-----+ \|
\| \| \| \| + - - - - OML - - - - - - \| + -\| BCF \| TEI4 \|
\| \| \| \| + - - - - L2ML - - - - - - \| + -\| \| \|
\| \| \| +-+ \| \| +-+ +-----+ \|
\| \| \| ... \| \| ... ....... \|
\| \| \| . ............................. .... BCF . \|
\| \| \| ... \| \| ... ....... \|
\| +--------+ \| \| \|
+-------------------+ +---------------------+
Figure 7.2: Logical L2 links of A-bis interface
## 7.3 Signalling model
A signalling model for the A-bis interface and its signalling environment can
be found in figure 7.3.
CM and MM messages are not interpreted by BSC or BTS. Over the A interface
they are tranferred using DTAP (Direct Transfer Application Part) and over the
A-bis interface they are transferred as transparent messages.
RR messages are mapped to BSSAP (BSS Application Part) in BSC. In BTS, most of
them are handled as transparent messages. However, some of them have to be
interpreted by BTS (e.g. random access, start ciphering, paging). The BTSM
(BTS Management) entities contain procedures for handling these messages and
also other procedures for managing the BTS as defined in Technical
Specification 3GPP TS 48.058. In BTS there is a mapping between BTSM and the
relevant RR messages over the radio interface (RR\').
The Layer 2 protocol over the A-bis interface is based on LAPD. L2 addressing
is made to TRX (or BCF) using the TEI of LAPD. Different L2 links are used for
traffic management messages (RSL, Radio Signalling Link), network management
messages (OML, Operation & Maintenance Link) and L2 management messages (L2ML,
Layer 2 Management Link).
A model of Layer 3 for the A-bis interface can be found in figure 7.4.
For traffic management, two types of signalling messages have been defined:
Transparent Messages:Messages which are forwarded by BTS without
interpretation or changes.
Non-Transparent Messages:Messages which are sent only between BSC and BTS and
which BTS is acting upon or which are the results of BTS actions.
In addition, the messages have been grouped into four main groups: Radio Link
Layer Management, Dedicated Channel Management, Common Channel Management and
TRX Management messages.
Discrimination between these types and groups is based on the Message
Discriminator which is sent as the first octet in all messages. Transparent
and non-transparent messages are discriminated by a transparancy flag (T-bit)
in the Message Discriminator. Transparent messages are merely forwarded to L2
on the radio interface.
In order to address the relevant radio channel, a Channel Number element is
included to support the distribution of messages to relevant physical channels
on the TRX. A Link Identifier element supports the distribution on logical
links/channels on the radio interface (compare the DLCI element of the A
interface, 3GPP TS 48.006).
Figure 7.3: Signalling model for the A-bis interface and its signalling
environment
Figure 7.4: L3 model
#