# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0 Scope
The present document gives the stage 2 description of the closed user group
supplementary service.
The community of interest supplementary service defined is:
\- closed user group (CUG) (see clause 1).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) Supplementary Services; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) Supplementary Service; Stage 2\".
## 0.2 Definitions
CUG terminology defined in 3GPP TS 22. 085 [2] is applicable to the present
document. In addition, the following definitions apply.
**CUG Authorisation Functions** : Checks performed by the network to ensure
that the integrity of a CUG related call is guarantied. CUG calls are rejected
if they do not meet the criteria of these checks.
**CUG call** : CUG call, in signalling terms, is a call where CUG information
is passed from the originating switching entity to the destination entity.
**CUG Index** : Code used to select a CUG for an outgoing call, or to indicate
an incoming CUG call. Indices are passed between the user and the network and
have significance only within the context of a users subscription.
**CUG Interlock Code** : Code which uniquely identifies a CUG within a
network. The Interlock code is passed from the point of origin to the
destination in a CUG call to identify the CUG which has been invoked.
**CUG Related Call Barring** : CUG related call barring is call barring
applied to a CUG subscriber by the home network when roaming in a non-CUG
network. The user is unable to remove CUG related call barring.
**Explicit CUG Invocation** : Explicit CUG invocation is where a calling user
attempts to invoke a CUG by passing CUG information to the network in a call
request.
**Implicit CUG Invocation** : Implicit CUG invocation is where the user
invokes some default characteristic of a CUG without providing any CUG
information in the call request.
**Normal Call** : Normal call in the context of this CUG TS is a call
established from a CUG subscriber where no CUG information is passed from the
originating switching entity to the destination entity.
**Outgoing Access Indicator** : Indication passed from the point of origin to
the destination in a CUG call to indicate that the calling user has subscribed
to the Outgoing Access inter-CUG accessibility subscription option.
## 0.3 Abbreviations
In addition to those listed below abbreviations used in the present document
are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BS Basic Service
CI CUG Index
CUG Closed User Group
IA Incoming Access
IC Interlock Code
IC(pref) Interlock code of the preferential CUG
IC+OA Interlock Code and Outgoing Access indicator.
ICB Incoming Calls Barred within the CUG
OA Outgoing Access
OCB Outgoing Calls Barred within the CUG
Pref CUG Preferential CUG
SOA Suppress OA
SPC Suppress Preferential CUG
# 1 Closed user group (CUG)
The responsibilities of GSM network nodes with respect to CUG are described in
the CUG handling clause. The Functions subclause 1.2.1 describes the CUG
service logic and how CUG information is used. The flow of CUG information in
various call cases is shown in the Information Flows subclause 1.2.2.
## 1.1 Handling of Closed User Group
A GSM PLMN supporting the CUG supplementary service must guarantee the
integrity of any CUG which it handles. It is not however mandatory for a PLMN
to support the CUG supplementary service.
A CUG is uniquely identified within a network by a CUG Interlock Code. The
Interlock Code is transferred between terrestrial network entities to indicate
a CUG call.
A user identifies a CUG by a CUG Index. A CUG Index is used to select or
indicate the use of a specific CUG in relation to a call. The index is locally
transferred between the mobile station and serving VLR and only has
significance within the context of an individual subscription.
### 1.1.1 Mobile Originated (MO) CUG call handling
A CUG subscriber may invoke a CUG by providing the network with a CUG Index at
call establishment. This is termed Explicit CUG invocation. Alternatively, if
the subscription allows, some default characteristic of a CUG may be invoked
automatically if no CUG information is provided. This is termed Implicit CUG
invocation. The network may optionally indicate the use of an implicitly
invoked CUG to the calling user.
A CUG subscriber may suppress certain CUG attributes by providing suppression
indicators during call set-up. The provision of such suppression indicators
results in explicit CUG invocation.
Any non-CUG related Call Barring supplementary service requirements shall be
discharged before CUG authorisation occurs.
#### 1.1.1.1 MO CUG call handling at the MSC
The MSC shall pass any user provided CUG information to the VLR at call
establishment.
If an Interlock Code, or Interlock code with Outgoing Access indicator, is
received from the VLR the MSC shall establish a CUG call with the destination
network using this information. If a CUG Index is received from the VLR the
MSC shall pass this to the calling MS.
If the CUG call authorisation is unsuccessful the MSC shall pass an indication
to the mobile station.
#### 1.1.1.2 MO CUG call handling at the VLR
Authorisation of a MO CUG call is performed by the serving VLR. Authorisation
is determined by the information provided by the user, the subscription
information stored in the VLR and the MO CUG call authorisation function, see
Functions clause.
Successful authorisation may result in a normal MO call (call without CUG
information transferred to the called party) or a MO CUG call (call with CUG
information transferred to the called party).
When a CUG call is to be made the VLR passes CUG information to the MSC to be
used in the call establishment. Note, the VLR may optionally pass a CUG Index
to the MSC (to be passed to the calling user) to indicate that a CUG has been
implicitly invoked. This parameter is not passed to the call destination.
In the case of a normal call, no CUG information is passed to the MSC and the
call is established normally.
On authorisation failure the VLR shall reject the call providing a suitable
indication to the serving MSC which is passed to the calling party.
### 1.1.2 Mobile Terminated (MT) CUG call handling
The terminating network is responsible for enforcing the integrity of a CUG
related call. The terminating network must therefore ensure that the calling
party attributes and the called party subscription meet CUG restrictions. The
terminating network provides the called user with an indication of an incoming
CUG call.
Non-CUG related Call Barring supplementary service requirements are discharged
before CUG authorisations. Call forwarding requirements are discharged after
CUG authorisations.
#### 1.1.2.1 MT CUG handling at the GMSC
The GMSC shall pass any CUG information contained in an incoming call
establishment message to the HLR in the routing enquiry.
The GMSC shall continue the call establishment using the CUG information
received from the HLR rather than that which was initially received. Note, in
rare circumstances the HLR may discard CUG parameters, see the Call Forwarding
interaction.
If a CUG call fails the GMSC shall return an indication to the originating
network.
#### 1.1.2.2 MT CUG handling functions at the HLR
Authorisation of a MT CUG call is performed at the called parties HLR.
Authorisation is determined by the information received in the call
establishment signalling, the called party subscription information stored in
the HLR, and the MT CUG call authorisation function, see Functions clause.
On successful authorisation, the HLR supplies the GMSC with CUG information
for the continuation of the call establishment. On unsuccessful authorisations
the HLR rejects the call supplying an indication of the reason for failure.
#### 1.1.2.3 MT CUG handling functions at the MSC
The MSC shall pass any CUG related information received in incoming call
establishment signalling to the VLR.
If the VLR returns CUG information to the serving MSC in response, the MSC
shall pass the information to the called party in the call set-up signalling.
If the CUG call is rejected by the VLR (due to the call forwarding
interaction) the MSC shall return an indication to the originating network.
#### 1.1.2.4 MT CUG handling functions at the VLR
When the VLR receives an incoming call enquiry for a CUG subscriber, it shall
attempt to provide a CUG call indication to the called party. The indication
is sent depending on the attributes of the incoming call and the called
parties subscription, as shown in table 1.1. The indication is achieved by
sending the CUG Index, associated with the Interlock Code of the invoked CUG,
to the called user.
Table 1.1: CUG Index provision at terminating VLR
┌──────────┬─────────╥───────────────────────────────────────┐\ │ │ ║ Called
party subscription │\ │ Calling │ ╟────────────────────────────┬──────────┤\ │
Party │Interlock║ CUG subscriber │ │\ │ CUG │ check
╟────────────┬───────────────┤ Normal │\ │ Infor- │ ║ No IA │ IA │subscriber│\
│ mation │ ╟──────┬─────┼──────┬────────┤ │\ │ │ ║No ICB│ ICB │No ICB│ ICB │
│\ ╞══════════╪═════════╬══════╪═════╪══════╪════════╪══════════╡\ │ │ Match
║Index │ - │Index │ - │ │\ │Interlock ├─────────╫──────┴─────┼──────┴────────┤
- │\ │ │ No Match║ - │ - │ │\
├──────────┼─────────╫──────┬─────┼──────┬────────┼──────────┤\ │Interlock │
Match ║Index │ - │Index │No Index│ │\ │+
Outgoing├─────────╫──────┴─────┼──────┴────────┤ No Index │\ │ Access │ No
Match║ - │ No Index │ │\
├──────────┼─────────╫────────────┼───────────────┼──────────┤\ │ No CUG │ - ║
- │ No Index │ No Index │\ │ Info. │ ║ │ │ │\
└──────────┴─────────╨────────────┴───────────────┴──────────┘
NOTE: \"-\" = Not Applicable, this check is not performed since such calls are
rejected by the called parties HLR.
### 1.1.3 CUG subscriber roaming requirements
Normal CUG restrictions apply to CUG subscribers when roaming in CUG
supporting GSM PLMNs. Extra restrictions (specified in GSM 02.85) are applied
to CUG subscribers roaming in non-CUG GSM VPLMNs to preserve the integrity of
CUG.
These restrictions are applied by the application of call barring programmes
which are not under user control. Such restrictions only apply to a
subscribers ability to make outgoing calls using CUG related basic services.
Extra restrictions are not applicable in the MT call case since the
requirements are met by the HLR MT CUG authorisation function and by CUG
interworking restrictions.
When a CUG subscriber first roams into a network not supporting CUG, the HLR
will pass to the VLR subscription data indicating that normal Outgoing Call
Barring is active for each basic service which is affected by CUG and for
which the user has no CUG Outgoing Access.
The HLR shall store the status of the CUG related barring separately from the
previous user controlled status and CUG related barring shall take precedence
over the user controlled status.
The user may still perform SS operations on the user controlled Outgoing Call
Barring services. The status of the barring service as a result of these
operations will be stored in the HLR in the normal way, however the HLR will
ensure that the VLR in the non-CUG network continues to have the CUG related
call barring programs active as described above.
When entering a CUG supporting network the CUG related barring activations
shall be removed and the user controlled barring status restored.
### 1.1.4 CUG interworking requirements
#### 1.1.4.1 Non-CUG GSM PLMNs
If a GSM switching entity receives a CUG Interlock code in a call
establishment message but does not support the CUG service, it shall abort the
call, reason for rejection: Incompatible Destination. However if an Interlock
and Outgoing Access indicator are received the call shall continue to be
established as a normal call with no CUG information.
#### 1.1.4.2 Interworking to Non-CUG networks
If a GSM switching entity is unable to interwork with a destination switching
entity for a CUG call , it shall abort the call, reason for rejection:
Incompatible Destination. However if the call was a CUG call indicating
outgoing access the GSM switching entity shall attempt to establish the call
as a normal call (no CUG information).
### 1.1.5 Supplementary service interactions
#### 1.1.5.1 Interaction with Call Forwarding
The interaction between CUG and Call Forwarding services is specified in GSM
02.85. The interaction is applied after the calling and called party CUG call
has been successfully authorised, and Call Forwarding has been invoked. The
interaction is the same for all types of call forwarding.
In the case of Call Forward Unconditional and Call Forwarding on Mobile
Subscriber Not Reachable (invoked at HLR), the interaction is applied at the
forwarding parties HLR.
In the case of CFB, CFNRy, CFNRc (invoked at the serving VLR) the interaction
is applied at the forwarding parties serving VLR.
Table 1.2 indicates the requirements on the forwarding node when CUG and call
forwarding interact. In each case the resultant information sent to the
relevant MSC (either gateway or serving MSC) is given. This information should
be used by the MSC for the forwarding or rejection. Note that the CUG
information for the forwarding part of the call may be different from that
initially used. The interlock code used for forwarding is always that of the
calling party.
Table 1.2: CUG-Call Forwarding interaction
┌─────────┬─────────╥─────────────────────────────────────────┐\ │ │ ║
Forwarding party subscription for BS │\ │Forwarded│
╟──────────────────────────────┬──────────┤\ │ Party │Interlock║ CUG
subscriber │ │\ │ CUG │ check ╟──────────────┬───────────────┤ Normal │\ │
Infor- │ ║ No OA │ OA │subscriber│\ │ mation │
╟───────┬──────┼───────┬───────┤ │\ │ │ ║No OCB │ OCB │No OCB │ OCB │ │\
╞═════════╪═════════╬═══════╪══════╪═══════╪═══════╪══════════╡\ │Interlock│
Match ║ IC │Reject│ IC │Reject │ - │\
├─────────┼─────────╫───────┼──────┼───────┼───────┼──────────┤\ │Interlock│
Match ║ IC │Reject│ IC+OA │ Normal│Interlock │\
│+Outgoing├─────────╫───────┴──────┼───────┴───────┤+ Outgoing│\ │ Access │No
Match ║ Reject │ Interlock+OA │ Access │\
├─────────┼─────────╫──────────────┼───────────────┼──────────┤\ │ No CUG │ -
║ Reject │ Normal │ Normal │\ │ Info. │ ║ │ call │ call │\
└─────────┴─────────╨──────────────┴───────────────┴──────────┘
NOTE: \"-\" = Not applicable.\ Reason for rejection in all cases:\ Called
party supplementary service interaction violation.
#### 1.1.5.2 Interaction with call waiting
There is no interaction with call waiting, however a CUG call indication shall
be provided with the call waiting indication if the criteria for indicating a
CUG call are met.
#### 1.1.5.3 Interaction with Anonymous Call Rejection
If a CUG call is offered to a called user belonging to the same closed user
group then there is no interaction with the Anonymous Call Rejection
supplementary service; even if the calling number is withheld and the called
user has the Anonymous Call Rejection supplementary service the CUG call shall
still be permitted.
If the called user also has the incoming access capability within the closed
user group supplementary service, and if the offered call to the called user
is also a non-closed user group call or a closed user group call to which the
called party does not belong, if the calling party number is withheld and the
called user has the Anonymous Call Rejection supplementary service the call
shall be denied as specified in 3GPP TS 23.088 [3] section 8.
## 1.2 Functions and information flows
### 1.2.1 Functions
The following Mobile Additional Functions (MAF) have been identified for the
CUG supplementary service:
[MAF14]{.underline}
Mobile Originated CUG call authorisation.
The ability of a PLMN to determine whether a subscriber is authorised to
attempt the establishment of a call request related to CUG. See figure 1.1.
Location: VLR.
The purpose of this function is to check the provisioning of CUG against the
requested Basic Service, perform an Index to Interlock conversion where an
Index is provided, check whether O/G calls are barred within the CUG, deal
with preferential CUGs, OA and any CUG related suppression indicators.
The call request may contain either no CUG information or combinations of the
following CUG parameters: CUG Index, Suppress Outgoing Access indicator,
Suppress Preferential CUG indicator.
On successful authorisation the call is established with one of the following:
no CUG information, CUG Interlock Code, CUG Interlock Code and Outgoing Access
indicator. If a CUG is implicitly invoked the VLR may optionally provide the
related CUG Index as an indication to the calling user.
On unsuccessful authorisation the call is rejected and a rejection reason
given.
Table 1.3 specifies the VLRs response to CUG related call establishment
requests.
Table 1.3: MO CUG Call Authorisation Function (VLR)
┌───────────╥──────────────────────────────────────────────────┐\ │ Calling ║
Information provided by calling user │\ │ user
╟────────┬──────────┬─────────┬─────────┬──────────┤\ │ subscrip. ║ No CUG
│CUG Index │Suppress │Suppress │ CI+SOA │\ │ for Basic ║ Info. │ (CI) │ OA
│Pref CUG │ or CI+ │\ │ Service ║ │or CI+SPC │ (SOA) │ (SPC) │ SOA+SPC │\
╞═══════════╬════════╪══════════╪═════════╪═════════╪══════════╡\ │CUG
without║ Reject │Interlock │ Reject │ Reject │Interlock │\ │ Pref CUG. ║ │ │ │
│ │\ │ No OA ║ note 1 │note 2,3,4│ note 1 │ note 1 │note 2,3,4│\
├───────────╫────────┼──────────┼─────────┼─────────┼──────────┤\ │ CUG with ║
│Interlock │ │ Reject │Interlock │\ │ Pref CUG. ║IC(pref)│ │IC(pref) │ │ │\ │
No OA ║ │note 2,3,4│ │ note 1 │note 2,3,4│\
├───────────╫────────┼──────────┼─────────┼─────────┼──────────┤\ │CUG with
OA║ Normal │ IC+OA │ Reject │ Normal │Interlock │\ │and without║ call │ │ │
call │ │\ │ Pref CUG ║ │note 3,4,5│ note 1 │ │note 2,3,4│\
├───────────╫────────┼──────────┼─────────┼─────────┼──────────┤\ │ CUG with
║IC(pref)│ IC+OA │ │ Normal │Interlock │\ │ Pref CUG ║ +OA │ │IC(pref) │ call
│ │\ │and with OA║ │note 3,4,5│ │ │note 2,3,4│\
├───────────╫────────┼──────────┼─────────┼─────────┼──────────┤\ │ Normal ║
Normal │ Normal │ Normal │ Normal │ Normal │\ │subscriber ║ call │ call │ call
│ call │ call │\
└───────────╨────────┴──────────┴─────────┴─────────┴──────────┘
NOTE 1: \"Inconsistent access information - no CUG selected\".
NOTE 2: If the intra-CUG restriction option \"Outgoing calls barred within the
CUG\" is applicable for the requested CUG, the call shall be rejected, reason
for rejection \"Outgoing calls barred within the CUG\".
NOTE 3: If an index is provided which is not recognised by the network the
call is rejected, reason for rejection \"Unknown CUG Index\".
NOTE 4: If an index is provided which does not match with the interlock(s) of
the requested basic service the call is rejected, reason for rejection
\"Inconsistent access information - Index incompatible with requested basic
service\".
NOTE 5: If a CUG is selected using a CUG Index but the intra-CUG restriction
option \"Outgoing calls barred within the CUG\" is applicable, and the calling
user subscription includes OA for the requested Basic Service the call shall
be attempted as a normal call with no CUG information included in the call
establishment signalling.
An SDL indicating when the authorisation function is invoked in the VLR is
shown in figure 1.1. Inputs and outputs to the SDL apply to the serving MSC.
[MAF15]{.underline}
Mobile Terminated CUG call authorisation.
The ability of a PLMN to compare received calling party information against a
called party subscription for CUG integrity. See figure 1.2.
Location: HLR.
The purpose of this function is to identify a match between calling and called
party CUG attributes for a given basic service, whilst enforcing intra-CUG
communication restrictions. If no match is obtained the call is rejected.
The calling party CUG attributes may be either a CUG Interlock Code or a CUG
Interlock Code and Outgoing Access indicator.
Table 1.4 indicates the HLRs response to incoming CUG calls, or incoming calls
to CUG subscribers.
On successful authorisation the call establishment is continued using one of
the following: no CUG information, CUG Interlock Code, Interlock Code and
Outgoing Access indicator.
On unsuccessful authorisation the call is rejected and a rejection reason
given.
Table 1.4: MT CUG Call Authorisation Function (HLR)
┌─────────┬─────╥────────────────────────────────────────────┐\ │ │ ║ Called
party subscription for Basic Service│\ │ Calling │
╟─────────────────────────────────────┬──────┤\ │ Party │Inter║ CUG subscriber
│ │\ │ CUG │-lock╟──────────────────┬──────────────────┤Normal│\ │ Infor-
│check║ No IA │ IA │ subs.│\ │ mation │
╟─────────┬────────┼─────────┬────────┤ │\ │ │ ║ No ICB │ ICB │ No ICB │ ICB │
│\ ╞═════════╪═════╬═════════╪════════╪═════════╪════════╪══════╡\ │
│Match║Interlock│ Reject │Interlock│ Reject │ │\ │Interlock│ ║ Code │ note 1 │
Code │ note 1 │Reject│\ │ Code ├─────╫─────────┴────────┼─────────┴────────┤
│\ │ (IC) │ No ║ Reject │ Reject │note 2│\ │ │Match║ note 2 │ note 2 │ │\
├─────────┼─────╫─────────┬────────┼─────────┬────────┼──────┤\
│Interlock│Match║ IC+OA │ Reject │ IC+OA │ IC+OA │ │\ │+Outgoing│ ║ │ note 1 │
│ │ │\ │ Access ├─────╫─────────┴────────┼─────────┴────────┤ IC+OA│\ │
(IC+OA) │ No ║ Reject │ IC+OA │ │\ │ │Match║ note 2 │ │ │\
├─────────┼─────╫──────────────────┼──────────────────┼──────┤\ │ No CUG │ - ║
Reject │ Normal call │Normal│\ │ Info. │ ║ note 3 and 4 │ │ call │\
└─────────┴─────╨──────────────────┴──────────────────┴──────┘
Notes on reasons for rejections:
NOTE 1: \"Incoming calls barred within the CUG\".
NOTE 2: \"Interlock mismatch\".
NOTE 3: \"Requested basic service violates CUG constraints\" A non-CUG call
has invoked (via a particular basic service) a CUG which does not have an
Incoming Access capability.
NOTE 4: See subclause 1.6.
An SDL indicating when the function is invoked in the HLR is shown in figure
1.2. Inputs and outputs to the SDL apply to the GMSC.
### 1.2.2 Information flows
The information flows for the CUG supplementary service are shown in figures
1.3 to 1.7.
List of figures:
\- figure 1.3 Mobile Originated CUG calls;
\- figure 1.4 Mobile Terminated CUG calls;
\- figure 1.5 MT CUG call handling at the called party MSC/VLR;
\- figure 1.6 Interworking with Non-ISDN/Non-GSM networks;
\- figure 1.7 CUG interworking with Non-CUG GSM PLMN.
NOTE to figures 1.3 to 1.7:\ \"Conditional CUG Info\" means that CUG
information may or may not be present in the signalling message depending on
the call case. These figures are intended to cover all call cases described in
the CUG authorisation functions.
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.50625in"}
Figure 1.1: MAF014 Mobile Originated CUG call authorisation (VLR)
{width="6.217361111111111in" height="7.50625in"}
Figure 1.2: MAF015 Mobile Terminated CUG call authorisation (HLR)
MS MSC VLR NWb-GMSC
[]{.underline}
[MO CUG call request]{.underline}
Set-up
\----------->
(Conditional User CUG Info)
Send info O/G call
\--------------->
(Conditional User CUG Info)
[]{.underline}
[MO CUG call authorisation unsuccessful]{.underline}
MAF14: Fail
Reject
\
\
Indication* (Conditional CUG Info)
\
(Conditional CUG Info)
Routing Request
\--------------->
(Conditional CUG Info)
[Unsuccessful MT CUG call authorisation]{.underline}
MAF15: Fail
Reject
\
(Conditional CUG Info)
NOTE: MAF15: MT CUG call authorisation.
Figure 1.4: Mobile Terminated CUG calls
GMSCb VLRb MSCb MSb
[Successful incoming CUG call at B party MSC/VLR]{.underline}
Set-up
\-------------------------------->
(Conditional CUG Info)
I/C Call
\
(Conditional Index)
Set-up
\------------>
(Conditional Index)
Figure 1.5: MT CUG call handling at called party MSC/VLR
MSC VLR IWMSC LE
[Successfully authorised MO CUG call, via interworking exchange]{.underline}
MAF14:Pass
Complete
\
(CUG Info)
OR1: No
Release
\
No CUG Info
NOTE: MAF14: MO CUG call Authorisation\ OR1: CUG Info = IC+OA
Figure 1.6: Interworking with Non-ISDN/Non-GSM networks
MS GMSCa GMSCb HLRb
[Successfully authorised MO CUG call to non-CUG GSM network]{.underline}
[]{.underline}
Set-up
\--------------->
(CUG Info)
OR1:No
Release
\
No CUG Info
NOTE: OR1: CUG Info = IC+OA
Figure 1.7: CUG Interworking with Non-CUG GSM PLMN
## 1.3 Information stored in the HLR
For the supplementary service Closed User Group the HLR shall store:
\- per subscription (IMSI) a list of CUG Interlock codes up to a maximum
specified in GSM 02.85.
Against each Interlock code the following parameters shall be stored:
\- CUG Index;
\- Intra-CUG restrictions;
which may take one of the following values:
\- None;
\- Incoming calls barred within the CUG;
\- Outgoing calls barred within the CUG.
\- Application to basic services;
which may take one of the following types of value:
\- List of Basic Services Groups for which the CUG applies;
\- All basic services.
Against each Basic Service Group which is subject to CUG, the following shall
be stored:
\- Inter-CUG accessibility;
which may take one of the following values:
\- None designated;
\- Outgoing Access;
\- Incoming Access;
\- Outgoing and Incoming Access.
\- Preferential CUG;
which may take one of the following types of value:
\- CUG Index;
\- None designated.
## 1.4 Information stored in the VLR
For the supplementary service Closed User Group the VLR shall store:
\- per subscription (IMSI) a list of CUG Interlock codes up to a maximum
specified in GSM 02.85.
Against each Interlock code the following parameters shall be stored:
\- CUG Index;
\- Intra-CUG restrictions;
which may take one of the following values:
\- None;
\- Incoming calls barred within the CUG;
\- Outgoing calls barred within the CUG.
\- Application to basic services;
which may take one of the following types of value:
\- List of Basic Services Groups for which the CUG applies;
\- All basic services.
Against each Basic Service Group which is subject to CUG, the following shall
be stored:
\- Inter-CUG accessibility;
which may take one of the following values:
\- None designated;
\- Outgoing Access;
\- Incoming Access;
\- Outgoing and Incoming Access.
\- Preferential CUG;
which may take one of the following types of value:
\- CUG Index;
\- None designated.
## 1.5 Handover
Handover will have no impact on the control procedures and operation of the
service.
## 1.6 Cross phase compatibility
### 1.6.1 MSC, VLR only support phase 1
See subclause 1.1.3 \"CUG subscriber roaming requirements\".
### 1.6.2 GMSC only supports phase 1
When a routing request according to MAP phase 1 from GMSC (no CUG info) is
received in the HLR and the called party does not have Incoming Access
capability the HLR shall reject the routing request with the error \"Call
barred\" instead the error \"CUG-Reject\".
NOTE: The error \"CUG-Reject\" is not available in the MAP phase 1 protocol.
#