# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface core
network protocols within the 3^rd^ generation mobile telecommunications system
and the digital cellular telecommunications system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document includes references to features which are not part of the
Phase 2+ Release 96 of the GSM Technical specifications. All subclauses which
were changed as a result of these features contain a marker (see table below)
relevant to the particular feature.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(Reference Point Um, see 3GPP TS 24.002 [15]) for Call Control (CC), Mobility
Management (MM), and Session Management (SM).
When the notations for \"further study\" or \"FS\" or \"FFS\" are present in
the present document they mean that the indicated text is not a normative
portion of this standard.
These procedures are defined in terms of messages exchanged over the control
channels of the radio interface. The control channels are described in 3GPP TS
44.003 [16].
The structured functions and procedures of this protocol and the relationship
with other layers and entities are described in general terms in 3GPP TS
24.007 [20].
## 1.1 Scope of the Technical Specification
The procedures currently described in the present document are for the call
control of circuit-switched connections, session management for GPRS services,
mobility management and radio resource management for circuit-switched and
GPRS services.
3GPP TS 24.010 [21] contains functional procedures for support of
supplementary services.
3GPP TS 24.011 [22] contains functional procedures for support of point-to-
point short message services.
3GPP TS 24.012 [23] contains functional description of short message - cell
broadcast.
3GPP TS 44.060 [76] contains procedures for radio link control and medium
access control (RLC/MAC) of packet data physical channels.
3GPP TS 44.018 [80] contains the procedures for the RR protocol.
3GPP TS 24.008 [81] contains the procedures for the CN protocols.
3GPP TS 44.071 [23a] contains functional descriptions and procedures for
support of location services.
NOTE: \"layer 3\" includes the functions and protocols described in this
Technical Specification. The terms \"data link layer\" and \"layer 2\" are
used interchangeably to refer to the layer immediately below layer 3.
## 1.2 Application to the interface structures
The layer 3 procedures apply to the interface structures defined in 3GPP TS
44.003 [16]. They use the functions and services provided by layer 2 defined
in 3GPP TS 44.005 [18] and 3GPP TS 44.006 [19]. 3GPP TS 24.007 [20] gives the
general description of layer 3 including procedures, messages format and error
handling.
## 1.3 Structure of layer 3 procedures
A building block method is used to describe the layer 3 procedures.
The basic building blocks are \"elementary procedures\" provided by the
protocol control entities of the three sublayers, i.e. radio resource
management, mobility management and connection management sublayer.
Complete layer 3 transactions consist of specific sequences of elementary
procedures. The term \"structured procedure\" is used for these sequences.
## 1.4 Test procedures
Test procedures of the GSM radio interface signalling are described in 3GPP TS
51.010 [39] and 3GPP TS 51.02x series.
## 1.5 Use of logical channels
The logical control channels are defined in 3GPP TS 45.002 [32]. In the
following those control channels are considered which carry signalling
information or specific types of user packet information:
i) Broadcast Control CHannel (BCCH): downlink only, used to broadcast Cell
specific information;
ii) Synchronization CHannel (SCH): downlink only, used to broadcast
synchronization and BSS identification information;
iii) Paging CHannel (PCH): downlink only, used to send page requests to Mobile
Stations (MSs);
iv) Random Access CHannel (RACH): uplink only, used to request a Dedicated
Control CHannel;
v) Access Grant CHannel (AGCH): downlink only, used to allocate a Dedicated
Control CHannel;
vi) Standalone Dedicated Control CHannel (SDCCH): bi-directional;
vii) Fast Associated Control CHannel (FACCH): bi-directional, associated with
a Traffic CHannel;
viii)Slow Associated Control CHannel (SACCH): bi-directional, associated with
a SDCCH or a Traffic CHannel;
ix) Cell Broadcast CHannel (CBCH): downlink only used for general (not point
to point) short message information.
x) Notification CHannel (NCH): downlink only, used to notify mobile stations
of VBS (Voice Broadcast Service) calls or VGCS (Voice Group Call Service)
calls.
Two service access points are defined on signalling layer 2 which are
discriminated by their Service Access Point Identifiers (SAPI) (see 3GPP TS
44.006 [19]):
i) SAPI 0: supports the transfer of signalling information including user-user
information;
ii) SAPI 3: supports the transfer of user short messages.
Layer 3 selects the service access point, the logical control channel and the
mode of operation of layer 2 (acknowledged, unacknowledged or random access,
see 3GPP TS 44.005 [18] and 3GPP TS 44.006 [19]) as required for each
individual message.
## 1.6 Overview of control procedures
### 1.6.1 List of procedures
The following procedures are specified in the Technical Specification:
a) Clause 4 specifies elementary procedures for Mobility Management:
\- mobility management common procedures (subclause 4.3);
\- TMSI reallocation procedure (subclause 4.3.1);
\- authentication procedure (subclause 4.3.2);
\- identification procedure (subclause 4.3.3);
\- IMSI detach procedure (subclause 4.3.4);
\- abort procedure (subclause 4.3.5);
\- MM information procedure (subclause 4.3.6);
\- mobility management specific procedures (subclause 4.4);
\- location updating procedure (subclause 4.4.1);
\- periodic updating (subclause 4.4.2);
\- IMSI attach procedure (subclause 4.4.3);
\- generic location updating procedure (subclause 4.4);
\- connection management sublayer service provision;
\- mobility management connection establishment (subclause 4.5.1);
\- mobility management connection information transfer phase (subclause
4.5.2);
\- mobility management connection release (subclause 4.5.3);
\- GPRS specific mobility management procedures (subclause 4.7);
\- GPRS attach procedure (subclause 4.7.3);
\- GPRS detach procedure (subclause 4.7.4);
\- GPRS routing area updating procedure (subclause 4.7.5);
\- GPRS common mobility management procedures (subclause 4.7);
\- GPRS P-TMSI reallocation procedure (subclause 4.7.6);
\- GPRS authentication and ciphering procedure (subclause 4.7.7);
\- GPRS identification procedure (subclause 4.7.8);
\- GPRS information procedure (subclause 4.7.12);
b) Clause 5 specifies elementary procedures for circuit switched Call Control
comprising the following elementary procedures:
\- mobile originating call establishment (subclause 5.2.1);
\- mobile terminating call establishment (subclause 5.2.2);
\- signalling procedures during the active state (subclause 5.3);
\- user notification procedure (subclause 5.3.1);
\- call rearrangements (subclause 5.3.2);
\- DTMF protocol control procedure (subclause 5.5.7);
\- in-call modification (subclause 5.3.4);
\- call clearing initiated by the mobile station (subclause 5.4.3);
\- call clearing initiated by the network (subclause 5.4.4);
\- miscellaneous procedures;
\- in-band tones and announcements (subclause 5.5.1);
\- status enquiry procedure (subclause 5.5.3);
\- call re-establishment procedure (subclause 5.5.4);
d) Clause 6 specifies elementary procedures for session management:
\- GPRS session management procedures (subclause 6.1);
\- PDP context activation (subclause 6.1.1);
\- PDP context modification (subclause 6.1.2);
\- PDP context deactivation (subclause 6.1.3);
\- anonymous PDP context activation (subclause 6.1.4);
\- anonymous PDP context deactivation (subclause 6.1.5).
The elementary procedures can be combined to form structured procedures.
Examples of such structured procedures are given in clause 7. This part of the
Technical Specification is only provided for guidance to assist
implementations.
Clause 8 specifies actions to be taken on various error conditions and also
provides rules to ensure compatibility with future enhancements of the
protocol.
## 1.7 Applicability of implementations
The applicability of procedures of this technical specification for the mobile
station is dependent on the services and functions which are to be supported
by a mobile station.
### 1.7.1 Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) and Voice Broadcast Service (VBS)
For mobile stations supporting the Voice Group Call Service or the Voice
Broadcast Service, it is explicitly mentioned throughout this technical
specification if a certain procedure is applicable only for such a service
and, if necessary, how mobile stations not supporting such a service shall
behave.
For VGCS and VBS, the following possible mobile station implementations exist:
\- support of listening to voice broadcast calls (VBS listening);
\- support of originating a voice broadcast call (VBS originating);
\- support of listening to voice group calls (VGCS listening);
\- support of talking in voice group calls (VGCS talking. This always includes
the implementation for VGCS listening);
\- support of originating a voice group call (VGCS originating. This always
includes the implementation for VGCS talking).
Apart from the explicitly mentioned combinations, all possible combinations
are optional and supported by this technical specification.
The related terms are used in this technical specification, if information on
these implementation options is required.
### 1.7.2 General Packet Radio Service (GPRS)
For mobile stations supporting the General Packet Radio Service (GPRS), it is
explicitly mentioned throughout the technical specification if a certain
procedure is applicable only for such a service and, if necessary, how mobile
stations not supporting such a service shall behave.
A GPRS MS may operate in one of the following MS operation modes, see 3GPP TS
23.060 [74]:
\- MS operation mode A;
\- MS operation mode B; or
\- MS operation mode C.
The MS operation mode depends on the services that the MS is attached to,
i.e., only GPRS or both GPRS and non-GPRS services, and upon the MS\'s
capabilities to operate GPRS and other GSM services simultaneously. Mobile
stations that are capable to operate GPRS services are referred to as GPRS
MSs.
NOTE: Other GSM technical specifications may refer to the MS operation modes
A, B, and C as GPRS class‑A MS, GPRS class‑B MS, and GPRS class‑C MS.
It should be noted that it is possible that for a GPRS MS, the GMM procedures
currently described in the ETS do not support combinations of VGCS, VBS and
GPRS. The possible interactions are not studied yet.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[2] Void.
[2a] 3GPP TR 21.905 \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[12a] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[16] 3GPP TS 44.003: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Channel structures and access capabilities\".
[17] Void.
[18] 3GPP TS 44.005: \"Data Link (DL) layer; General aspects\".
[19] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.012: \"Short Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support on
the mobile radio interface\".
[23a] 3GPP TS 44.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Mobile radio interface layer
3 specification\".
[23b] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] Void.
[26] Void.
[27] Void.
[28] Void.
[29] Void.
[30] Void.
[31] Void.
[32] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[33] Void.
[34] Void.
[35] Void.
[36] Void.
[37] Void.
[38] Void.
[39] 3GPP TS 51.010: \"Mobile Station (MS) conformance specification\".
[40] Void.
[41] Void.
[42] Void.
[43] Void.
[44] Void.
[45] Void.
[46] Void.
[47] Void.
[48] Void.
[49] Void.
[50] Void.
[51] Void.
[52] Void.
[53] Void.
[54] Void.
[55] Void.
[56] Void.
[57] Void.
[58] Void.
[59] Void.
[60] Void.
[61] Void.
[62] Void.
[63] Void.
[64] Void.
[65] Void.
[66] Void.
[67] Void.
[68] Void.
[69] Void.
[70] Void.
[71] Void.
[72] Void.
[73] Void.
[74] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
Description; Stage 2\".
[75] Void.
[76] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station
(MS) - Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control/Medium Access
Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[77] Void.
[78] Void.
[79] Void.
[80] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[81] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
## 2.1 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [2a] apply.
### 2.1.1 Random values
For the RR protocol see 3GPP TS 44.018 and for the CN protocols see 3GPP TS
24.008 [81].
### 2.2.2 Vocabulary
For the RR protocol see 3GPP TS 44.018 [80] and for the CN protocols see 3GPP
TS 24.008 [81].
# 3 Radio Resource management procedures
See 3GPP TS 44.018 [80].
# 4 Elementary procedures for Mobility Management
See 3GPP TS 24.008 [81].
# 5 Elementary procedures for circuit-switched Call Control
See 3GPP TS 24.008 [81].
# 6 Support for packet services
See 3GPP TS 24.008 [81].
# 7 Examples of structured procedures
Clause 7 is informative.
## 7.1 General
Clause 7 contains examples of how the network may group together the
elementary procedures (i.e. the procedures defined in clauses 3 to 5) in order
to provide normal service.
The layer 3 signalling at the radio interface may be divided into so-called
structured procedures which consist of specific combinations of elementary
procedures. In subclause 7.3, selected examples of structured procedures are
described. A structured procedure consists of (not necessarily all) components
shown in figure 7.1. These components are characterized by the purpose of
their use in structured procedures and their message flow in the following
subclauses 7.1.1 to 7.1.7.
+- -+
│ Paging request │ RR connection
│ Immediate assignment │ establishment
+- -+
+- -+
│ Service request and │
│ Contention resolution │
+- -+
+- -+
│ Authentication │
+- -+
+- -+
│ Ciphering mode setting │
+- -+
+- -+
│ Transaction phase │
+- -+
+- -+
│ Channel release │ RR connection
+- -+ release
Figure 7.1/3GPP TS 23.108: Components of structured procedures
### 7.1.1 Paging request
The paging procedure is used to locate a mobile station to which a connection
shall be established.
Upon receipt of a PAGING REQUEST message the addressed mobile station
initiates the immediate assignment procedure.
Mobile Station Network
PAGING REQUEST\ \\ \ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT\
\\ \ UA(service request)\
\
Figure 7.5/3GPP TS 23.108: Authentication
### 7.1.5 Ciphering mode setting
Ciphering mode setting is initiated by the network. Its purpose is to instruct
the mobile station whether or not to use ciphering and which algorithm to use.
Where ciphering is used, this procedure synchronizes the start of ciphering at
the mobile station and in the network.
Mobile Station Network
CIPHer MODE CoMmanD\ \
Figure 7.6/3GPP TS 23.108: Ciphering mode setting
### 7.1.6 Transaction phase
A variety of elementary procedures described in clauses 3 to 5 may be
performed during the transaction phase. In this subclause, only the channel
mode modify procedure is characterized.
#### 7.1.6.1 Channel mode modify
The channel mode modify procedure may be used when a traffic channel has been
assigned e.g.:
\- during the in-call modification procedure in order that the channel mode of
the TCH be changed to that one requested by call control;
\- during call establishment with very early assignment in order that the
channel mode of the TCH be changed from signalling only to the mode requested
by call control;
\- during the active phase of a data call in order that the speed of the data
transmission be changed.
The channel mode modify procedure is initiated by the network sending a
CHANNEL MODE MODIFY message and completed by the mobile station changing the
mode of the TCH and sending back a CHANNEL MODE MODIFY ACKNOWLEDGE message.
Mobile Station Network
CHANNEL MODE MODIFY\ \
Figure 7.7/3GPP TS 23.108: Channel mode change
### 7.1.7 Channel release
Once the transaction phase has been completed, the channel is released by the
channel release procedure. The data link layer is released explicitly as
described in 3GPP TS 44.006 [19]. After the channel release is completed, the
radio resources which were in use may be reallocated by the network.
Mobile Station Network
CHANNEL RELEASE\ \ Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ \---------------------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ │ (MO)
>
> │ │
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │
>
> │ LOCATION UPDATING REQUEST │
>
> │ \----------------------------------------> │ Service request
>
> │ │
>
> │ │
>
> │ │
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │
>
> │ \
> │ │
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ \----------------------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │
>
> │ CIPHER MODE COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ │ setting
>
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │
>
> │ \----------------------------------------->│
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ LOCATION UPDATING ACCEPT │
>
> │ \
> │ │
>
> │ TMSI REALLOCATION COMPLETE │
>
> │ \---------------------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL RELEASE │ RR connection
>
> │ \
> │ │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.9/3GPP TS 23.108: Location updating: successful case
### 7.3.2 Mobile originating call establishment
The mobile station initiates immediate assignment, service request using the
CM SERVICE REQUEST message, and contention resolution. The network may
initiate authentication and may start the ciphering mode setting.
After sending the CIPHERING MODE COMPLETE message, the mobile station
initiates call establishment by sending the SETUP message to the network. The
network answers with a CALL PROCEEDING message.
a) Non-OACSU option (early assignment):
With this option the network allocates a traffic channel to the mobile station
before it initiates call establishment in the fixed network.
If call queuing is applied, it may cause variable delay in the traffic channel
assignment.
When user alerting has been initiated at the called side, an ALERTING message
is sent to the mobile station. The network may optionally instruct the MS to
attach the user connection at this stage of the call, by means of the progress
indicator information element set to the value #1 or #8 (if the ringing tone
will be sent by the remote end) in the ALERTING message. In that case, an
alerting ringing tone has to be generated by the network.
NOTE: The speech codec is transparent for supervisory tones.
A CONNECT message and its acknowledgement CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE complete the
call establishment when the called party has answered.
The mobile originating call setup with early assignment is shown in figure
7.10a/3GPP TS 23.108.
b) OACSU option (late assignment):
The network determines when the traffic channel is to be assigned. The
assignment may be performed at any time after call establishment has been
initiated in the fixed network. In the following the case is considered where
the network will only allocate a traffic channel after the called party has
answered the call (late assignment).
As in a) an ALERTING message is sent to the mobile station when user alerting
has been initiated at the called side. If the ringing tone is needed, it has
to be generated locally at the mobile station as no traffic channel is
allocated. When the called party has answered, the network will initiate the
channel assignment procedure in order to allocate a traffic channel to the
mobile station. If call queuing is applied, it may cause variable delay in the
traffic channel assignment. Once the channel assignment has been completed the
network will send a CONNECT message to the mobile station. The MS attaches
then the user connection. The CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE message will complete the
call setup.
The mobile originating call setup with late assignment is shown in figure
7.10b/3GPP TS 23.108.
c) Very early assignment:
The network assigns the traffic channel at the earliest possible moment, i.e.
in the immediate assignment procedure. The mode of the traffic channel is
changed from signalling only to the mode necessary for the call by means of
the channel mode change procedure. An appropriate moment for that change is
after the network has sent the CALL PROCEEDING message, when the call is
established towards the called user.
With this option, call queuing is never applied.
The further establishment of the call is as in a).
The mobile originating call setup with very early assignment is shown in
figure 7.10c/3GPP TS 23.108.
ß
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MO)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CM SERVICE REQUEST │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Service request
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHER MODE COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ --------------------------> │ Call initiation
>
> │ CALL PROCEEDING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic
>
> │ --------------------------> │ channel
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ \
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.10a/3GPP TS 23.108: Mobile originating call establishment without
OACSU (early assignment)
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MO)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+ Service indication
>
> │ CM SERVICE REQUEST │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> │ │
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHER MODE COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ --------------------------> │ Call initiation
>
> │ CALL PROCEEDING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic
>
> │ --------------------------> │ channel
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ \
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.10b/3GPP TS 23.108: Mobile originating call establishment with OACSU
(late assignment)
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ --------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT(TCH) │ (MO)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CM SERVICE REQUEST │
>
> │ --------------------------> │ Service request
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHentication REQuest │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ ---------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHER MODE COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHer MODe COMplete │ mode setting
>
> │ ---------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ --------------------------> │ Call initiation
>
> │ CALL PROCeeding │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL MODE MODIFY │
>
> │ \
> │ CHANNEL MODE MODIFY ACKNOWLEDGE │ mode
>
> │ ---------------------------> │ change
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNect │
>
> │ \
> │ CONNect ACKnowledge │
>
> │ ---------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.10c/3GPP TS 23.108: Mobile originating call establishment with very
early assignment
### 7.3.3 Mobile terminating call establishment
Mobile terminating call establishment is initiated by the network sending a
PAGING REQUEST message (see figure 7.11a/3GPP TS 23.108). Upon receiving this
message the mobile station initiates the immediate assignment procedure and
responds to the network by sending the PAGING RESPONSE message within a layer
2 SABM frame. The network returns a layer 2 UA frame containing the same
information field as was sent in the SABM frame.
Authentication and ciphering are treated by the network in the same way as
defined for the mobile originating call establishment (subclause 7.3.2). After
ciphering has been started, the network sends a SETUP message to the mobile
station. The capability of the mobile station (at that time) to accept the
call is confirmed when the mobile station returns a CALL CONFIRMED message to
the network.
a) Non-OACSU option (early assignment):
With this option the network initiates the assignment of a traffic channel
upon receiving the CALL CONFIRMED message.
The signal IE is not included in the SETUP message, therefore user alerting is
initiated only after a traffic channel has been allocated. An ALERTING message
will be sent to the network.
When the called user answers, the mobile station sends a CONNECT message to
the network. Upon receiving the CONNECT message the network completes the
through connection of the communication path and sends a CONNECT ACK message
to the mobile station.
b) OACSU option (late assignment):
In that option, the signalling IE is included in the SETUP message.
Consequently, user alerting is initiated as soon as the MS has accepted the
call.
The network determines when the traffic channel is to be assigned. The
assignment may be performed at any time after user alerting has been
initiated. In the following the case is considered where the network will only
allocate a traffic channel to the mobile station after having received the
CONNECT message sent from the mobile station (see figure 7.11b).
Upon receiving the ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE message from the mobile station, the
network completes the through connection of the communication path and sends a
CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE message to the mobile station.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING REQUEST │
>
> │ \
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MT)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Service request
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHer MODe COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ \
> │ CALL CONFIRMED │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic
>
> │ --------------------------> │ channel
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ User alerting
>
> +- -+ information
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ --------------------------> │ Call accepted
>
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
Figure 7.11a/3GPP TS 23.108: Mobile terminating: call establishment without
OACSU (early assignment)
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING REQUEST │
>
> │ \
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MT)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Service request
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHer MODe COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ \
> │ CALL CONFIRMED │
>
> │ --------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ User alerting
>
> +- -+ information
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic
>
> │ --------------------------> │ channel
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
Figure 7.11b/3GPP TS 23.108: Mobile terminating: call establishment with OACSU
(late assignment)
### 7.3.4 Call clearing
a) initiated by the network
The network initiates the clearing of a call by sending a DISCONNECT message
to the mobile station (see also subclause 5.4.4).
Upon receiving the DISCONNECT message from the network the mobile station
sends a RELEASE message to the network.
Upon receiving the RELEASE message from the mobile station, the network sends
a RELEASE COMPLETE to the mobile station and, if the traffic channel is longer
needed (e.g. last activity on the traffic channel), performs the channel
release procedure as described in subclause 7.1.7.
Upon receiving the RELEASE COMPLETE message and if the cleared call was the
last activity on the traffic channel, the mobile station waits for the release
of the channel which is always initiated by the network.
When there exist multiple traffic channels in the Multicall environment the
network does not release (i.e. retains) a traffic channel even if the cleared
call was the last activity on the traffic channel under the condition as
follows;
\- a waiting call exists and the mobile station does not indicates to the
network which bearer will be used for accepting the waiting call yet; and
\- there exists no retained bearer for the waiting call.
When the mobile station receives SETUP message with Signal IE indicating Call
Waiting, which means the network cannot provide any additional traffic
channel, then:
\- the MS shall not request a new SI value before releasing any other call
(that leads to release any other bearers than the retained bearer);
\- If the mobile station indicates the different SI value from the retained
bearer after releasing any other calls (that leads to release any other bearer
than the retained bearer), the network allocates a new TCH for the call, and
releases the retained bearer.
Call clearing initiated by the network is shown in figure 7.12a.
b) initiated by the mobile station:
The mobile station initiates the clearing of a call by sending a DISCONNECT
message to the network (see also subclause 5.4.3).
Upon receiving the DISCONNECT message from the mobile station the network
sends a RELEASE message to the mobile station.
Upon receiving the RELEASE message from the network, the mobile station sends
a RELEASE COMPLETE to the network, which, if the traffic channel is no longer
needed (e.g. last activity on the traffic channel), performs the channel
release procedure as described in subclause 7.1.6.
When there exist multiple traffic channels in the Multicall environment the
network does not release (i.e. retains) a traffic channel even if the cleared
call was the last activity on the traffic channel under the condition as
follows:
\- a waiting call exists and the mobile station does not indicates to the
network which bearer will be used for accepting the waiting call yet; and
\- there exists no retained bearer for the waiting call.
When the mobile station receives SETUP message with Signaling IE indicating
Call Waiting, which means network cannot provide any additional traffic
channel, then:
\- The MS shall not request a new SI value before releasing any other call
(that leads to release any other bearers than the retained bearer);
\- If the mobile station indicates the different SI value from the retained
bearer after releasing any other calls (that leads to release any other bearer
than the retained bearer), the network allocates a new TCH for the call, and
releases the retained bearer.
Call clearing initiated by the mobile station is shown in figure 7.12b.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ DISCONNECT │
>
> │ \
> │ RELEASE │
>
> │ -----------------------> │
>
> │ RELEASE COMPLETE │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL RELEASE │ RR connection
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> a) Call clearing initiated by the network
Figure 7.12a/3GPP TS 23.108: Call clearing
a)
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ DISCONNECT │
>
> │ ------------------------> │ Call clearing
>
> │ RELEASE │
>
> │ \
> │ RELEASE COMPLETE │
>
> │ -----------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL RELEASE │ RR connection
>
> │ \
> +- -+
b) Call clearing initiated by the MS
Figure 7.12b/3GPP TS 23.108: Call clearing
### 7.3.5 DTMF protocol control
Figure 7.13 shows the structured procedure for DTMF protocol control.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │ active call
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> .
>
> +- -+
>
> │ START DTMF │ DTMF generation
>
> │ ------------------------------> │ started
>
> │ START DTMF ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ STOP DTMF │ DTMF generation stopped
>
> │ -------------------------------> │
>
> │ STOP DTMF ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ \
> +- : -+
>
> :
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │ active call
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.13/3GPP TS 23.108: DTMF protocol control
### 7.3.6 Handover
Figure 7.14 shows the structured procedure for handover to a finely
synchronized cell, successful case.
Figure 7.15 shows the structured procedure for handover to a non-synchronized
cell, successful case.
Figure 7.16 shows the structured procedure for handover failure, and
reconnection to the old traffic channel.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │
>
> │ │ RR connection established
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+ handover
>
> │ HANDOVER COMMAND │ old channel,
>
> │ \
> -│- - - - - - - - - - - - - -│-- - - - - - - - - -
>
> │ HANDOVER ACCESS │ new channel,
>
> │ ------------------------>│ new cell
>
> │ │
>
> │ HANDOVER ACCESS │
>
> │ ------------------------>│
>
> │ │
>
> │ HANDOVER ACCESS │
>
> │ ------------------------>│
>
> │ │
>
> │ HANDOVER ACCESS │
>
> │ ------------------------>│
>
> │ │
>
> │ HANDOVER COMPLETE │
>
> │ ------------------------>│
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.14/3GPP TS 23.108: Handover to a finely synchronized cell, successful
case
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │
>
> │ │ RR connection established
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+ handover
>
> │ HANDOVER COMMAND │ old channel,
>
> │ \
> -│- - - - - - - - - - - - - -│-- - - - - - - - - -
>
> │ HANDOVER ACCESS │ new channel,
>
> │ ------------------------>│ new cell
>
> │ . │
>
> │ . │
>
> │ . │
>
> │ HANDOVER ACCESS │ new channel,
>
> │ ------------------------>│ new cell
>
> │ │
>
> │ PHYSICAL INFORMATION │
>
> │ \
> │ HANDOVER COMPLETE │
>
> │ ------------------------>│
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ . │
>
> │ . │
>
> │ . │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.15/3GPP TS 23.108: Handover to a non-synchronized cell, successful
case
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │
>
> │ │ RR connection established
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+ handover
>
> │ HANDOVER COMMAND │ old channel,
>
> │ \
> -│- - - - - - - - - - - - - -│- - - - - - - -
>
> │ T3124 expiry or │ new channel,
>
> │ lower layer failure │ new cell
>
> -│- - - - - - - - - - - - - -│- - - - - - - - -
>
> │ HANDOVER FAILURE │ old channel,
>
> │ ------------------------>│ old cell
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ . │
>
> │ . │
>
> │ . │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.16/3GPP TS 23.108: Handover failure, reconnection to the old traffic
channel
### 7.3.7 In-call modification
Figure 7.17/3GPP TS 23.108 shows the structured procedure for in-call
modification.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │ active call
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> .
>
> +- -+
>
> │ MODIFY │
>
> │ ------------------------------> │ in-call modification
>
> │ │ e.g. from speech
>
> │ │ to data
>
> +- -+ channel
>
> │ │ mode modify
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │
>
> │ MODIFY COMPLETE │
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │ active call
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.17/3GPP TS 23.108: In-call modification
### 7.3.8 Call re-establishment
Figure 7.18/3GPP TS 23.108 shows the structured procedure for call re-
establishment.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │ active call
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
>
> \-------------------------------------- radio link failure
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MO)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CM RE-ESTABLISHMENT REQUEST │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Service request
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHer MODe COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic channel
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ │ active call
>
> │ │
>
> +- -+
Figure 7.18/3GPP TS 23.108: Call re-establishment
### 7.3.9 Network initiated mobile originating call \$(CCBS)\$
Network initiated mobile originating call establishment (which is used, for
example, for CCBS Service) is initiated by the network sending a PAGING
REQUEST message. Upon receiving this message the mobile station initiates the
immediate assignment procedure and responds to the network by sending the
PAGING RESPONSE message within a layer 2 SABM frame. The network returns a
layer 2 UA frame containing the same information field as was sent in the SABM
frame.
Authentication and ciphering are treated by the network in the same way as
defined for the mobile originating call establishment (subclause 7.3.2). After
ciphering has been started, the network sends a CM SERVICE PROMPT message,
indicating that the CM protocol is to be started, to the mobile station. The
basic capability of the mobile station to accept any form of recall service is
confirmed when the mobile station returns a START CC message to the network.
a) assignment before A party alerting:
With this option the network allocates a traffic channel to the mobile station
before the mobile station alerts its user.
The network responds to the START CC message with a CC-ESTABLISHMENT message.
The MS answers with a CC-ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED message indicating the wanted
channel characteristics. The network then initiates traffic channel
assignment.
When the traffic channel has been assigned, the network indicates a pending
recall by sending a RECALL message.
If the calling user accepts the recall, a SETUP message is sent to the
network. The network responds with a CALL PROCEEDING message and initiates
call establishment in the fixed network.
When user alerting has been initiated at the called side, an ALERTING message
is sent to the mobile station. The network may optionally instruct the MS to
attach the user connection at this stage of the call, by means of the progress
indicator information element set to the value #1 or #8(if the ringing tone
will be sent by the remote end) in the ALERTING message. In that case, an
alerting ringing tone has to be generated by the network.
NOTE 1: The speech codec is transparent for supervisory tones.
A CONNECT message and its acknowledgement CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE complete the
call establishment when the called party has answered.
The network initiated mobile originating call establishment with assignment
before A part alerting is shown in figure 7.19/3GPP TS 23.108.
b) assignment before B party alerting:
With this option the network allocates a traffic channel to the mobile station
after the mobile station has alerted its user and after its user has accepted
the recall but before the network initiates call establishment in the fixed
network.
The network responds to the START CC message with a CC-ESTABLISHMENT message.
The MS answers with a CC-ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED message indicating the wanted
channel characteristics.
The network indicates a pending recall by sending a RECALL message. If the
calling user accepts the recall, a SETUP message is sent to the network. The
network responds with a CALL PROCEEDING message and initiates traffic channel
assignment.
When the traffic channel has been assigned, the network initiates call
establishment in the fixed network.
When user alerting has been initiated at the called side, an ALERTING message
is sent to the mobile station. The network may optionally instruct the MS to
attach the user connection at this stage of the call, by means of the progress
indicator information element set to the value #1 or #8(if the ringing tone
will be sent by the remote end) in the ALERTING message. In that case, an
alerting ringing tone has to be generated by the network.
NOTE 2: The speech codec is transparent for supervisory tones.
A CONNECT message and its acknowledgement CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE complete the
call establishment when the called party has answered.
The network initiated mobile originating call establishment with assignment
before B party alerting is shown in figure 7.20/3GPP TS 23.108.
c) assignment after A and B party alerting
With this option, the network determines when the traffic channel is to be
assigned. The assignment may be performed at any time after call establishment
has been initiated in the fixed network. In the following, the case is
considered where the network will only allocate a traffic channel after the
called party has answered the call (late assignment).
The network responds to the START CC message with a CC-ESTABLISHMENT. The MS
answers with a CC-ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED message indicating the wanted
channel characteristics.
The network indicates a pending recall by sending a RECALL message. If the
calling user accepts the recall, a SETUP message is sent to the network. The
network responds with a CALL PROCEEDING message and initiates call
establishment in the fixed network.
As in a) and b) an ALERTING message is sent to the mobile station when user
alerting has been initiated at the called side. If the ringing tone is needed,
it has to be generated locally at the mobile station as no traffic channel is
allocated. When the called party has answered, the network will initiate the
channel assignment procedure in order to allocate a traffic channel to the
mobile station. Once the channel assignment has been completed the network
will send a CONNECT message to the mobile station. The MS attaches then the
user connection. The CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE message will complete the call setup.
The network initiated mobile originating call establishment with assignment
after A and B party alerting is shown in figure 7.21/3GPP TS 23.108.
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING REQUEST │
>
> │ \
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MT)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHer MODe COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CM SERVICE PROMPT │
>
> │ \
> │ START CC │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CC-ESTABLISHMENT │
>
> │ \
> │ CC-ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic channel.
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ RECALL │
>
> │ \
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Recall accepted and
>
> │ CALL PROCEEDING │ call initiation
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+ information
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ \
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> ß
Figure 7.19/3GPP TS 23.108: Network initiated mobile originating call
establishment with assignment before A party alerting
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING REQUEST │
>
> │ \
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MT)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHer MODe COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CM SERVICE PROMPT │
>
> │ \
> │ START CC │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CC-ESTABLISHMENT │
>
> │ \
> │ CC-ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ RECALL │
>
> │ \
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Recall accepted and
>
> │ CALL PROCEEDING │ call initiation
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic
>
> │ -------------------------> │ channel
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+ information
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ \
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> ß
>
> ß
Figure 7.20/3GPP TS 23.108: Network initiated mobile originating call
establishment with assignment before B party alerting
> Mobile Station Network
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING REQUEST │
>
> │ \
> │ CHANNEL REQUEST │ RR connection
>
> │ -------------------------> │ establishment
>
> │ IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT │ (MT)
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ PAGING RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ AUTHENTICATION REQUEST │ Authentication
>
> │ \
> │ AUTHENTICATION RESPONSE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CIPHer MODe COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ CIPHER MODE COMPLETE │ mode setting
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CM SERVICE PROMPT │
>
> │ \
> │ START CC │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CC-ESTABLISHMENT │
>
> │ \
> │ CC-ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED │
>
> │ -------------------------> \|
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ RECALL │
>
> │ \
> │ SETUP │
>
> │ -------------------------> │ Recall accepted and
>
> │ CALL PROCEEDING │ call initiation
>
> │ \
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ALERTING │
>
> │ \
> +- -+ information
>
> +- -+
>
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMMAND │
>
> │ \
> │ ASSIGNMENT COMPLETE │ a traffic
>
> │ -------------------------> │ channel
>
> +- -+
>
> +- -+
>
> │ CONNECT │
>
> │ \
> │ CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE │
>
> │ -------------------------> │
>
> +- -+
>
> ß
Figure 7.21/3GPP TS 23.108: Network initiated mobile originating call
establishment with assignment after A and B party alerting
# 8 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
For the RR protocol see 3GPP TS 44.018 [80] and for the CN protocols see 3GPP
TS 24.008 [81].
# 9 Message functional definitions and contents
For the RR protocol see 3GPP TS 44.018 [80] and for the CN protocols see 3GPP
TS 24.008 [81].
# 10 General message format and information elements coding
For the RR protocol see 3GPP TS 44.018 [80] and for the CN protocols see 3GPP
TS 24.008 [81].
# 11 List of system parameters
For the RR protocol see 3GPP TS 44.018 [80] and for the CN protocols see 3GPP
TS 24.008 [81].
#