# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the IP Multimedia (IM) Call Model for handling
of an IP multimedia session origination and termination for an IP Multimedia
subscriber.
The present document includes interactions between an Application Server and
IP multimedia sessions.
The IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem stage 2 is specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.228: \" IP multimedia subsystem; Stage 2\".
[4] Void.
[5] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on SIP and
SDP; stage 3\".
[6] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TR 29.998-4-4 Release 8: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Application
Programming Interface (API) Mapping for Open Service Access (OSA); Part 4:
Call Control Service Mapping; Subpart 4: Multiparty Call Control SIP\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx Interface; Signalling
flows and message contents\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.278: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); IP Multimedia System (IMS) interworking; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organisation of subscriber data\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access security for IP based services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Application programming
Interface (API)\".
[13] Void.
[14] 3GPP TS 29.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) Phase 3; CAMEL Application Part (CAP) specification\".
[15] IETF RFC 3264: \"An Offer/Answer Model with Session Description
Protocol\".
[16] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.328: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Sh Interface; Signalling
flows and message contents\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[20] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[21] 3GPP TS 32.260: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; IP
Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) charging\".
[22] IETF RFC 5627 (October 2009): \"Obtaining and Using Globally Routable
User Agent URIs (GRUUs) in the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.247: \"Messaging service using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[25] 3GPP TS 33.328: \"IMS Media Plane Security\".
[26] 3GPP TS 29.364: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Application Server (AS)
service data descriptions for AS interoperability\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply:
**Application Server Incoming Leg Control Model (AS-ILCM):** models AS
behaviour for handling SIP information for an incoming leg.
**Application Server information (AS-info):** AS-info contains individualized
information concerning one particular Application Server entry.\ This
information contains e.g. Application Server Address (6.9.1.1) and it\'s
corresponding Default IP Multimedia Handling information (6.9.1.2).
**Application Server Outgoing Leg Control Model (AS-OLCM):** models AS
behaviour for handling SIP information for an outgoing leg.
**Combined ILSM OLSM -- Incoming/outgoing Leg State Model:** models the
behaviour of an S-CSCF for handling SIP messages on an incoming and outgoing
session leg.
**Filter Criteria (FC): the information which the S-CSCF receives from the HSS
or the AS that defines the relevant SPTs for a particular application.\ They
define the subset of SIP requests received by the S-CSCF that should be sent
or proxied to a particular application.**
**Incoming Leg Control Model (ILCM):** models the behaviour of an S-CSCF for
handling SIP information sent to and received from an AS for an incoming
session leg.
**Initial Filter Criteria (iFC): filter criteria that are stored in the HSS as
part of the user profile and are downloaded to the S-CSCF upon user
registration.\ They represent a provisioned subscription of a user to an
application.**
**Initial Request:** a SIP request that either initiates the creation of a new
dialog or is part of a standalone transaction.
**IP Multimedia Service Switching Function (IM-SSF):** functional entity that
interfaces SIP to CAP.
**IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (IM-CSI):** identifies the
subscriber as having IP Multimedia CAMEL services.
**IP Multimedia session:** IP Multimedia session and IP Multimedia call are
treated as equivalent in the present document.
**Original Dialog Identifier:** an indication that the S-CSCF includes in a
Route header for itself when sending requests to an AS. When the AS returns
this indication in a Route header of a message sent to the S-CSCF, the S-CSCF
uses it to associate the message with the previous request sent by the S-CSCF
(i.e. the original SIP dialog).
**Originating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (O-IM-CSI):**
identifies the subscriber as having originating IP Multimedia CAMEL services.
**Outgoing Leg Control Model (OLCM):** models the behaviour of an S-CSCF for
handling SIP information received from and sent to an AS for an outgoing
session leg.
**Private User Identity:** a unique global identity defined by the Home
Network Operator, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
**Public User Identity:** the public user identity/identities are used by any
user for requesting communications to other users and are in the form of a SIP
URL or TEL URL as defined in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
**Served User** : The served user is the public user identity, for which the
IM CN subsystem handles the call. For an origination call leg the served user
is the user for which a UE or AS originates the call for. For a terminating
call leg the served user is the user for which a UE or an AS terminates the
call for.
**Service Key:** the Service Key identifies to the Application Server the
service logic that shall apply.\ The Service Key is administered by the HPLMN.
For CAMEL services, the Service Key is an element of the CAMEL Subscription
Information (CSI).
**Service Point Trigger (SPT): the points in the SIP signalling that may cause
the S-CSCF to send/proxy the SIP message to an SIP AS/OSA SCS/IM-SSF.\ The
subset of all possible SPTs which are relevant to a particular application are
defined by means of Filter Criteria.**
**Service Platform Trigger Points (STP): the points in the SIP signalling that
instruct the SIP AS, OSA SCS and IM-SSF to trigger the service logic.\ For the
IM-SSF the IP Multimedia Camel Subscriber Information (IM-CSI) defines them.**
**Subsequent Filter Criteria (sFC): filter criteria that are signalled from
the SIP AS/OSA SCS/IM-SSF to the S-CSCF.\ They allow for dynamic definition of
the relevant SPTs at application execution time.**
**Subsequent Request:** a SIP request which is part of an existing dialog.
This also includes target refresh requests as defined in IETF RFC 3261 [6].
**Standalone Transaction:** a SIP transaction that is not part of an existing
dialog and does not initiate the creation of a new dialog.
**Terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information (T-IM-CSI):**
identifies the subscriber as having terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL services.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.228 [7] subclause 4.13 apply:
**IMS application reference**
**IMS communication service**
**IMS communication service identifier**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAA Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
API Application Programming Interface
AS Application Server
AS-ILCM Application Server Incoming Leg Control Model
AS-OLCM Application Server Outgoing Leg Control Model
B2BUA Back-to-Back User Agent
CAMEL Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CCF Charging Collection Function
CDR Charging Data Records
CF Call Forwarding
CFonCLI Call Forwarding on Calling Line Identification
CGI Common Gateway Interface
CPL Call Processing Language
CLI Calling Line Identification
CSCF Call Session Control Function
CSE CAMEL Service Environment
ECF Event Charging Function
FC Filter Criteria
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GPRS CID GPRS Charging IDentifiers
GRUU Globally Routable User agent URI
gsmSCF gsm Service Control Function
HPLMN Home PLMN
HSS Home Subscriber Server
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
IARI IMS Application Reference Identifier
ICID IMS Charging ID
ICSI IMS Communication Service Identifier
iFC Initial Filter Criteria
ILCM Incoming Leg Control Model
IM IP Multimedia
IM-CSI IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IM-SSF IP Multimedia Service Switching Function
IOI Inter Operator Identifier
IP Internet Protocol
ISC IP multimedia Service Control
MAP Mobile Application Part
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MRFC Multimedia Resource Function Controller
MRFP Multimedia Resource Function Processor
O-IM-CSI Originating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
ODI Original Dialog Identifier
OLCM Outgoing Leg Control Model
OSA Open Service Access
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
RFC Request For Comments
SCF Session Charging Function
SCIM Service Capability Interaction Manager
SCS Service Capability Server
SDP Session Description Protocol
sFC Subsequent Filter Criteria
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
S-CSCF Serving CSCF
SPT Service Point Trigger
STP Service platform Trigger Points
T-IM-CSI Terminating IP Multimedia CAMEL Subscription Information
UA User Agent
UE User Equipment
URL Uniform Resource Locator
XML E**X** tensible Markup Language
MRB Media Resource Broker
IVR Interactive Voice Response
# 4 Architecture and information flows for IM multimedia session
## 4.0 Introduction
Subclauses 4.1 and 4.2 show the architecture for handling a basic UE-
originating multimedia session and a basic UE-terminating multimedia session.
A basic UE-to-UE multimedia session is treated as the concatenation of a UE-
originating multimedia session and a UE-terminating multimedia session.
## 4.1 Architecture for a UE-originating IP multimedia session
This is specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
## 4.2 Architecture for a UE-terminating IP multimedia session
This is specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
## 4.3 Void
## 4.4 Void
## 4.5 Void
# 5 Functional requirements of network entities
## 5.1 Architecture for service provision for IP multimedia subsystem
### 5.1.1 General
NOTE: Not all interfaces shown are within the scope of this document.
Figure 5.1.1: Functional architecture for support of service provision for IP
multimedia subsystem
Figure 5.1.1 illustrates the architecture with the S-CSCF communicating to
Application Servers via the IP multimedia service control (ISC) interface. The
Application Servers can be:
\- SIP Application Servers - which may host and execute services. It is
intended to allow the SIP Application Server to influence and impact the SIP
session on behalf of the services;
\- the IM-SSF - which is a particular type of application server the purpose
of which is to host the CAMEL network features (i.e. trigger detection points,
CAMEL Service Switching Finite State Machine, etc) and to interface to CAP as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.078 [14];
\- the OSA service capability server (OSA SCS) which interfaces to the OSA
framework Application Server and which provides a standardized way for third
party secure access to the IM subsystem. The OSA reference architecture
defines an OSA Application Server as an entity that provides the service logic
execution environment for client applications using the OSA API as specified
in 3GPP TS 29.198 [12]. This definition of Application Server differs from the
definition of Application Server in the context of service provisioning for
the IM subsystem, i.e. the entity communicating to the S-CSCF via the ISC
interface;
\- in addition a specialized type of SIP Application Server, the service
capability interaction manager (SCIM) which performs the role of interaction
management between other application servers.
All the Application Servers, (including the IM-SSF and the OSA SCS) behave as
SIP application servers on the ISC interface.
### 5.1.2 Provision of media resources
In addition the Application Servers can also interact with the MRFC via the
S-CSCF (ISC, Mr), directly via the Mr\' interface and via the Cr interface in
order to control Multimedia Resource Function processing and can interact with
the MRB (Rc interface, or Mr, and Mr\' interfaces) in order for appropriate
media resources to be assigned to calls (see clause 8 and clause 13). This is
shown in figure 5.1.2. The AS can request MRF resources directly based on
preconfigured addresses and DNS lookup, or indirectly using an MRB function,
which will determine the most suitable resource (see clause 13).
An application server can provide the MRB with information to assist the MRB
in determining the most appropriate resource. Aside from information on type
of resource required, this can include information on other supporting MRBs in
other networks, e.g. the visited network of a roaming user, or more
information on the location of the endpoint to which the media is to be
delivered, such that this may assist in determining the best location for
proving the MRF.
NOTE: In this release direct interaction between an MRFC and a Transit
Function has not been specified.
NOTE: An I-CSCF, S-CSCF can also use the resources of the MRF directly, or via
an MRB, without going via an AS.
Figure 5.1.2: Functional architecture for support of media resources for IP
multimedia subsystem
### 5.1.2A Border control concepts for the ISC interface
3GPP TS 23.228 [7] subclause 4.14 identifies the possibility of border control
functions between two IM CN subsystems or between an IM CN subsystem and other
SIP based multimedia network. Additional functionality may also be required on
the ISC interface where an application server provided by a third-party
service provider is supported.
An additional functionality called an ISC gateway function is defined as shown
in figure 5.1.2A.
Figure 5.1.2A: ISC gateway function
The functions of the ISC gateway function are as follows:
\- network configuration hiding (as for the IBCF);
\- application level gateway (transcoding is not applicable for ISC gateway
function);
\- transport plane control, i.e. QoS control (as for the IBCF); and
\- screening of SIP signalling (as for the IBCF).
NOTE 1: Additional functionality may be determined in later releases of this
document. As future functionality could require knowledge of all transactions
associated with an AS from the S-CSCF for a particular session / dialog, care
is needed to route all such transactions through the same ISC gateway
function.
While the ISC gateway function can alter the contents of the protocol on the
ISC interface, the information carried should still conform to that required
for the ISC interface.
NOTE 2: When this functionality is used, the effect can be to remove
information that is required by subsequent AS in the filter criteria chain.
Therefore care needs to be excercised both in the order in which AS appear in
the filter criteria chain, and in the functionality applies in this functional
entity.
NOTE 3: If the ISC gateway function modifies SIP information elements (SIP
header fields, SIP message bodies) caution needs to be taken that SIP
functionality (e.g. routing, iFC chain and AS application) is not impacted in
a way that could create interoperability problems with networks that assume
that this information is not modified.
NOTE 4: In this release the ISC gateway function does not have functionalities
to save screened information in outgoing message and recover the screened
information in incoming message so care is needed both in the order in which
the AS appear in the filter criteria chain, and in the functionality applied
in the ISC gateway.
### 5.1.3 Border control concepts for other interfaces
3GPP TS 23.228 [7] subclause 4.14 identifies the possibility of border control
functions between two IM CN subsystems or between an IM CN subsystem and other
SIP based multimedia network. A number of the interfaces identified in the
architecture in subclause 5.1.1 and subclause 5.1.2 can be between the
networks controlled by different operators, specifically the Mr, Mr\' and Cr
interfaces (for example between a third-party service provider and the visited
network, or between the home network and the visited network.
When used on the Mr, and Mr\' interfaces, the IBCF should not be used to
duplicate the functions normally performed by the MRF, even if the MRF is
being accessed for another unrelated function. Rather, an MRF should be used
for supporting those functions.
Both the SIP control package on the Cr interface, and the Mr interface when
used in in-line aware MRB mode, can contain information that an operator, for
example, would prefer not to exchange with another network operator. For this
information, it may be appropriate to use the MRB either in the network of the
application server, or the MRB in the network where the MRF is sought, to
operate in in-line aware MRB mode and to remove such information.
The IBCF is not used on the Cr interface.
In normal operation, the communication between the application server and the
MRF is a communication where those functional entities form the endpoint of
the communication. Therefore any information included in the signalling is
deemed by one endpoint to be essential to the functionality performed by the
other. As such, configuration hiding, screening and privacy functions are not
expected to be critical functions on any of these interfaces.
If the network is supporting optimisation of media paths, then the IBCF could
well be required on the Mr and Mr\' interfaces to support optimal media
routeing.
For the Mr and Mr\' interfaces, the IBCF may be used to support communication
between the AS and the MRB, between the AS and the MRFC, between the S-CSCF
and the MRB, between the S-CSCF and the MRFC.
Where this occurs, requests to the IBCF are sent over the Mx interface and
requests from the IBCF are sent over the Mm interface (see subclause I.2 of
3GPP TS 23.228 [7]). Two IBCFs on either side of an interoperator boundary use
the Ici interface (see subclause K.2 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]).
The IBCF providing IMS-ALG functions would be supported by TrGW functions
using the Ix interface (see subclause I.2 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [7]), so the media
from an MRFP may pass through the Izi interface where two TrGWs exist on
either side of an interoperator boundary.
For the Rc interface, border control functionality can exist, but the
mechanism are not specified. The IBCF is not used. Many techniques exist and
are deployed for supporting border functions in HTTP, and any of these can be
used on the Rc interface if they meet the needs of the deployer.
NOTE: For the Rc interface, the server can be decomposed into a front end
https proxy and a back end MRB. The MRB will need to be available both to
internal and external clients in different address spaces and with different
security requirements. This could be done with a single server but then there
will be two interfaces to it (internal and external) rather than one.
## 5.1A IMS communication service identifier (ICSI)
The purpose of identifying IMS communication services is to help triggering to
application servers and internal routing in UEs. See 3GPP TS 23.228 [7] for
further information on IMS communication services. This clause describes the
IMS communication service concept principles.
An initial request for a dialog or a standalone transaction that is used for
an IMS communication service can contain an identifier that identifies the IMS
communication service related to this request or stand alone transaction. The
identifiers for the IMS communication service are included by the originating
UE in the initial request for a dialog or standalone transaction but these are
unauthenticated. The initial request for a dialog or standalone transaction
can also contain identifiers for the IMS communication services supported by
the originating UE. The response to an initial request for a dialog or
standalone transaction can contain identifiers for the IMS communication
services that the responding UE supports. These identifiers are ICSI values.
An ICSI value can be used as an SPT by iFC to route the initial requests for a
dialog to AS that implement service logic as part of the IMS communication
service provided it is first authenticated by the S-CSCF as a subscribed
service for that user and that the contents of the request (SDP Media Types
etc) are compatible with the IMS communication service identified by the ICSI
value. An authenticated ICSI value can be included by the S-CSCF by analyzing
the contents of the request (SIP header fields, SDP Media Types etc). The
Authenticated ICSI value acts as a summary of the contents of a request. Care
should be taken when designing services that for a given subscriber in a given
network, the contents of any request (SIP header fields, SDP Media Types etc)
correspond to zero or one ICSI so that the network can include the correct
Authenticated ICSI value in the request. The ICSI value can be sent to ASes.
An AS that is part of the trust domain can include an authenticated ICSI value
and an AS that is outside the trust domain can include an unauthenticated ICSI
value.
## 5.1B IMS Application Reference Identifier (IARI)
The IARI value identifies the application to be invoked by the terminating UE.
When no IARI value is present in a request, the default application is
assumed.
## 5.2 Service interaction with IP multimedia subsystem
### 5.2.1 Service Point Triggers (SPTs)
Service Point Triggers (SPTs) are those points in the SIP signalling on which
Filter Criteria can be set. The following SPTs are defined:
\- any initial known or unknown SIP method;
\- registration type -- indicates if the REGISTER request is initial
registration, re-registration, or de-registration;
\- presence or absence of any known or unknown header field;
\- content of any known or unknown header field or of the Request-URI;
NOTE 1: The presence of a \"gruu\" parameter in the Request-URI as defined in
IETF RFC 5627 [22] indicates that the request is targeted towards a GRUU.
Requests targeted towards GRUUs can need different service logic handling to
those targeted towards a public user identity. e,g a request targeted towards
a GRUU normally would not be routed to voicemail.
\- direction of the request with respect to the served user -- either UE-
originating or UE-terminating to registered user; UE-terminating to
unregistered user or UE-originating for unregistered user; see 3GPP TS 29.228
[8] for the details of the direction information in service point trigger;
NOTE 2: REGISTER is considered part of the UE-originating. See 3GPP TS 24.229
[5] for further information about how to determine UE-originating or UE-
terminating.
NOTE 3: The S-CSCF shall verify if the end user is barred before checking if
any trigger applies for that end user.
\- session description information.
### 5.2.2 Filter Criteria
A Filter Criteria triggers one or more SPTs in order to send the related
request to one specific application server. The set of Filter Criteria that is
stored for a service profile of a specific user is called \"Application Server
Subscription Information\". In order to allow the S-CSCF to handle the
different Filter Criteria in the right sequence, a priority shall be assigned
to each of them. If the S-CSCF can not reach the specified Application Server,
the S-CSCF shall apply the default handling associated with the trigger. This
default handling shall be :
\- to continue verifying if the triggers of lower priority in the list match;
or
\- to abandon verification of matching of the triggers of lower priority in
the list; and to release the dialogue.
Therefore a Filter Criteria shall contain the following information:
\- address of the Application Server to be contacted;
\- priority of the Filter Criteria providing the sequence in which the
criteria shall be applied;
\- Trigger Point composed by 1 to n instances of the Service Point Triggers
(SPTs). The SPTs may be linked by means of logical expressions (AND, OR, NOT,
etc.);
\- default handling ( as described above);
\- optional Service Information that shall be added to the message body before
it is sent to the Application Server (as an example this may include the IMSI
for the IM-SSF).
\- optionally an indication **to include the incoming REGISTER request in the
third party REGISTER request.**
\- optionally an indication **to include the final response to the incoming
REGISTER request in the third party REGISTER request.**
The same priority shall not be assigned to more than one initial Filter
Criteria for a given served user.
### 5.2.3 S-CSCF Filter Criteria processing
The S-CSCF shall request from the HSS the relevant set of iFCs that applies to
the served user (i.e., registered, unregistered, or both). If the S-CSCF has a
set of iFCs that is deemed valid (e.g., from a previous request), the S-CSCF
need not request a new set.
In the case that multiple Filter Criteria are sent from the HSS to the S-CSCF,
the S-CSCF shall check the filter criteria one by one according to their
indicated priority when the S-CSCF receives a message via the Mw interface.
On reception of a REGISTER request, the S-CSCF shall send a third-party
REGISTER request to each Application Server that matches the Filter Criteria
sent from the HSS for the REGISTER request. The S-CSCF shall include in the
third-party REGISTER request the incoming REGISTER request if indicated by the
Filter Criteria. The S-CSCF shall include in the third-party REGISTER request
the final response to the incoming REGISTER request if indicated by the Filter
Criteria.
On an event that causes network-initiated deregistration, the S-CSCF shall
send a third-party REGISTER request to each Application Server that matches
the Filter Criteria sent from the HSS as if a equivalent REGISTER request had
been received from the user deregistering that public user identity, or
combination of public user identities.
On reception of any other request the S-CSCF shall:
1\. set up the list of filter criteria for that request according to their
priority -- the sequence of the filter criteria shall not be changed until the
request finally leaves the S-CSCF via the Mw interface again;
2\. parse the received request in order to find out the Service Point Triggers
(SPTs) that are included in it;
3\. check whether the trigger points of the filter criteria with the next
highest priority are matched by the SPTs of the request and
a) if it does not match the S-CSCF shall immediately proceed with step 4;
b) if it matches the S-CSCF shall:
i) add an Original Dialog Identifier (ODI) to the request which will allow the
S-CSCF to identify the message on the incoming side, even if its dialog
identification has been changed e.g. due to the Application Server performing
third party call control;
ii) forward the request via the ISC interface to the Application Server
indicated in the current filter criteria. The Application Server then performs
the service logic, may modify the request and may send the request back to the
S-CSCF via the ISC interface;
iii) proceed with step 4 if a request with the same ODI is received from the
Application Server via the ISC interface;
4\. repeat the above steps 2 and 3 for every filter criteria which was
initially set up (in step 1) until the last filter criteria has been checked;
5\. route the request based on normal SIP routing behaviour.
If an Application Server decides to locally terminate a request and sends back
a final response for that request via the ISC interface to the S-CSCF, the
S-CSCF shall abandon verification of the matching of the triggers of lower
priority in the list.
NOTE 4: If AS has service logic whereby it wishes to send a request to the
S-CSCF to continue with filter criteria evaluation from where it left off with
the final response to the previous request, then a new request must be sent
with data that can be used by the S-CSCF to determine where it left off with
filter criteria evaluation. For example, a parameter can be included in the
request that is also defined in a service point trigger.
Figure 5.2.1: Application triggering architecture
Each invoked Application Server/service logic may decide not to be engaged
with the invoked session by indicating that during the very first SIP
transaction when the Record-Route/Route is generated for subsequent SIP
requests. The denial shall mean that subsequent requests shall not be routed
to such Application Servers/service logic any more during the lifetime of that
session. Any Application Server, which has determined that it will not receive
subsequent requests for a session cannot revoke this determination by means of
Initial Filter Criteria (iFC).
NOTE 5: Care should be taken in design of the Initial Filter Criteria when
designing services to avoid unintended loops being setup, where requests from
an Application Server may be sent back to the same Application Server. This
does not imply that it is not allowed for requests to be sent back to the same
Application Server when that is intended behaviour as part of the design of
the service and the Application Server is able to handle this correctly.
Special care should be taken for the case when an Application Server may act
as an originating UA or B2BUA and may originate an initial request causing
evaluation of Initial Filter Criteria.
### 5.2.4 Transit Invocation Criteria
A Transit Invocation Criteria triggers one or more SPTs in order to send the
related request to one specific application server. The set of Transit
Invocation Criteria is not user specific, but instead is based on e.g. the
originating and terminating networks.
The handling of Transit Invocation Criteria is identical to the handling of
Filter Criteria, as defined in subclase 5.2.2.
NOTE: The procedures in subclause 5.2.2 associated with the handling of SIP
REGISTER request do not apply to the handling of Transit Invocation Criteria.
### 5.2.5 Transit Function Transit Invocation Criteria processing
The Transit Invocation Criteria are locally configured.
In case that multiple Transit Invocation Criteria is configured, the Transit
Function shall check the criteria one by one according to their indicated
priority when the Transit Function receives a message.
On reception of an initial request, or a standalone request, the Transit
Function shall:
1\. set up the list of Transit Invocation Criteria for that request according
to their priority -- the sequence of the criteria shall not be changed until
the request finally leaves the Transit Function towards the terminating
network;
2\. parse the received request in order to find out the Service Point Triggers
(SPTs) that are included in it, and in priority order for each Transit
Invocation Criteria:
a) check whether the trigger points of the Transit Invocation Criteria are
matched by the SPTs of the request;
b) if it matches the Transit Function shall:
i) add an Original Dialog Identifier (ODI) to the request which will allow the
Transit Function to identify the message on the incoming side, even if its
dialog identification has been changed e.g. due to the Application Server
performing third party call control;
ii) forward the request via the ISC interface to the Application Server
indicated in the current filter criteria. The Application Server then performs
the service logic, may modify the request and may send the request back to the
Transit Function via the ISC interface;
iii) proceed with next Transit Invocation Criteria in a) if a request with the
same ODI is received from the Application Server via the ISC interface;
c) if it does not match, proceed with next Transit Invocation Criteria in a)
for every Transit Invocation Criteria which was initially set up (in step 1)
until the last criteria has been checked;
3\. route the request based on normal SIP routing behaviour.
If an Application Server decides to locally terminate a request and sends back
a final response for that request via the ISC interface to Transit Function,
the Transit Function shall abandon verification of the matching of the
triggers of lower priority in the list.
Each invoked Application Server/service logic may decide not to be engaged
with the invoked session by indicating that during the very first SIP
transaction when the Record-Route/Route is generated for subsequent SIP
requests. The denial shall mean that subsequent requests shall not be routed
to such Application Servers/service logic any more during the lifetime of that
session. Any Application Server, which has determined that it will not receive
subsequent requests for a session cannot revoke this determination by means of
Transit Invocation Criteria.
# 6 Functional requirements of serving CSCF and Transit Function
## 6.1 Modes of operation of the S-CSCF and Transit Function
### 6.1.1 General overview of functional models and modes of operation of the
S-CSCF
Figure 6.1.1.1: S-CSCF functional model with incoming leg control and outgoing
leg control
Figure 6.1.1.1 identifies the components of a functional model of the S-CSCF.
NOTE: These components are defined only as a model of the expected behaviour
of the S-CSCF and are not intended to define or constrain the actual
implementation.
The components include the Combined I/OLSM, the ILCM and OLCM and the
Registrar and Notifier. There is a single Combined I/OLSM, which shall be able
to store session state information. It may act on each leg independently,
acting as a SIP Proxy, Redirect Server or User Agent dependant on the
information received in the SIP request, the filter conditions specified or
the state of the session.
It shall be possible to split the application handling on each leg and treat
each endpoint differently.
There is a single ILCM, which shall store transaction state information.
There is a single OLCM, which shall store transaction state information.
The Registrar and Notifier component handles registration and subscription to
and notification of registration events.
### 6.1.2 General overview of functional models and modes of operation of the
Transit Function
Figure 6.1.2.1: Transit Function functional model with incoming leg control
and outgoing leg control
Figure 6.1.2.1 identifies the components of a functional model of the Transit
Function.
NOTE: These components are defined only as a model of the expected behaviour
of the Transit Function and are not intended to define or constrain the actual
implementation.
The components include the Combined I/OLSM, the ILCM and OLCM. There is a
single Combined I/OLSM, which shall be able to store session state
information. It may act on each leg independently, acting as a SIP Proxy,
Redirect Server or User Agent dependant on the information received in the SIP
request, the invocation conditions specified or the state of the session.
It shall be possible to split the application handling on each leg and treat
each endpoint differently.
There is a single ILCM, which shall store transaction state information.
There is a single OLCM, which shall store transaction state information.
## 6.2 Interfaces defined for S-CSCF and Transit Function
### 6.2.1 S-CSCF -- CSCF (Mw) interface
The protocol used between two CSCFs is also based on Session Initiation
Protocol, which is specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
### 6.2.2 S-CSCF -- Application Server (ISC) interface
The protocol used between the S- CSCF and the Application Servers (ISC
interface) is also based on Session Initiation Protocol, which is specified in
3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
### 6.2.3 S-CSCF -- HSS (Cx) interface
This interface is used to send subscriber data to the S-CSCF; including Filter
criteria, which indicates which SIP requests should be proxied to which
Application Servers.
The protocol used between the S-CSCF and HSS (Cx Interface) is specified in
3GPP TS 29.228 [8].
### 6.2.4 S-CSCF -- MRB (ISC) interface
This interface is used for an MRB operating in In-Line mode when using the
capability of the S-CSCF to route to the MRB. The use of this interface is
described in subclause 13.2.
### 6.2.5 S-CSCF -- MRF (Mr) interface
This interface is used for an MRF when using the capability of the S-CSCF to
route to the MRB. The use of this interface is described in subclause 8.2.1.
### 6.2.6 Transit Function -- Application Server (ISC) interface
The protocol used between the Transit Function and the Application Servers
(ISC interface) is based on Session Initiation Protocol, as defined in 3GPP TS
24.229 [5]. The interface implements the Mf reference point, as defined in
3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
## 6.3 S-CSCF handling of SIP registration
Upon receiving the initial registration request from the served user, the
S-CSCF shall authenticate the served user and upon receiving a subsequent
registration request containing valid authentication credentials, request the
HSS to send the relevant service profile(s) for the served user's
subscription. More than one service profile may be sent, depending on
configuration options for identifying implicitly registered public user
identities. For further detailed information on registration, profile download
and authentication procedures see 3GPP TS 24.229 [5], 3GPP TS 33.203 [11], and
3GPP TS 33.328 [25].
The registration request can contain a list of ICSI values and a list of IARI
values supported by the UE.
The initial filter criteria (subset of the profile) is stored locally at the
S-CSCF, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
The S-CSCF shall verify if the triggers match, from the highest to the lowest
priority (see subclause 5.2).
After a successfully authenticated registration, the S-CSCF shall download
from the HSS all the implicitly registered public user identities associated
with the registered public user identity. The S-CSCF shall then verify, in
their order of priority, if the triggers downloaded from the HSS match. For
each service profile in the implicit registration set, if the registration
request from the served user matches a trigger, the S-CSCF performs a third
party registration to the application servers which are interested to be
informed about the user registration event of these public user identities.
This may trigger services to be executed by an Application Server.
The important information carried in the third party REGISTER request is the
public user identity of the served user, the S-CSCF address and the expiration
time. It shall be possible based on operator configuration to use one of the
implicitly registered public user identities as the public user identity in
the To header of the third party REGISTER request sent to the Application
Server. Additional application server specific data, which is associated with
the Filter Criteria and obtained from the HSS, is added to the REGISTER
request body. This data should include the IMSI for an Application Server that
supports CAMEL services or the private user identity for other Application
Servers as received from the HSS. If indicated by the Filter Criteria the
incoming REGISTER request is added to the REGISTER request body. If indicated
by the Filter Criteria the final response to the incoming REGISTER request is
added to the REGISTER request body.
This third party registration will include an expiration time that is equal to
the expiration time sent to the UE by the S-CSCF in the 200 (OK) response to
the incoming REGISTER request
On receiving a failure response to one of the REGISTER requests, the S-CSCF
shall apply the \"default handling\" related with the initial Filter
Criteria's trigger used (see subclauses 5.2.2, 6.9.2.2).
See figure 6.3.1:
Figure 6.3.1: S-CSCF handling registration
Application Servers can in addition subscribe to the S-CSCF reg event package.
This provides a mechanism for the Application Server to discover all the
implicitly registered public user identities without requiring multiple
Register requests to be sent to the Application Server and to obtain the
current capabilities of the UE as well as be notified about refresh
registrations and de-registrations. The S-CSCF will send NOTIFY requests to
the Application Server that has subscribed to the reg event package for the
registered public user identity. The reg event package also provides a
mechanism for the Application Server to obtain the associated parameters (e.g
GRUUs, ICSIs and IARIs) for each contact of every registered public identity.
NOTE: When the Application Server maintains a persistent subscription to the
reg event package it is not necessary for the Application Server to receive
third party registration requests from the S-CSCF in response to refresh and
de-registration events as these are communicated to the Application Server in
the reg event notifications.
More information on these procedures is contained in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
## 6.4 S-CSCF handling of UE-originating requests
### 6.4.1 S-CSCF handling of UE-originating requests, registered user
The served user can be included in different information elements than the
calling identity. The S-CSCF shall determine the apropriate identity of the
served user from one of these information elements.
The S-CSCF shall verify if the public user identity of the served user is
barred. If so, it shall respond with a 4xx error code and stop further
processing of the request. A UE-originating initial request may originate from
an Application Server via the ISC interface. Originating initial requests from
an Application Server via the ISC interface also cause the S-CSCF to look for
initial filter criteria.
The S-CSCF only looks for initial filter criteria when receiving an initial
request.
The initial filter criteria (subset of the profile) has already been
downloaded from the HSS and is stored locally at the S-CSCF, as specified in
3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
When such a request comes in, the S-CSCF shall first check whether this is an
UE-originating request or a UE-terminating request in order to perform the
matching procedure with SPTs within initial filter criteria. This subclause
describes the requirements for the S-CSCF when this request is a UE-
originating request. If this request is a UE-originating request, the S-CSCF
shall:
\- determined the served user;
\- check whether the request matches a subscribed service (i.e. SDP and other
content matches appropriate SDP and other content for each and any of the
subscribed services for served user user). As an operator option, if the
contents of the request do not match a subscribed service, the S-CSCF may
reject the request;
\- check whether any contained unauthenticated ICSI value is part of the set
of the subscribed services and is consistent with the contents of the request
(i.e. SDP and other content is consistent with the unauthenticated ICSI value)
if so that is the IMS communication service related to the request;
\- if the request contains an unauthenticated ICSI value then remove the
unauthenticated ICSI value;
\- if the request does not contain an unauthenticated ICSI value, or the one
that is included is not part of the set of the subscribed services, then as an
operator option, the S-CSCF may:either reject the request, or proceed without
a service identifier or choose one of the others from the subscribed set;
\- include an authenticated ICSI value if the contents of the request are
related to an IMS communication service based upon the previous checks and use
this authenticated ICSI value as the IMS communication service identifier when
applying the initial filter criteria in the subsequent steps;
\- use the initial Filter Criteria for the UE-originating case tied to the
served user;
\- check whether this request matches the initial filter criteria with the
highest priority for the served user by checking the service profile against
the public user identity of the served user, which was used to place this
request;
\- if this request matches the initial filter criteria, the S-CSCF shall
forward this request to that application server, then check for matching of
the next following filter criteria of lower priority, and apply the filter
criteria on the SIP method received from the previously contacted application
server;
\- if this request does not match the highest priority initial filter
criteria, check for matching of the following filter criteria priorities until
one applies;
\- if no more (or none) of the initial filter criteria apply, the S-CSCF shall
forward this request downstream based on the route decision;
\- in any instance, if the contact of the application server fails, the S-CSCF
shall use the \"default handling\" associated with the initial Filter Criteria
to determine if it shall either terminate the call or let the call continue
based on the information in the filter criteria; if the filter criteria does
not contain instruction to the S-CSCF regarding the failure of the contact to
the application server, the S-CSCF shall let the call continue as the default
behaviour.
### 6.4.2 S-CSCF handling of UE-originating requests, unregistered user
The served user can be included in different information elements other than
calling identity. The S-CSCF shall determine the appropriate identity of the
served user from one of these information elements.
The S-CSCF shall verify if the public user identity of the served user is
barred. If so, it shall respond with a 4xx error code and stop further
processing of the request.
The S-CSCF only looks for initial filter criteria when receiving an initial
request. A UE-originating initial request may originate from an Application
Server via the ISC interface. Originating initial requests from an Application
Server via the ISC interface also cause the S-CSCF to look for initial filter
criteria.
When such a request comes in, the S-CSCF shall first check this is an UE-
originating request or a UE-terminating request. This subclause describes the
requirements for the S-CSCF when this request is a orginating request. So, if
this request is a UE-originating request, the S-CSCF shall:
\- check whether the request matches a subscribed service (i.e. SDP and other
content matchs appropriate SDP and other content for each and any of the
subscribed services for the served user). As an operator option, if the
contents of the request do not match a subscribed service, the S-CSCF may
reject the request;
\- check whether any contained unauthenticated ICSI value is part of the set
of the subscribed services and is consistent with the contents of the request
(i.e. SDP and other content is consistent with the unauthenticated ICSI value)
if so that is the IMS communication service related to the request;
\- if the request contains an unauthenticated ICSI value then remove the
unauthenticated ICSI value;
\- if the request does not contain an unauthenticated ICSI value, or the one
that is included is not part of the set of the subscribed services, then as an
operator option, the S-CSCF may: either reject the request, or proceed without
a service identifier or choose one of the others from the subscribed set;
\- include an authenticated ICSI value if the contents of the request are
related to an IMS communication service based upon the previous checks and use
this authenticated ICSI value as the IMS communication service identifier when
applying the initial filter criteria in the subsequent steps;
\- if unavailable, download the relevant subscriber profile including the
initial filter criteria from the HSS;
\- use the initial Filter Criteria for the UE-originating request for
unregistered served user;
\- check whether this request matches the initial filter criteria with the
highest priority for the served user by checking the service profile against
the public user identity of the served user, which was used to place this
request;
\- if this request matches the initial filter criteria, the S-CSCF shall
forward this request to that application server, then check for matching of
the next following filter criteria of lower priority, and apply the filter
criteria on the SIP method received from the previously contacted application
server;
\- if this request does not match the highest priority initial filter
criteria, check for matching of the following filter criteria priorities until
one applies;
\- if no more (or none) of the initial filter criteria apply, the S-CSCF shall
forward this request downstream based on the route decision;
\- in any instance, if the contact of the application server fails, the S-CSCF
shall use the \"default handling\" associated with the initial Filter Criteria
to determine if it shall either terminate the call or let the call continue
based on the information in the filter criteria; if the filter criteria does
not contain instruction to the S-CSCF regarding the failure of the contact to
the application server, the S-CSCF shall let the call continue as the default
behaviour.
## 6.5 S-CSCF handling of UE-terminating requests
### 6.5.1 S-CSCF handling of UE-terminating requests, registered user
The served user can be included in different information elements than the
called identity The S-CSCF shall determine the apprpriate identity of the
served user from one of those information elements. If the selected
information element includes a GRUU associated with a particular public user
identity it is the associated public user identity that is the served user for
the request and the S-CSCF shall use that served user for the following
terminating request handling procedures.
The S-CSCF shall verify if the public user identity is barred of the served
user. If so, it shall respond with a 4xx error code and stop further
processing of the request.
The S-CSCF only looks for initial filter criteria when receiving an initial
request. A UE-terminating initial request may also originate from an
Application Server via the ISC interface. Terminating Initial requests from an
Application Server via the ISC interface also cause the S-CSCF to look for
initial filter criteria.
When such a request comes in, the S-CSCF shall first check whether this is an
UE-originating request or a UE-terminating request. For UE-terminating initial
requests the S-CSCF shall first perform any routing of the request to
Application Server based on matching of initial Filter Criteria before
performing other routing procedures towards the terminating UE, (e.g. forking,
caller preferences etc). This subclause describes the requirements for the
S-CSCF when this request is a UE-terminating request. So, if this request is a
UE-terminating request, the S-CSCF shall:
\- if the request contains an authenticated ICSI value the S-CSCF shall check
whether the IMS communication service identified by the authenticated ICSI
value is allowed for the subscribed services for the served user and is
consistent with the contents of the request (i.e. SDP and other content is
consistent with the unauthenticated ICSI value) and if not remove the
authenticated ICSI value otherwise use this as the authenticated ICSI value;
\- if the request does not contain an authenticated ICSI value then check
whether the request matches a subscribed service (i.e. SDP and other content
matchs appropriate SDP and other content for each and any of the subscribed
services for the served user) As an operator option, if the contents of the
request do not match a subscribed service, the S-CSCF may reject the request;
\- include an authenticated ICSI value if the contents of the request are
related to an IMS communication service based upon the previous checks and use
this authenticated ICSI value as the IMS communication service identifier when
applying the initial filter criteria in the subsequent steps;
\- if unavailable, download the relevant subscriber profile including the
initial filter criteria from the HSS;
\- use the initial Filter Criteria for the UE-terminating request to
registered served user;
\- in case the Request-URI changes when visiting an Application Server,
terminate the checking of filter criterias, and either:
a) route the request, without attempting to verify the barring status of the
changed public user identity, based on the changed value of the Request-URI
and do not execute the subsequent steps;
b) use the initial Filter Criteria for the UE-originating case after
retargeting and perform the matching procedure with SPTs within this initial
Filter Criteria as described in subclause 6.4.1; or
c) continue to use the intial Filter Criteria for the UE terminating case and
perform the matching procedure with SPT within the UE terminating UE case.
NOTE: The S-CSCF determines whether to apply a), b) or c) based on information
in the initial Filter Criteria.
\- the subsequent requirements for the S-CSCF are the same as those for
handling UE-originating requests.
Originating UE and terminating UE can share the same S-CSCF and Application
Server, therefore the shared application server may interact with the S-CSCF
twice in one transaction but in UE-originating and UE-terminating procedures
respectively.
### 6.5.2 S-CSCF handling of UE-terminating requests, unregistered user
The Served user can be included in different information elements than the
called identity The S-CSCF shall determine the appropriate identity of the
served user from one of those information elements. If the selected
information element includes a GRUU associated with a particular public user
identity it is the associated public user identity that is the served user for
the request and the S-CSCF shall use that served user for the following
terminating request handling procedures.
The S-CSCF shall verify if the public user identity of the served user is
barred. If so, it shall respond with a 4xx error code and stop further
processing of the request.
The S-CSCF only looks for initial filter criteria when receiving an initial
request. A UE-terminating initial request may also originate from an
Application Server via the ISC interface. Terminating initial requests from an
Application Server via the ISC interface also cause the S-CSCF to look for
initial filter criteria.
When such a request comes in, the S-CSCF shall first check this is an UE-
originating request or a UE-terminating request. This subclause describes the
requirements for the S-CSCF when this request is a UE-terminating request. So,
if this request is a UE-terminating request, the S-CSCF shall:
\- if the request contains an authenticated ICSI value the S-CSCF shall check
whether the IMS communication service identified by the authenticated ICSI
value is allowed for the subscribed services for the served user and is
consistent with the contents of the request (i.e. SDP and other content is
consistent with the unauthenticated ICSI value) and if not remove the
authenticated ICSI value otherwise use this as the authenticated ICSI value;
\- if the request does not contain an authenticated ICSI value then check
whether the request matches a subscribed service (i.e. SDP and other content
matchs appropriate SDP and other content for each and any of the subscribed
services for the served user user) As an operator option, if the contents of
the request do not match a subscribed service, the S-CSCF may reject the
request;
\- include an authenticated ICSI value if the contents of the request are
related to an IMS communication service based upon the previous checks and use
this authenticated ICSI value as the IMS communication service identifier when
applying the initial filter criteria in the subsequent steps;
\- if unavailable, download the relevant subscriber profile including the
initial filter criteria from the HSS;
\- use the initial Filter Criteria for the UE-terminating request to
unregistered served user;
\- in case the Request-URI changes when visiting an Application Server,
terminate the checking of filter criterias, and either:
a) route the request, without attempting to verify the barring status of the
changed public user identity, based on the changed value of the Request-URI
and do not execute the subsequent steps;
b) use the initial Filter Criteria for the UE-originating case after
retargeting and perform the matching procedure with SPTs within this initial
Filter Criteria as described in subclause 6.4.1; or
c) continue to use the intial Filter Criteria for the UE terminating case and
perform the matching procedure with SPT within the UE terminating UE case.
NOTE: The S-CSCF determines whether to apply a), b) or c) based on information
in the initial Filter Criteria.
\- the subsequent requirements for the S-CSCF are the same as those for
handling UE-originating requests with one exception: if no more (or none) of
the initial filter criteria apply, the S-CSCF shall reject the request.
Originating UE and terminating UE can share the same S-CSCF and Application
Server, therefore the shared application server may interact with the S-CSCF
twice in one transaction but in UE-originating and UE-terminating procedures
respectively.
## 6.5A Transit Function handling of requests
### 6.5A.1 Transit Function handling of initial requests and standalone
requests
An initial request or a standalone request may originate from an Application
Server via the ISC interface. Originating initial requests and standalone
requests from an Application Server via the ISC interface also cause the
Transit Function to look for Transit Invocation Criteria.
The Transit Invocation Criteria is locally configured at the Transit Function.
When the Transit Function receives an initial request, or a standalone
request, and the request is associated with a transit scenario where IMS
application services are provided, in order to perform the matching procedure
with SPTs within Transit Invocation Criteria. Then the Transit Function shall:
\- check whether the request matches a service configured for the transit
scenario. As an operator option, if the contents of the request do not match a
configured service, the Transit Function may reject the request;
\- use the Transit Invocation Criteria for the transit scenario;
\- check whether this request matches the Transit Invocation Criteria with the
highest priority configured for the transit scenario;
\- if this request matches the Transit Invocation Criteria, the Transit
Function shall forward this request to that Application Server, then check for
matching of the next following criteria of lower priority, and apply the
criteria on the SIP method received from the previously contacted Application
Server;
\- if this request does not match the highest priority Transit Invocation
Criteria, check for matching of the following criteria priorities until one
applies;
\- if no more (or none) of the Transit Invocation Criteria apply, the Transit
Function shall forward this request downstream based on the route decision;
and
\- in any instance, if the contact of the Application Server fails, the
Transit Function shall use the \"default handling\" associated with the
Transit Invocation Criteria to determine if it shall either terminate the call
or let the call continue based on the information in the criteria; if the
criteria does not contain instruction to the Transit Function regarding the
failure of the contact to the Application Server, the Transit Function shall
let the call continue as the default behaviour.
## 6.6 S-CSCF and Transit Function handling of IP multimedia session release
requests
### 6.6.0 Introduction
In handling session release, the S-CSCF and the Transit Function may either
proxy the release request or initiates a release request.
### 6.6.1 S-CSCF and Transit Function proxying release request
When the S-CSCF and the Transit Function receives a release request from some
entities (etc, application server, user agent) for a dialog, it proxies the
release request to the destination according to route information in that
release request.
Figure 6.6.1.1: S-CSCF proxying release request
### 6.6.2 S-CSCF and Transit Function initiating release request
For some reason (etc. administration decision of the network), the S-CSCF and
the Transit Function may be required to release an ongoing dialog. In this
case, the S-CSCF and the Transit Function shall send a release request to all
the entities that are involved in this dialog. In a typical AS involved
dialog, the S-CSCF and the Transit Function should send the release request to
the AS and the UE it is serving as shown in figure 6.6.2.1.
Figure 6.6.2.1: S-CSCF initiating release request
## 6.7 S-CSCF handling of subscription and notification
The S-CSCF supports subscription to and notification of the reg event package
by the UE, P-CSCFs and Application Servers. The subscribing entity may
subscribe to the registration state of individual public user identities for
the purpose of discovering the implicitly registered public user identities
and associated parameters (e.g. GRUUs, ICSIs, IARIs) for each registered
contact. When notifying a subscribing entity of a change in the registration
state of a subscribed to public user identity the S-CSCF shall include in the
notification all the implicitly registered public user identities associated
with the registered public user identity in addition to the registered public
user identity along with the associated parameters of every contact of each
registered public user identity.
Figure 6.7.1: Application Server -- S-CSCF subscribe notify dialog
## 6.8 S-CSCF handling IMS charging
In registration processing, a S-CSCF may send a third party REGISTER to an
application server, where the ICID, IOI and charging function addresses are
included in the message.
During a session, the S-CSCF shall generate the CDR for charging purposes.
In a session originating case, when receiving an incoming initial request,
this request will carry the ICID generated by the upstream P-CSCF, which is
serving the originating user; the S-CSCF shall store the ICID for this session
and handle this request based on filter criteria. After processing this
request the S-CSCF shall include the ICID and the charging function addresses
received from the HSS in the outgoing message. The charging function addresses
identify on-line, and off-line charging entities in the home network. It is
implementation dependent how IMS related entities such as P-CSCF in the
visited network get the local CCF or AAA addresses in the case that the P-CSCF
is located in the visited network. Charging function addresses may be
allocated as locally preconfigured addresses. If this message is sent outside
the home network, S-CSCF shall include Inter Operator Identifier (IOI) that
identifies the home network into the message. IOI is globally unique
identifier for using inter operator accounting purposes. The response to the
outgoing message may contain a separate IOI that identifies the home network
of the called party. The S-CSCF shall retain either IOI in the message when
contacting the Application Servers. The S-CSCF will receive access network
(IP-CAN) charging information from subsequent requests and responses, the
S-CSCF shall store these parameters and shall remove them from the outgoing
message if this message is sent to the terminating UE\'s home network or the
originating UE\'s visited network. The access network (IP-CAN) charging
information may be sent to application servers.
In a session terminating case, when receiving an incoming initial request,
this request will carry the ICID generated by the originating UE\'s P-CSCF;
the S-CSCF shall store the ICID for this session and handle this request based
on filter criteria. After processing this request the S-CSCF shall include the
ICID and the charging function addresses received from the HSS in the outgoing
message. The charging function addresses identify on-line and off-line
charging entities in the home network. IOI may be received from another
network or is inserted by the MGCF to identify the originating PSTN/PLMN. If
IOI is received at the S-CSCF, the S-CSCF shall store the IOI value for the
network that sent the request. The response to the incoming message may
contain a separate IOI that identifies the home network of the S-CSCF. The
S-CSCF shall retain either IOI in the message when contacting the Application
Servers. Afterwards, the S-CSCF shall remove the IOI of the requesting network
from the message before sending the message further within the network. The
S-CSCF will receive access network (IP-CAN) charging information from
subsequent requests and responses, the S-CSCF shall store these parameters and
removes them from the outgoing message if this message is sent to the
terminating UE\'s visited network or the originating UE\'s home network. The
access network (IP-CAN) charging information may be sent to application
servers.
For detailed information on transporting charging parameters between IMS
entities using SIP, see 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
## 6.8A Transit Function handling IMS charging
During a session, the Transit Function shall generate a CDR for charging
purposes. Charging function addresses are configured in the Transit Function.
Incoming initial SIP requests or a stand-alone SIP requests will carry an ICID
generated by an upstream functional entity and an Inter Operator Identifier
(IOI) identifying the network sending the request (the home network serving a
user or a visited network where the user is connected). The Transit Function
shall store the ICID and the IOI for this session.
Incoming SIP requests within an existing dialog will carry the ICID received
in the initial SIP request and an IOI identifying the network sending the
request (the home network serving a user or a visited network where a user is
connected).
When sending SIP requests to Application Servers the Transit Function shall:
\- include the ICID received in the incoming initial SIP request or stand-
alone SIP request;
\- remove the IOI received in the request; and
\- include an IOI value identifying the network where the Transit Function
resides.
When forwarding the incoming initial request, the stand-alone request or the
request received within the existing dialog to a down stream functional
entity, i.e. an functional entity that is not an Application Server, the
Transit Function shall include the ICID and the IOI received in the incoming
request.
Responses to the initial SIP request, the stand-alone SIP request or the SIP
request received within the existing dialog will contain the ICID received in
the incoming request and an IOI value included by an down stream entity.
When sending responses to Application Servers the Transit Function shall:
\- include the ICID value received in the response;
\- remove the IOI value received in the response; and
\- include an IOI value identifying the network where the Transit Function
resides.
The Transit Function shall store any IOI received from an Application Server
in requests or responses.
For detailed information on transporting charging parameters between IMS
entities using SIP, see 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
## 6.9 S-CSCF description of subscriber data
### 6.9.1 Application Server subscription information
The Application Server Subscription Information is the set of all Filter
Criteria that are stored within the HSS for service profile for a specific
user. This information shall be sent by the HSS to the S-CSCF via the Cx
Interface during registration. More than one set of Filter Criteria may be
sent during registration if implicitly registered public user identities
belong to different service profiles. Filter Criteria shall also be sent after
registration via the Cx interface when requested, as specified in 3GPP TS
29.228 [8].
### 6.9.2 Filter Criteria
#### 6.9.2.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the contents of the Filter Criteria. This information
is part of the Application Server Subscription Information. For further
information about the XML modelling see 3GPP TS 29.228 [8].
Filtering is done for initial SIP request messages only.
The S-CSCF shall apply filter criteria to determine the need to forward SIP
requests to Application Servers. These filter criteria will be downloaded from
the HSS.
**Initial Filter Criteria (iFC) are stored in the HSS as part of the user
profile and are downloaded to the S-CSCF upon user registration, or upon a
terminating initial request for an unregistered user if unavailable, or upon
an originating initial request from an Application Server for an unregistered
user if unavailable. They represent a provisioned subscription of a user to an
application. After downloading the User Profile from the HSS, the S-CSCF
assesses the filter criteria. Initial Filter Criteria are valid throughout the
registration lifetime of a user or until the User Profile is changed.**
Subsequent Filter Criteria (sFC) are **not used in this version of this
specification.**
#### 6.9.2.1 Application Server address
Address to be used to access the Application Server for a particular
subscriber.
#### 6.9.2.2 Default handling
The default handling procedure indicates whether to abandon matching of lower
priority triggers and to release the dialogue, or to continue the dialogue and
trigger matching.
#### 6.9.2.3 Trigger point
Trigger Points are the information the S-CSCF receives from the HSS that
defines the relevant SPTs for a particular application. They define the subset
of initial SIP requests received by the S-CSCF or headers (eg P-Asserted-
Service header) created by S-CSCF that should be sent or proxied to a
particular application server. When the S-CSCF receives an initial SIP
request, it evaluates the filter criteria one by one. If the initial SIP
request matches the filter criteria, the S-CSCF proxies the SIP request to the
corresponding SIP AS/IM-SSF/OSA SCS.
#### 6.9.2.4 iFC Priority
If there are multiple initial Filter Criteria assigned for one subscriber, the
priority shall describe the order in which the S-CSCF shall assess them, and
then contact the Application Servers when the SIP request matches the initial
filter criteria. In this case, the S-CSCF shall interact with the application
server associated with the initial matching filter criteria, starting from the
filter criteria which has the highest priority.
#### 6.9.2.5 Service Information
Service Information is transparent information, and is not processed by the
HSS or the S-CSCF. Service Information is optionally part of an initial Filter
Criteria. If it is available from the initial Filter Criteria the S-CSCF shall
include it into the body of the SIP request which is sent from the S-CSCF to
the AS to which the initial Filter Criteria is pointing to. Service
Information is only included by the S-CSCF in REGISTER requests where the
S-CSCF acts as a UAC.
#### 6.9.2.6 Include Register Request
Include Register Request defines whether the **S-CSCF is to include the
incoming REGISTER request in the body of the third party REGISTER request.**
NOTE: When the AS is outside the trust domain for any header field that is
permitted in the REGISTER request received from the UE, including an Include
Register Request indication in the initial Filter Criteria would cause the
incoming REGISTER request contents to be delivered to the AS revealing
information that AS is not trusted to obtain. Include Register Request
indication is therefore not included in the initial Filter Criteria for an AS
that exists outside the trust domain for any such header field.
#### 6.9.2.7 Include Register Response
Include Register Response defines whether the **S-CSCF is to include the final
response to the incoming REGISTER request in the body of the third party
REGISTER request.**
NOTE: When the AS is outside the trust domain for any header field that is
permitted in the final response to the REGISTER request received from the UE,
including an Include Register Response indication in the initial Filter
Criteria would cause the final response to the incoming REGISTER request
contents to be delivered to the AS revealing information that AS is not
trusted to obtain. Include Register Response indication is therefore not
included in the initial Filter Criteria for an AS that exists outside the
trust domain for any such header field.
### 6.9.3 Authentication data
This subclause defines the Authentication Data. This data shall be sent by the
HSS to the S-CSCF via the Cx Interface during registration.
For definition of authentication data see specification 3GPP TS 23.008 [10].
For the handling of authentication data, see 3GPP TS 33.203 [11].
# 7 Functional requirements of HSS
## 7.1 Subscriber data related storage requirements for HSS
HSS stores information required by:
\- S-CSCFs (downloaded via Cx interface). Data model and abstract syntax
notation are described in 3GPP TS 29.228 [8];
\- IM-SSF Application Servers (downloaded via Si or Sh interface);
\- Application Servers (downloaded via Sh interface).
The service related data shall be transparent to HSS, this requires the HSS
has some means to differentiate the source of the request for the data,
therefore, the HSS can respond with the data the request asks for.
## 7.2 Interfaces defined for HSS
### 7.2.1 HSS -- CSCF (Cx) interface
This interface is used to send subscriber data to the S-CSCF, including Filter
Criteria (and their priority); which indicates which SIP requests should be
proxied to which Application Servers.
The protocol used between the HSS and CSCF (Cx Interface) is specified in 3GPP
TS 29.228 [8] and 3GPP TS 29.229 [17].
### 7.2.2 HSS - Application Server (Sh) interface
The Sh interface is between the HSS and the SIP Application Servers and the
OSA SCS and may be used for transferring User Profile information such as user
service related information or user location information or charging function
addresses. Requirements for the Sh interface are specified in 3GPP TS 23.228
[3].
The Sh interface also supports mechanisms that allow Application Servers to
activate/deactivate their own existing initial filter criteria stored in the
HSS on a per subscriber basis.
The protocol used between the HSS and AS (Sh Interface) is specified in 3GPP
TS 29.328 [18] and 3GPP TS 29.329 [19].
### 7.2.3 HSS -- CSE interface
The protocol used on the interface between the HSS and the CAMEL Service
Environment (CSE) is the MAP protocol [16].
### 7.2.4 HSS -- IM-SSF Application Server interface
The interfaces between the HSS and the IM-SSF Application Server are:
\- the Si interface when the MAP protocol as specified in 3GPP TS 23.278 [9]
and 3GPP TS 29.002 [16] is used
\- the Sh interface when the Diameter based protocol as specified in 3GPP TS
29.328 [18], 3GPP TS 29.329 [19] and 3GPP TS 29 364 [26] is used
The Si and the Sh interfaces between HSS and the IM-SSF Application Server are
used for transferring IMS CAMEL specific information.
## 7.3 Procedures during IP multimedia registration
These procedures are described in 3GPP TS 29.228 [8].
## 7.4 Procedures during IP multimedia sessions
These procedures are described in 3GPP TS 29.228 [8].
# 8 Functional requirements of the MRFC
## 8.1 Functionality of the MRFC
### 8.1.1 Overview of MRFC Functionality
The functionality of the MRFC is defined in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3]. These
subclauses describe how an Application Server may interact with a MRFC. In
some cases a UE may interact directly with the MRFC, however these cases are
outside the scope of this specification and only the cases of Application
Server control for service provision are considered here. In all cases of
Application Server control, all session control requests that are passed
between the Application Server and the MRFC may be either exchanged directly
via the Mr\' interface or sent via the S-CSCF using the ISC interface and the
interface of the Mr reference point. In addition to the session control
requests, media control related commands and resources may be passed between
the Application Server and the MRFC using the Cr interface.
MRFC addresses are made known via peer-to-peer arrangements within the IM CN
subsystem.
Figure 8.1.1.1 describes the relationship of the Application Server with the
S-CSCF and MRFC.
Figure 8.1.1.1: Relationship of MRFC and MRFP with S-CSCF, and Application
Servers
### 8.1.2 Tones and announcements
An Application Server is in control of the tone/announcement selection and is
aware of MRFC capabilities.
The MRFC accepts INVITE requests sent from an Application Server, either
directly using the Mr\' interface or via the S-CSCF using the ISC interface,
for the purpose of applying tones and announcements. The INVITE request sent
to the MRFC will contain sufficient information to play the appropriate tone
or announcement or sufficient information for the request to be linked to a
media control command passed between the Application Server and MRFC using the
Cr interface that will contain that information.
Any additional resources required (for example announcement files) may be
fetched from the Application Server via the Cr interface.
The MRFC shall support both the offer/answer as defined in IETF RFC 3264 [15]
and the offer/answer with preconditions models for SDP negotiation with the
AS. However, the offer/answer model for SDP negotiation between the AS and the
MRFC is sufficient for applying tones and announcements. The MRFC should
always grant the requests from the AS (unless there is a resource problem).
The receipt of the ACK request or media control command at the MRFC triggers
the playing of the tone or announcement.
The tone or announcement should end when a BYE request is received.
Alternatively, an expiration time may have been specified from the AS within
the SDP of the INVITE request or a media control command. In this case, the
MRFC may terminate the media on its own and generate a BYE request towards the
AS. A tone or announcement may also have a pre-determined play time (e.g.,
confirmation tone), and so there may not be a need for the AS to send a
request to stop it or to include the play time in the request.
See annex B for a call flow example of playing an announcement for a UE-
originating call.
### 8.1.3 Ad-hoc conferences (multiparty calls)
An Application Server can control an Ad-Hoc conference (multiparty call) and
is aware of MRFC capabilities.
The MRFC accepts INVITE requests sent from an Application Server, either
directly using the Mr\' interface or via the S-CSCF using the ISC interface,
for the purpose of managing ad hoc conferences. The INVITE request sent to the
MRFC shall contain sufficient information to initiate, add and remove parties
from the conference. ReINVITE requests can also be sent for managing floor
control and for parties to leave and rejoin the media path.
Media control commands to control the conference (for example conference gain)
may be sent between the Application Server and the MRFC via the Cr interface.
The MRFC shall support both the offer/answer as defined in IETF RFC 3264 [15]
and the offer/answer with preconditions models for SDP negotiation with the
AS. However, the offer/answer model for SDP negotiation between the AS and the
MRFC is sufficient for managing ad hoc conferences. The MRFC should always
grant the requests from the AS (unless there is a resource problem). The MRFC
will reserve the requested local resources and return the appropriate resource
identifiers in the 200 (OK) response.
See annex B for a call flow example of an Ad Hoc Conference (Multiparty Call).
### 8.1.4 Transcoding
An Application Server can control a transcoding session and is aware of MRFC
capabilities.
The MRFC accepts INVITE requests sent from an Application Server, either
directly using the Mr\' interface or via the S-CSCFusing the ISC interface,
for the purpose of transcoding. The INVITE request sent to the MRFC shall
contain sufficient information to associate the two sessions that require
transcoding.
The MRFC shall support both the offer/answer as defined in IETF RFC 3264 [15]
and the offer/answer with preconditions models for SDP negotiation with the
AS. Either may be necessary for SDP negotiation between the AS/S-CSCF and the
MRFC. The MRFC should always grant the requests from the AS (unless there is a
resource problem).
For the offer/answer model, the MRFC responds to the INVITE request with a 200
(OK) response indicating the selected media in the SDP. The MRFC will also
reserve the requested local resources at that time and return the appropriate
resource identifiers in the 200 (OK) response.
For the offer/answer with preconditions model, the MRFC responds to the INVITE
request with a 183 (Session Progress) response indicating the list of codecs
supported by the MRFC. When the PRACK request is received indicating the
selected media in the SDP, the MRFC will reserve the requested local resources
at that time and return the appropriate resource identifiers in the 200 (OK)
response.
See annex B for call flow examples of providing transcoding.
## 8.2 Interfaces defined for MRFC
### 8.2.1 MRFC -- S-CSCF (Mr) interface
The protocol used between MRFC and S-CSCF is based on Session Initiation
Protocol, which is specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
The interface is used where it is wished to use the services of the S-CSCF to
route to the MRF.
The interface is also used to support the establishment of a media control
channel with the MRF, or between the MRF and the MRB.
The interface is also used where the S-CSCF, I-CSCF or UE wishes to address
the MRF directly. These entities can also use an MRB (using this interface) to
support selection of the appropriate MRF. Such usage is however limited to In-
Line mode (see subclause 13.2).
### 8.2.2 Application Server -- MRFC (Cr) interface
The Cr interface allows interaction between an Application Server and an MRFC.
The Cr interface enables the MRFC to fetch and cache documents and resources
from an Application Server and to return data to an Application server.
The Cr interface enables media control protocol requests, responses and
notifications to be sent between the MRFC and an Application Server.
The establishment and management of the media control protocol is done via SIP
messages sent between the Application Server and the MRFC (either directly
using the Mr\' interface or via the S-CSCF using the ISC interface ) and is
specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
The protocols which use this interface are specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5],
3GPP TS 24.147 [23] and 3GPP TS 24.247 [24].
### 8.2.3 Application Server -- MRFC (Mr\') interface
Mr\' interface allows an Application Server and an MRFC to exchange session
control messages without passing through an S-CSCF.
The protocol used between Application Server and MRFC over Mr\' interface is
based on Session Initiation Protocol, which is specified in 3GPP TS 24.229
[5].
### 8.2.4 MRB -- MRFC (Mr\') interface
This interface is used for an MRB operating in In-Line mode. The use of this
interface is described in subclause 13.2.
This interface can also be used by the MRFC to establish a media control
channel between the MRB and the MRFC to allow the publication of resource
information, see subclause 13.3.
Mr\' interface allows an MRB and an MRFC to exchange session control messages
without passing through an S-CSCF.
The protocol used between MRB and MRFC over Mr\' interface is based on Session
Initiation Protocol, which is specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
### 8.2.5 MRB -- MRFC (Cr) interface
This interface is used for an MRFC to publish information to the MRB. The use
of this interface is described in subclause 13.3.
# 9 Generic IP multimedia session handling for SIP Application Servers
## 9.1 Architecture
### 9.1.0 Introduction
This subclause describes the functional architecture needed to support
interactions between the S-CSCF in the IP Multimedia Subsystem and the
Application Server(s). This subclause relates to the generic behaviour of SIP
Application Servers, which since SIP is the ISC interface protocol shall be
considered to apply to all application servers, (which also includes the SIP
behaviour of the OSA SCS and IM-SSF). The detailed models for service
provision are described in the subclauses below. These models shall apply to
the SIP behaviour of the OSA SCS and IM-SSF and all the Application Servers.
Figure 9.1.1: Application Server functional model
Figure 9.1.1 identifies the components of a functional model of the AS.
NOTE: These components are defined only as a model of the expected behaviour
of the AS on the ISC interface and are not intended to define or constrain the
actual implementation.
The components include the AS-ILCM, the AS-OLCM and the Application Logic. The
AS-ILCM shall store transaction state, and may optionally store session state
depending on the specific service being executed. The AS-ILCM interfaces to
the S-CSCF (ILCM) for an incoming leg.
The AS-OLCM shall store transaction state, and may optionally store session
state depending on the specific service being executed. The AS-OLCM interfaces
to the S-CSCF (OLCM) for an outgoing leg.
The Application Logic provides the service(s) and interacts between the AS-
ILCM and AS-OLCM.
The Application Server can access the HSS via the Sh or Si interface to access
subscriber related data specific to the service or application including the
address of the S-CSCF.
### 9.1.1 Modes of operation between Application Server and S-CSCF
#### 9.1.1.0 Introduction
An Application Server can utilize five basic modes of operation for processing
SIP Requests. Services can be built using combinations of these five modes of
operation between the Application Server and the S-CSCF. An application Server
can transition from one mode of operation to another during the lifetime of a
multimedia session it is managing.
#### 9.1.1.1 Application Server acting as terminating UA, or redirect server
Figure 9.1.1.1.1: Application Server acting as terminating UA, or redirect
server
In this mode of operation the incoming SIP Request is proxied by the S-CSCF to
the Application Server, which then acts as either a UA or Redirect Server as
specified in IETF RFC 3261 [6].
#### 9.1.1.2 Application Server acting as originating UA
Figure 9.1.1.2.1: Application Server acting as originating UA
In this mode of operation the Application Server acts as a UA as specified in
IETF RFC 3261 [6] and generates a SIP Request which it sends to the S-CSCF
which then proxies it towards the destination.
#### 9.1.1.3 Application Server acting as a SIP proxy
Figure 9.1.1.3.1: Application Server acting as a SIP proxy
In this mode of operation the incoming SIP Request is proxied by the S-CSCF to
the Application Server which then acts as a proxy as specified in IETF RFC
3261 [6] proxying the request back to the S-CSCF which then proxies it towards
the destination. During the proxy operation the Application Server can add,
remove or modify the header contents contained in the SIP request according to
the Proxy rules specified in IETF RFC 3261 [6].
#### 9.1.1.4 Application Server performing third party call control/ B2BUA
mode
The AS performing 3rd party call control acts as a B2BUA. There are several
kinds of 3rd party call control, for example:
\- Routeing B2BUA: an AS receives a request from the S-CSCF, terminates it and
generates a new request, which is based on the received request.
Figure 9.1.1.4.1: Application Server performing third party call control
acting as a routeing B2BUA
> In this mode of operation the incoming SIP Request is proxied by the S-CSCF
> to the Application Server which then generates a new SIP request for a
> different SIP dialog which it sends to the S-CSCF which then proxies it
> towards the destination. In this mode the Application Server behaves as a
> B2BUA for the multiple SIP dialogs as specified in IETF RFC 3261 [6].
\- Initiating B2BUA: an AS initiates two requests, which are logically
connected together at the AS.
Figure 9.1.1.4.2: Application Server performing third party call control
acting as an initiating B2BUA
> In this mode of operation the Application Server initiates two requests with
> different SIP dialogs. The Application Server is responsible for corelating
> the two dialogs. These requests are proxied through the S‑CSCF which then
> proxies them towards the destination. In this mode the Application Server
> behaves as a B2BUA for the multiple SIP dialogs as specified in IETF RFC
> 3261 [6].
#### 9.1.1.5 Application Server not involved or no longer involved
Figure 9.1.1.5.1: A SIP leg is passed through the S-CSCF without Application
Server involvement
In this mode of operation the Application Server was either never involved in
the SIP session signalling or has determined to be no longer involved. The
incoming SIP Request is proxied by the S-CSCF towards the destination. The
Application Server can maintain itself in the SIP session signalling path by
inserting itself in a Record-Route Header as specified in IETF RFC 3261 [6].
If the Application Server does not insert itself in a Record Route header then
this mode of operation shall be used for all subsequent requests related to
this SIP dialog.
### 9.1.2 Modes of operation between Application Server and Transit Function
The modes of operation between the Application Server and the Transit Function
are identical to the modes of operation between the Application Server and the
S-CSCF, as specified in subclause 9.1.1.
## 9.2 Interfaces defined for a SIP Application Server
### 9.2.1 S-CSCF -- Application Server (ISC) interface
This interface can be used by the Application Server to control an IP
Multimedia session via a S-CSCF. Transactions between the S-CSCF and the
Application Server on this interface are initiated either as a result of the
S-CSCF proxying a SIP request to the Application Server or by the Application
Server initiating by generating and sending a SIP request to the S-CSCF. This
interface is based on SIP.
### 9.2.2 Application Server -- HSS (Sh) interface
The Sh interface is between the HSS and the SIP Application Servers and the
OSA SCS and may be used for transferring User Profile information.
The Sh interface also supports mechanisms that allow Application Servers to
activate/deactivate their own existing initial filter criteria stored in the
HSS on a per subscriber basis.
### 9.2.3 Application Server -- SLF (Dh) interface
The Dh interface is between the SLF and the SIP Application Servers, the OSA
SCS, and the IM-SSF and may be used for retrieving the address of the HSS
which holds the User Profile information for a given user.
### 9.2.4 Application Server -- MRFC (Cr) interface
The Cr interface allows interaction between an Application Server and an MRFC
and is described further in subclause 8.2.2.
### 9.2.5 Application Server -- MRB interface (Rc)
The Rc interface is used by the AS to request that media resources be assigned
to a call when utilizing MRB in _Query_ mode. See clause 13.
### 9.2.6 Transit Function -- Application Server (ISC) interface
This interface can be used by the Application Server to control an IP
Multimedia session via a transit function. Transactions between the transit
function and the Application Server on this interface are initiated as a
result of the transit proxying a SIP request to the Application Server. This
interface is based on SIP. The interface implements the Mf reference point, as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.228 [3].
## 9.3 Description of Application Server related subscriber data
### 9.3.1 Application server subscription information
#### 9.3.1.0 Introduction
This subclause defines the general contents of the Subscription Information
that may be required by the Application Server. The AS shall obtain this
information from the HSS via the Sh interface or by other operator defined
methods. The subscription information may be retrieved during registration or
at any other time dependent on AS and service requirements.
#### 9.3.1.1 Service key
The Service Key identifies to the Application Server the service logic that
shall apply.
#### 9.3.1.2 Service platform trigger points (STP)
Service Platform Trigger Points (STP) are the points in the SIP signalling
that instruct the Application Server to trigger the service logic.
#### 9.3.1.3 Service scripts
The Application Server can utilize a call processing script (e.g. in CGI, CPL,
Java Servlets, or another proprietary language), which may be obtained from
the HSS via the Sh interface or by other operator defined methods.
NOTE: Java is the trade name of a product supplied by Sun Microsystems. This
information is given for the convenience of users of the present document and
does not constitute an endorsement by 3GPP of the product named. Equivalent
products may be used if they can be shown to lead to the same results.
## 9.4 Procedures for multimedia session handling with a SIP based Application
Server
### 9.4.1 Application Server handling of UE-originating requests
The functional mode of application server is shown in figure 9.1.1.
For an UE-originating request, the AS-ILCM may interact with the application
logic reporting call state information. Depending on the service that is being
provided, the application logic may instruct the AS-OLCM to modify the request
if needed (e g. by inserting itself in the Record-Route etc). After processing
the request the AS-OLCM may send this request back to the S-CSCF.
When the AS acts as a B2BUA, the application server shall maintain and
correlate the multiple dialogues that it creates. It shall be responsible for
correlating the dialogue identifiers and shall decide when to translate a
message from one dialog to the other, or when to perform other functions based
on the instruction from the application logic.
If an AS that supports a IMS communication service is acting as an initiating
B2BUA and and it receives an initial request or standalone transaction without
an ICSI, it can insert an ICSI appropriate to the service it is performing on
other legs and can also insert an ICSI appropriate to the service it is
performing on the originating leg in appropriate SIP response messages on the
originating leg.
NOTE: Whether to insert an ICSI on a leg and whether the ICSIs inserted on the
legs are the same or not depend on the services being performed.
An AS that supports a IMS communication service that is acting as an
originating UA can insert an ICSI appropriate to the service in the request
and can also insert an ICSI appropriate to the service it is performing in
appropriate SIP response messages.
An AS that acts as a SIP proxy or routeing B2BUA can include in the SIP
request and response an indication that it is on the route of the SIP
signalling and indicate the capabilities that it supports (including the ICSI)
and if required can also indicate the associated address that can be used to
send related requests.
### 9.4.2 Application Server handling of UE-terminating requests
The handling of UE-terminating requests is similar with the handling of UE-
originating requests as defined in subclause 9.4.1.
### 9.4.3 Application Server handling of SIP registration
When the user is registered with the network and has been assigned a S-CSCF,
the application servers, which are interested to know about the user
registration events, should get a third party registration request generated
by the S-CSCF. When the application server receives the request, the
Application Server may perform a service triggered by a REGISTER. If the
application server doesn\'t support this mechanism, it shall send back an
error response to the S-CSCF. If the application server supports this
mechanism, it shall treat this request as a notification from the network
about the user\'s registration event and extract the important information
from this request.
The application server may, depending on the Filter Criteria receive REGISTER
requests indicating reregistration or deregistration events from the S-CSCF,
so that the application server can update or release user\'s registration
information.
The important information carried in the third party registration request are,
the public user identity, the S-CSCF address, and the expiration time.
The application server can also extract user specific data from the REGISTER
request, e.g. the IMSI for an Application Server that supports CAMEL services
and information from the original REGISTER request included in the body.
Application Servers can also subscribe to the S-CSCF Registration Event
Package after receiving the third party registration request. After
subscribing to the event package with the S-CSCF, the application will expect
to receive the notifications from the S-CSCF, which may carry the user\'s
implicitly registered public user identities, the user's terminal current
capabilities and the user\'s registration event information.
The application server can also obtain the user\'s implicitly registered
public identities by accessing the HSS via Sh or Si interface.
An application server will require knowledge of a user\'s IMS subscription
information if they are to correctly apply services. This information can be
provided to the application server in two ways, either:
a) Manually by provisioning. This is outside of the scope of this
specification.
b) Automatically from the HSS via the Sh and Si interfaces.
More information on these procedures is contained in 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
### 9.4.4 Application Server handling of IP multimedia session release
requests
#### 9.4.4.1 Session release request terminated at the Application Server
When the application server receives a session release request, if the
application server is acting as a user agent or a B2BUA, it shall send a 200
(OK) response to the entity that initiated the session release request.
Figure 9.4.4.1.1: Release request terminated at the Application Server
#### 9.4.4.2 Session release request proxied by the Application Server
When receiving a session release request, the application server may proxy the
release request based on the route information in that request. This handling
is typically used when the application server is in proxy mode.
Figure 9.4.4.2.1: Release request proxied by the Application Server
#### 9.4.4.3 Session release request initiated by the Application Server
If needed, the application server may initiate release requests to the
entities involved in the dialogs the application server manages. Application
servers may initiate release requests in either user agent or B2BUA mode.
Figure 9.4.4.3.1: Release request initiated by the Application Server
### 9.4.5 Application server handling of IP multimedia charging
If an application server receives a third party REGISTER from the S-CSCF
carrying the ICID, IOI and charging function addresses, the application server
may store these parameters for charging purposes.
In an originating case, when processing an incoming initial request carrying
the ICID, IOI, access network (IP-CAN) charging information and charging
function addresses for this session, the application server shall pass these
parameters in the outgoing message and may store the parameters for charging
purposes.
In a terminating case, when processing an incoming initial request carrying
the ICID, IOI, access network (IP-CAN) charging information and charging
function addresses for this session, the application server shall pass these
parameters in the outgoing message and may store the parameters for charging
purposes.
When the application server is acting as an originating user agent as
described in subclause 9.1.1.2 and initiates a session or a standalone
transaction, it shall generate ICID itself. Charging function addresses may be
allocated as locally preconfigured addresses. The application server may
retrieve the charging addresses on Sh interface.
When the **conflict occurs between the charging function address(es) received
over the ISC interface and those received over the Sh interface, the
address(es) received over the ISC interface should take precedence.**
NOTE: The use of the Sh interface to retrieve charging function addresses is
not intended as a general-purpose alternative to receiving charging function
addresses from the ISC interfaces. Rather, it is meant to address a special
case where the AS needs to interact with the charging system before initiating
a request to a user when the AS has not received the third party REGISTER for
that user.
For detailed information on transporting charging parameters between IMS
entities using SIP, see 3GPP TS 24.229 [5].
# 10 IP multimedia session handling with IM-SSF Application Server
This subclause describes the functional architecture needed to support CAMEL
interactions with the S-CSCF and the Transit Function in the IP Multimedia
Subsystem. The IM-SSF is a SIP Application Server that interfaces SIP to CAP.
The generic SIP Application Server behaviour of the IM-SSF is specified in
clause 9 of the present document.
The detailed CAMEL procedures for IM-SSF Application Server are specified in
3GPP TS 23.278 [9].
# 11 IP multimedia session handling with an OSA-Service Capability Server
This subclause describes the functional architecture needed to support
interactions with the S-CSCF and the Transit Function in the IP Multimedia
Subsystem and the OSA-SCS. The OSA-Service Capability Server is a SIP
Application Server which interfaces SIP to the OSA framework. The generic SIP
Application Server behaviour of the OSC-SCS is specified in clause 9 of the
present document.
The detailed OSA-SCS procedures for IMS Application Server are specified in
3GPP TR 29.998 [7].
# 12\. IP multimedia session handling with an Charging Server
This clause describes the functional architecture needed to support
interactions with the S-CSCF in the IP Multimedia Subsystem and Charging
Server. The Charging Server is a specific SIP Application Server that performs
the role of online charging mechanism for the Event Charging Function (ECF)
and Session Charging Function (SCF).
The detailed procedures for Charging Server are specified in 3GPP TS 32.240
[20] and 3GPP TS 32.260 [21].
# 13 Media resource broker (MRB)
## 13.0 General
The Media Resource Broker (MRB) is a functional entity that is responsible for
both collection of appropriate published MRF information and supplying of
appropriate MRF information to consuming entities such as the AS. Therefore,
the MRB is responsible for supporting the identification and selection of
appropriate MRF resources.
The MRB supports the sharing of a pool of heterogeneous MRF resources by
multiple heterogeneous applications. MRB assigns (and later releases) specific
suitable MRF resources to calls as requested by the consuming applications,
based on MRF attributes specified by the applications as well as other
criteria.
The MRB may take the following kinds of information into account when
assigning MRF resources to an application:
\- the specific characteristics of the media resources required for the call
or calls;
\- the identity of the application;
\- rules for allocating MRF resources across different applications;
\- per-application or per-subscriber SLA or QoS criteria;
\- capacity models of particular MRF resources; and
\- if it can use the services of another (visited network) MRB.
There are two modes in which MRB can be utilized -- Query and In-Line, as
explained below. An instance of an MRB may simultaneously operate in both
modes. Likewise, a given AS/application could employ Query mode on some calls
and In-Line mode on others.
Query and In-Line modes of MRB have the following in common:
\- the role of MRB is the same -- assignment of MRF resources to calls as
requested by applications;
\- an application server provides the same kind of information to MRB on MRF
attributes needed for a given call; and
\- the way MRB acquires knowledge of MRF resources and other information
needed to perform its role is the same (see subclause 13.3).
Query mode allows the application to:
\- be the entity that determines when an MRF resource can be released;
\- request and be assigned MRF resources for multiple calls in advance; and do
that in a single request/response; and
\- incrementally request more MRF resources or release resources that it
determines aren't in fact needed.
An MRB can use the services of another MRB, either in In-Line mode or in Query
mode, using the Mr, Mr\' and Rc interfaces appropriately.
## 13.1 MRB Query Mode
Figure 13.1.1: Query Mode
With Query mode, the AS queries the MRB with a request for media resources
with certain attributes using the Rc interface. The MRB selects suitable MRF
Resources, assigns them to that AS/application, and responds to the AS with
the addresses of the selected MRF resources.
Once the AS receives the response from MRB, it sets up the call or calls to
the MRFC either through the S-CSCF (ISC and Mr interface) or directly to the
MRFC (Mr\' interface), using the MRF address information supplied by MRB.
Control packages are supported over the Cr interface.
When the AS/application is done using a MRF resource, it sends another message
to MRB indicating so, and MRB returns that resource to the idle pool and
acknowledges to the AS/application.
## 13.2 MRB In-Line Mode
Figure 13.2.1: In-Line Mode
With In-Line mode, the MRB is between the AS and the MRFC. The AS sends a
request to establish a dialog to the MRB (using the Mr\' interface, or via the
S-CSCF using the ISC and Mr interface). The request can contain information
relating to the kind of MRF required to handle that particular call. The MRB
selects an appropriate MRF resource and sends the request along to the MRF
(using the Mr\' interface, or via the S-CSCF using the ISC and Mr interface).
Subsequent messages in the same dialog between the AS and MRFC traverse the
MRB (as well as the S-CSCF if that was in the path between the AS and the MRB,
or between the MRB and the MRFC).
Control packages are supported over the Cr interface directly between AS and
MRFC.
The MRB infers that the media resource is no longer needed when it sees a
session release request from either the AS or MRFC.
## 13.3 MRB knowledge of MRF resources and other information
In order to perform its function, MRB may need the following kinds of
information (this is not necessarily an exhaustive list):
\- available MRF resources and their attributes; current and future. This may
take into account planned and unplanned downtime and the scheduled
addition/deletion or availability of MRF resources;
\- rules for fair-share allocation across applications;
\- capacity models for particular MRF resources; and
\- reservations for future use of media resources (for example, for
conferencing, or for anticipated traffic spikes for other applications such as
a FreePhone application).
The above information can all acquired by MRB through operations interfaces.
However, it the MRB can also learn of available MRF resources and their
characteristics via a direct MRB-MRF interface.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Scalability and deployment considerations for
IP multimedia service provision
This Annex is intended to guide the reader in deployment and real life issues.
This specification has provided a set of tools for the application developer
and the application integrator to utilize in order to develop and deploy
applications and provide services for the IP multimedia core network
subsystem. However, practical deployments will need to consider certain
scalability issues with the use or misuse of some of the tools specified in
this specification.
The architecture allows for any number of Application Servers to be connected
to any number of S-CSCFs and Transit Functions, and any number of Application
Servers to be involved in the initiation of a multimedia session. A
scalability issue may arise if there are a large number of S-CSCF, Transit
Functions and AS in a network.
Consideration should be given to the signalling propagation delays introduced
when many Application Servers add themselves to the route to provide
originating and terminating services for the calling and called parties.
A SIP Application Server may act as gateway function by forwarding an incoming
request to external ASs beyond the IM CN subsytem. An external ASs will also
send responses to IM CN subsytem via a SIP AS gateway. These other Application
Servers can be located externally to the home network, and use the SIP
Application Server as a gateway to the ISC interface. The interface between
the SIP Application Server acting as a gateway, and other Application Servers
is outside the scope of the present document.
There is another case where the external AS is connected with S-CSCF (or
I-CSCF) via public ISP networks depending on the operators desire for network
configuration hiding. S-CSCF or entities outside the S-CSCF may perform the
interworking function.
Care must also be taken to the priority and order of contact of multiple
Application Servers during a session in order to account for feature
interaction issues.
Figure A.1: Example hierarchical architecture for Application Servers
Figure A.1 depicts a possible solution that shows how a S-CSCF (S-CSCF1
S-CSCF3) could be connected to a single AS (SIP AS1), while another (S-CSCF2)
could be connected to more than one, in this case it is two (SIP AS1, SIP
AS2). All S-CSCF will be connected to the HSS via Cx. A SIP AS may be
connected to the HSS via Sh. SIP ASs may be connected to the IP network, which
could allow them to contact Application Servers (e.g., either SIP ASs, or
Other ASs).
Care should be taken to the transaction delays resulting of a high number of
S-CSCF, Transit Functions and ASs on the session signalling path.
A possible application of this architecture is described below (see figure
A.2).
While some applications need to discover the registration of a user on an
event driven basis, many applications do not. For many applications an access
to the HSS or other database to obtain the address of the S-CSCF that serves a
user is sufficient to contact and initiate a session to that user, and others
(such as basic call feature servers) do not require to be informed of the
registration state or necessarily even need to know the identity of the user.
It is therefore possible that the filter criteria are set in such a way that
S-CSCF3 does not forward or notify SIP AS 3 of REGISTER requests. SIP AS3
would then need to determine registration status via other means (i.e. via IP
network) not specified.
The number of Application Servers receiving REGISTER requests (i.e., SIP AS3)
from an individual S-CSCF should be minimized.
Figure A.2: Use of a hierarchy in a practical architecture for Application
Servers
###### ## Annex B (informative): Information flows for example services
This annex contains some informative example information flows that show the
possible flow of information for some example services. These examples are
intended only to help aid the understanding of the behaviour of the S-CSCF,
MRFC and Application Servers for service provision for the IM CN subsystem and
are not intended to recommend or specify how to create such services, (indeed
the examples given may not even be a good idea for a practical
implementation).
The following modes of operation are shown in these examples:
\- Third Party Registration to Application Server subclause B.3.2;
\- Application Server in Originating UA mode subclause B.3.2;
\- Application Server in Redirect mode subclause B.1.3;
\- Application Server in Terminating UA mode subclause B.3.1;
\- Application Server in Proxy mode subclause B.1.4;
\- Application Server in Third Party Call Control/B2BUA mode subclauses B.2.1,
B.2.2,and B.2.3;
\- Application Server with no involvement subclause B.1.4.
# B.1 Call forwarding example
## B.1.1 Call forwarding through Application Servers
### B.1.1.0 Introduction
Figure B.1.1.1 presents the network configuration for a call-forwarding
scenario. Some interfaces between nodes have been omitted purely for clarity.
In this configuration, the UE1 originates a call to the UE2. The UE2 is
subscribed to a Call Forwarding (CF) service based on the Calling Line
Identification (CLI). The CF service logic resides in an Application Server
interfacing to the IM CN subsystem via the ISC interface. The Application
Server is programmed to detect all incoming calls or terminating sessions with
UE1\'s CLI and to instruct the S-CSCF to forward the calls/sessions to another
destination, UE3, either directly or via the UE1. These two session forwarding
scenarios are shown by the red and blue coloured flows. When the session
redirection is carried out directly by the S-CSCF of the UE2, the network may
notify the UE1 of its call/session redirection.
As shown in figure B.1.1.1, the Application Server may be a SIP AS, or an OSA
AS or a CAMEL CSE. The latter two Application Servers interface the S-CSCF via
the OSA SCS and IM SSF gateways, respectively.
Figure B.1.1.1: Network configuration for the call forwarding examples
In this configuration, the originating UE1 and the terminating UE3 are assumed
to be in their respective home network. The UE2, not shown in figure B.1.1.1,
may be either at its home network or roaming in a visited network.
The CF feature is invoked based on the detection of the originating party\'s
CLI \"pre-activated\" for call forwarding. Upon invocation of the CFonCLI
feature, the call will be forwarded to a pre-specified destination. These two
steps and a few underlying assumptions are briefly described below:
### B.1.1.1 Service activation and programming
The UE2 activates its CFonCLI service and programs it with a Forward-to Number
which is UE3\'s number, conditioning it to the originating party\'s line
identity, CLI.
### B.1.1.2 Service invocation and control
The UE1 makes a call to the UE2. The CFonCLI is invoked and the call is
forwarded to the UE3 following a \"Session Redirection\" that is initiated by
either the S-CSCF or the UE1.
NOTE: 3GPP TS 23.228 [3] lists six redirection procedures as follows:
NOTE 1: Session Redirection initiated by S-CSCF to IMS;
NOTE 2: Session Redirection initiated by S-CSCF to CS-domain;
NOTE 3: Session Redirection initiated by S-CSCF to general endpoint;
NOTE 4: Session Redirection initiated by P-CSCF;
NOTE 5: Session Redirection initiated by UE;
NOTE 6: Session Redirection initiated after Bearer Establishment.
## B.1.2 Assumptions
For the CFonCLI service invocation and service control procedure, the
following are assumed to hold:
\- Normal case scenario, showing successful cases only;
\- Subscriber data of all three UE1, UE2 and UE3 are stored in their
respective HSS;
\- All call/session control for the UE1, UE2, and UE3 is done in their
respective home network S-CSCF;
\- The UE2 has already subscribed to the CFonCLI service with a service
provider operating an Application Server where the service control logic
resides;
\- The pre-selected numbers (e.g., UE3) to which the originated calls are
forwarded, are stored by the CFonCLI service control logic upon activation of
the feature by the UE2.
## B.1.3 UE redirect based call flows
Figure B.1.3.1: CFonCLI information flows with UE re-direct
Figure B.1.3.1 presents the information flow for the invocation and control of
the CFonCLI service based on the configuration of figure B.1.1.1.
The UE1 initiates a call to UE2. The CFonCLI service logic is invoked in the
Application Server when the S-CSCF for UE2 detects that service invocation is
required. The call is forwarded to the UE3 by the UE1 according to the
\"Session Redirection initiated by UE\" procedure. The UE3 accepts the
(forwarded) call. A detailed description for each flow is given below:
1) The S-CSCF of UE1 receives a SIP INVITE request form UE1.
2) The I-CSCF of the UE2 receives a SIP INVITE request form the S-CSCF of the
originating user, UE1. UE1\'s CLI is included in this INVITE request.
3) The I-CSCF of the UE2 queries the HSS to obtain the S-CSCF of the UE2.
4) The HSS returns the S-CSCF location.
5) The I-CSCF forwards the INVITE request to the S-CSCF of UE2.
6) Based on the information obtained from the UE2 Service Profile (during
registration), the S-CSCF of the UE2 detects that the criteria for certain
pre-defined triggers are met. The INVITE request is forwarded to the
Application Server. The service logic is invoked in the Application Server.
7) Based on the outcome of the execution of the service logic, the Application
Server instructs the S-SCSF to REDIRECT the session to UE3. The behaviour of
the Application Server follows the description of a \'redirect server\'. It
sends the 302 Move Temporary response with UE3 as the redirect address to UE1.
The Application Server plays no further part in the session establishment.
8) S-CSCF of UE2 sends ACK request back to the Application Server to
acknowledge the receiving of the 302 (Moved Temporarily) response.
9) S-CSCF of UE2 forwards the 302 (Moved Temporarily) response to the I-CSCF
of UE2.
10) The I-CSCF of UE2 forwards the 302 Move Temporary to the S-CSCF of UE1.
11) The S-CSCF of UE1 sends ACK request to acknowledge the receiving of the
302 Move Temporary.
12) The I-CSCF of UE2 forwards the ACK request to the S-CSCF of UE2.
13) The S-CSCF of UE1 forwards the 302 (Moved Temporarily) response to the
next downstream hop.
14) The S-CSCF of UE1 receives the ACK request for that 302 (Moved
Temporarily) response from the downstream hop.
15) The UE1 re-issues an INVITE request with UE3 as the destination.
16) The originating S-CSCF redirects the SIP INVITE request to the UE3\'s home
network.
17) Bearer establishment & call setup between from the UE1 to the UE3 is
performed following the procedure described in the basic call flow sections
for originating, inter-network and terminating segments.
## B.1.4 S-CSCF based redirect call flows
Figure B.1.4.1 presents the information flow for the invocation and control of
the CFonCLI service based on the configuration of figure B.1.1.1, where
redirection is made by the S-CSCF after instructions from the service logic in
the Application Servers.
Figure B.1. 4.1: CFonCLI information flow with S-CSCF redirect
The UE1 (located in the originating visited network) makes a call to UE2. The
CFonCLI is invoked and the CFonCLI service logic is executed by an application
residing in the Application Server.
The call is forwarded to the UE3 by the S-CSCF of UE2 according to the
\"Session Redirection\" instructed by the Application Server. The S-CSCF sends
a SIP 181Call Is Being Forwarded to UE1 and a SIP INVITE request to UE3. The
UE3 accepts the (forwarded) call. A detailed description for each flow is
given below:
1) - 6) are identical to flows by the same number in the UE Redirect example
provided in B.1.3.
(7a, 7b, 7c and 7d) The Application Server notifies the UE1 that the call is
being forwarded, by sending a 181 (Call Is Being Forwarded) response.
8) The service logic forwards the INVITE request back to S-CSCF modifies the
destination address by inserting the identity of the UE3. The Application
Server is in SIP proxy mode.
9) The S-CSCF of UE2 forwards the modified INVITE request it received from the
Application Server to the I-CSCF of UE3.
10) The I-CSCF of the UE3 queries the HSS to obtain the S-CSCF of the UE3.
11) The HSS returns UE3\'s S-CSCF location.
(12a and 12b) The I-CSCF forwards the SIP INVITE request the UE3 via its
S-CSCF.
(13a, 13b, 13c, 13d, 13e, 13f, 13g, 13h and 13g) The UE3 accepts the incoming
call and sends an 183 (Session Progress) response back to UE1.
14) Bearer establishment & call setup between from the UE1 to the UE3 is
performed following the procedure described in the basic call flow subclauses
for originating, inter-network and terminating segments.
# B.2 Announcement, conferencing and transcoding examples using MRFC
## B.2.1 Example information flow for a UE-originating IP multimedia session
that results in playing an announcement
Figure B.2.1.1 shows an example of playing an announcement for a UE-
originating IP multimedia session. An AS (acting as B2BUA) performs third
party call control with the MRFC, where the S-CSCF is in the signalling path.
The \"[x]\" notation in the figure is an indicator of a unique SIP dialog. The
\"dot\" notation on the AS line indicates B2BUA actions are taking place along
with AS service logic. The 100 (Trying) responses are not shown in the figure,
but it is assumed that a 100 (Trying) response is sent in response to each
INVITE request.
The B2BUA AS interacts with the UE as usual to establish the dialog. The B2BUA
AS interacts with the MRFC using a third party control model to establish the
dialog. The B2BUA AS manages the interactions between the two dialogs.
The offer/answer model as defined in IETF RFC 3264 [15] is used for SDP
negotiation between the AS/S-CSCF and the MRFC. The MRFC should always grant
the requests from the AS (unless there is a resource problem). The MRFC
responds to the INVITE request with a 200 (OK) response indicating the
selected codec in the SDP. The MRFC will also reserve the requested local
resources at that time. The selected codec is included by the B2BUA AS in the
183 (Session Progress) response to the UE. The receipt of the ACK request at
the MRFC triggers the playing of the tone or announcement.
Figure B.2.1.1: Tones and announcements call flow
Notes for figure B.2.1.1:
1) INVITE request is received at the S-CSCF [Call-ID 1].
2) INVITE request is forwarded to an AS, based on the filter criteria.
3) The AS service logic determines to proceed with the call.
4) New INVITE request is sent towards destination, via the S-CSCF, to
establish a new dialog [Call-ID 2].
5) S-CSCF experiences a failure, such as not being able to determine the next
hop for the SIP URL.
6) Session failure returned to the AS.
7) ACK request returned to complete this dialog [Call-ID 2].
8) The AS service logic determines to play an announcement to the calling
party.
9) New INVITE request is sent to the MRFC, via the S-CSCF, to establish a new
dialog for playing an announcement [Call-ID 3]. Sufficient information is
included to specify the details for the announcement.
10) S-CSCF relays the INVITE request to the MRFC.
11) The MRFC allocates the requested resource and returns a 200 (OK) response,
with SDP-M indicating selected media.
12) S-CSCF relays 200 (OK) response to the AS.
13 - 30) The B2BUA AS manages the dialog for Call-ID 1 as normal, with the
SDP-M supplied from the MRFC. The MRFC is instructed to play the announcement
using the ACK request at flow 26 for Call-ID 3.
## B.2.2 Example information flow for a UE-originating IP multimedia ad-hoc
conferencing session (multiparty call)
Figure B.2.1.1 shows an example of an ad hoc conference (multiparty call). An
AS (acting as B2BUA) performs third party call control with the MRFC, where
the S-CSCF is in the signalling path.
The \"[x]\" notation in the figure is an indicator of a unique SIP dialog. The
\"dot\" notation on the AS line indicates B2BUA actions are taking place along
with AS service logic. The 100 (Trying) responses are not shown in the figure,
but it is assumed that a 100 (Trying) response is sent in response to each
INVITE request.
The Application Server is in control of the ad hoc conference, is aware of the
MRFC capabilities and is also operating as a B2BUA performing third party call
control.
An INVITE request is generated from UE-1 indicating a desire to start a
multiparty call (ad hoc conference) by taking the existing sessions, between
UE-1 to UE-2 and UE-1 to UE-3, and bringing them together. The AS uses third
party call control to request the conference facilities from the MRFC. A
separate dialog is established from the AS to the MRFC for each of the three
parties (UE-1, UE-2, UE-3). New dialogs are also established between the AS
and each of the UE endpoints. The media from each UE is connected at the
conferencing resource at the MRFP. The first INVITE request to the MRFC should
contain a unique conference identifier. The same conference identifier will be
used for subsequent INVITE requests to add or drop parties to the conference.
The offer/answer model as defined in IETF RFC 3264 [15] is used for SDP
negotiation between the AS/S-CSCF and the MRFC. The MRFC should always grant
the requests from the AS (unless there is a resource problem). The MRFC
responds to the INVITE request with a 200 (OK) response indicating the
selected media in the SDP. The MRFC will also reserve the requested local
resources at that time and return the appropriate resource identifiers in the
200 (OK) response.
Figure B.2.2.1: Ad hoc conference call flow
Notes for figure B.2.2.1:
1) INVITE request received at S-CSCF from UE-1 indicating desire to start ad
hoc conference (multiparty call) for the existing sessions between UE-1 to
UE-2 and UE-1 to UE-3.
2) 100 (Trying) response returned.
3) INVITE request forwarded to AS.
4) AS performs service logic and allows attempt to start ad hoc conference.
5 - 8) New INVITE request sent to MRFC with a unique conference identifier to
initiate multiparty call, and prepare dialog for UE-2 [Call-ID 2].
9 - 13) ReINVITE request sent to UE-2 to establish dialog between AS and UE-2
[Call-ID 3].
14 - 17) ACK request sent for Call-ID 2 and Call-ID 3.
18 - 21) New INVITE request sent to MRFC using the same conference identifier
and prepare dialog for UE-3 [Call-ID 4].
22 - 26) ReINVITE request sent to UE-3 to establish dialog between AS and UE-3
[Call-ID 5].
27 - 30) ACK request sent for Call-ID 4 and Call-ID 5.
31 - 34) New INVITE request sent to MRFC using the same conference identifier
and prepare dialog for UE-1 [Call-ID 6].
35 - 36) 200 (OK) response returned to UE-1 with SDP.
37) The session is established.
38 - 41) ACK request sent for Call-ID 1 and Call-ID 6.
## B.2.3 Example information flows for a UE-originating IP multimedia session
that requires transcoding
The two figures B.2.3.1 and B.2.3.2 that follow illustrate the MRFC providing
transcoding for a UE-originating session, where the MRFC is receiving
directions from the AS operating as a B2BUA.
The \"[x]\" notation in the figure is an indicator of a unique SIP dialog. The
\"dot\" notation on the AS line indicates B2BUA actions are taking place along
with AS service logic. The 100 (Trying) responses are not shown in the figure,
but it is assumed that a 100 (Trying) response is sent in response to each
INVITE request.
The B2BUA AS interacts with the originating UE as usual to establish the
dialog. The B2BUA AS interacts with the MRFC using a third party control model
to establish the dialog with the called party after receiving the initial
failure indication. The B2BUA AS manages the interactions between the two
dialogs.
An INVITE request is generated from a UE. A 606 (Not Acceptable) response is
received from the called party. The AS uses third party call control to
request transcoding facilities from the MRFC. A separate dialog is established
from the AS to the MRFC for each of the two parties. New dialogs are also
established between the AS and each of the UE endpoints. The media from each
UE is connected at the transcoding resource at the MRFP.
In the first figure B.2.3.1 below, the called party returns an indication of
an acceptable codec. For this case, the request to the MRFC will include the
appropriate codec for the called party and the offer/answer model as defined
in IETF RFC 3264 [15] with the MRFC is used. In figure B.2.3.2 below, the
called party does not indicate any SDP, which means that more steps will be
required on the subsequent INVITE request to set up transcoding with the MRFC.
An INVITE request without SDP is sent to the MRFC to get the list of codecs it
supports. The AS then sends that list of codecs in the new INVITE request that
it sends to the called party. The B2BUA function of the AS matches up the
responses.
The offer/answer model is used for SDP negotiation between the AS/S-CSCF and
the MRFC. The MRFC should always grant the requests from the AS (unless there
is a resource problem). The MRFC responds to the INVITE request with a 200
(OK) response indicating the selected codec in the SDP. The MRFC will also
reserve the requested local resources at that time. The selected codec is
included by the B2BUA AS in the 183 (Session Progress) response to the UE. The
receipt of the ACK request at the MRFC triggers the playing of the tone or
announcement.
Figure B.2.3.1: Transcoding call flow (called party indicates codec)
Notes for figure B.2.3.1:
1) INVITE request received at S-CSCF from UE [Call-ID 1].
2) 100 (Trying) response returned.
3) INVITE request forwarded to an AS, based on filter criteria.
4) AS service logic determines to proceed with the call.
5) New INVITE request is sent towards destination, via the S-CSCF, to
establish a new dialog [Call-ID 2].
6) S-CSCF forwards the INVITE request.
7) Called UA returns 606 (Not Acceptable) response to the INVITE request.
Included in the response is an indicator that the offered codec is not
acceptable plus information on what codec would be acceptable.
8) An ACK request is sent to the called UA to complete the dialog for Call-ID
2.
9) 606 (Not Acceptable) response is forwarded to the AS.
10) AS service logic determines that there is an MRFC that can perform the
transcoding.
11) ACK request sent to S-CSCF to complete the dialog for Call-ID 2.
12 - 17) New INVITE request sent to MRFC to establish transcoding for called
UA [Call-ID 3].
18 - 25) New INVITE request sent to called UA to establish session between UA
and MRF [Call-ID 4].
26 - 29) New INVITE request sent to MRFC to establish transcoding for calling
UE [Call-ID 5].
30 - 53) Normal call establishment procedures from here on, with B2BUA AS
performing the appropriate signalling translations between the associated
dialogs.
Figure B.2.3.2: Transcoding call flow (called party codec negotiated)
Notes for figure B.2.3.2:
1) INVITE request received at S-CSCF from UE [Call-ID 1].
2) 100 (Trying) response returned.
3) INVITE request forwarded to an AS, based on filter criteria.
4) AS service logic determines to proceed with the call.
5) New INVITE request is sent towards destination, via the S-CSCF, to
establish a new dialog [Call-ID 2].
6) S-CSCF forwards the INVITE request.
7) Called UA returns 606 (Not Acceptable) response to the INVITE request.
Included in the response is an indicator that the offered codec is not
acceptable but there is no information on what codec would be acceptable (no
SDP).
8) ACK request sent to called UA to complete the dialog for Call-ID 2.
9) 606 (Not Acceptable) response is forwarded to the AS.
10) AS service logic determines that there is an MRFC that can perform the
transcoding.
11) ACK request sent to S-CSCF to complete the dialog for Call-ID 2.
12 - 15) New INVITE request sent to MRFC to establish transcoding for called
UA and to get the list codecs supported by the MRF [Call-ID 3].
16 - 19) New INVITE request sent to called UA with SDP for all codecs
supported by the MRF to establish session between UA and MRF [Call-ID 4]. UA
returns SDP with acceptable codecs.
20 - 23) A new offer with the codecs provided by the UA is sent in PRACK
request and the 200 (OK) response indicates the selected codec.
24 - 31) Acknowledgements sent to complete Call-ID 3.
Call establishment procedures from here on are common with the previous
transcoding call flow.
# B.3 Example information flows for a voicemail service
## B.3.1 User out of coverage message recording
Figure B.3.1.1 shows a possible scenario of an Application Server, which
acting as a terminating UA performs the function of a Voicemail Server in
order to terminate a call and record a message on behalf of a UE that is out
of coverage or powered off. The Application Server's use of the MRF to record
a message is not shown in this example.
An initial INVITE destined for a UE that is not currently IMS registered is
forwarded to a S-CSCF. The Default Filter Criteria in the S-CSCF indicates
that for the case of an unregistered user the INVITE request should be
forwarded to the Voicemail and Announcement Server.
Upon receiving the INVITE request the Voicemail and Announcement Server
determines that the destination UE has subscribed to the Voicemail Service
(possibly by downloading some subscriber profile information via the Sh
interface). The Voicemail and Announcement Server therefore in addition to
playing an announcement to inform the caller that the called party is either
powered off or out of coverage also informs the caller that he may leave a
message for the called party.
The calling party leaves a message for the called party and then hangs up the
call by sending a BYE request.
Figure B.3.1.1: Voicemail server records messages
Notes for figure B.3.1.1:
NOTE: For simplicity the 100 (Trying) response returned or received by the
S-CSCF in reponse to requests is omitted from figure B.3.1.1.
1) INVITE request destined for an unregistered user is received at the S-CSCF.
2) Based on trigger point of the initial Filter Criteria S-CSCF proxies the
INVITE request to the AS (Voicemail Server).
3 - 4) The AS starts the voicemail application and responds with a 183
(Session Progress) response containing SDP which is proxied back to the caller
by the S-CSCF.
5 - 8) The caller responds with a PRACK request containing SDP, which the
S-CSCF proxies to the AS and the AS responds with a 200 (OK) response
containing SDP which the S-CSCF proxies back to the caller.
9) QOS establishment and resource reservation takes place.
10 - 13) After completing resource reservation the caller sends a UPDATE
request containing SDP which is proxied by the S-CSCF to the AS which responds
with a 200 (OK) response containing SDP which is proxied back to the caller by
the S-CSCF.
14 - 15) The AS then sends a 200 (OK) response to the initial INVITE request
which the S-CSCF proxies to the caller.
16 - 17) The caller returns an ACK request to the 200 (OK) response.
18) The AS plays an announcement using the session established indicating that
the caller is powered off but that the caller may leave a message.
19) The caller leaves a message using the session established.
20 - 21) The caller hangs up by sending a BYE request which the S-CSCF proxies
to the AS.
22 - 23) The AS responds with a 200 (OK) response, which the S-CSCF proxies
back to the caller.
## B.3.2 User IMS registers voice mail service plays back messages
Figure B.3.2.1 shows the scenario when the UE that has subscribed to a
voicemail service with a feature enabled that contacts the user upon
registration informing him of any recorded messages. The Application Server's
use of the MRF to play announcements and to select and play the recorded
messages is not shown in this example.
The Filter Criteria downloaded by the S-CSCF indicates that a third party
REGISTER request should be sent to the Voicemail Server. Upon receiving the
third party registration of the UE, the Voicemail Server acting as an
originating UA contacts the UE by sending an INVITE request to inform him that
he has voicemail messages recorded while he was not registered.
The user listens to the messages played back by the voicemail server, (only
streaming class QOS is required for this session) and then terminates the
session with a BYE request.
Figure B.3.2.1: Upon registration voicemail server replays messages
Notes for figure B.3.2.1:
NOTE: For simplicity the 100 (Trying) response returned or received by the
S-CSCF in reponse to requests is omitted from figure B.3.2.1.
1 - 4) The UE sends a REGISTER request to the S-CSCF which authenticates with
a 401 (Unauthorized) response challenge with the authentication response being
supplied in a second REGISTER request. The registration completes with a 200
(OK) response from the S-CSCF to the UE.
5 - 6) The S-CSCF downloads Filter Criteria for the UE from the HSS which
indicates the S-CSCF should send a third party REGISTER request on behalf of
the UE to an AS that performs a voicemail service. The AS responds to the
REGISTER request with a 200 (OK) response.
7 - 8) The AS downloads subscriber data for the subscriber (possibly from the
HSS via the Sh interface) that indicates that the subscriber has enabled a
feature that has the voicemail application contact the subscriber upon
registration to deliver recorded messages. The AS sends an INVITE request
containing SDP for the UE to the S-CSCF which proxies it to the UE.
9 - 10) The UE responds with 183 (Session Progress) response containing SDP
which the S-CSCF proxies to the AS.
11 - 14) The AS sends a PRACK request, which the S-CSCF proxies to the UE and
the UE respond with a 200 (OK) response which the S-CSCF proxies to the AS.
15) QOS establishment and resource reservation takes place.
16 - 19) The AS sends an UPDATE request, which the S-CSCF proxies to the UE
and the UE responds with a 200 (OK) response which the S-CSCF proxies to the
AS.
20 - 21) The UE sends a 180 (Ringing) response indicating that it is alerting
the user which the S-CSCF proxies to the AS.
22 - 25) The AS to indicate receipt of the 180 (Ringing) response sends a
PRACK request which the S-CSCF proxies to the UE and the UE responds with a
200 (OK) response which the S-CSCF proxies to the AS.
26 - 27) When the subscriber answers the UE sends a 200 (OK) response to the
initial INVITE request which the S-CSCF proxies to the AS.
28 - 29) The AS acknowledges the 200 (OK) response with an ACK request which
the S-CSCF proxies to the UE.
30) The AS plays an announcement indicating the number of messages stored and
then plays back the messages to the UE using the session established.
31 - 32) The UE hangs up by sending a BYE request, which the S-CSCF proxies to
the AS.
33 - 34) The AS responds with a 200 (OK) response, which the S-CSCF proxies
back to the UE.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Example for Initial filter criteria
triggering
This example applies both for UE-originating and UE-terminating procedures.
But we assume this is a call UE-originating procedure. User has registered
with the network. Its filter criteria and addresses of the assigned
application servers have been downloaded to its S-CSCF during registration via
Cx interface. Also, the application server specific data may have been
downloaded via the Sh interface to the application server during registration.
Figure C.1: Initial Filter Criteria Triggering Example
There is a flow example in figure C.1:
In this example, two application servers are assigned to provide additional
services to a subscriber and they are showed as AS1 and AS2 in this example.
1\. User initiates a SIP session by sending a SIP initial request to its
S-CSCF.
2\. On receiving this request, the S-CSCF evaluates the SPTs and checks if
they match the initial filter criteria X for AS1. If they match, the S-CSCF
forwards this request to AS1.
3\. The AS1 performs any needed service logic based on the Service Key and
sends the SIP request possibly with service related modification back to the
S-CSCF.
4.a On receiving the request from the AS, the S-CSCF evaluates the SPTs and
checks if they match the initial filter criteria Y for AS2. If they match the
S-CSCF forwards the request to the associated Application Server AS2.
4.b If the request doesn\'t match any further filter criteria, the S-CSCF
forwards this request to the next hop based on the route decision.
5.a The AS2 performs any needed service logic based on the Service Key and
sends the SIP request possibly with service related modification back to the
S-CSCF.
6.a The S-CSCF checks the request sent by AS2 and finds that no initial
criteria is matched, then the S-CSCF forwards this request to next hop based
on the route decision.
#