# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this Technical Report is to identify and evaluate potential
architecture enhancements of EPS and IMS needed to support Provision of Access
to Restricted Local Operator Services by Unauthenticated UEs as identified in
TS 22.101 [x], TS 22.115 [x] and TS 22.228 [x], and determine which of the
solutions can proceed to normative specifications.
This feature is only applicable to EPS 3GPP access. Access to local operator
services does not affect the UICC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and Systems Aspects; Service aspects; Service
principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service aspects; Charging and
billing\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Service requirements
for the IP multimedia core network subsystem\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Restricted local operator services** : communication services provided by an
operator that involve either automated or human assistance (e.g. credit card
billing, directory assistance, customer care) for which successful
authentication is not necessary.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
RLOS Restricted Local Operator Services
# 4 Architectural Assumptions and Requirements
## 4.1 Architectural Assumptions
The goal of the study is to enable access to those Restricted Local Operator
Services (RLOS), however the definition of such restricted local operator
services offered by an operator is out of scope of 3GPP.
Architectural assumptions are the following:
\- Access to RLOS is only possible for UEs when using EPC via E-UTRAN as
IPCAN.
\- Both unauthenticated and authenticated UEs can access RLOS via the same
architecture.
> An authenticated UE allowed to access EPC may access the same services that
> are provided as RLOS but in this case, it is not within the scope of RLOS.
\- The UE shall indicate to the EPC and the IMS network that the request is a
request for RLOS.
\- Allowing access to RLOS is completely under the local operator\'s control.
\- The solution shall support both non-IMS and IMS RLOS services.
\- When RLOS are accessed via IMS sessions:
1) they do not require any specific support for location over and above what
is defined by IMS already;
2) they do not require any specific support regarding call back to the user
that has initiated the session;
3) the IMS RLOS are securely isolated to avoid e.g. DOS attacks to IMS
entities offering regular IMS services.
\- Only UE-originated RLOS requests are supported.
\- No support of multiple PDN connections.
\- No support of mobile terminated services.
\- This feature is only applicable to EPS 3GPP access.
\- Inter-RAT handovers and handover between 3GPP and non-3GPP accesses are not
supported.
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
Editor\'s note: This clause will define the architectural requirements based
on the normative stage-1 requirements defined in TS 22.101, TS 22.115 and TS
22.228 with regards to Provision of Access to Restricted Local Operator
Services by Unauthenticated UEs.
# 5 Key Issues for EPC
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the key issues for EPC.
## 5.1 Key Issue #EPC-1: Network indicating support for Restricted Local
Operator Services and related UE behaviour
TS 22.101 [2] specifies: \"When a UE recognizes an origination attempt to a
restricted local operator service and has not received an indication from the
serving system that restricted local operator services are available, the UE
shall block the origination attempt.\"
This key issue addresses:
\- how the PLMN announces its support of RLOS to all UEs;
\- the behaviour of a supporting UE when it detects the network support of
RLOS;
\- the behaviour of a supporting UE when it does not detect the network
support of RLOS.
NOTE: This key issue does not address the mechanisms for rejecting UE requests
in case of an unauthorized attempt to access RLOS.
## 5.2 Key Issue #EPC-2: RLOS request indication
The solution shall address how unauthenticated and authenticated UEs indicate
to the EPC that a request is for RLOS (e.g. at Attach);
## 5.3 Key Issue #EPC-3: Support of unauthenticated UEs access to RLOS
The solution shall address the EPC mechanisms required to support
unauthenticated UEs. In particular, the following aspects are required to be
studied:
\- how to allow unauthenticated UEs to access EPC network for RLOS only if the
EPC network supports RLOS;
\- how to prevent unauthenticated UEs to access services which are not RLOS;
## 5.4 Key Issue #EPC-4: Support of authenticated UEs access to RLOS
The solution shall address the EPC mechanisms required to support
authenticated UEs, in particular:
\- how to allow authenticated UEs to access the same RLOS as unauthenticated
UEs. This applies to UEs that the MME has successfully authenticated but the
UE is not able to receive normal service (e.g. is in a forbidden area).
NOTE: Regularly attached UEs able to receive normal service may access the
same services that are provided as RLOS but in this case, it is not within the
scope of RLOS.
## 5.5 Void
## 5.6 Key Issue #EPC-6: Collection of charging information
The solution shall address how to collect charging information regarding the
use of RLOS.
## 5.7 Key Issue #EPC-7: Level of security
The solution shall have a level of security, which should not be less than
that which is currently applied to existing equivalent network access methods
(e.g., unauthenticated emergency calling).
# 6 Key Issues for IMS
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the key issues for IMS.
## 6.1 Key issue #IMS-1: Support for unauthenticated and authenticated user
The key issue here is that the network enables any UE access to a requested
service through RLOS. This applies to all UEs, authenticated and non-
authenticated.
The solution should use the same mechanisms for both unauthenticated and
authenticated UEs as much as possible.
## 6.2 Key issue #IMS-2: Identification of Restricted Local Operator Services
at IMS layer
The key issue here is that it is beneficial if IMS services allow clear
service identification. For access to restricted local operator service this
means that:
\- the UE need to be able to determine the case and start session setup
without requiring IMS registration for RLOS services. Further the UE will need
to indicate to the IMS network that its request is for RLOS via appropriate
information in the SIP request; and
\- the core network functional entities need to be able to detect the specific
information for an RLOS request.
The study will determine what to configure in the IMS network (e.g., phone
number, captive portal), in which IMS entity(ies), and what to signal to the
UE (e.g. specific CSCF address);
## 6.3 Key issue #IMS-3: Handling IMS session for Restricted Local Operator
Service
At IMS layer, RLOS are always provided in the local PLMN without any
involvement of the Home PLMN.
The key issue for the UE is to support initiating a session setup for RLOS
without requiring IMS registration for RLOS services.
NOTE: UE only initiates IMS sessions for RLOS if the network has indicated
support via signalling in the underlying layers.
The key issue for the IMS core network functional entities is to support
session setup for RLOS from users without requiring IMS registration for RLOS
services. Sessions for RLOS from authenticated and unauthenticated users are
handled in the PLMN that provides the entry point into the IMS. This means
that the IMS core network functional entities of the PLMN that provides the
P-CSCF to which the UE is attached will handle the IMS session request
locally.
# 7 Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause is intended to document the agreed architecture
solutions. Each solution should clearly describe which of the key issues it
covers and how.
## 7.X Solution #X: \
### 7.X.1 Functional Description
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the general description, assumption,
and principles of the solution. The related key issues it solves will be
mentioned.
### 7.X.2 Procedures
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the high-level procedures and
information flows for the solution.
### 7.X.3 Impact on existing entities and interfaces
> Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the impacts to existing nodes or
> functionality and interfaces.
# 8 Evaluation
Editor\'s note: This clause will provide a general evaluation of the
solutions.
# 9 Conclusions
Editor\'s note: This clause will capture agreed conclusions from the study.
#