# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies solutions to satisfy the requirements for
interconnection and migration between Mission Critical systems. It may
identify enhancements to be included in the Technical Specifications for those
services. Requirements for this study are taken from the Stage 1 requirements,
including 3GPP TS 22.179 [2], 3GPP TS 22.280 [3], 3GPP TS 22.281 [4] and 3GPP
TS 22.282 [5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCore);
Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services over LTE\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services over LTE\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.379: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) call control;
Protocol specification\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.179: \"Security of Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT) over
LTE\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.180: \"Security of the mission critical service\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Group call:** A mechanism by which an MCPTT user can make one-to-many MCPTT
transmissions to other MCPTT users that are affiliated members of an MCPTT
group.
**Group home MCPTT system** : The MCPTT system where the MCPTT group is
defined.
**Group host MCPTT server** : The MCPTT server within an MCPTT system which
provides centralised support for MCPTT services of an MCPTT group defined in a
group home MCPTT system.
**Interconnection:** A means of communication between MCPTT systems whereby
MCPTT users obtaining service from one MCPTT system can communicate with other
MCPTT users who are obtaining MCPTT service from one or more other MCPTT
systems.
**Interconnection group:** An MCPTT group that is configured to allow
inclusion of group members who are users from partner MCPTT system(s).
**MCPTT system:** The collection of applications, services, and enabling
capabilities required to provide Mission Critical Push To Talk for one or more
Mission Critical Organizations, managed by a single MCPTT service provider.
**Migration:** A means for an MCPTT user to obtain MCPTT service directly from
a partner MCPTT system.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.179 [2] apply:
**Partner MCPTT system**
**Primary MCPTT system**
**Private call**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GMS Group Management Server
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
# 4 Migration and interconnection scenarios
## 4.1 Generic scenarios
### 4.1.1 Scenario 1: UE in visited network using partner MC system with
connection to primary MC system (migration)
Figure 4.1.1-1 below illustrates this scenario:
Figure 4.1.1-1: UE in visited network using partner MC system with connection
to primary MC system (migration)
In Figure 4.1.1-1 MC system A (coloured blue) is the primary MC system of UE
A. MC system A is in a different trust domain to MC system B, however MC
system A has a business relationship with MC system B which allows MC system B
to provide MC services to users of MC system A. MC UE A has migrated to obtain
one or more MC services from MC system B (coloured yellow), as MC system B is
a partner MC system for UE A.
MC system B is the primary MC system of UE Z. While UE A is served by MC
system B, UE A can take part in MC communications with UE Z, and with other
UEs in MC system B. The communications connections are represented by red
dashed lines, which can be private calls, group calls and other types of
mission critical communication. The partner MC system B has a connection to
the primary MC system A of UE A, and may be used to provide services such as
logging of UE A's MC communications.
UE A may perform direct signalling to its primary MC system A, for example for
user authentication and authorisation purposes. This is shown as a green
dotted line on figure 4.1.1-1, and does not represent any communications
services.
This scenario does not require UE A to take part in any communications with
other UEs who are obtaining service from primary MC system A of UE A.
### 4.1.2 Scenario 2: Communicating between UEs in different home networks
using different primary MC systems (interconnection)
Figure 4.1.2-1 below illustrates this scenario:
Figure 4.1.2-1: Communicating between UEs in different home networks using
different primary MC systems (interconnection)
In Figure 4.1.2-1 MC system A (coloured blue) is the primary MC system of UE
A, and MC system B (coloured yellow) is the primary system of UE Z. MC system
A has a business relationship with MC system B which allows calls to be made
between the two MC systems. In this scenario, no UE has migrated to seek
service from a partner MC system, and all UEs are obtaining service via their
respective home MC systems.
MC communication is provided between the two primary MC systems, such that UEs
can communicate together across the different MC systems, shown in figure
4.1.2-1 as red dashed lines. Private calls, group calls and other types of MC
communications can include UEs from either or both MC systems.
### 4.1.3 Further migration and interconnection scenarios
Additional migration and interconnection scenarios can be built based on
Scenarios 1 and 2. For example, UE A from primary MC system A can migrate to
partner MC system B, and whilst receiving service from MC system B can also
communicate using private calls, group calls and other forms of communication
with UE Z and with UEs who remain served by their primary MC system A. However
the mechanisms required to satisfy scenarios 1 and 2 are also expected to
satisfy these further scenarios.
## 4.2 MC service communication scenarios
### 4.2.1 Scenario 1: Group communications
#### 4.2.1.1 Migrated UE communicates in group defined in partner MCPTT system
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.1.1-1.
Figure 4.2.1.1-1: Migrated UE communicates in group defined in partner system
In this scenario, the migration scenario is that described in subclause 4.1.1.
Referring to figure 4.2.1.1-1, UE A is receiving MC service from a partner MC
system B, and communicates in group G with UE Z and with other UEs for whom MC
system B is the primary MC system. Communications may be MCPTT calls, MCVideo
calls or MCData transactions. Group G is defined in a group management server
in MC system B, and MC system B is therefore the controlling MC system for
Group G.
In order to communicate in group G, UE A will be authorised to communicate in
group G, and will affiliate to group G. The authorisation process will include
MC system B, and may include MC system A.
In order to communicate in group G, UE A obtains configuration information
from the GMS hosting the configuration data for group G in MC system B. This
data will include security parameters, such as encryption keys.
Because UE A has primary service from MC system A, communications in group G
may be logged by MC system A for the duration that UE A is affiliated to group
G.
When UE A transmits to the group, UE A\'s MC service ID may be conveyed to
other UEs participating in the group (UE Z and further UEs in MC system B).
When UE Z transmits to the group, UE Z\'s MC service ID may be conveyed to UE
A.
#### 4.2.1.2 Migrated UE communicates in group defined in primary MCPTT system
Figure 4.2.1.2-1: Migrated UE communicates in group defined in primary system
(non-mixed group)
In this scenario shown in figure 4.2.1.2-1, besides what is supported in
subclause 4.2.1.1, UE A is also required to be able to communicate with users
and groups in Group F which is defined in MC system A.
Figure 4.2.1.2-2: Migrated UE communicates in group defined in primary system
(mixed group)
In this scenario shown in figure 4.2.1.2-2, the Group F, which is defined in
MC system A, contains UEs served by MC system B, including both migrating UEs
homed in MC system A and the UEs homed in MC system B.
In these scenarios, UE A may receive the service of its primary system through
MC system B. MC system B may need to know the group membership and group
affiliation status associated with the migrated UEs.
#### 4.2.1.3 Group communications between interconnected primary MCPTT systems
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.1.3-1.
Figure 4.2.1.3-1 Group communications between interconnected primary MC
systems
In this scenario, the interconnection scenario is that described in subclause
4.1.2. Referring to figure 4.2.1.3-1, UE A is receiving MC service from its
primary MC system A and communicating in group H, and UE Z is receiving MC
service from its primary MC system B, and also communicating in group H, and
the two MC systems are connected such that any communications sent to group H
is sent to all participants in group H in both MC systems.
It is assumed that one MC system, for example MC system A, is the controlling
MC system for Group H so that there is a single point for floor control and/or
transmission control management, including prioritisation and interruption of
transmitting parties. Therefore in this example, MC system B is the
participating MC system for Group H.
In order to communicate in Group H, UEs A and Z are affiliated to group H. The
controlling system for Group H, in this example MC system A, will hold group
configuration data for Group H in a GMS.
MC system B may wish to modify the group configuration data before it is
provided to UE Z to apply local rules and restrictions. This is described in
key issue 1.5 in subclause 5.1.5, and solutions proposed in solutions 5.1, 5.2
and 5.3 in subclause 6.5.
In order to provide communication between group members in MC system A and MC
system B, affiliation information needs to be exchanged between MC systems A
and B when at least one group member has affiliated to group H in MC system B.
When UE A transmits information to Group H in MC system A, the MC service ID
of UE A may be provided to UE Z in MC system B.
#### 4.2.1.4 Further group call scenarios
Additional group call scenarios can be built based on the scenarios described
in subclauses 4.2.1.1, 4.2.1.2 and 4.2.1.3.
### 4.2.2 Scenario 2: Private communications
#### 4.2.2.1 General
There are several scenarios for private communications which can be built on
the migration and interconnection scenarios described in subclause 4.1
depending on whether one party or both parties have migrated to a partner MC
system, and whether both parties are obtaining service from the same MC
system. These scenarios are described in the following subclauses. These
scenarios apply to MCPTT private calls, MCVideo transmissions or MCData
transactions which are made between two individual MC service users.
In these scenarios, the MC systems are in different trust domains from each
other. Each of the MC systems must have a business relationship with the other
MC systems that permits users to migrate and to permit interconnected calls to
take place.
Each scenario considers two UEs, UE A and either UE Z or UE B, where one or
both of these UEs has migrated to a different MC system. The call scenario
could take place in either direction: for example in a particular scenario UE
A could place a private call to UE Z, or UE Z could place a private call to UE
A.
#### 4.2.2.2 UE A and UE Z in primary MC systems communicate using
interconnection function
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.2-1.
NOTE: The red dashed line in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
Figure 4.2.2.2-1: UE A and UE Z in primary MC systems using interconnection
function
In this scenario, both UE A and UE Z are receiving MC service from their
primary MC systems, MC systems A and B respectively. A private MCPTT call or
MC Video call is placed between UE A and UE Z the two primary MC systems, or
an MCData transaction is initiated from UE A in its primary MC system A to UE
Z in its primary MC system B. Each primary MC system has access to the media
for logging purposes.
#### 4.2.2.3 UE A migrated to primary MC system of UE Z
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.3-1.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
Figure 4.2.2.3-1: UE A migrates to primary MC system of UE Z
In this scenario, UE A is obtaining MC service from MC system B, which is a
partner MC system for UE A and primary MC system for UE Z. Media or data
content may be routed to MC system A, the primary MC system for UE A, to allow
logging to take place.
#### 4.2.2.4 UE A migrated to partner MC system that is different from primary
MC system of UE Z
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.4-1.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
Figure 4.2.2.4-1: UE A migrated to different partner MC system
In this scenario, UE A is obtaining MC service from MC system C, which is a
partner system for UE A. Media or data content for an MCPTT or MCVideo call or
an MCData transaction between UE A and UE Z may also flow to or though MC
system A, the primary MC system of UE A, to allow logging to take place.
#### 4.2.2.5 UE A and UE Z both migrated to different partner MC systems
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.5-1.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figureindicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
Figure 4.2.2.5-1: UE A and UE Z migrated to different partner MC systems
In this scenario, UE A is obtaining MC service from MC system C, which is a
partner MC system for UE A, and UE Z is obtaining MC service from MC system D,
which is a partner MC system for UE Z. MC systems A and B may receive the
media or data content for logging purposes.
#### 4.2.2.6 UE A and UE Z both migrated to the same partner MC system
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.6-1.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicate the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
Figure 4.2.2.6-1: UE A and UE Z both migrated to the same partner MC system
In this scenario, UE A and UE Z have both migrated to the same MC system, MC
system C, which is a partner MC system for both. Media or data content may
flow to MC systems A and B for logging purposes.
#### 4.2.2.7 UE A migrated to the partner MC system communicating with UE B in
primary MC system, which is primary MC system of UE A
This scenario is shown in figure 4.2.2.7-1.
NOTE: The red dashed lines in the figure indicates the MC systems where media
or data content may be required, but does not indicate the actual routing of
media, data content or signalling information. Media or data content routing
may be different when logging or lawful interception is not required, compared
with when one or both of these functions is required.
Figure 4.2.2.7-1: UE A migrated with UE B in primary MC system of UE A and UE
B
In this scenario, UE A has migrated to the MC system B which is a partner MC
system for UE A, and UE A is communicating with UE B which is in its primary
MC system, which is also the primary MC system for UE A.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issues for interconnection
### 5.1.1 Key issue 1.1: MC system authorization to support interconnection
calls
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
Where a primary MC system needs users and groups from that MC system to take
part in calls which include users and groups from a partner MC system, the
primary MC system will need to be authorized to take a part in calls in
conjunction with that partner MC system. The MC system may need separate
authorizations to permit:
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary system to make private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are receiving service
from an interconnected partner MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary MC system to join groups
and make group calls, where the groups are home in an interconnected partner
MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from a partner MC system to make private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are home in this
primary MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from a partner MC system to join groups and
make group calls to groups that are home in this primary MC system.
#### 5.1.1.2 Architectural Requirements
The system configuration for an MC system will need to include authorization
to allow its served users take part in calls which include users in a second
MC system.
Authorization may need to be sufficiently granular to permit separate
configuration of authorizations for the separate cases:
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary MC system making private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are receiving service
from an interconnected partner MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service within a primary MC system joining groups
and making group calls, where the groups are home in an interconnected partner
MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from partner MC systems making private
calls, video calls and data transmissions to users that are home in this
primary MC system;
\- Users who are receiving service from partner MC systems joining groups and
making group calls to groups that are home in this primary MC system.
NOTE: Security mechanisms that provide authorization for MC service are
outside the scope of the present document.
### 5.1.2 Key issue 1.2: Identification of users and groups in interconnection
calls
#### 5.1.2.1 Description
In order to place individually addressed calls (e.g. Private call, MCData SDS
message, MCVideo call) where the called MC service user is homed in a partner
MC system, or to affiliate to groups and take part in group calls where the
called MC service group is hosted in a partner MC system, the calling MC
service user needs to be able to identify the called MC service user who is
homed in a partner MC system or requested MC service group that is defined in
a partner MC system.
In order to route individually addressed calls or requests to affiliate to and
place group calls, the MC system of the calling party needs to be able to
derive the address of the called MC system from the called address sent by the
calling MC service user.
#### 5.1.2.2 Architectural Requirements
The address of the called party needs to include the address of the primary MC
system of the called party.
The address of an MC service group needs to include the address of the primary
MC system of the MC service group.
These requirements are satisfied by the structure of MC service ID and MC
service group ID specified in subclause 8.1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [6].
### 5.1.3 Key issue 1.3: Authorization for interconnection private calls
#### 5.1.3.1 Description
Where an individually addressed call (e.g. Private Call, MCData SDS message,
MCVideo call) is placed from an MC service user in the primary MC system of
that MC service user to an MC service user in a partner MC system, both the
primary MC system and the partner system will need to authorize the call.
In order to authorize the call, the calling MC service user will need to be
configured such that that MC service user is authorized to place a call to an
MC service user in the partner MC system, and possibly to the specific called
MC service user. Also in order to authorize the call, the called MC service
user will need to be configured such that the MC service user is authorized to
receive a call from the partner MC system, and possibly by the calling MC
service user.
#### 5.1.3.2 Architectural Requirements
The MC service user database for the calling MC service user will need to
contain authorization for the MC service user to place a call to an MC service
user in a partner MC system, and may need to contain authorization to place
calls to specific MC service users, or specific sets of MC service users in
the partner MC systems.
NOTE 1: Managing call lists of individual MC service users who are homed in a
partner MC systems may be difficult.
The MC service user database for the called MC service user will need to
contain authorization for the MC service user to receive calls from an MC
service user in another MC system, and may need to contain authorization to
receive calls from specific MC service users, or specific sets of MC service
users.
NOTE 2: Managing call lists of individual MC service users who are homed in
partner MC systems may be difficult.
### 5.1.4 Key issue 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC
service group calls
#### 5.1.4.1 Description
Where an MC service user wishes to affiliate to a group that is defined in a
partner MC system that is in a different trust domain from the primary MC
system of that MC service user, the home MC system of the MC service group
will need to authorize that MC service user to affiliate to the requested MC
service group and to take part in MC service group calls within that MC
service group. The primary MC system of the MC service user may also need to
authorize that MC service user to take part in MC service group calls which
are hosted in a partner MC system in a different trust domain from that
user\'s primary MC system. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2-004] and subclause
10.8.3.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [6].
#### 5.1.4.2 Architectural Requirements
The primary MC service server of an MC service user needs to be able to
authorize that MC service user to affiliate to an MC service group defined in
a partner MC system in a different trust domain. The home MC service server of
the MC service group needs to be able to authorize MC service users to
affiliate to the MC service group where those MC service users have a
different primary MC system in a different trust domain. The MC service user
database and MC service group configuration server need to have the
appropriate configuration for this to take place.
### 5.1.5 Key issue 1.5: MC service group configuration for group defined in
partner MC system
#### 5.1.5.1 Description
An MC system providing interconnected group calls where the MC service group
is defined in a partner MC system may need to apply locally defined
configuration parameters for the MC service group in order to provide an
appropriate level of service for that MC service group in that MC system.
Examples of such parameters are:
\- User priority for the MC service group -- if a user priority is required to
be set by the local MC system instead the partner MC system that is home to
the MC service group, or if the MC service users are not known in the home MC
system of the MC service group.
\- Priority of the MC service group -- where the MC service group priority
needs to be set relative to other MC service groups defined in the local MC
system, especially if the priority structures of the two MC systems are
different.
#### 5.1.5.2 Architectural Requirements
There will need to be mechanisms to allow the partner system to apply locally
defined configuration parameters to that MC service group to provide an
appropriate level of service for that MC service group within the partner MC
system.
### 5.1.6 Key issue 1.6: Controlling MC service server and system for
interconnection private calls
#### 5.1.6.1 Description
One server in one MC system needs to be nominated as the controlling server
for interconnection private calls, either the server of the calling party in
the MC system of the calling party, or the server of the called party in the
called party\'s MC system.
Current MCPTT stage 3 in 3GPP TS 24.379 [8] identifies the controlling server
within a private call as the MC service server of the calling party, and the
MC service server of the called party acts as the participating function. In
Release 13 the mechanism by which the controlling server identifies the
participating server is out of scope.
#### 5.1.6.2 Architectural Requirements
The current stage 3 rules provide a logical solution to determining which MC
service server acts as controlling function for interconnection private calls:
the MC service server providing service to the calling party in the calling
party\'s MC system should act as controlling server. Therefore the MC service
server of the called party in the MC system of the called party should act as
the participating server.
A means is needed to identify the participating server which provides service
to the called user in a different MC system, for example by the structure of
that user\'s MC service ID (which should already identify the system within
which the MC service user and its serving MC service server are located) or by
configured look up table.
### 5.1.7 Key issue 1.7: Media routing for interconnection private calls
#### 5.1.7.1 Description
Media routing is specified as being allowed to flow either through the primary
MC system of both MC service users, or routed locally through an entity
allowing duplication of the media flow to the MC systems of both MC service
users according to subclause 5.1 of 3GPP TS 23.379 [7]. The need to flow
through both systems is to enable logging to take place.
If the two systems are separate, a direct media path may not always be
possible (e.g. there may not be an APN that provides connectivity from an MC
service user in one MC system to the media distribution function of the
interconnected MC system).
#### 5.1.7.2 Architectural Requirements
Media routing may need to be made via the media distribution functions of both
MC systems to the MC service users served by these MC systems, as there may
not be a possibility of a direct connection from one MC system to an MC
service user that is receiving MC service on another MC system, and also to
allow logging of both MC service users to take place.
### 5.1.8 Key issue 1.8: Media routing for interconnection MC service group
calls
#### 5.1.8.1 Description
Media may need to be logged in the primary MC systems of all MC service group
members participating in an MC service group call.
The participating MC service server for an MC service group which is the
primary MC service server of a set of MC service group members is the only MC
service server which has the location information which is needed to decide
whether a call should be carried over unicast or multicast bearers.
There may also be no means of directly routing media from a controlling MC
service server in a different system from an MC service user directly to that
MC service user (e.g. there may not be an APN available to the MC service
user).
#### 5.1.8.2 Architectural Requirements
Group call media needs to be distributed to the primary MC system of each user
participating in a group call as there might not be a direct connection from
one MC system to an MC service user that is receiving MC service on another MC
system, and also to allow logging of all MC service users to take place. A
media routing to achieve this may be to route media from the participating
server which hosts the talking party to the controlling MC service server that
is the group host MC service server and outbound via the participating servers
in each MC system that is taking part in the call. This is consistent with
Release 13 MCPTT Stage 3 behaviour.
### 5.1.9 Key issue 1.9: Security for interconnection calls
#### 5.1.9.1 Description
The Release 13 security solution for MCPTT specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [9] is
a single domain solution, with a single identity management server and a
single key management server serving all users. 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] requires
the authorization to join a group and the end to end security for a group to
be determined by the group home system in [R‑6.17.2-006] and [R‑6.17.2-007].
In order to encrypt media to be sent to a user in another MC system in a
private call, the calling MC service user needs to be provided with identity
based encryption keys which allow the calling MC service user to successfully
encrypt a session key for the call for the called party\'s use. Similar
mechanisms will be required for MC Video and MC Data calls. In order to
encrypt media for a group call where the group host MC system is different
from the MC system of the MC service user, the MC service client of the MC
service user needs to possess identity based encryption keys valid in the same
partner MC system as the group management server to allow that group
management server to encrypt the group master key for the group for the MC
service client of that MC service user.
MC system to system interconnection will be achieved by IP networks. These
networks may be outside the control of either or both MC service providers.
The interconnection information flow -- signalling, media, floor control etc
-- will need to be protected as it passes through such IP networks.
Floor control and SIP signalling is protected with a Client Server Key which
is exchanged between an MC service client and that user\'s primary MC service
server, and not known to partner MC systems.
#### 5.1.9.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is needed for an MC service user receiving service in its primary
MC system to obtain key material from the partner MC system in order to take
part in end to end encrypted calls with speech, video or data content to
individuals and to participate in groups where those groups are hosted in the
partner MC system.
NOTE 1: Solutions for key management are outside the scope of the present
document.
A mechanism is needed to protect MC system to MC system information, including
signalling, media and floor control.
NOTE 2: Security mechanisms that protect information exchanged between MC
systems are outside the scope of the present document.
An MC service client is only able to exchange floor control and SIP signalling
with its primary MC service server due to the encryption mechanisms used to
protect this signalling. This is consistent with Release 13 stage 3 protocol.
### 5.1.10 Key issue 1.10: MC system network topology hiding
#### 5.1.10.1 Description
The topology of an MC system, such as the number of MC service servers, their
location and their IP network plan may be considered sensitive to the MC
system operator. The topology therefore should be hidden from a partner MC
system during interconnection and migration scenarios.
#### 5.1.10.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is needed to allow an MC system to interconnect to a partner MC
system for the purposes of interconnection and migration without revealing the
network topology of that MC system.
### 5.1.11 Key issue 1.11: Bearer control for interconnection calls
#### 5.1.11.1 Description
Each MC service server may obtain and maintain location information relating
to its served users. This allows the server to make decisions whether to set
up group calls over unicast or multicast bearers. In Release 13, the location
information is not shared with other MC service servers. Therefore each server
controls the bearers relating to its own served MC service users only.
If two MC service servers provide service using the same PLMN, there is a
possibility that group members served by both MC service servers are present
on the same cell. Neither MC service server holds the location information for
the full set of users.
There may be security concerns in allowing MC service servers to share the
location of their served users.
There may be security concerns in allowing MC service servers to share
information about served areas.
#### 5.1.11.2 Architectural Requirements
If permitted by security policy, two MC service servers providing service
within the same group call could share multicast channel and cell information
to allow each MC service server to allocate group members to a bearer managed
by the other MC service server.
NOTE: The requirements for such a security policy and any mechanisms by which
it may be implemented are outside the scope of the present document.
### 5.1.12 Key issue 1.12: Group membership
#### 5.1.12.1 Description
Group membership is defined by MCPTT administrators. For mutual aid scenarios
groups are required with members from primary and partner system(s). As the
MCPTT administrator of the primary system of a group has no access to the user
database of the partner systems, coordination is needed with the MCPTT
administrators of the partner systems for the management of group membership
of an interconnection group.
#### 5.1.12.2 Architectural requirements
A mechanism is needed to manage group members from a partner system, taking
the following aspects into account:
  * The administrator of the primary system of the group controls if a group is an interconnection group, and if so with users from which partner system(s).
  * The administrator of the primary system of the interconnection group configures if additions and deletions of group members from the selected partner system(s) first need to be reviewed and approved by the MCPTT administrator of the primary system or that they are implemented directly.
  * The administrator of a partner system is provided with an overview of the interconnection groups of the primary system for which users from that partner system can be proposed to be added as group member.
  * The administrator of a partner system defines the actual list of users from that partner system that are proposed to be added as group members to the primary system of an interconnection group.
  * If so configured the administrator of the primary system of the group reviews and approves the addition of the proposed list(s) of group members from the partner system(s) to the interconnection group.
  * The administrator of a partner system is responsible for updates to the list of group members from that partner system.
  * If so configured the administrator of the primary system of the group reviews and approves updates to the list(s) of group members from the partner system(s) before updating the group.
## 5.2 Key Issues for migration
### 5.2.1 Key issue 2.1: MC authorization for migration
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
An MC service user that wishes to migrate to a partner MC system will need to
be authorized to migrate from its primary MC system, and authorized to migrate
to that specific partner MC system. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2 001].
Authorization may be service specific, e.g. to permit MCPTT service but deny
MCVideo service when migrated to a specific partner MC system.
The partner MC system will need to authorize that MC service user to migrate
and gain service. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2‑001].
The partner MC system may wish to apply different configuration parameters to
a migrated MC service user compared with the parameters authorized for that MC
service user when operating in its primary MC system. Examples of such
parameters are:
\- Authorizations to make certain types of call, e.g. private call, group call
may be restricted.
\- The list of MC service users that can be called using a private call may be
different.
\- The priority of the MC service user to make calls may be different,
especially if the sets of relative priorities of different MC service users
are defined differently between the primary and partner systems.
\- Authorizations to create group-broadcast groups may be restricted.
#### 5.2.1.2 Architectural Requirements
The user configuration for an MC service user will need to include
authorization to allow that MC service user to migrate to a list of identified
partner MC systems. The configuration may restrict the service available on
migration on a system by system basis.
An MC system will need to include a configuration which allows that MC system
to authorize an incoming migration request from a particular MC service user.
The MC system will need to verify that the migration request is permitted by
the primary MC system of that MC service user. An MC system will need to
provide a user profile for migrated MC service users, which may change their
authorizations compared with the authorizations that those MC service users
expect when receiving service within their primary MC systems.
NOTE: Because of the potential numbers of migrating MC service users, the
configuration in the partner system may need to be more general than on an
individual MC service user by MC service user configuration, e.g. it may be
more appropriate to allow configuration to accept incoming migration requests
and list authorization for migrating MC service users on a system by system
basis.
### 5.2.2 Key issue 2.2: Authentication at MC service application layer of MC
service users during migration
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
An MC service user that wishes to migrate to a partner MC system will need to
be authenticated with a credential obtained from his primary MC system when he
attempts to migrate. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] [R‑6.17.2 002].
#### 5.2.2.2 Architectural Requirements
The migrating user will need a mechanism to obtain a credential from the
primary MC system of the user, to present to the partner MC system on
migration.
The partner system will need a mechanism to verify the credential from the
primary MC system and use the credential to validate the authenticity of the
migrating MC service user.
NOTE: The mechanisms by which a valid credential is obtained from the primary
MC system of the MC user and used to validate the authenticity of that MC user
to the partner MC system are outside the scope of the present document.
### 5.2.3 Key issue 2.3: Connectivity to partner MC system for migration
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
In order to migrate to a partner MC system, the MC service client or MC
service user will need to identify the operational conditions in which
migration is desirable or necessary.
However MC service users of an MC system should not need to be aware of the
business relationships that their MC system (i.e. MC system A) has with
partner MC systems (e.g. MC system B). As such, when an MC service user from
MC system A (MC service user A) wishes to gain MC service from MC system B, MC
service user A should not have to perform any manual configuration of their UE
(UE A). Instead, UE A should be provisioned with the necessary credentials and
other information to allow MC service user A to receive MC service from MC
system B, potentially after prompting MC service user A if they wish to
receive MC service from MC system B.
In addition, different MC systems can belong to different jurisdictions, of
which can differ in geographical locations of operation. Therefore, depending
on the geographical location of MC service user A, different MC systems may be
available to MC service user A from which to gain MC service. Moreover, MC
system A may wish to limit or provide a preferred MC system (which could be a
partner MC system or MC system A itself) depending on where MC service user A
is currently geographically located. The geographical location of MC service
user A may be based on the MNC and MCC of UE A\'s RPLMN or based on something
more accurate e.g. GPS co-ordinates. Alternatively, the MC system may leave
the choice to the MC service user of which partner MC system to migrate, in
which case the MC service user will need to have means of identifying the
appropriate partner MC system to which to perform migration
Since UE A could be a shared UE amongst multiple MC service users, it is
necessary that each MC service user of UE A be authenticated and authorised by
MC system A for gaining MC service from MC system B. Therefore, a subsequent
MC service user of MC system A (MC service user A\') who uses UE A and who is
prohibited from participating in MC system B is prevented from doing so, but
may still be allowed to participate in MC system A (subject to usual MC
service authentication and authorisation).
In order to migrate to a partner MC system, an MC service client will need to
have access to visited network resources, including a PDN (as identified by an
APN) and a SIP core that provides IP and SIP connectivity, respectively, to
that partner MC system.
#### 5.2.3.2 Architectural Requirements
The MC service client will need to be aware of its location, or the PLMN or
other IP network within which that MC service client is operating (e.g. when
roaming to a visited PLMN).
The MC service client may need to present its current location or VPLMN to the
user to allow the user to decide whether to migrate and to which partner MC
system to migrate. The MC service client may need to migrate automatically
based on its location or based on its connected VPLMN. The MC service user
database may need to contain configuration information to authorize the MC
service client to migrate to one or more particular MC systems based on its
location or connected VPLMN.
If an MC service user requests and is authorised to gain MC service from
another MC system, the MC service user\'s UE shall be configurable with
PDN/bearer information (e.g. APNs), access credentials (e.g. for PDN
connections, forSIP core, for MC service) and other information that allows
the UE to receive MC service from one or more partner MC systems for the
geographic area in which the MC service user is currently located. The
configured information shall be valid only for the currently authorised MC
service user of the UE and shall not be made available to subsequent MC
service users of the UE.
Appropriate IP routing between the primary and partner MC systems of the MC
service user is needed.
### 5.2.4 Key issue 2.4: Tracking current MC system of MC service users during
migration
#### 5.2.4.1 Description
The primary MC system of a migrated user will need to record the current
partner MC system within which the migrated MC service user is receiving
service, in order to include that MC service user in calls.
#### 5.2.4.2 Architectural Requirements
There needs to be a mechanism by which MC systems can inform each other about
the registration status of migrated users, or a mechanism that allows a client
to inform its primary MC system about a migration to a partner system. A
partner MC system needs to be able to unambiguously identify the primary
system of a migrating MC service user, and a primary MC system needs to be
able to unambiguously identify the partner MC system to which an MC service
user has migrated in order to route migration and call related information to
that partner MC system.
The primary MC system of a migrating MC service user needs to maintain a
register which indicates the partner MC system to which that MC service user
has migrated.
### 5.2.5 Key issue 2.5: Identification of migrated MC system during migration
#### 5.2.5.1 Description
In order to place individually addressed calls (e.g. Private Call, MCData SDS
message) or to affiliate to groups and take part in group calls where the
targets of those individual calls or those groups are home in a different MC
system, the calling MC service user must be able to present the partner system
to which that MC service user has migrated with an identity of the called MC
service user or requested MC service group where that identity also identifies
the home system of that MC service user or MC service group.
The architectural requirements are the same as those in the interconnection
scenario, described in subclause 5.1.2.
### 5.2.6 Key issue 2.6: Authorization, configuration and affiliation for MC
service group calls during migration
#### 5.2.6.1 Description
Requirements for authorization and affiliation to MC service groups defined in
a partner MC system and retrieval of group configuration for those MC service
groups whilst migrated to that partner MC system are the same as those in the
interconnection scenario, described in subclause 5.1.4.
### 5.2.7 Key issue 2.7: Definition of controlling MC service server and media
routing between MC service servers during migration
#### 5.2.7.1 Description
The requirements for definition of a controlling MC service server and one or
more participating MC service servers, and the routing of media and provision
for logging by one or more MC service servers within a call are the same as
those in the interconnection scenario, described in subclauses 5.1.6, 5.1.7
and 5.1.8.
### 5.2.8 Key issue 2.8: Security for calls whilst migrated
#### 5.2.8.1 Description
The Release 13 security solution for MCPTT specified in 3GPP TS 33.179 [9] is
a single domain solution, with a single identity management server and a
single key management server serving all users. 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] requires
the authorization to affiliate to a group and the end to end security for a
group to be determined by the home MC system of the group in [R‑6.17.2-006]
and [R‑6.17.2-007]. In order to encrypt media to be sent to an MC service user
in the partner MC system in a private call whilst migrated to that partner MC
system, and to be provisioned with group master keys for groups defined within
the partner MC network, the migrated MC service user needs to be provided with
identity based encryption keys which are valid within the migrated network.
Floor control and SIP signalling are protected with a Client Server Key. In
order to take part in calls within the partner MC system, the migrated MC
service client needs to share a CSK with the partner MC service server that is
providing that MC service client with service.
#### 5.2.8.2 Architectural Requirements
A mechanism is needed for an MC service user receiving service when migrated
to a partner MC system to obtain key material from that partner MC system in
order to take part in end to end encrypted calls to individual MC service
users within that partner system and in MC service groups hosted in the
partner MC system.
If the MC service user needs to make calls to MC service users who are present
in that MC service user\'s primary MC system, or to MC service groups hosted
in that MC service user\'s primary MC system whilst that MC service user has
migrated to a partner MC system, a mechanism is needed for the MC service user
to obtain identity based key material valid for its primary MC system whilst
migrated to the partner MC system.
NOTE: Solutions for key management are outside the scope of the present
document.
### 5.2.9 Key issue 2.9: Migration during link failure conditions
#### 5.2.9.1 Description
The scenario may exist where an MC service user migrates to a partner MC
system whilst there is no connectivity with the primary MC system of that MC
service user, e.g. during link failure conditions between the partner MC
system and the primary MC system of that MC service user, or between the PLMN
that is serving the migrated MC service user and the primary MC system of the
MC service user or the home PLMN of the migrated MC service user. A mechanism
is necessary for a migrating MC service user to obtain MC services in the
partner system during link failure conditions. However, there are no current
stage 1 user requirements for this, and therefore this key issue will not be
considered further within this version of the present document.
### 5.2.10 Key issue 2.10: Media routing during migration for logging and
lawful interception
#### 5.2.10.1 Description
There may be regulatory and operational requirements to provide logging and
lawful interception of communications which include a migrated MC service
user. Logging and lawful interception may be required in both the primary MC
system and the partner MC system of the migrated MC service user. This may
apply for all users in a call. See 3GPP TS 22.280 [3], [R‑6.13.5-001] and
[R‑6.15.4-003], and further requirements in subclause 6.15.4 concerning
logging of metadata.
#### 5.2.10.2 Architectural Requirements
Media needs to be provided to the Mission Critical Organizations responsible
for the MC service user and MC service groups in which the MC service user
communicates whilst migrated. There may be separate Mission Critical
Organisations responsible for the MC service user and the MC service group who
each require the media from any one call.
Metadata needs to be provided to the Mission Critical Organizations
responsible for the MC service user and MC service groups in which the MC
service user communicates whilst migrated. There may be separate Mission
Critical Organisations responsible for the MC service user and the MC service
group who each require the metadata from any one call.
Lawful interception needs to take place where required in the primary and
partner MC systems of the MC service user.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: System authorization and configuration for interconnection
and migration
### 6.1.1 Description
This solution applies to the following key issues:
\- 1.1: MC system authorization to support interconnection calls; and
\- 2.1: MC authorization for migration.
Service configuration (on-network) for a primary system can contain lists of
partner MC systems with which interconnection is permitted, and lists of
partner MC systems with which migration is permitted. Configuration needed to
enable access to MC partner systems will be listed in 3GPP TS 23.280 [6], and
service specific information will be listed in 3GPP TS 23.379 [7], 3GPP TS
23.281 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.282 [11].
Each entry of a partner MC system will contain a list of configuration
information related to that partner MC system.
NOTE 1: It is expected that the partner MC system will have a similar set of
configuration information related to the primary MC system to enable
interconnection or migration to take place. If one of a pair of interconnected
systems does not have suitable configuration for the other MC system of that
pair of systems, interconnection and migration of MC users between these two
MC systems will not be possible.
NOTE 2: Each system of an interconnected pair of MC systems considers itself
the primary MC system with respect to a set of system configuration
information relating to the other MC system, and considers the other MC system
to be the partner system in this context.
NOTE 3: It may be necessary to align configuration between pairs of MC systems
to allow interconnection and migration to take place. Such mechanisms may be
procedural and are outside the scope of the present document.
This information will include:
\- Application identity of that MC system.
NOTE 4: The application identity of the MC system is the domain portion of the
MC service IDs for whom the system is primary.
\- Addressing information for relevant entities in that MC system, such as IP
addresses or URIs and identification of PDN within which the MC system can be
reached. The addressing information will be listed for at least the MC service
servers and configuration servers which may be involved in interconnection and
migration calls.
\- Relevant signalling plane addresses, such as the address for the SIP core
via which signalling can be sent to the partner system.
\- For interconnection:
\- Whether outgoing MCPTT private calls are permitted to users in that partner
MC system;
\- Whether incoming MCPTT private calls are permitted from users in that
partner MC system;
\- Whether MCPTT users in this primary MC system are permitted to affiliate
and make MCPTT group calls to MCPTT groups defined in that partner MC system;
\- Whether MCPTT groups defined in this primary MC system will permit
affiliation and MCPTT group calls to be made from users in that partner MC
system;
\- Whether outgoing MCVideo calls can be made to users in that partner MC
system;
\- Whether incoming MCVideo calls are permitted from users in that partner MC
system;
\- Whether MCVideo users in this primary MC system are permitted to affiliate
to and make MCVideo calls to MCVideo groups defined in that partner MC system;
\- Whether MCVideo groups defined in this primary MC system will permit
affiliation and MCVideo group calls to be made from users in that partner MC
system;
\- Whether outgoing MCData transactions can be sent to users in that partner
MC system; and
\- Whether incoming MCData transactions are permitted from users in that
partner MC system.
\- For migration:
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to migrate to this
primary MC system;
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to take part in
MCPTT private calls within this primary MC system;
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to affiliate to
MCPTT groups and join MCPTT group calls within this primary MC system;
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to take part in
MCVideo calls within this primary MC system; and
\- Whether users from that partner MC system are permitted to send or receive
MCData transactions within this primary MC system.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Service configuration data will need to be extended to incorporate the
information listed in the previous subclause.
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution describes system level configuration which will be necessary as
a precondition to interconnection and migration. It has the advantage that
functionality can be enabled simply at a system level to define the service
available to users under interconnection or migration scenarios.
New service configuration from each partner MC system needs to be manually
configured into the primary MC system whenever it is updated.
NOTE: How MC system providers acting as partner MC systems push updates to
migration partners (i.e. to primary MC systems) is assumed to take place via
some off-line means, of which are outside the scope of the present document.
For each individual user and group, aspects of the user configuration for
migration and for interconnection (such as lists of users and groups permitted
for communication in these circumstances) will be dependent on this system
level configuration to allow the services to proceed. The relevant user level
configuration is described in Solution 4, subclause 6.4.
## 6.2 Solution 2: Connectivity to partner MC system for migration
### 6.2.1 Description
This solution applies to key issue 2-3, connectivity to partner MC system for
migration.
Preconditions:
\- The MC service UE has successfully set-up bearers to the primary MC
system\'s PDN(s).
\- The MC service UE has successfully performed an MC service user
authentication with the primary MC system.
\- The configuration management client has secure access to the configuration
management server in the primary MC service system.
Figure 6.2.1-1: MCPTT user authentication and registration, multiple domain(s)
1\. The configuration management client sends get partner MC system connection
details request message to the configuration management server of the MC
services user\'s primary MC system, which includes the MC services ID, the MC
service UE\'s location information. The message may also include an identifier
of a particular partner MC system e.g. that provides service at the current
location of the UE.
NOTE 1: The triggers that cause the configuration management client to send
the above message to initiate retrieval of configuration information relating
to the partner MC system are outside the scope of the present document, but
could be by prior arrangement by the administrator, by present UE location or
by action of the user.
2\. The configuration management server checks to see if the requesting MC
services user is authorised for migration.
3\. If an identifier of a particular partner MC system was not received in
step 1 then a suitable partner system is automatically determined to be used
for migration for the MC service user based on the received MC service UE\'s
location information. If an identifier of a particular partner MC system was
received in step 1 and if the primary MC system has a migration agreement with
that partner MC system for the MC service user then the configuration
management server determines the requested partner MC system is to be used,
otherwise the configuration management server automatically determines a
partner MC system to be used for the MC service user based on the received MC
service UE\'s location information.
4\. Depending on policy information for the MC services user (e.g. per MC
services user profile configuration, per service configuration), the
configuration management server may send get outbound migration SIP identities
request to the SIP database in the primary MC system, which includes the SIP
private user identity and SIP public user identity for the MC services user.
5\. The SIP database in the primary MC system allocates (e.g. from a pool,
using a random SIP identity generation function) an outbound migration SIP
private user identity and an outbound migration SIP public user identity, and
then creates a binding of these to the received SIP private user identity and
SIP public user identity.
6\. The SIP database in the primary MC system sends get outbound migration SIP
identities response containing the outbound migration SIP private user
identity and outbound migration SIP public user identity, as assigned in step
5, to the configuration management server in the primary MC system.
7\. The configuration management server sends partner MC system access request
to the configuration management server of the partner MC system (as determined
in step 2), which includes the MC services user ID, an identifier of the MC
service user\'s SIP database in the primary MC system, a SIP private user
identity and a SIP public user identity of the MC service user (which may be
the outbound migration SIP private user identity and outbound migration SIP
public user identity, depending on step 4).
NOTE 2: The identifier of the MC service user\'s SIP database in the primary
MC system may actually be an identifier of a Subscription Locator Function
(SLF) e.g. in systems that utilise multiple SIP databases.
8\. The configuration management server in the partner MC system checks to see
if the requesting primary MC system and the MC services user of the primary MC
system are authorised for migration to its MC system.
9\. The configuration management server in the partner MC system sends get
inbound migration SIP identities request to the SIP database of the partner MC
system, which includes the identifier of the MC service user\'s SIP database
in the primary MC system, the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity
and primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity (as received in step 7).
10\. The SIP database in the partner MC system allocates (e.g. from a pool,
using a random SIP identity generation function) an inbound migration SIP
private user identity and an inbound migration SIP public user identity, and
then creates a binding of these to the received identifier of the MC service
user\'s SIP database in the primary MC system, primary MC system\'s SIP
private user identity and primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity.
11\. The SIP database in the partner MC system sends get inbound migration SIP
identities response containing the inbound migration SIP private user identity
and inbound migration SIP public user identity, as assigned in step 10, to the
configuration management server in the partner MC system.
12\. The configuration management server in the partner MC system sends
partner MC system access response, which includes the inbound migration SIP
private user identity, the inbound migration SIP public user identity, and
initial UE configuration data for the partner MC system.
NOTE 3: If the information in the initial UE configuration data is not subject
to change very frequently (e.g. PAP or CHAP credentials for access to PDNs are
either not needed or are not allocated on a per user basis) then this
information could be exchanged between the partner MC system and primary MC
system off-line (e.g. as part of contractual communications between the two
entities) and statically configured in the configuration management server.
13\. The configuration management server in the primary MC system sends get
partner MC system connection details response to the configuration management
client, which includes the inbound migration SIP private user identity, the
inbound migration SIP public user identity, initial UE configuration data for
the partner MC system.
NOTE 4: The MC service UE, when storing the configuration information for the
partner MC system, needs to ensure that the configuration information for the
primary MC system is not overwritten or discarded, in order to ensure that the
MC service UE can connect back to the MC service UE\'s primary MC system
later.
NOTE 5: There could be a long time in between the steps 1 to 13 (inclusive)
taking place and the following steps taking place.
14\. The MC service UE sets-up the necessary bearers/PDN connections using the
bearer information in the received initial UE configuration data for the
partner MC system, and then performs MC service user authentication.
15\. The signalling user agent sends a SIP registration request to the SIP
core of the partner MC system, which includes the inbound migration SIP
private user identity and the inbound migration SIP public user identity.
16\. The SIP core in the partner MC system sends get SIP authentication
information request to the SIP database also in the partner MC system, which
includes the inbound migration SIP private user identity and the inbound
migration SIP public user identity.
17\. The SIP database in the partner MC system, due to the binding created in
step 10, recognises the inbound migration SIP private user identity and
determines the identifier of the MC service user\'s SIP database in the
primary MC system, the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity and the
primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity.
NOTE 6: The primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity is used to
determine the primary MC system\'s SIP database.
18\. The SIP database in the partner MC system sends get SIP authentication
information request to the SIP database in the primary MC system, which
includes the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity and the primary MC
system\'s SIP public user identity (as determined in step 17).
19\. The SIP database in the primary MC system recognises the primary MC
system\'s SIP private user identity and MC system\'s SIP public user identity
and sends get SIP authentication information response to the SIP database in
the partner MC system, which includes the primary MC system\'s SIP private
user identity, the primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity, and
authentication information (e.g. authentication vectors).
20\. The SIP database in the partner MC system, due to the binding created in
step 10, recognises the primary MC system\'s SIP private user identity and the
primary MC system\'s SIP public user identity, and determines the inbound
migration SIP private user identity and inbound SIP public user identity.
21\. The SIP database in the partner MC system sends get SIP authentication
information response to the SIP core also in the partner MC system, which
includes the inbound migration SIP private user identity, the inbound
migration SIP private user identity, and the authentication information (as
received in step 19).
22\. The SIP core in the partner MC system sends SIP authentication challenge
request to the signalling user agent in the MC service UE, which includes the
inbound migration SIP private user identity, the inbound SIP public user
identity, and the authentication challenge information (derived from the
authentication information received in step 21).
23\. The signalling user agent in the MC service UE determines the challenge
response information (i.e. by utilising the IMS-AKA data in the ISIM) to the
SIP core in the partner MC system, and sends SIP authentication challenge
response, which includes the challenge response information.
24\. The SIP core in the partner MC system sends SIP registration response to
the signalling user agent in the MC service UE, which includes an indication
that the authentication is successful.
25\. The MC service UE is now SIP registered in the SIP core of the partner MC
system and subsequently can perform MC service authorization and start
receiving one or more MC services.
### 6.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The following functional entities are impacted:
\- Configuration management client
\- Configuration management server (for inbound and outbound migration)
\- SIP database (for inbound migration and optionally outbound migration)
NOTE: The signalling user agent and the SIP core of the partner MC system are
unaffected, since they are provided with the necessary information that they
expect and can use e.g. SIP private user identity and SIP public user
identity.
Table 6.2.2-1 provides a high-level overview of the impacts on reference
points and associated messaging between existing nodes.
Table 6.2.2-1: Overview of impacts on reference points and associated
messaging
Message in figure 6.2.1-1 Reference point Existing message Comments
* * *
Get partner MC system connection details request/response (steps 1 & 13) CSC-4
Get updated MCPTT user profile request If this configuration data is provided
on an as needed basis, then stage 2 may benefit by defining a new message flow
here. Get outbound migration SIP identities request/response (steps 4 & 6)
AAA-1 / Sh Data Pull Request/Answer (DPR/DPA) Left to stage 3 to decide if
DPR/DPA could be reused or new messaging is needed for this function. Partner
MC system access request/response (7 & 12) New (CMS-CMS) N/A New reference
point needed between CMS in primary MC system and CMS in partner MC system.
HTTP or Diameter recommended. Get inbound migration SIP identities
request/response (steps 9 and 11) AAA-1 / Sh Data Pull Request/Answer
(DPR/DPA) Could reuse same messaging as for \"get outbound migration SIP
identities request/response\" (steps 4 & 6). SIP registration request/response
(15 & 24) Gm, Mw SIP INVITE No changes needed. Get SIP authentication
information request/response (steps 16, 18, 19 & 21) Cx Diameter Cx-AV-REQ
(Multimedia‑Auth‑Request) and Cx-AV-REQresp (Multimedia‑Auth‑Response) No
changes needed, other than proxying (a feature that of which Diameter is
already very capable). SIP authentication challenge request/response Gm SIP
error cause 4xx (e.g. 401) and SIP INVITE, respectively No changes needed.
### 6.2.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution allows an MC service UE to be configured with all of the
required information needed to access a partner MC system, the partner MC
system\'s PDN(s), and the partner MC system\'s SIP core (as described in
Scenario 1, specified in subclause 4.1.1). Existing messaging is largely
reused, with only new parameters needed in most cases, however, one new
reference point is needed between the configuration management servers in the
primary MC system and partner MC system. No new nodes are required.
This solution has the advantage of being able to reuse the existing MC service
SIP security parameters (i.e. the existing IMS-AKA security mechanism data
already stored in the ISIM on the UICC) available to the MC service UE. Such
reuse negates the need to provide, specifically for migration, additional SIP
security mechanism data (therefore eliminating the need for confidential
information to be sent OTA) or even a whole new SIP security mechanism in
addition to IMS‑AKA (which is currently the only SIP security mechanism
specified by SA3 for use in MCPTT). This solution requires connectivity
between the partner MC system and primary MC system. Such connectivity, at
least at the IP layer, is already available in order to provide for migrated
MC users to connect back to their respective primary MC systems (MC system
interconnection). What is new in this solution is a CSC-4-like reference point
e.g. an HTTP based reference point, which is likely to be little to no impact
on such entities as firewalls that already need to police SIP signalling and
associated media (e.g. SRTP, SRTCP, etc). However, whilst there is a minor
disadvantage in adding a new reference point based on messaging and parameters
already found in an existing reference point, there is also a major advantage
in that updates from the partner MC system can be automatically and
immediately taken into account by the primary MC system and vice versa i.e. no
off-line configuration swapping between primary and partner MC systems is
required.
Another advantage is that, where needed, the primary MC system can provide
specific SIP public user identity and SIP private user identity for migration
(see steps 4-6 in figure 6.2.1-1) allowing obfuscation of the SIP public user
identity and SIP private user identity used by the primary MC system, as well
as the ability to immediately terminate, and prevent any further, SIP logins
from the SIP core of the partner MC system. Depending on implementation and
O&M, this could be done for all partner MC systems or on a per partner MC
system basis.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Call control and media routing for MCPTT group calls for
interconnection
### 6.3.1 Description of solution
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC service group
calls;
\- 1.8: Media routing for interconnection MC service group calls; and
\- 1.10: MC system network topology hiding.
The solution applies to MCPTT, but the principles of this solution should be
applicable to MCVideo and MCData as well.
A gateway server is introduced into the primary MC system of the MCPTT group
and into the partner MC system the MCPTT group. This is shown in figure
6.3.1-1.
Figure 6.3.1-1: Use of gateway MCPTT server for interconnection
The gateway server in the primary MC system of the MCPTT group interfaces to
the primary MCPTT server of the MCPTT group and provides a single point of
contact for all MCPTT servers and MCPTT UEs in the partner MC system of the
MCPTT group without exposing the internal network architecture of the primary
MC system of the group.
The gateway server may provide gateway services to one or more MC services,
i.e. MCPTT, MCVideo and MCData.
The gateway server in the partner MC system of the MCPTT group interfaces to
the primary MCPTT system of the MCPTT group and provides a single point of
contact between the MCPTT servers and MCPTT UEs in the partner MC system of
the group and the primary MC system of the group, without exposing the
internal network architecture of the partner MC system of the group.
Reference point MCPTT-3\' provides the interface between gateway servers and
is based on reference point MCPTT-3.
Affiliation from MCPTT UEs in the partner MC system of the MCPTT group is sent
via the gateway servers to the primary MC system of the MCPTT group.
Floor control signalling and media is sent via the gateway servers between the
primary and partner MC systems of the MCPTT group. Media replication and
distribution in the partner MC system of the group is achieved by the gateway
server in conjunction with the primary MCPTT servers of the MCPTT users within
that partner MC system.
The gateway MCPTT server in the partner MC system for the MCPTT group may be
provided with local configuration for the group, which may allow this gateway
MCPTT server to apply local policy to affiliation, call setup and floor
control signalling in that partner MC system of the MCPTT group.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Introduction of the gateway MCPTT server should prevent any change to the
MCPTT server entity, or reference point MCPTT-3.
### 6.3.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution introduces a gateway server as a single interface point to an MC
system, which provides a single point of interface for addressing, and acts to
hide the topology of the MC system from other MC systems. An advantage of this
solution is that the MCPTT-3 and equivalent MCVideo-3 and MCData-3 reference
points can remain unchanged by the introduction of interconnection between
different MC systems, confining any new complexity to the new MCPTT-3\'
reference point and the equivalent MCVideo and MCData reference points between
those MC systems.
## 6.4 Solution 4: User authorization and configuration for interconnection
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.1: MC system authorization to support interconnection calls;
\- 1.3: Authorization for interconnection private calls; and
\- 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC service group
calls.
A set of configuration information will be added to user configuration data
(on-network) to provide a set of permissions for the different services
available to an MC user for interconnection calls. The list will contain
information on a per-partner MC system basis, to allow the service that is
available for interconnection calls with one partner MC system to be different
to that available for a different partner MC system.
NOTE 1: The procedures for determining the configuration for use in a partner
system are outside the scope of the present document, but may require
agreement between the MC organization managing the primary MC system and the
MC organization managing the partner MC system of each user. Group related
information may need to include information provided by the partner MC system.
See also Solution 5, subclause 6.5.
For each partner MC system with which the MC user is permitted some
interconnection functionality, the configuration parameters should include:
\- Application identity of that MC system.
NOTE 2: The application identity of the MC system is the domain portion of the
MC service IDs for whom the system is primary.
\- Addressing information for relevant entities that enable communication with
that partner MC system. This may include addressing information for signalling
plane and application plane as needed.
NOTE 3: It is possible that no entities in another system are directly
addressable in an interconnection scenario, and the addresses may refer to
local entities by which users and groups in the partner MC system can be
reached.
\- Whether MCPTT private calls are permitted with users in that partner MC
system:
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system to whom private calls may be
made;
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system from whom private calls may be
received;
\- Indication whether private calls can be made to users of that partner MC
system who are not included in the list; and
\- Indication whether private calls can be received from users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list.
\- List of groups in that partner MC system of which the MC user is a member:
\- Address information for the group management server from which the group
profile may be obtained; and
\- List of MC services for which the group applies (MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData).
\- Whether MCVideo calls are permitted with users in that partner MC system:
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system to whom MCVideo calls may be
made;
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system from whom MCVideo calls may be
received;
\- Indication whether MCVideo calls can be made to users of that partner MC
system who are not included in the list; and
\- Indication whether MCVideo calls can be received from users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list.
\- Whether MCData transactions are permitted with users in that partner MC
system:
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system to whom MCData transactions may
be initiated;
\- List of MC users in that partner MC system from whom MCData transactions
may be initiated;
\- Indication whether MCData transactions can be initiated to users of that
partner MC system who are not included in the list; and
\- Indication whether MCData transactions can be initiated from users of that
partner MC system who are not included in the list.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
User configuration data for each of the three services MCPTT, MCVideo and
MCData as specified in 3GPP TS 23.379 [7], 3GPP TS 23.281 [10] and 3GPP TS
23.282 [11] will need to be extended to incorporate the information listed in
the previous subclause.
### 6.4.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution describes the service specific configuration needed in order to
perform interconnection to another MC system.
The majority of the configuration information originates from the operational
and security policy of the primary network. However application level
information such as lists of groups and service configuration from each
partner MC system needs to be manually configured into the primary MC system
whenever it is updated.
NOTE: How MC system providers acting as partner MC systems push updates to
migration partners (i.e. to primary MC systems) is assumed to take place via
some off-line means, of which are outside the scope of the present document.
The solution provides lower impact in the primary MC system if the
configuration for interconnection is the same as, or similar to, the
configuration used in the primary MC system.
This solution will operate in conjunction with Solution 1, system
authorization and configuration for interconnection and migration, described
in subclause 6.1, to provide both system level and individual user level
authorization and configuration for interconnection.
## 6.5 Solution 5: Group configuration management for interconnection
### 6.5.1 Description of solutions
These solutions apply to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.4: Affiliation and authorization for interconnection MC service group
calls;
\- 1.5: MC group configuration for group defined in partner MC system; and
\- 1.10: MC system network topology hiding.
The principles of these solutions apply to MCPTT, MCVideo and MCData.
The solutions add gateway servers to the primary MC system of the MC service
group, the primary MC system of the MC service users, or both. The purpose of
the gateways is to hide system topology, to prevent direct access to servers
from clients in different domains, and to simplify the routeing issues between
domains.
#### 6.5.1.1 Solution 5.1: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service users
Figure 6.5.1.1-1 shows the use of a gateway in the primary MC system of the MC
service users.
Figure 6.5.1.1-1: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service users
The gateway in the primary MC system of the MC users allows this primary
system to present a single point of access to the primary MC system of the
group, and to hide lower layer addressing information related to the MC
service UEs. The gateway can retrieve the group configuration data on behalf
of the MC service clients, and can apply local configuration rules according
to a template which is configured in the primary MC system of the MC users.
The user configuration data may indicate an address for the gateway server to
the MC service clients as the source for group configuration data instead of
the addresses of the group management servers themselves. The group management
clients in the MC service UEs use reference point CSC-2 to request and
retrieve group configuration data; reference point CSCM-x is used by the
gateway server to retrieve group configuration data from the group management
server in the primary MC system of the group.
The local configuration template may modify the configuration data provided by
the primary MC system of the MC service group in ways such as:
\- Location information concerning areas within which the group is permitted
to operate, or within which acknowledgements from group members are required
will be according to local requirements.
\- The priority of the group and the level within group hierarchy for
broadcast groups will be according to local policies, to be consistent with
locally defined groups within that system.
\- Permission for specific call types such as emergency call, emergency alert,
and imminent peril call may be changed according to local policy.
The locally modified group configuration data may be utilised by a local MC
service server in providing communications within the MC service group. The
part of the configuration data relevant to the MC service client will be
downloaded to the MC service client.
The primary MC system of the group may provide the partner MC system of the
group (primary MC system of the users) with group configuration data that is
different from the data used within the primary MC system of the group. For
example, it may list only the group members who are allowed access to the
group from that partner MC system for the group.
#### 6.5.1.2 Solution 5.2: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service groups
Figure 6.5.1.2-1 shows the use of a gateway in the primary MC system of the MC
service groups, and where there is no gateway server in the primary MC system
of the MC service users (which is the partner MC system of the MC service
group).
Figure 6.5.1.2-1: Gateway in primary MC system of MC service groups
The gateway in the primary MC system of the MC service group allows this
primary system of the MC group to present a single point of access for group
configuration, and to hide the responsible group management servers. If the
primary system of the MC service users does not implement a gateway server,
this gateway server in the primary MC system of the group also hides the group
management servers\' addresses, and so the system topology, from clients in
the partner MC system of the group. It also shields the group management
servers from the PDN used by the MC service clients.
The user configuration data provided to the MC service clients in the partner
MC system of the group may indicate an address for the gateway server to the
MC service clients as the source for group configuration data, instead of the
addresses of the group management servers themselves. The group management
clients in the MC service UEs use reference point CSC-2 to request and
retrieve group configuration data; reference point CSCM-x is used by the
gateway server to retrieve group configuration data from the group management
servers.
The primary MC system of the group may provide the partner MC system of the
group (primary MC system of the users) with group configuration data that is
different from the data used within the primary MC system of the group. For
example, it may list only the group members who are allowed access to the
group from that partner MC system for the group.
#### 6.5.1.3 Solution 5.3: Gateways in primary MC system of MC service groups
and primary MC system of MC service users
Figure 6.5.1.3-1 shows the use of gateways in both the primary MC system of
the MC service users and the primary MC system of the MC service groups. The
gateways operate as described in solutions 5.1 and 5.2.
Figure 6.5.1.3-1: Gateways in primary MC systems of MC service users and MC
service groups
In this solution, the topology of the primary MC system of the MC service
groups is hidden by the gateway server in this system. The gateway server
allows the primary MC system of the MC service groups to present a single
interface point to its partner system. The gateway server in the primary MC
system of the MC service users allows that MC system to apply local
configuration, if needed, to the group configuration data received from the
primary MC system of the group. This gateway server in the primary MC system
of the MC users also shields the MC users and the PDN of the MC users from the
primary MC system of the group.
A reference point CSCM-y acts as the interface between gateway servers. This
may be identical to reference point CSCM-x between gateway server and group
management server.
### 6.5.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Group configuration data contained in the group management server which holds
the data relating to a particular group may need to also contain a filtered
version of the data which can be provided to a partner MC system.
The group management server will need to new reference point CSCM-x to
communicate with the gateway server.
### 6.5.3 Solution Evaluation
Solutions 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 propose gateways which provide a single point of
connection to an MC system, by use of which a group management client can
retrieve group configuration information, whilst hiding the topology of the MC
systems. Solution 5.3 proposes a gateway for both the MC system of the group
management client and the MC system of the group management server, whereas
solutions 5.1 and 5.2 only consider a gateway in one of the two systems.
Because of the need to hide the topology of both systems, solution 5.3 (which
is a combination of solutions 5.1 and 5.2) is preferred.
The solutions also allow an MC system to modify the group management
configuration provided by a partner MC system (where that partner MC system is
the primary system of the MC group) thus allowing local policies to be
enforced. New service configuration from the primary MC system of the MC
service group can be automatically taken into account by the primary and
partner MC systems of the MC service group whenever it is updated, due to
connectivity between the primary MC system of the MC service group and the
partner MC systems of the MC service group.
## 6.6 Solution 6: User authorization and configuration for migration
### 6.6.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 2.1: MC authorization for migration;
\- 2.3: Connectivity to partner MC system for migration; and
\- 2.6: Authorization, configuration and affiliation for MC service group
calls during migration.
A set of configuration information will be added to user configuration data
(on-network) to provide a set of permissions for the different services
available to an MC service user on migration. The list will contain
information on a per-partner MC system basis, such that the service available
when migrating to one partner MC system may be different to the service
available when migrating to a different partner MC system. If a partner MC
system is not listed, then migration to that partner MC system is forbidden.
Some information may overlap with the configuration information needed to
permit interconnection services involving users and groups in a partner MC
system. However the capabilities of an MC service user when migrated to a
particular MC partner system may be different from those of that same MC
service user when making or receiving interconnection calls with users in the
same partner system while the MC service user is receiving service from its
primary MC system.
The user profile information relating to services, other MC service users and
MC groups is part of the user profile which will be provided to the partner MC
system by the primary MC system when the user migrates.
The user profile information for migration may allow an MC service user to may
make or receive interconnection calls to or from the MC service user\'s
primary MC system, or to or from a third MC system, in addition to calls to or
from users or groups in the partner MC system to which the MC service user has
migrated.
For each partner MC system to which the MC service user is permitted to
migrate, the configuration parameters should include:
\- Application identity of that MC system.
NOTE: The application identity of the MC system is the domain portion of the
MC service IDs for whom the system is primary.
\- List of PLMN(s) within which migration to that that partner MC system can
be achieved;
\- Configuration information necessary for access to relevant entities in that
MC system, such as URIs or IP addresses and signalling plane identities with
which those relevant entities in that MC system can be reached, and the
relevant access credentials needed.
\- Whether MCPTT private calls are permitted while migrated to that partner MC
system:
\- List of MC service users to whom MCTT private calls may be made while
migrated to that partner MC system. This may include MC service users from
different MC systems, which would require an interconnection call to be made
from the partner system;
\- List of MC service users from whom MCPTT private calls may be received
while migrated to that partner MC system. This may include MC service users
from different MC systems, which would require an interconnection call to be
made to the partner system;
\- Indication whether MCPTT private calls can be made to users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list;
\- Indication whether MCPTT private calls can be received from users of that
partner MC system who are not included in the list; and
\- List of further MC systems to and from which interconnection MCPTT private
calls may be made to users who are not included in the list of MC service
users.
\- List of groups of which the MC service user is a member whilst the MC
service user is migrated to that partner MC system. For each group:
\- Address information for the group management server containing the group
profile; and
\- List of MC services for which the group applies (MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData).
\- Whether MCVideo calls are permitted while migrated to that partner MC
system:
\- List of MC service users to whom MCVideo calls may be made while migrated
to that partner MC system. This may include MC service users from different MC
systems, which would require an interconnection call to be made from the
partner system;
\- List of MC service users from whom MCVideo calls may be received while
migrated to that partner MC system. This may include MC service users from
different MC systems, which would require an interconnection call to be made
to the partner system;
\- Indication whether MCVideo calls can be made to users of that partner MC
system who are not included in the list;
\- Indication whether MCVideo calls can be received from users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list; and
\- List of further MC systems to and from which interconnection MCVideo calls
may be made to users who are not included in the list of MC service users.
\- Whether MCData transactions are permitted while migrated to that partner MC
system:
\- List of MC service users to whom MCData transactions may be initiated while
migrated to that partner system, and set of sub-services applicable with each
MC service user. This may include MC service users from different MC systems,
which would require an interconnection call to be made from the partner
system;
\- List of MC service users from whom MCData transactions may be received
while migrated to that partner system, and set of sub-services applicable with
each MC service user. This may include MC service users from different MC
systems, which would require an interconnection call to be made to the partner
system;
\- Indication whether MCData transactions can be sent to users of that partner
MC system who are not included in the list, and set of sub-services
applicable;
\- Indication whether MCData transactions can be received from users of that
partner MC system who are not included in the list, and set of sub-services
applicable; and
\- List of further MC systems to and from which interconnection MCData
transactions may be made to users who are not included in the list of MC
service users.
The list of groups of which the MC service user is a member and list of
individual MC users who can be communicated with while the MC service user is
migrated to that partner system is configuration data to be provided to the
partner system by the primary system of the MC service user either in advance
of or when the MC service user migrates. It is not configuration data that is
provided to the MC service client prior to migration.
The partner MC system may modify the lists of MC users and MC service groups
according to its own policies, and may add further MC service groups and/or
further individual MC users to the lists for use during the migration, for
example for use in a specific incident for which mutual aid is being provided.
The partner MC system may also remove MC users or MC service groups from the
list according to the policies of the partner MC system. The partner MC system
may be configured with the information needed to modify the configuration
information received from the primary MC system on an individual user basis,
or on a wider basis such as for each organization which may migrate from the
primary MC system, or for all users from the primary MC system.
The configuration data that has been modified by the partner MC system is the
user configuration data that is provided to the MC service client following
successful migration.
The list of groups may contain groups within the primary system of the MC
service user to which the primary MC system expects the MC service user to
have access whilst migrated. The list of groups may also include groups within
the partner MC system to which the MC service user is migrating, and for which
some pre-arrangement for access has been agreed between the primary and
partner MC systems of the MC service user. The list of groups may also include
groups in further partner MC systems to which the primary MC system of the MC
service user expects the MC service user to have access using interconnection
whilst migrated. For example, the list of groups configured by MC system A for
use when MC service user A has migrated to MC system B may include groups
which are defined in MC system A, in MC system B and in a third system MC
system C.
Editor\'s note: The mechanisms for synchronising the user profile in the MC
service client of the MC service user while the MC service user is migrated if
either the primary MC system of the MC user modifies the user\'s profile or
the partner MC system modifies its local template are FFS.
Editor\'s note: The ability for a user to migrate to a partner MC system may
be dependent on the location of the MC service user at the time the decision
to migrate is taken. The mechanism to affirm this is FFS. The primary or
partner system of the MC service user may be involved in the decision to avoid
configuring the MC client with large amounts of location related information.
### 6.6.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
User configuration data relating to each of the three services MCPTT, MCVideo
and MCData as specified in 3GPP TS 23.379 [7], 3GPP TS 23.281 [10] and 3GPP TS
23.282 [11] will need to be extended to incorporate the information listed in
the previous subclause.
The user configuration databases in the partner MC system may need to be
configured with information needed to modify the user configuration data
received from the primary MC system. These may be needed at the individual
level, or at a more common level, e.g. all users belonging to one MC system,
all users belonging to one organisation within an MC system from which users
can be expected to migrate.
Which sets of configuration data need to be modified for migration in the user
configuration database in the primary system and the partner system need to be
specified.
### 6.6.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides a means for MC user configuration to be provisioned for
operation on a partner MC system, and allows the MC partner system to apply
local configuration requirements.
There may be a provisioning impact to configure the partner MC system with the
configurations needed for visitors. The impact will be determined by the
granularity of the information needed (per migrating MC user, per MC system
etc) and the need to allow for all possible visitors, or specific visitors
determined in advance of planned migration. Also, new service configuration
from each partner MC system needs to be manually configured into the primary
MC system whenever it is updated.
NOTE: How MC system providers acting as partner MC systems push updates to
migration partners (i.e. to primary MC systems) is assumed to take place via
some off-line means, of which are outside the scope of the present document.
The solution allows for lesser impact in the primary MC system if the
configuration for migration is the same as or little different from the
configuration used in the primary MC system. The solution allows for a lesser
impact in the partner MC system if the configuration needed for visitors is
defined with large granularity (e.g. per system or per migrating
organization).
The specific sets of configuration data that need to be modified for migration
in the MC service user database in the primary MC system and the partner MC
system need to be specified.
## 6.7 Solution 7: User profile management for migration - Partner MC system
CMS configures UE
### 6.7.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 2.1: MC authorization for migration; and
\- 2.6: Authorization, configuration and affiliation for MC service group
calls during migration.
The principles of this solution apply to all three services MCPTT, MCVideo and
MCData.
Figure 6.7.1-1 below illustrates the entities involved in the solution:
Figure 6.7.1-1: Entities and reference points for migrated user profile
configuration
The reference points shown as MC service-1 and MC service-2 in figure 6.7.1-1
represent MCPTT-1, MCVideo-1, MCVideo-2 and MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2 and MCData-2
respectively. The reference point CSC-Z is equivalent to CSC‑4, where CSC-4
used when the MC service client is receiving MC service in its primary MC
system, and CSC-Z applies when the MC service client is receiving MC service
in a partner MC system.
Editor\'s note: Differences between CSC-Z and CSC-4 are FFS.
Editor\'s note: Only one of CSCM-x and CSCM-y will be needed for the partner
MC system to obtain the MC service user profile, but which will be needed is
FFS.
Prior to migration, the primary MC system will be configured with at least one
profile for the MC service user to use during migration.
When the MC service user migrates to a partner MC system, the migrating MC
service user will first need to authenticate and obtain a suitable credential
to authorize access to services in the partner MC system. This authentication
process is not described within this solution. Following authentication, for
access to MC services, the migrating MC service client is authorized for
service with the partner MC service server.
NOTE 1: In order to gain access to the partner MC system, the MC service
client will be configured with the information needed to gain access to the
partner MC system, such as appropriate PDN, SIP core addressing and
credentials for access. This information is described in more detail in
solution 2. The MC service client will need to be configured with the relevant
information and credentials for each system to which it may migrate in advance
of any migration.
NOTE 2: The authentication and authorization mechanisms needed to allow the MC
service client to gain access to the servers in the application plane of the
partner MC system are outside the scope of the present document.
When the MC service client is authorized for service access, the MC service
server needs to retrieve the MC service user profile(s) for that MC service
user, and so the MC service server requests the profile(s) from the MC service
user database using the identity presented by the MC service client, which may
be a temporary identity provided by the authentication process as well as the
MC service ID of the MC service client.
NOTE 3: Any caching of MC service user profiles by the partner MC system are
outside the scope of the present document.
NOTE 4: Caching information would enable continued operation on the partner MC
system during failure conditions in links between the primary MC system and
partner MC system. However the application of this will need to be considered
against any potential consequences of synchronisation errors.
The MC service user profile that is provided to the partner MC service server
and to the migrating MC service client needs to contain a combination of
authorizations from the primary MC system of the MC service user, and the
authorizations granted by the partner MC service system. The partner MC system
configuration management server will request an MC service user profile for
the MC service user from the primary MC system configuration management
server. One of the reference points on Figure 6.7.1-1 above shown as CSCM-x or
CSCM-y (CSC for Migration x or y) will be required for this.
The primary MC system will provide one or more user profiles for that MC
service user to the partner MC system configuration management server.
NOTE 5: Solution 6, in subclause 6.6, describes a solution for the
interactions between primary MC system and partner MC system in generating a
user profile for use by the migrated user, where both MC systems contribute
towards the final migrated user profile.
It is expected that there will be specific profiles for migration defined for
each MC service user, and these will be different to the profiles used by the
MC service user when receiving service in the primary MC system. For example,
the list of MC service groups accessible may be different, such that some of
the MC service groups available to the MC service user when in the primary MC
system may not be available to that MC service user in the partner MC system.
Operations such as group regrouping may not be permissible in the partner MC
system.
The partner MC system configuration management server receives the profile(s)
from the primary MC system.
The partner MC system MC service user database will be configured with
templates which are to be applied to the user profiles for migrating MC
service users, and will provide these templates to the partner MC system
configuration management server. There may be one template per MC system with
which the partner MC system has agreements to support migrating MC users, or
multiple templates for visitors from the same MC system, e.g. based on the
organizations of the MC users. To support multiple templates for migrating MC
service users from the same MC system, the partner MC system must be able to
derive an organizational structure from the MC service ID of the visiting MC
user. The partner MC system configuration management server will combine the
user profile(s) from the primary MC system of the migrating MC user with the
appropriate template to produce the user profile(s) that will be used by the
MC user while migrating. The combined user profile(s) will be sent to the MC
service user database.
Following service authorization with the partner MC service server, the
configuration management client requests and is provided with the MC service
user profile(s) for use in that partner MC system during migrated service from
the partner MC system configuration management server.
NOTE 6: A mechanism may be needed whereby the configuration management client
can verify that MC service user profiles are valid for use on the currently
serving MC system.
The template applied in the partner MC system to modify the user profile
received from the primary MC system of the MC user may include modifications
such as:
\- Restriction for access to certain MC service groups;
\- Addition of further MC service groups provisioned with the partner MC
system for specific operational functions such as mutual aid;
\- Modification or replacement of configured user priority with an appropriate
priority for use within the partner MC system;
\- Restriction of use of certain functions based on security policy, e.g.
authorisation to obtain presence list, authorisation to override current
talking party, authorisation to invoke enable/disable; and
\- Limitations on geographical area of operation.
### 6.7.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The configuration management server in the partner MC system will need to
support an additional reference point, CSCM-x or CSCM-y, for communication
with the relevant server in primary MC systems to support migrated MC user
profiles.
The configuration management client will need to support an additional
reference point, CSC-Z, for communication with the relevant configuration
management servers in all partner MC systems to support migrated MC user
profiles.
The MC service user database will need to support templates to modify the MC
service user profiles of migrated MC service users from partner MC systems.
The partner MC system configuration management server will need to support the
generation of MC service user profiles for migrated MC service users from MC
service user profiles provided from the primary MC systems of those MC service
users and the modification templates.
### 6.7.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution allows a migrated MC service client to receive user
configuration information in the partner MC system of that MC client, and
allows the partner MC system to modify the user configuration information
according to local policy.
The MC service client will need to be configured with access information and
credentials for all possible partner MC systems before migration takes place.
This solution will not permit open access to a partner MC system for which
access information and credentials have not been pre-provisioned.
This solution requires connectivity between the partner MC system and primary
MC system. Such connectivity, at least at the IP layer, is already available
in order to provide for migrated MC users to connect back to their respective
primary MC systems (MC system interconnection). What is new in this solution
is a CSC-4-like reference point (e.g. an HTTP based reference point) and a
CSC-13-like reference point (e.g. a Diameter based reference point), which are
likely to be little to no impact on such entities as firewalls that already
need to police SIP signalling and associated media (e.g. SRTP, SRTCP, etc).
However, whilst there are minor disadvantages in adding new reference points
based on messaging and parameters already found in existing reference points,
there is also a major advantage in that updates from the partner MC system can
be automatically and immediately taken into account by the MC service UE i.e.
no off line configuration swapping between primary and partner MC systems is
required.
Allowing the partner MC system to perform the final configuration protects the
partner MC system against clients with a configuration that conflicts with
policies within the partner MC system. However, the migrating MC service user
is exposed directly to the partner MC system\'s configuration management
server for configuration information valid in that partner MC system and
therefore there needs to be an appropriate level of trust for configuration
with all partner MC systems that may provide the MC service user with MC
service for this to not be a threat to that MC service user. Also, the primary
MC system has no visibility (e.g. for logging, for validation) of the full set
of configuration information that the MC service UE receives and processes.
A new security mechanism may be needed to ensure that the primary MC system
can verify that the partner MC system has not modified the MC user
configuration information that the primary MC system requires in order to
provide its MC user with migration service.
In order to successfully migrate, the migrated MC service UE needs access to
the configuration management server in the partner MC system of the MC user
e.g. via a PDN connection to the partner MC system\'s MC common core services
PDN.
If the partner MC system needs to update the configuration information for the
migrated MC user, the primary MC system is not involved in the process.
## 6.8 Solution 8: User profile management for migration - Primary MC system
CMS configures UE
### 6.8.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 2.1: MC authorization for migration; and
\- 2.6: Authorization, configuration and affiliation for MC service group
calls during migration.
The principles of this solution apply to all three services MCPTT, MCVideo and
MCData.
Figure 6.8.1-1 below illustrates the entities involved in the solution:
Figure 6.8.1-1: Entities and reference points for migrated user profile
configuration
The reference points shown as MC service-1 and MC service-2 in figure 6.8.1-1
represent MCPTT-1, MCVideo-1, MCVideo-2 and MCPTT-2, MCVideo-2 and MCData-2
respectively.
> Editor\'s note: Only one of CSCM-x and CSCM-y will be needed for the partner
> MC system to obtain the MC service user profile, but which will be needed is
> FFS.
Prior to migration, the primary MC system will be configured with at least one
profile for the MC service user to use during migration.
When the MC service user migrates to a partner MC system, the migrating MC
service user will first need to authenticate and obtain a suitable credential
to authorize access to services in the partner MC system. This authentication
process is not described within this solution. Following authentication, for
access to MC services, the migrating MC service client is authorized for
service with the partner MC service server.
NOTE 1: In order to gain access to the partner MC system, the MC service
client will be configured with the information needed to gain access to the
partner MC system, such as appropriate PDN, SIP core addressing and
credentials for access. This information is described in more detail in
solution 2. The MC service client will need to be configured with the relevant
information and credentials for each system to which it may migrate in advance
of any migration.
NOTE 2: The authentication and authorization mechanisms needed to allow the MC
service client to gain access to the servers in the application plane of the
partner MC system are outside the scope of the present document.
When the MC service client is authorized for service access, the MC service
server needs to retrieve the MC service user profile(s) for that MC service
user, and so the MC service server requests the profile(s) from the MC service
user database using the identity presented by the MC service client, which may
be a temporary identity provided by the authentication process as well as the
MC service ID of the MC service client.
NOTE 3: Any caching of MC service user profiles by the partner MC system are
outside the scope of the present document.
NOTE 4: Caching information would enable continued operation on the partner MC
system during failure conditions in links between the primary MC system and
partner MC system. However the application of this will need to be considered
against any potential consequences of synchronisation errors.
The MC service user profile that is provided to the partner MC service server
and to the migrating MC service client needs to contain a combination of
authorizations from the primary MC system of the MC service user, and the
authorizations granted by the partner MC service system. The partner MC system
configuration management server will request an MC service user profile for
the MC service user from the primary MC system configuration management
server. One of the reference points on Figure 6.8.1-1 above shown as CSCM-x or
CSCM-y (CSC for Migration x or y) will be required for this.
The primary MC system will provide one or more user profiles for that MC
service user to the partner MC system configuration management server.
NOTE 5: Solution 6, in subclause 6.6, describes a solution for the
interactions between primary MC system and partner MC system in generating a
user profile for use by the migrated user, where both MC systems contribute
towards the final migrated user profile.
It is expected that there will be specific profiles for migration defined for
each MC service user, and these will be different to the profiles used by the
MC service user when receiving service in the primary MC system. For example,
the list of MC service groups accessible may be different, such that some of
the MC service groups available to the MC service user when in the primary MC
system may not be available to that MC service user in the partner MC system.
Operations such as group regrouping may not be permissible in the partner MC
system.
The partner MC system configuration management server receives the profile(s)
from the primary MC system.
The partner MC system MC service user database will be configured with
templates which are to be applied to the user profiles for migrating MC
service users, and will provide these templates to the partner MC system
configuration management server. There may be one template per MC system with
which the partner MC system has agreements to support migrating MC users, or
multiple templates for visitors from the same MC system, e.g. based on the
organizations of the MC users. To support multiple templates for migrating MC
service users from the same MC system, the partner MC system must be able to
derive an organizational structure from the MC service ID of the visiting MC
user. The partner MC system configuration management server will combine the
user profile(s) from the primary MC system of the migrating MC user with the
appropriate template to produce the user profile(s) that will be used by the
MC user while migrating. The combined user profile(s) will be sent to the MC
service user database and the primary MC system configuration management
server. The primary MC system configuration management server is prohibited
from modifying the received combined user profile(s), however, the primary MC
system configuration management server may perform a validation and/or
authenticity check on the received combined user profile(s). If the checks
pass or the checks are not performed, then the primary MC system configuration
management server stores the received combined user profile(s) for the
particular partner MC system and migrating MC service UE. If the checks do not
pass, then the primary MC system configuration management server may inform
the partner MC system configuration management server that migration for the
particular MC service user is denied, in which case the partner MC system of
the MC service UE initiates an MC service deregistration with the migrating MC
service UE.
Editor\'s note: A security mechanism may be needed that will enable the
partner MC system to verify that the combined user profiles have not been
modified by the primary MC system of the MC service UE.
Following service authorization with the partner MC service server, the
configuration management client requests and is provided with either the MC
service user profile(s) for use in that partner MC system during migrated
service from the primary MC system configuration management server, or, an
indication that no configuration is available for the current partner MC
system (which will result in the migrating MC service UE deregistering from
the current partner MC system).
The template applied in the partner MC system to modify the user profile
received from the primary MC system of the MC user may include modifications
such as:
\- Restriction for access to certain MC service groups;
\- Addition of further MC service groups provisioned with the partner MC
system for specific operational functions such as mutual aid;
\- Modification or replacement of configured user priority with an appropriate
priority for use within the partner MC system;
\- Restriction of use of certain functions based on security policy, e.g.
authorisation to obtain presence list, authorisation to override current
talking party, authorisation to invoke enable/disable; and
\- Limitations on geographical area of operation.
Editor\'s note: As the modified user profiles generated by the partner MC
system are provided to the primary MC system, the partner MC system needs to
trust the primary MC system with any information revealed by the modification
process.
### 6.8.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The configuration management server in the partner MC system will need to
support an additional reference point, CSCM-x or CSCM-y, for communication
with the relevant server in primary MC systems to support migrated MC user
profiles.
NOTE: Unlike the solution proposed in 6.7, the configuration management client
will not need to support any additional reference point for communication with
configuration management servers in all partner MC systems to support migrated
MC user profiles.
The MC service user database will need to support templates to modify the MC
service user profiles of migrated MC service users from partner MC systems.
The partner MC system configuration management server will need to support the
generation of MC service user profiles for migrated MC service users from MC
service user profiles provided from the primary MC systems of those MC service
users and the modification templates.
The MC service UE will need direct access to the configuration management
server in the primary MC system while migrated. In order to achieve this, the
MC service UE can simply continue to use the MC common core services PDN from
its primary MC system\'s initial MC service UE configuration data, as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 [6].
### 6.8.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution allows a migrated MC service client to receive user
configuration information in the partner MC system of that MC client, allows
the partner MC system to modify the user configuration information according
to local policy, and allows the primary MC system to validate the
configuration information before providing the configuration information to
primary MC system\'s MC service UE.
The MC service client will need to be configured with access information and
credentials for all possible partner MC systems before migration takes place.
This solution will not permit open access to a partner MC system for which
access information and credentials have not been pre-provisioned.
This solution requires connectivity between the partner MC system and primary
MC system. Such connectivity, at least at the IP layer, is already available
in order to provide for migrated MC users to connect back to their respective
primary MC systems (MC system interconnection). What is new in this solution
is a CSC-4-like reference point (e.g. an HTTP based reference point) and a
CSC-13-like reference point (e.g. a Diameter based reference point), which are
likely to be little to no impact on such entities as firewalls that already
need to police SIP signalling and associated media (e.g. SRTP, SRTCP, etc).
However, whilst there are minor disadvantages in adding new reference points
based on messaging and parameters already found in existing reference points,
there is also a major advantage in that updates from the partner MC system can
be automatically and immediately taken into account by the primary MC system
and the MC service UE i.e. no off line configuration swapping between primary
and partner MC systems is required.
Allowing the partner MC system to perform the final configuration and
prohibiting the primary MC system from modifying the final configuration
protects the partner MC system against clients with a configuration that
conflicts with policies within the partner MC system. The migrating MC service
user is not exposed directly to the partner MC system\'s configuration
management server for configuration information valid in that partner MC
system and therefore there does not need to be any additional level of trust
for configuration with all partner MC systems that may provide the MC service
user with MC service. Also, the primary MC system has full visibility (e.g.
for logging, for validation) of the full set of configuration information that
the MC service UE receives and processes.
A new security mechanism may be needed to ensure that the partner MC system
can verify that the primary MC system has not modified the MC user
configuration information that the partner MC system requires in order to
provide that MC user with migration service.
In order to successfully migrate, the migrated MC service UE needs access to
the configuration management server in the primary MC system of the MC user
e.g. via a PDN connection to the primary MC system\'s MC common core services
PDN.
If the partner MC system needs to update the configuration information for the
migrated MC user, the primary MC system must be involved in the process.
## 6.9 Solution 9: Controlling system and media routing for interconnection
private calls
### 6.9.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 1.6: Controlling MC service server and system for interconnection private
calls;
\- 1.7: Media routing for interconnection private calls; and
\- 1.10: MC system network topology hiding.
It uses solution 3, call control and media routing for MCPTT group calls for
interconnection, as a basis so that group calls and private calls can have as
common an architecture as possible. The gateway server is introduced to the
primary MC systems of both users, as shown in figure 6.9.1-1 below. The same
architecture is applicable to MCVideo calls between two MCVideo UEs, hence the
descriptive text is generic between the services.
NOTE: Reference points shown as MCPTT-3 and MCPTT-3\' for the MCPTT service
will be MCVideo-3 and MCVideo-3\' for the MCVideo service.
Figure 6.9.1-1 Interconnection private call gateway servers
Reference point MCPTT-3\' is the system to system interconnection reference
point. It is intended to be derived from the MCPTT-3 reference point as a
result of any differences arising from the present document.
When an MCPTT or MCVideo private call is placed from UE A to UE B, the primary
service server of UE A identifies UE B as belonging to MC system B. The
addressing requirements to achieved this are discussed in key issue 1.2 of the
present document. The call is routed to the gateway server in MC system A, as
this both is connected to MC system B and hides the topology of MC system A.
The call enters MC system B via the gateway server in MC system B, which hides
the topology of MC system B and routes the call to the MCPTT server with is
the primary MC server for UE B.
Once the call is set up, media is routed via the primary MC service server of
UE A through the two gateway servers to the primary service server of UE B.
The primary MC service server of MC system A acts in a controlling role for
the call, and the primary MC server of UE B acts in the participating role for
the call. Floor control signalling from both UE A and UE B is routed to the
primary MC service server of UE A for arbitration.
If at a later time the user at UE A then wishes to make a private call to the
user at UE C, the call routing flows from the primary MC service server of UE
A through the gateway servers to the primary MC service server of UE C. From
the perspective of MC system A, there is no difference in where the call is
routed in MC system B as the gateway server of MC system B hides the topology
of MC system B.
### 6.9.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
The gateway server will need to be introduced, in common with solution #3, and
the gateway server to gateway server reference points MCPTT-3\' and
MCVideo-3\' will need to be defined, and the differences, if any, between
these reference points and MCPTT-3 and MCVideo-3 respectively will need to be
specified.
The introduction of the gateway server should prevent any impact on the MC
service server.
### 6.9.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides a solution for the controlling role and for media
routing for private call in the MCPTT and MCVideo services, whilst maintaining
a solution for network topology hiding.
## 6.10 Solution 10: Migration service authorization
### 6.10.1 Description
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues
\- 1.10: MC system network topology hiding;
\- 2.1: MC authorization for migration;
\- 2.4: Tracking current MC system of MC service users during migration; and
\- 2.5: Identification of migrated MC system during migration.
When a migrating MC user initiates service authorization with a partner MC
service server in a partner MC system, the MC service server performs
authorization checks and then sends a migration request on behalf of the
migrating MC service user to the primary MC system of that MC service user.
The primary MC system also performs authorization checks, and if successful
the procedure results in the migrating MC service user becoming service
authorized on the partner MC system, and the partner MC system being known to
the primary MC system as the current serving MC system of that MC service
user.
If gateway servers are used to hide the topology of the MC system as described
in Solution 3, subclause 6.3, the procedure for migration service
authorization is according to figure 6.10.1-1 below.
NOTE 1: This procedure will be one of a set of steps which result in
successful migration. Other steps in the process such as user authentication
and configuration management for the MC service client are outside the scope
of this procedure.
Preconditions:
\- The MC service user wishes to migrate to the partner MC system.
\- The MC service client has been configured with the necessary parameters
needed for connectivity with the partner MC system.
NOTE 2: Solution 2 contains details of the configuration necessary to obtain
the connectivity needed for migration.
\- A user authentication process has taken place which has supplied the
necessary credentials to the MC service client to permit service authorization
to take place in the partner system.
NOTE 3: Security mechanisms by which authentication is achieved are outside
the scope of the present document. A suitable mechanism is described in 3GPP
TS 33.180 [12].
Figure 6.10.1-1: Migration service authorization
1\. The MC service client requests migration service authorization with the
partner MC service server, providing authorization credentials resulting from
the user authentication process.
2\. The partner MC service server performs an authorization check to verify
that migration is permitted to the partner MC system from the primary MC
system of the MC service user. The authorization check may be a general check
that any user is permitted to migrate from that primary MC system, or a
specific check that this MC service user is permitted to migrate, or both.
3\. The partner MC service server identifies the primary MC system of the MC
service user using the MC service client from the MC service ID of the MC
service user, and sends a migration request to the gateway server in the
partner MC system which interfaces to the relevant primary MC system. If the
partner MC system has allocated a temporary identity to the MC service client
for use whilst migrated, this temporary identity is also included in the
migration request.
4\. The partner MC system gateway server identifies the primary MC system of
the MC service user from the MC service user\'s MC service ID, and forwards
the migration request to the gateway server of that MC system.
5\. The gateway server in the primary MC system of the MC service user
identifies the primary MC service server of the MC service user from the MC
service user\'s MC service ID, and forwards the migration request to that MC
service server.
6\. The primary MC service server of the MC service user performs an
authorization check, to verify that migration is permitted to that partner MC
system, and that this MC service user is permitted to migrate to that partner
MC system.
7\. The primary MC service server marks the MC service user as having
migrated, and records the address of the partner MC system as the migrated MC
system. It also records the temporary address allocated to the MC service user
if one has been allocated by the partner MC system.
8\. The primary MC service server sends a migration response to the gateway
server in the primary MC system.
9\. The gateway server in the primary MC system sends the migration response
to the gateway server in the partner MC system.
10\. The gateway server in the partner MC system sends the migration response
to the partner MC service server.
11\. The partner MC service server sends the migration response to the MC
service client, confirming that successful migration and service authorization
has taken place.
NOTE 4: If a solution is envisaged in which one or both MC service systems do
not make use of the gateway servers described in solution 3, then the
migration request and migration response messages are sent from the MC service
server in an MC system that does not employ a gateway server directly to the
other MC system.
### 6.10.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
Signalling for request and response for service authorization for a migrated
MC service user needs to be supported by MC service servers.
The new gateway server (or existing MC service servers if a solution without
gateway servers is envisaged) must be able to route signalling to another MC
system by reference to the MC service ID of a migrated user.
### 6.10.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution provides the advantage that both the partner MC system and the
primary MC system of the migrated MC service user authorize (or can reject)
the MC service user for migration. The primary MC system is able to track the
partner MC system to which the MC service user has migrated, which then
enables incoming calls to be sent to that MC service user. However, a drawback
is that if the MC user is rejected at this stage, then there is a potential
waste of resources in both the primary MC system and partner MC system
compared to other solutions i.e. the MC UE needs to perform a SIP registration
and SIP Application Servers need to be assigned as MC service servers in both
primary and partner MC systems, only for the user to be rejected and
everything to be torn down again. Removing migration specific configuration
from the MC UE could be a more efficient mechanism.
## 6.11 Solution 11: Migrated private call
### 6.11.1 Description
#### 6.11.1.1 General
This solution applies to aspects of the following key issues:
\- 2.7: Definition of controlling MC service server and media routing between
MC service servers during migration; and
\- 2.10: Media routing during migration for logging and lawful interception.
It also describes private call procedures in the various migration scenarios
described in subclause 4.2.2.
The procedures in the following subclauses are as follow:
\- Subclause 6.11.1.2 describes the case where UE A has migrated to a partner
MC system according to the scenario in subclause 4.2.2.4, and receives an
incoming private call from UE Z which is receiving service in its primary MC
system. It illustrates the routing of the call setup request, the responses
from the MC server of the called party via the primary MC server of the called
party to allow media logging to take place by that MC server.
\- Subclause 6.11.1.3 describes the case where UE A has migrated to a partner
MC system according to the scenario in subclause 4.2.2.4, and initiates an
outgoing private call to UE Z which is receiving service in its primary MC
system. It illustrates the call setup request to the primary MC server of the
migrated calling party for logging purposes as well as the direct path call
setup request to the serving MC system of the called party.
\- Subclauses 6.11.1.4 and 6.11.1.5 describe the case where UE A has migrated
to the partner MC system which is the primary MC system of UE Z according to
the scenario in subclause 6.2.2.3, and where private calls take place between
the two UEs. The procedures illustrate the inclusion of the primary system of
the migrated user whether the migrated user is the called or the calling party
in the call.
\- Subclause 6.11.1.6 describes the applicability of aspects of the above
procedures to the remaining migration scenarios in subclause 6.2.2.
In each of the following procedures, any gateway servers included in the MC
systems are omitted for clarity, and only the relevant primary and partner MC
servers within these primary and partner MC systems are considered.
Interconnection between MC systems is a pre-requisite for any call to a
migrated user in a different MC system to be possible.
In these procedures, media can be retrieved by the primary systems of the MC
service users for logging purposes. The same approach can be used to provide
media to enable a dispatcher or authorized user to monitor the call, and to
allow Lawful interception to take place. As monitoring and lawful
interterception can be considered to have the same requirements and solutions
for media routing as logging, they are not explicitly described in the
procedures. The mechanisms by which logging, monitoring and lawful
interception take place and the servers involved in these processes are
outside the scope of these procedures.
#### 6.11.1.2 Private call from UE Z to migrated UE A across different MC
systems
This scenario is described in subclause 4.2.2.4 and this procedure shows the
case of an incoming private call to a migrated MC user. UE A represented by MC
service client 1 has migrated to its partner MC system C from its primary MC
system A, and receives a private call from UE Z represented by MC service
client 2 who is receiving service from the MC system B. The scenario is
considered from the viewpoint of the migrated MC service client 1 in UE A, and
thus the primary and partner MC service servers are labelled according to MC
service client 1\'s perspective.
Figure 6.11.1.2-1 shows the procedure for private call setup to a migrated
user.
Preconditions:
\- Migrating MC service client 1 of UE A has completed service authorization
on partner MC system C and is receiving MC service on MC system C.
\- MC service client 2 of UE Z is service authorized and receiving MC service
on MC system B.
\- Logging, monitoring or lawful interception is enabled for the migrated
user.
Figure 6.11.1.2-1: Private call setup from UE Z to migrated UE A in different
MC systems
1\. MC service client 2 initiates a private call request to MC service server
B identifying MC service client 1 as the target.
2\. MC service server B performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 2 is permitted to place the private call to MC service client
1.
3\. MC service server B sends a private call request to MC service server A,
the primary MC service server of MC service client 1.
4\. MC service server A performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 2 is permitted to place the private call from MC system B to MC
service client 1 while MC service client 1 has migrated to MC system C. MC
service server A also performs a logging policy check, to see whether media in
the call should be logged in MC system A.
5\. MC service server A sends a private call request to MC service server C,
the partner MC service server of MC service client 1 where MC service client 1
is receiving service.
6\. MC service server C performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 1 is permitted to receive the private call from MC service
client 2, where MC service client 2 is receiving service from MC system B.
7\. MC service server C sends the private call request to MC service client 1.
8\. MC service client 1 sends a private call response accepting the private
call.
9\. MC service server C responds to MC service server A.
10\. MC service server A responds to MC service server B. The response
indicates whether MC service server A should be included in the call to
receive media for logging purposes as well as the media path information to
allow media to flow between MC system B and MC system C.
11\. MC service server B responds to MC service client 2.
12\. The media path is established for the call between MC service client 2,
MC service server B, MC service server C and MC service client 1\. If MC
service server A had responded in step 10 that it wants to receive media for
logging purposes, MC service server A also receives the media.
Following the completion of the call setup and the establishment of the media
plane, MC service server B acts as the controlling server in the call.
#### 6.11.1.3 Private call from migrated UE A to UE Z across different MC
systems
This scenario is described in subclause 4.2.2.4 and this procedure shows the
case of an outgoing private call placed by a migrated MC user. UE A
represented by MC service client 1 has migrated to its partner MC system C
from its primary MC system A. The user of MC service client 1 places a private
call to UE Z represented by MC service client 2 who is receiving service from
its primary MC system B. The scenario is considered from the viewpoint of the
migrated MC service client 1 in UE A, and thus the primary and partner MC
service servers are labelled according to MC service client 1\'s perspective.
Figure 6.11.1.3-1 shows the procedure for private call setup from a migrated.
Preconditions:
\- Migrating MC service client 1 of UE A has completed service authorization
on partner MC system C and is receiving MC service on MC system C.
\- MC service client 2 of UE Z is service service authorized and receiving MC
service on MC system B.
\- Logging, monitoring or lawful interception is enabled for the migrated
user.
Figure 6.11.1.3-1: Private call setup from migrated UE A to UE Z in different
MC systems
1\. MC service client 1 initiates a private call request to MC service server
C identifying MC service client 2 as the target.
2\. MC service server C performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 1 is permitted to place the private call to MC service client
2.
3\. MC service server C sends a private call request to MC service server B,
the primary MC service server of MC service client 2.
4\. MC service server C sends a private call request to MC service server A to
allow the primary MC service server of MC service client 1 to join the call
and receive media for logging purposes. A parameter in the message may be used
to indicate that this message is intended for logging purposes instead of to
set up a private call to a called MC service user.
5\. MC service server A performs a logging policy check to see whether media
in the call should be logged within MC system A.
6\. MC service server A responds with a private call response. MC service
server A may accept the call in order to receive media for logging purposes,
or may reject the call if receiving media is not required.
7\. MC service server B performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 2 is permitted to receive the incoming private call from MC
service client 1.
8\. MC service server B sends the private call request to MC service client 2.
9\. MC service client 2 sends a private call response accepting the private
call.
10\. MC service server B responds to MC service server C. This allows a media
path to be established directly from MC service server C to MC service server
B.
NOTE: Steps 4, 5 and 6 may each take place before or after any of steps 7 to
9, provided that each set of steps 4, 5 and 6 and steps 7 to 10 take place in
numerical order.
11\. MC service server C responds to MC service client 1.
12\. The media path is established for the call between MC service client 2,
MC service server B, MC service server C and MC service client 1\. If MC
service server A had responded in step 5 that it wants to receive media for
logging purposes, MC service server A also receives the media.
Following the completion of the call setup and the establishment of the media
plane, MC service server C acts as the controlling server in the call.
#### 6.11.1.4 Private call from UE Z to migrated UE A within the same MC
system
This scenario is described in subclause 4.2.2.3 and this procedure shows the
case of an incoming private call received by a migrated MC user from a user
receiving service in the same MC system. UE A represented by MC service client
1 has migrated to its partner MC system B, and receives a private call from UE
Z represented by MC service client 2 who is receiving service from the same MC
system as UE A, i.e. MC system B. The scenario is considered from the
viewpoint of the migrated MC service client 1 in UE A, and thus the primary
and partner MC service servers are labelled according to MC service client
1\'s perspective.
Figure 6.11.1.4-1 shows the procedure for private call setup.
Preconditions:
\- The migrating MC service client 1 of UE A has completed service
authorization on partner MC system B and is receiving MC service on MC system
B.
\- MC service client 2 of UE Z is also service authorized and receiving MC
service on MC system B.
\- Logging, monitoring or lawful interception is enabled for the migrated
user.
Figure 6.11.1.4-1: Private call setup from UE Z to migrated UE A in the same
MC system
1\. MC service client 2 initiates a private call request to MC service server
B identifying MC service client 1 as the target.
2\. MC service server B performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 2 is permitted to place the private call to MC service client
1.
3\. MC service server B sends the private call request to MC service client 1.
4\. MC service server B sends a private call request to MC service server A to
allow the primary MC service server of MC service client 1 to join the call
and receive media for logging purposes. A parameter in the message may be used
to indicate that this message is intended for logging purposes instead of to
set up a private call to a called MC service user.
5\. MC service client 1 sends a private call response accepting the private
call.
6\. MC service server A performs a logging policy check to see whether media
in the call should be logged within MC system A.
7\. MC service server A responds with a private call response. MC service
server A may accept the call in order to receive media for logging purposes,
or may reject the call if receiving media is not required.
NOTE: Steps 3 and 5 may each take place before or after either of steps 4, 6
and 7, provided that step 3 precedes step 5 and steps 4, 6 and 7 take place in
numerical order.
8\. MC service server B sends the private call response to MC service client
2.
9\. The media plane is establised between MC service clients 1 and 2, and MC
service server B. If MC service server A accepted the call in order to receive
media, the media plane is also established to MC service server A.
Following the completion of the call setup and the establishment of the media
plane, MC service server B acts as the controlling server in the call.
#### 6.11.1.5 Private call from migrated UE A to UE Z within the same MC
system
This scenario is described in subclause 4.2.2.3 and this procedure shows the
case of an outgoing private call sent by a migrated MC user to a user
receiving service in the same MC system. UE A represented by MC service client
1 has migrated to its partner MC system B, and initiates a private call to UE
Z represented by MC service client 2 who is receiving service from the same MC
system as UE A, i.e. MC system B. The scenario is considered from the
viewpoint of the migrated MC service client 1 in UE A, and thus the primary
and partner MC service servers are labelled according to MC service client
1\'s perspective.
Figure 6.11.1.5-1 shows the procedure for private call setup.
Preconditions:
\- The migrating MC service client 1 of UE A has completed service
authorization on partner MC system B and is receiving MC service on MC system
B.
\- MC service client 2 of UE Z is also service authorized and receiving MC
service on MC system B.
\- Logging, monitoring or lawful interception is enabled for the migrated
user.
Figure 6.11.1.5-1: Private call setup from migrated UE A to UE Z in the same
MC system
1\. MC service client 1 initiates a private call request to MC service server
B identifying MC service client 2 as the target.
2\. MC service server B performs an authorization check to ensure that MC
service client 1 is permitted to place the private call to MC service client
2.
3\. MC service server B sends the private call request to MC service client 2.
4\. MC service server B sends a private call logging request to MC service
server A to allow the primary MC service server of MC service client 1 to join
the call and receive media for logging purposes. A parameter in the message
may be used to indicate that this message is intended for logging purposes
instead of to set up a private call to a called MC service user.
5\. MC service client 2 sends a private call response accepting the private
call.
6\. MC service server A performs a logging policy check to see whether media
in the call should be logged within MC system A.
7\. MC service server A responds with a private call response. MC service
server A may accept the call in order to receive media for logging purposes,
or may reject the call if receiving media is not required.
NOTE: Steps 3 and 5 may each take place before or after either of steps 4 and
6, provided that step 3 precedes step 5 and steps 4, 6 and 7 take place in
numerical order.
8\. MC service server B sends the private call response to MC service client
1.
9\. The media plane is establised between MC service clients 1 and 2, and MC
service server B. If MC service server A accepted the call in order to receive
media, the media plane is also established to MC service server A.
Following the completion of the call setup and the establishment of the media
plane, MC service server B acts as the controlling server in the call.
#### 6.11.1.6 Private call in remaining migration scenarios
This subclause describes the aspects of the procedures in subclauses 6.11.1.2
to 6.11.1.5 to the remaining migration scenarios described in subclause
4.2.2.5, 4.2.2.6 and 4.2.2.7.
Subclause 4.2.2.5 describes the case where both UE A and UE Z have migrated to
different partner MC systems. Combining the procedures described in 6.11.1.2
and 6.11.1.3:
\- The serving MC server in the serving MC system of the calling party sends
call setup requests to the primary MC system of the called party to establish
the call, and to the primary MC system of the calling party to establish the
need for media logging.
\- The primary MC system of the called party sends the call setup request to
the serving MC system of the called party, and responds to the serving MC
system of the calling party to indicate whether it requires media for logging
purposes.
\- The serving MC system of the called party responds directly to the serving
MC system of the calling party to enable a direct media path to be set up.
Subclause 4.2.2.6 describes the case where both UE A and UE Z have migrated to
the same partner MC system. Combining the procedures described in 6.11.1.4 and
6.11.1.5:
\- Call set up requests are sent to the primary system(s) of both parties in
the call, to allow the primary system(s) to be included in the call to receive
media for logging purposes.
Subclause 4.2.2.7 describes the case where UE A has migrated to a partner
system and communicates with UE B which is located in the primary system of UE
A. In this case, no extra call setup request signalling is needed for logging
purposes, as MC system A will be included in the call.
### 6.11.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
An MC service server that is the primary MC server for an MC service user that
has migrated will need to:
\- Track the MC service system to which the MC service user has migrated;
\- Forward private call setup requests from an originating MC service system
to the partner MC system to which the MC service user has migrated; and
\- Respond to private call setup requests from an originating MC service
system to indicate whether that primary MC system wants to be included in the
private call and to receive media for logging purposes.
An MC service server to which an MC service user has migrated will need to:
\- Track the primary MC service system from which the MC service user has
migrated; and
\- Send private call setup requests to the primary MC service system of the MC
service user if the migrated MC service user initiates an outgoing private
call to another MC service user in any MC system except the primary MC service
system of the migrated MC service user, to see if the primary MC service
system of the MC service user wants to take part in the private call and to
receive media for logging purposes.
An MC service server providing MC service to an MC service user that initiates
a private call to a second MC service user that has a second MC system as its
primary system and where that second MC service user has migrated to a third
MC system will need to:
\- Expect to receive a response from the primary MC system of that second MC
service user, which indicates whether that primary system of the MC service
user wishes to take part in the call and to receive media for logging
purposes, and which includes the media path information to allow the media in
the call to be carried to the partner MC system in which the migrated MC
service user is receiving service.
### 6.11.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution allows provides a means for private calls to be initiated to and
from migrated MC users, and for the primary MC system of migrated MC users to
take part in private calls to receive media for logging purposes.
An alternative to the solution in subclause 6.11.1.4.would be for the serving
MC server for the calling UE to send the private call request to the primary
MC system of the called UE, and only to send the private call request to the
called UE once the call request has been forwarded back from the primary MC
system of the called UE. Compared to the solution in subclause 6.11.1.4, this
would incur extra delay in setting up the call, but would allow the behaviour
to remain exactly the same as the solution in subclause 6.11.1.2.
## 6.12 Solution 12: Affiliation for logging during migration
### 6.12.1 Description
This solution applies to key issue 2.10, Media routing during migration for
logging and lawful interception.
When an MC service user affiliates to an MC service group where that MC
service group has a different primary MC system from the migrated MC service
user, the partner MC system which is providing service to the migrated MC
service user informs the primary MC system of the MC service user to allow the
primary MC system to affiliate to the same MC service group in order to
receive media for logging purposes in MC service group calls. Although the
procedure below only describes affiliation to enable logging in the primary MC
system of the migrated MC service user, the same approach can be used as a
step to providing the media to enable a dispatcher or authorized user in the
primary MC system of the MC service user to monitor the call, and to allow
Lawful Interception to take place in that primary MC system. The mechanisms by
which logging, monitoring and lawful interception take place and the servers
involved in these processes are outside the scope of this procedure.
The partner MC system in which the MC service user is receiving service and
the primary MC system of the MC service group may also wish to perform
logging, monitoring or lawful interception on the group calls, however
processes that enable these functions are outside the scope of this procedure.
Interconnection between MC systems is a pre-requisite for affiliation and
group call to be possible where group members have migrated to partner MC
systems and where logging is required in the primary MC system of the group
members.
The following procedure illustrates this. The procedure omits any gateway
servers which provide connection to an MC system for clarity, and only shows
the interactions between the relevant MC service servers within the MC
systems.
Figure 6.12.1 shows the affiliation procedure.
Preconditions:
\- The migrating MC service client with primary MC server C within its primary
MC system has completed service authorization on the partner MC service server
A within the partner MC system, and is receiving MC service on MC service
server A.
\- The MC user of the MC service client wishes to affiliate to an MC service
group which is defined on MC service server B in a partner MC system, where
that partner MC system is not the primary MC system of the MC service user.
\- Logging, monitoring or lawful interception is enabled for the migrated
user.
Figure 6.12.1 Affiliation procedure for logging purposes when migrated
1\. The migrated MC service client sends an MC service group affiliation
request to MC service server A, which is the serving MC service server for the
MC service client.
2\. MC service server A performs an authorization check to ensure that the MC
service client is permitted to affiliate to the MC service group defined in MC
system B.
3\. MC service server A sends the MC service group affiliation request onwards
to MC service server B, which is in the primary MC system of the MC service
group.
4\. MC service server B performs an authorization check to ensure that the MC
service client from primary MC system C is permitted to affiliate to the MC
service group while receiving MC service in MC system A.
5\. MC service server B responds to MC service server A with an MC service
group affiliation response, which confirms the successful affiliation of the
MC service client to the MC service group.
6\. MC service server A provides the MC service group affiliation response to
the MC service client.
NOTE 1: Step 6 may occur before step 7, or at any time after steps 7, 8 and 9.
7\. MC service server A sends an MC service group logging affiliation request
to MC service server C in the primary MC system of the MC service client.
8\. MC service server C performs a logging policy check to determine whether
media logging is required for calls that the MC service client takes part in
while migrated to MC system A.
NOTE 2: Any security process which are necessary to permit logging to take
place are outside the scope of this procedure.
9\. MC service server C responds to MC service server A with an MC service
group logging affiliation response.
10\. If the logging policy check performed in step A indicates that calls in
which the MC service client takes part should be logged, MC service server C
sends an MC service group affiliation request to MC service server B on behalf
of the logging service in MC system C.
NOTE 3: Any interactions between MC service server C and devices which
comprise the logging service are out of the scope of this procedure.
11\. MC service server B performs an authorization check to ensure that
affiliation is permitted from the logging service in MC system C.
12\. MC service server B sends an MC service group affiliation response to MC
service server C indicating the success of the affiliation process.
### 6.12.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
An MC service server which is providing MC service to a migrated MC service
client will need to send an MC service group logging affiliation request to
the primary MC service server in the primary MC system of the MC service
client whenever the MC service client requests affiliation to an MC service
group which has a different primary MC system to the primary MC system of that
MC service client.
### 6.12.3 Solution evaluation
This solution allows logging of MC service group calls when an MC service
client has migrated and affiliates to an MC service group which has a
different primary MC system from that of the MC service client.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
## 7.1 General
The following subclauses contain an overall evalation of the solutions
presented in this technical report, and their applicability to the key issues
raised. Subclause 7.2 provides an evaluation of the solutions provided in
clause 6, and their impact on other entities and working groups, and shows the
mapping of the solutions to the key issues outlined in clause 5. Subclause 7.3
lists the key issues that do not have explicit solutions in this Technical
Report, together with comments concerning their resolution. Subclause 7.4
lists the key issues with security implications that will need consideration
in 3GPP SA WG3.
## 7.2 Solution evaluation
The solutions specified in this technical report are described in table 7.2-1.
The evaluation text is abridged from the subclauses outlining the solution;
the full text is available in those subclauses.
Table 7.2-1: Solution evaluations
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution | Applicable key | Evaluation | Impact on | | | issues | | other entities | | | | | and working | | | | | groups | +================+================+================+================+ | Solution 1: | Key issue 1.1: | Describes | Introduces new | | System | MC system | system level | configuration | | authorization | authorization | configuration | table. | | and | to support | which will be | | | configuration | i | necessary as a | Impact on | | for | nterconnection | precondition | downstream CT | | i | calls | to | groups for | | nterconnection | | i | protocol | | and migration | Key issue 2.1: | nterconnection | update. | | | MC | and migration. | | | | authorization | | | | | for migration | Requires | | | | | manual loading | | | | | of | | | | | configuration | | | | | from the | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system to the | | | | | primary MC | | | | | system each | | | | | time the | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system | | | | | configuration | | | | | is updated. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | functionality | | | | | can be enabled | | | | | simply at a | | | | | system level | | | | | to define the | | | | | service | | | | | available to | | | | | users under | | | | | i | | | | | nterconnection | | | | | or migration | | | | | scenarios. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 2: | Key issue 2.3: | Allows an MC | One new | | Connectivity | Connectivity | service UE to | reference | | to partner MC | to partner MC | be configured | point needed | | system for | system for | with all of | probably based | | migration | migration | the required | on CSC-4. | | | | information | | | | | needed to | Impact on | | | | access a | downstream CT | | | | partner MC | groups for | | | | system. | protocol for | | | | | this reference | | | | Existing | point. | | | | messaging is | | | | | largely | | | | | reused, with | | | | | only new | | | | | parameters | | | | | needed in most | | | | | cases, | | | | | | | | | | One new | | | | | reference | | | | | point is | | | | | needed | | | | | (between | | | | | configuration | | | | | management | | | | | servers in | | | | | primary and | | | | | partner MC | | | | | systems). | | | | | | | | | | No new | | | | | functional | | | | | entities are | | | | | required. | | | | | | | | | | Reuses | | | | | existing MC | | | | | service SIP | | | | | security | | | | | parameters | | | | | available to | | | | | the MC service | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | Needs to have | | | | | connectivity | | | | | between the | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system and | | | | | primary MC | | | | | system, but | | | | | this is | | | | | expected to be | | | | | present to aid | | | | | in | | | | | terconnection. | | | | | | | | | | Where needed, | | | | | the primary MC | | | | | system can | | | | | provide | | | | | specific SIP | | | | | public user | | | | | identity and | | | | | SIP private | | | | | user identity | | | | | for migration, | | | | | allowing for | | | | | identity | | | | | obfuscation | | | | | and immediate | | | | | migration | | | | | termination | | | | | without | | | | | affecting | | | | | primary MC | | | | | system access. | | | | | Depending on | | | | | implementation | | | | | and O&M, SIP | | | | | specific | | | | | entities could | | | | | be provided | | | | | for all | | | | | partner MC | | | | | systems or on | | | | | a per partner | | | | | MC system | | | | | basis. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 3: | Key issue 1.4: | Introduces a | Introduces new | | Call control | Affiliation | gateway server | reference | | and media | and | as a single | points | | routing for | authorization | interface | MCPTT-3\', | | MCPTT group | for | point to an MC | MCVideo-3\', | | calls for | i | system, and a | MCData-3\' | | i | nterconnection | single point | derived from | | nterconnection | MC service | for | MCPTT-3, | | | group calls | addressing. | MCVideo-3, | | | | | MCData-3 | | | Key issue 1.8: | Hides the | respectively. | | | Media routing | topology of | | | | for | the MC system | Impact on | | | i | from other MC | downstream CT | | | nterconnection | systems. | groups for | | | MC service | | protocol for | | | group calls | Advantages: | this reference | | | | MCPTT-3, | point. | | | Key issue | MCVideo-3 and | | | | 1.10: MC | MCData-3 | | | | system network | reference | | | | topology | points can | | | | hiding | remain | | | | | unchanged | | | | Key issue 2.7: | | | | | Definition of | Confines any | | | | controlling MC | new complexity | | | | service server | to the new | | | | and media | MCPTT-3\' | | | | routing | reference | | | | between MC | point between | | | | service | those MC | | | | servers during | systems. | | | | migration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 4: | Key issue 1.1: | Describes the | Introduces new | | User | MC system | service | configuration | | authorization | authorization | specific | data to | | and | to support | configuration | existing | | configuration | i | needed in | configuration | | for | nterconnection | order to | tables. | | i | calls | perform | | | nterconnection | | i | Impact on | | | Key issue 1.3: | nterconnection | downstream CT | | | Authorization | to another MC | groups to add | | | for | system. | new parameters | | | i | | to existing | | | nterconnection | Configuration | tables. | | | private calls | related to | | | | | each partner | | | | Key issue 1.4: | MC system | | | | Affiliation | needs to be | | | | and | manually | | | | authorization | configured in | | | | for | primary MC | | | | i | system. | | | | nterconnection | | | | | MC service | Operates in | | | | group calls | conjunction | | | | | with Solution | | | | | 1 to provide | | | | | both system | | | | | level and | | | | | individual | | | | | user level | | | | | authorization | | | | | and | | | | | configuration | | | | | for | | | | | in | | | | | terconnection. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 5: | Key issue 1.4: | Three | Introduces new | | Group | Affiliation | solutions | gateway | | configuration | and | which propose | server, which | | management for | authorization | gateways which | may be derived | | i | for | provide a | from existing | | nterconnection | i | single point | entities. | | | nterconnection | of connection | | | | MC service | to an MC | Impact on | | | group calls | system to | downstream CT | | | | retrieve group | groups to | | | Key issue 1.5: | configuration | define | | | MC service | information, | functionality | | | group | whilst hiding | of server and | | | configuration | the topology | associated new | | | for group | of the MC | reference | | | defined in | systems. | points | | | partner MC | | following | | | system | Solution 5.1 | further stage | | | | and 5.2 only | 2 work. | | | Key issue | consider a | | | | 1.10: MC | gateway in one | | | | system network | system. | | | | topology | Solution 5.3 | | | | hiding | proposes a | | | | | gateway for | | | | | both MC | | | | | systems; thus | | | | | to hide | | | | | topology of | | | | | both networks, | | | | | solution 5.3 | | | | | (which is a | | | | | combination of | | | | | solutions 5.1 | | | | | and 5.2) is | | | | | preferred. | | | | | | | | | | Allows an MC | | | | | system to | | | | | modify the | | | | | group | | | | | management | | | | | configuration | | | | | provided by a | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system | | | | | allowing local | | | | | policies to be | | | | | enforced. | | | | | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | changes can be | | | | | automatically | | | | | updated | | | | | between | | | | | systems. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 6: | Key issue 2.1: | Allows | Introduces new | | User | MC | configuration | configuration | | authorization | authorization | for migration | data to | | and | for migration | in primary | existing | | configuration | | system, and | configuration | | for migration | Key issue 2.3: | allows the | tables. | | | Connectivity | partner system | | | | to partner MC | to apply local | Impact on | | | system for | configuration | downstream CT | | | migration | requirements. | groups to add | | | | | new parameters | | | Key issue 2.6: | Manual updates | to existing | | | Authorization, | of | tables. | | | configuration | configuration | | | | and | are required | | | | affiliation | in both the | | | | for MC service | primary and | | | | group calls | partner MC | | | | during | systems. | | | | migration | | | | | | There may be a | | | | | provisioning | | | | | impact to | | | | | configure the | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system with | | | | | the | | | | | configurations | | | | | needed for | | | | | visitors with | | | | | whatever | | | | | granularity is | | | | | required. | | | | | | | | | | This impact | | | | | can be reduced | | | | | for the | | | | | primary system | | | | | if | | | | | configuration | | | | | for migration | | | | | is the similar | | | | | to the | | | | | configuration | | | | | used in the | | | | | primary | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | The impact can | | | | | be reduced for | | | | | the partner | | | | | system if the | | | | | configuration | | | | | needed for | | | | | visitors is | | | | | defined with | | | | | large | | | | | granularity | | | | | (e.g. per | | | | | system or per | | | | | migrating | | | | | organization). | | | | | | | | | | Specific sets | | | | | of | | | | | configuration | | | | | data which | | | | | need to be | | | | | modified for | | | | | migration need | | | | | to be | | | | | specified. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 7: | Key issue 2.1: | Allows a | Introduces two | | User profile | MC | migrated MC | new reference | | management for | authorization | service client | points to | | migration - | for migration | to receive | existing | | Partner MC | | user | servers. | | system CMS | Key issue 2.6: | configuration | | | configures UE | Authorization, | information in | Impact on | | | configuration | the partner MC | downstream CT | | | and | system of that | groups for | | | affiliation | MC client, and | protocol for | | | for MC service | allows the | these | | | group calls | partner MC | reference | | | during | system to | points. | | | migration | modify the | | | | | user | Impact on SA3 | | | | configuration | to consider | | | | information | security | | | | according to | mechanism to | | | | local policy. | allow primary | | | | | MC system to | | | | The MC service | verify | | | | client will | configuration | | | | need to be | data. | | | | configured | | | | | with access | | | | | information | | | | | and | | | | | credentials | | | | | for partner MC | | | | | systems before | | | | | migration and | | | | | does not | | | | | permit open | | | | | access to any | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | Requires | | | | | connectivity | | | | | between | | | | | primary and | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system for the | | | | | configuration | | | | | process. | | | | | | | | | | Requires new | | | | | reference | | | | | points, which | | | | | can be based | | | | | on existing | | | | | reference | | | | | points and | | | | | existing | | | | | protocols. | | | | | | | | | | Partner system | | | | | provides final | | | | | configuration | | | | | in line with | | | | | local policy. | | | | | | | | | | Migrating MC | | | | | service user | | | | | is exposed | | | | | directly to | | | | | the partner MC | | | | | system\'s | | | | | configuration | | | | | management | | | | | server, | | | | | needing an | | | | | appropriate | | | | | level of | | | | | trust. Also, | | | | | the primary MC | | | | | system has no | | | | | visibility | | | | | (e.g. for | | | | | logging, for | | | | | validation) of | | | | | the full set | | | | | of | | | | | configuration | | | | | information | | | | | sent to the MC | | | | | service UE. | | | | | | | | | | Security | | | | | mechanism may | | | | | be needed to | | | | | allow the | | | | | primary MC | | | | | system to | | | | | ensure that | | | | | essential | | | | | information | | | | | needed for | | | | | migration by | | | | | the primary MC | | | | | system is not | | | | | modified by | | | | | the partner MC | | | | | system. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 8: | Key issue 2.1: | Allows a | Introduces one | | User profile | MC | migrated MC | new reference | | management for | authorization | service client | point to | | migration - | for migration | to receive | existing | | Primary MC | | user | servers. | | system CMS | Key issue 2.6: | configuration | | | configures UE | Authorization, | information in | Impact on | | | configuration | the partner MC | downstream CT | | | and | system of that | groups for | | | affiliation | MC client, and | protocol for | | | for MC service | allows the | this reference | | | group calls | partner MC | point. | | | during | system to | | | | migration | modify the | Impact on SA3 | | | | user | to consider | | | | configuration | security | | | | information | mechanism to | | | | according to | allow partner | | | | local policy. | MC system to | | | | | verify | | | | The MC service | configuration | | | | client will | data. | | | | need to be | | | | | configured | | | | | with access | | | | | information | | | | | and | | | | | credentials | | | | | for partner MC | | | | | systems before | | | | | migration and | | | | | does not | | | | | permit open | | | | | access to any | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system. | | | | | | | | | | Requires | | | | | connectivity | | | | | between | | | | | primary and | | | | | partner MC | | | | | system for the | | | | | configuration | | | | | process. | | | | | | | | | | Requires new | | | | | reference | | | | | points, which | | | | | can be based | | | | | on existing | | | | | reference | | | | | points and | | | | | existing | | | | | protocols. | | | | | | | | | | The migrating | | | | | MC service | | | | | user is not | | | | | exposed | | | | | directly to | | | | | the partner MC | | | | | system\'s | | | | | configuration | | | | | management | | | | | server and | | | | | therefore | | | | | there does not | | | | | need to be any | | | | | additional | | | | | level of trust | | | | | for | | | | | configuration | | | | | with all | | | | | partner MC | | | | | systems. | | | | | Partner MC | | | | | system | | | | | controls final | | | | | configuration | | | | | (subject to | | | | | enforcement | | | | | mechanism), | | | | | and the | | | | | primary MC | | | | | system has | | | | | full | | | | | visibility | | | | | (e.g. for | | | | | logging, for | | | | | visibility) of | | | | | the full set | | | | | of | | | | | configuration | | | | | information | | | | | that the MC | | | | | service UE | | | | | receives and | | | | | processes. | | | | | | | | | | A new security | | | | | mechanism may | | | | | be needed to | | | | | ensure that | | | | | the partner MC | | | | | system can | | | | | verify that | | | | | the primary MC | | | | | system has not | | | | | modified the | | | | | MC user | | | | | configuration | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | If the partner | | | | | MC system | | | | | needs to | | | | | update the | | | | | configuration | | | | | information | | | | | for the | | | | | migrated MC | | | | | user, the | | | | | primary MC | | | | | system must be | | | | | involved in | | | | | the process. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 9: | Key issue 1.6: | Provides a | Makes use of | | Controlling | Controlling MC | solution for | gateway server | | system and | service server | the | and reference | | media routing | and system for | controlling | points | | for | i | role and for | proposed in | | i | nterconnection | media routing | solutions 3 | | nterconnection | private calls | for private | and 5. | | private calls | | call in the | | | | Key issue 1.7: | MCPTT and | Impact on | | | Media routing | MCVideo | downstream | | | for | services, | groups will be | | | i | whilst | according to | | | nterconnection | maintaining a | those | | | private calls | solution for | solutions. | | | | network | | | | Key issue | topology | | | | 1.10: MC | hiding. | | | | system network | | | | | topology | | | | | hiding | | | | | | | | | | Key issue 2.7 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 10: | Key issue | Allows both | Makes use of | | Migration | 1.10: MC | the partner MC | gateway server | | service | system network | system and the | and reference | | authorization | topology | primary MC | points | | | hiding | system of the | proposed in | | | | migrated MC | solutions 3 | | | Key issue 2.1: | service user | and 5. | | | MC | to authorize | | | | authorization | (or reject) | Impact on | | | for migration | the MC service | downstream | | | | user for | groups will be | | | Key issue 2.4: | migration. The | according to | | | Tracking | primary MC | those | | | current MC | system is able | solutions. | | | system of MC | to track the | | | | service users | partner MC | | | | during | system to | | | | migration | which the MC | | | | | service user | | | | Key issue 2.5: | has migrated, | | | | Identification | which then | | | | of migrated MC | enables | | | | system during | incoming calls | | | | migration | to be sent to | | | | | that MC | | | | | service user. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 11: | Key issue 2.7: | This solution | Adds extra | | Migrated | Definition of | provides a | functionality | | private call | controlling MC | means for | to MC service | | | service server | private calls | servers for | | | and media | to be | media routing | | | routing | initiated to | and private | | | between MC | and from | call logging | | | service | migrated MC | protocol. | | | servers during | users, and for | | | | migration | the primary MC | Impact on | | | | system of | downstream | | | Key issue | migrated MC | groups for | | | 2.10: Media | users to take | these protocol | | | routing during | part in | and routing | | | migration for | private calls | definitions. | | | logging and | to receive | | | | lawful | media for | | | | interception | logging | | | | | purposes. | | | | | | | | | | An alternative | | | | | where the | | | | | called MC user | | | | | is receiving | | | | | service on the | | | | | same MC system | | | | | as the calling | | | | | MC user would | | | | | be to route | | | | | the private | | | | | call setup via | | | | | the primary MC | | | | | system of the | | | | | called MC | | | | | user, keeping | | | | | the behaviour | | | | | identical to | | | | | that where the | | | | | two MC users | | | | | are receiving | | | | | service in | | | | | different MC | | | | | systems. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution 12: | 2.10: Media | This solution | Adds extra | | Affiliation | routing during | allows logging | functionality | | for logging | migration for | of MC service | to MC service | | during | logging and | group calls | servers to | | migration | lawful | when an MC | permit | | | interception | service client | affiliation | | | | has migrated | for logging. | | | | and affiliates | | | | | to an MC | Impact on | | | | service group | downstream | | | | which has a | groups for | | | | different | protocol | | | | primary MC | definitions. | | | | system from | | | | | that of the MC | | | | | service | | | | | client. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 7.3 Key issues with no associated solutions
Table 7.3-1 lists the key issues described in this technical report that have
no specific solutions, together with comments concerning their resolution.
Table 7.3-1: Key issues with no associated solutions
Key issue Comment
* * *
Key issue 1.2: Identification of users and groups in interconnection calls
Satisfied by existing address structure specified in 3GPP TS 22.280 [3] Key
issue 1.9: Security for interconnection calls Security solution is outside the
scope of this technical report Key issue 1.11: Bearer control for
interconnection calls Solutions are outside the scope of this technical report
Key issue 1.12: Group membership May be satisfied by existing stage 3
mechanisms used to access configuration management databases, in conjunction
with access control policies. Key issue 2.2: Authentication at MC service
application layer of MC service users during migration Outside the scope of
the present document, and may be satisfied by mechanisms in 3GPP TS 33.180
[12] Key issue 2.8: Security for calls whilst migrated Security solution is
outside the scope of this technical report Key issue 2.9: Migration during
link failure conditions There are no stage 1 requirements for this, and
therefore this is outside the scope of this technical report
## 7.4 Key issues with security implications
The following key issues have security considerations that will need review
and possible solutions by SA3:
\- Key issue 1.1: MC system authorization to support interconnection calls;
\- Key issue 1.9: Security for interconnection calls;
\- Key issue 1.11: Bearer control for interconnection calls;
\- Key issue 2.2: Authentication at MC service application layer of MC service
users during migration;
\- Key issue 2.8: Security for calls whilst migrated; and
\- Key issue 2.10: Media routing during migration for logging and lawful
interception.
NOTE: Solutions with security implications are noted in the \'Impact on other
entities and working groups\' column in Table 7.2-1 in subclause 7.2.
# 8 Conclusions
This technical report presents scenarios, key issues and solutions for
interconnection and migration between different MC service systems.
All key issues that are addressed by one or more solutions are presented in
subclause 7.2. Key issues where the solutions are considered out of scope of
this technical report are presented in subclause 7.3. Security related aspects
of key issues are presented in subclause 7.4.
The set of solutions described in this Technical Report are candidate
solutions for normative work. These solutions provide mechanisms to configure
an MC service client to enable connectivity to a partner MC system and to
provide configuration data which results from configuration from the primary
and partner MC systems of the MC service client. They describe mechanisms
which allow private calls and group calls to be made in both interconnection
and migration scenarios, with logging in the primary MC systems of users where
required. The solutions permit the topology of MC systems to remain hidden
from interconnected MC systems.
The selection of one or both of solutions 7 and 8, to determine whether a
migrating MC service client should receive configuration from the primary MC
system or the partner MC system is for further study.
Some of the solutions will impact stage 3 work. Some key issues and some
solutions have security considerations.
# Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | TR | 0.0.0 | | 16-04 | | | | | | Ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | Draft | 0.0.1 | | 16-04 | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #10 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 0.1.0 | | 16-06 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #11, | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 60572 | | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0573, | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0574, | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0575, | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 60576 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | C | 0.1.1 | | 16-06 | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | esign | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 3.781 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | temp | | | | | | | | | orary | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | esign | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 3.MIM | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 0.2.0 | | 16-08 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | 6#12 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0635; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0650; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0652; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0653; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0654; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0658; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0834; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0835; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0841; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0842; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0843; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0844; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0846; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0847; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 8048; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0849; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0850; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0851; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0853; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0895; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0901; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0902; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0904; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0915; | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 60927 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 0.3.0 | | 16-10 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #13 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0942; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0943; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 0992; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1185; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1186; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1192; | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 61270 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 0.4.0 | | 16-11 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #14 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1377; | | | | | | | | | S6‑16 | | | | | | | | | 1379; | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 61631 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 0.5.0 | | 17-02 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #15 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0088; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0145; | | | | | | | | | ‑S6-1 | | | | | | | | | 70181 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-1 | | | | Subm | 1.0.0 | | 17-02 | A#75 | 70072 | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | A#75 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 1.1.0 | | 17-04 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #16 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0392; | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0393; | | | | | | | | | S6-17 | | | | | | | | | 0394; | | | | | | | | | S6-1 | | | | | | | | | 70395 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | U | 1.2.0 | | 17-05 | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | SA6 | | | | | | | | | #17 | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | orpor | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | pCRs: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0516; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0562; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0568; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0569; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0570; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0573; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0575; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0658; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0660; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0661; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0662; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0663; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0664; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0665; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0666; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0667; | | | | | | | | | S6‑17 | | | | | | | | | 0739; | | | | | | | | | S6‑1 | | | | | | | | | 70771 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-1 | | | | Subm | 2.0.0 | | 17-05 | A#76 | 70399 | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | App | | | | | | | | | roval | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | A#76 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-1 | | | | MCC | 1 | | 17-05 | A#76 | 70399 | | | | Edit | 5.0.0 | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | ublic | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | | | TSG | | | | | | | | | SA | | | | | | | | | app | |