# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by ^t^he 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The railway community is considering a successor to GSM-R with first FRMCS
trial implementations expected to start around 2020.
The Future Railway Mobile Communication System (FRMCS) functional working
group of the International Union of Railways (UIC) have investigated and
summarised their requirements for the next generation railway communication
system in the Future Railway Mobile Communication User Requirement
Specification (URS) [2]. The requirements have been shared with 3GPP.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies gaps between the FRMCS requirements and stage
2 mission critical services specifications. For those gaps that cannot be
fulfilled by the existing architecture, functional architecture enhancements,
new procedures and information flows are documented and suggested as
candidates for normative specifications.
The study takes existing 3GPP functionality and those specified for Mission
Critical Communication in normative specifications 3GPP TS 23.379 [3] (MCPTT),
3GPP TS 23.280 [4] (Common functional architecture), 3GPP TS 23.281 [5]
(Mission Critical Video) and 3GPP TS 23.282 [6] (Mission Critical Data) into
account. Studies on migration and interconnection (3GPP TR 23.781 [7]) and
interworking between LTE and non-LTE systems (3GPP TR 23.782 [8]) are
considered.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \'\'Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\'\'.
[2] UIC: \'\'Future Radio Mobile Communication System; User Requirement
Specification 2.0\'\', http://www.uic.org/IMG/pdf/frmcs_user-requirements.pdf.
[3] 3GPP TS 23.379: \'\'Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\'\'.
[4] 3GPP TS 23.280: \'\'Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\'\'.
[5] 3GPP TS 23.281: \'\'Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\'\'.
[6] 3GPP TS 23.282: \'\'Functional architecture and information flows to
support Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\'\'.
[7] 3GPP TR 23.781: \'\'Study on migration and interconnection for mission
critical services\'\'.
[8] 3GPP TR 23.782: \'\'Study on mission critical communication interworking
between LTE and non-LTE systems\'\'.
[9] 3GPP TR 22.889: \'\'Study on Future Railway Mobile Communication System;
Stage 1\'\'.
[10] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT) over LTE; Stage
1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.094: \"Follow-Me (FM); Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.481: \" Mission Critical Services (MCS) group management;
Protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.280 [10] apply:
Functional alias
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 22.179 [11] apply:
Multi-talker control
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ATC Automatic Train Control
AVC Assured Voice Communication
e2e end-to-end
e2ae end-to-access-end
FRMCS Future Railway Mobile Communication System
GSM-R Global System for Mobile Communications -- Rail(way)
LMR Land Mobile Radio
LTE Long Term Evolution
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service
MC Mission Critical
MCData Mission Critical Data
MCPTT Mission Critical Push-To-Talk
P25 Project 25
TeTRA TErrestrial Trunked Radio
UIC Union Internationale des Chemins de fer
# 4 Gap Analyses
## 4.1 Introduction
In this section FRMCS requirements captured in stage 1 (see 3GPP TS 22.280
[10] and 3GPP TS 22.179 [11]) are reviewed. Comparison with existing 3GPP
specifications including normative specifications 3GPP TS 23.379 [3], 3GPP TS
23.280 [4], 3GPP TS 23.281 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.282 [6] and a gap analyses is
provided.
FRMCS requirements are verified towards MC service specifications, categorized
into subsections and a detailed functional analysis is provided accordingly.
## 4.2. Multi-talker feature control
### 4.2.1 Description
In current MCPTT group call model, usually only one MCPTT client is permitted
to transmit voice in a group call, but in FRMCS multi-user voice
communication, multiple talkers of one group call are permitted to transmit
voice simultaneously. The only exception is described in 3GPP TS 23.379 [3]
subclause 10.9.1.3.2.2 where floor override without using floor revoke is
applied. A list of floor participants, based on configuration, may receive
both transmissions from the overriding and the overridden participants.
Subclause 6.2.3.7 of 3GPP TS 22.179 [11] describes the requirements for MCPTT
Groups configured for multi-talker control. The set of requirements is grouped
into general requirements, requirements on requesting permission to transmit
and those to support override:
  * The general requirements are about to allow duplex voice transmission ([R-6.2.3.7.2-002]), to deal with group and user data configuration to enable simultaneous transmission and reception for certain MCPTT groups and users ([R-6.2.3.7.2-001], [R-6.2.3.7.2-003], [R-6.2.3.7.2-004]) and to control the maximum number of simultaneous talkers ([R-6.2.3.7.2-005], [R-6.2.3.7.2-006]).
  * The requirements for requesting the permission to transmit deal with which MCPTT user has the permission to transmit in a MCPTT group configured for multi-talker control ([R-6.2.3.7.3-001]), to inform a MCPTT user that no one else is in the MCPTT group and is able to listen ([R-6.2.3.7.3-002]), to handle simultaneous requests from multiple MCPTT users asking to transmit ([R-6.2.3.7.3-003]) and to indicate when a MCPTT user actually is allowed to transmit/talk ([R-6.2.3.7.3-004]).
  * The requirements for using the override feature within the context of multi-user talker control deal with the number of maximum simultaneous talkers ([R-6.2.3.7.4.1-001] and a priority hierarchy determining by various criteria when overriding of active MCPTT transmissions is applied ([R-6.2.3.7.4.1-002], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-003], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-004], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-005], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-006], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-007], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-008]).
To support and control multiple MCPTT users transmitting voice simultaneously,
the following issues need further study.
### 4.2.2 Potential gaps
1\. Missing configuration and procedures to control the maximum number of
simultaneous talkers ([R-6.2.3.7.2-005], [R-6.2.3.7.2-006]).
2\. Missing floor control mechanisms to support floor grant, reject or revoke
for a multi simultaneous MCPTT talkers\' scenario ([R-6.2.3.7.2-003],
[R-6.2.3.7.2-001], [R-6.2.3.7.3-002], [R-6.2.3.7.3-003], [R-6.2.3.7.3-004]).
3\. Study where the voice bridge is carried out in the case of multiple
simultaneous talkers or whether multiple media streams are mixed in the UE
([R-6.2.3.7.2-002], [R-6.2.3.7.2-004]).
4\. Missing configuration and procedures to support the floor override
([R-6.2.3.7.4.1-001], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-002], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-003],
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-004], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-005], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-006],
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-007], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-008]).
## 4.3 Functional alias(es)
### 4.3.1 Description
In the current MC service specification 3GPP TS 23.280 [4], the description of
the alias(es) has no commonality with the scope of a functional alias(es).
Section 5.9a of 3GPP TS 22.280 [10] provides the list of requirements
applicable for functional alias(es). Those can be further grouped into
requirements affecting group call procedures ([R-6.9-004], [R-5.9a-002]),
configuration procedures between the MC service user and the network
([R-6.9-001], [R-5.9a-001], [R-5.9a-003], [R-5.9a-004], [R-5.9a-006],
[R-5.9a-007], [R-5.9a-008], [R-5.9a-009], [R-5.9a-010], [R-5.9a-011]) and
enhancements to the structure and contents stored in the network
([R-5.9a-005], [R-5.9a-012], [R-5.9a-013]).
### 4.3.2 Potential gaps
1\. Missing procedures for using functional aliases during group call
procedures ([R-6.9-004], [R-5.9a-002]).
2\. Missing procedures between the MC service user and the network to exchange
and update the functional alias(es) related data ([R-6.9-001], [R-5.9a-001],
[R-5.9a-003], [R-5.9a-004], [R-5.9a-006], [R-5.9a-007], [R-5.9a-008],
[R-5.9a-009], [R-5.9a-010], [R-5.9a-011]).
3\. Missing parameters stored in the network for the support of functional
alias(es) ([R-5.9a-005], [R-5.9a-012], [R-5.9a-013]).
## 4.4 Architecture enhancement(s) for railway communication
### 4.4.1 Introduction
The gap issue on railway communication internal functional partitioning with
MC service functions and the transport facilities, e.g. LTE as well as
interfaces between them are addressed in this section.
### 4.4.2 Multi-talker control
#### 4.4.2.1 Description
Multi-talker control allows more than one MCPTT talker to transmit at the same
time. The maximum number of concurrent MCPTT talkers is preconfigured and can
be increased or lowered during an ongoing multi-user communication. For the
gap analysis 3GPP TS 23.379 [3] is referenced.
3GPP TS 23.379 subclause 7.3.1 specifies floor control as the only applicable
algorithm. Necessary floor control functions are part of the floor control
server and the floor participant application. Incoming and outgoing voice
media are combined by the media mixer function in the MCPTT client as
illustrated in figure 4.4.2.1-1.
Figure 4.4.2.1-1 shows the functional model for the application plane of the
MCPTT service.
Figure 4.4.2.1-1: Functional model for application plane of the MCPTT service
\- MCPTT-7 carries unicast media between the media distribution function of
the MCPTT server and the media mixer of the MCPTT UE.
\- MCPTT-8 carries multicast media from the media distribution function of the
MCPTT server to the media mixer of the MCPTT UE.
\- MCPTT-9 carries multicast floor control signalling between the floor
control server of the MCPTT server and the floor participant of the MCPTT UE.
\- MCPTT-4 carries unicast floor control signalling between the floor control
server of the MCPTT server and the floor participant of the MCPTT UE.
#### 4.4.2.2 Architectural considerations
\- User Plane
\- Multi-talker on-network communication may require audio mixing as part of
the media distribution function. Audio mixing is performed so that the media
of each talker is mixed into a single combined audio delivered to group
listeners, or
\- if the audio is not mixed by the network and multiple audio streams need to
be delivered to group listeners, the UE must mix the received audio streams.
The number of audio streams corresponds to the maximum number of simultaneous
talkers allowed for the group.
Control Plane
\- The multi-talker control function manages the multiple talker facilities in
combination with the multi-talker participants. MCPTT-4 is the unicast
reference point for talker control purposes and can be reused. MCPTT-9
reference point is an option when using multicast services, but for railway
communications this is not required by stage 1\. Multi-talker participant in
the client and multi-talker control server in the network may be new
functional entities, if the deviation from floor control server and
participant is significant.
\- MCPTT-3 may require some enhancements in correspondence with the multi-
talker control server.
#### 4.4.2.3 Potential gaps
1\. Study whether new functional entities are required which act as multi-
talker control server and multi-talker participant or whether existing floor
control functional entities can be enhanced and re-used.
2\. Study whether multi-talker audio mixing is done in the MCPTT server or
locally in the UE. Alternatively, if both options can be supported and
dynamically selected on demand.
3\. Study whether the existing voice codec for MCPTT allows multi-talker audio
mixing in the MCPTT server.
4\. The interconnection with other MCPTT servers (via MCPTT-3) may require
several procedure enhancements to handle multi-talker control.
NOTE 1: Interconnection is not part of this release.
5\. Study issues when MBMS is used and the audio mixing options need to be
supported as described under gap #2.
NOTE 2: How to avoid echoing of the own audio when using MBMS may raise issues
beyond railway communications. The solution is out of the scope of the present
document.
6\. Study whether existing group call setup can be reused for multi-talker
communication, e.g. whether an enhancement to the existing group call setup
procedure is needed.
### 4.4.3 Functional Alias(es)
#### 4.4.3.1 Description
A functional alias is an alternative name to address a MC service user. A
functional alias can be assigned simultaneously to several MC service users
and a MC service user can have more than one functional alias activated.
#### 4.4.3.2 Architecture considerations
The current architecture in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4] subclause 7.3 does not reflect
the usage nor the management of functional alias(es). There is some text 3GPP
TS 23.379 [3] A.3 pointing that aliases may be part of configuration
management, which is one option to be considered.
Another option may be to define separate functional entities in the network
and in the client to maintain the association among the MC service ID and
functional alias(es).
NOTE: The functional address service architecture used in GSM-R relies on
Follow Me specified in 3GPP TS 23.094 [12].
#### 4.4.3.3 Potential gaps
1\. Define the functional entities in the MC service UE or in the network
which handle the associations between the MC service ID and functional
alias(es).
2\. Elaborate any impacts on existing reference points or elaborate the need
for new reference points for functional alias(es) handling between the MC
service UE and the network.
3\. Elaborate impacts on existing reference points or elaborate the need for
new reference points between the functional alias(es) management entity and MC
service server to lookup the association among MC service ID and functional
alias(es).
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 Introduction
In this subclause solutions are described for gaps identified in clause 4. The
solutions are grouped into subclauses, whereas each subclause addresses one
specific feature:
\- Multi-talker feature control (subclause 5.2)
\- Functional alias(es) (subclause 5.3)
Each individual solution starts with a detailed description of the solution,
elaborates the architectural requirements to support the solution and offers a
solution evaluation to list the gaps and requirements the solution aims to
fulfil.
## 5.2 Multi-talker feature control
### 5.2.1 Solution MT1: Floor request and floor granted during an MCPTT
session
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
Figure 5.2.1.1-1 shows the high-level procedure that the floor control allows
several participants to talk simultaneously in a MCPTT session already
established between the floor participant and the floor control server. Three
UEs involved in the session are shown for the simplicity.
Pre-condition:
1\. The MCPTT group is configured to support multi-talker control and voice
mixing by the network is applied.
2\. MCPTT session is established between MCPTT clients (client A, client B and
client C) and MCPTT server.
3\. MCPTT clients are authorized participants to request to transmit.
4\. Floor granted to floor participant B.
Figure 5.2.1.1-1: Floor request and floor granted during an MCPTT session
1\. Floor participant B is sending voice media over the session established.
2\. Floor participant A wants to send voice media over the session.
3\. Floor participant A sends a floor request message to floor control server
which includes floor priority and other information as necessary.
4\. Floor control server makes the determination on what action (grant, deny,
or queue) to take on the request based on criteria (e.g. floor priority,
participant type, allowance to transmit, maximum number of simultaneous
talkers) and determines to accept the floor request from floor participant A.
Simultaneous requests for permission to transmit are handled in sequential.
The floor control server may limit the time a user talks (hold the floor) as
allowed by configuration.
5a. Floor control server responds with a floor granted message to floor
participant A.
5b. Floor control server sends a floor taken message to floor participant B.
5c. Floor control server sends a floor taken message to floor participant C.
5d. Floor control server may send a floor taken message to floor participant
A.
6a. The floor granted shall cause the user of UE A, where the floor
participant A is located, to be notified.
6b. The floor taken shall inform the user of UE B, that the floors are granted
to other floor participants, but the floor is not revoked.
6c. The floor taken shall inform the user of UE C floor participants list the
floor are currently granted to.
7\. Floor participant A starts sending voice media over the session
established beforehand, i.e. participants A and B receive and transmit voice
media; participant C only receives voice media.
NOTE: Floor control is independent from whether audio mixing is performed by
the MCPTT server or by the UE.
#### 5.2.1.2 Architectural requirements
The solution does not add any new architectural requirements.
#### 5.2.1.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides missing floor control mechanisms as requested in
subclause 4.2.2 gap #2 ([R-6.2.3.7.2-003], [R-6.2.3.7.3-001],
[R-6.2.3.7.3-002], [R-6.2.3.7.3-003], [R-6.2.3.7.3-004]).
### 5.2.2 Solution MT2: Floor override using floor revoked during an MCPTT
session
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
Figure 5.2.2.1-1 shows the high-level procedure that the floor control allows
several participants to talk simultaneously in a MCPTT session already
established between the floor participant (with floor granted to floor
participant B) and the floor control server. Only two UEs involved in the
session are shown for the simplicity.
Pre-condition:
1\. The MCPTT group is configured to support multi-talker control.
2\. MCPTT session is established between MCPTT clients (client A and client B)
and MCPTT server.
3\. The maximum number of simultaneous talkers is configured.
4\. Floor granted to floor participant B.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Floor override using floor revoked (also floor rejected)
during an MCPTT session
1\. Floor participant B is sending voice media over the session established.
2\. Floor participant A wants to send voice media over the session.
3\. Floor participant A having a priority, which is relatively higher than
that of floor participant B, and wants to send voice media over the session.
Floor participant A sends a floor request message to the floor control server.
4\. The floor control server determines to accept the floor request from floor
participant A based on an arbitration result (e.g. per the priority
information that is received in the floor request message). The number of
MCPTT users having a permission to talk has already reached the maximum number
of simultaneous talkers in the MCPTT group, the floor control server decides
to apply the override mechanism.
5\. The floor control server sends a floor revoked message to floor
participant B stopping the voice media transmission from floor participant B.
6\. The user of floor participant B may be notified that the floor is revoked.
7\. The Floor control server sends a floor granted message to floor
participant A, while sending a floor taken message to floor participant B with
information of who is granted the floor.
8\. The user of floor participant A may be notified that he is granted the
floor. Similarly, the user of floor participant B may be notified who is
granted the floor.
9\. Floor participant A starts sending voice media over the session
established beforehand.
10\. Now floor participant B may want the floor to start sending voice media.
11\. Floor participant B sends a floor request message to floor control server
which may include priority information.
12\. Floor control server determines whether to accept the floor request from
floor participant B based on arbitration result, e.g. per the priority
information that is received in the floor request message, and if the number
of MCPTT Users has already reached the maximum number of simultaneous talkers
in the group. The floor control server decides to reject the floor request.
13\. The floor control server responds with a floor rejected message to floor
participant B.
14\. Floor participant B may be notified that (s)he is rejected.
NOTE: The floor control procedure is independent from whether audio mixing is
performed by the MCPTT server or by the UE.
#### 5.2.2.2 Architectural requirements
The solution does not add any new architectural requirements.
#### 5.2.2.3 Solution evaluation
This provides a solution on missing floor control mechanisms as described in
subclause 4.2.2 gap #4 ([R-6.2.3.7.4.1-001], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-004],
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-005], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-006], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-007],
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-008]).
### 5.2.3 Solution MT3: Change the maximum number of simultaneous talkers
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
The procedure for store group configurations at the group management server is
described in subclause 10.1.5.1-1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [4]. The procedure is re-
used to update the maximum number of simultaneous talkers as illustrated in
figure 5.2.3.1-1:
Pre-conditions:
\- The group management server may have some pre-configuration data which can
be used for online group configuration validation;
\- An authorized user decides to change the maximum number of simultaneous
talkers of one or several groups.
Figure 5.2.3.1-1: Store group configurations at group management server
1\. The group configurations are received by the group management client of an
authorized user.
2\. The received group configurations are modified to set new values for the
maximum number of simultaneous talkers as requested by the authorised user and
are sent to the group management server for storage using a store group
configuration request.
3\. The group management server may validate the group configurations before
storage.
4\. The group management server stores the group configurations.
5\. The group management server provides a store group configuration response
indicating success or failure. If any validation or storage fails, the group
management server provides a failure indication in the store group
configuration response.
#### 5.2.3.2 Architectural requirements
The solution does not add any new architectural requirement and relies on
existing procedures described in subclause 10.1.5.1 of 3GPP TS 23.280 [4].
#### 5.2.3.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a means for controlling the maximum number of
simultaneous talkers as requested by subclause 4.2.2 gap #1
([R-6.2.3.7.2-006]).
### 5.2.4 Solution MT4: Architectural enhancements to support multi-user
talker control
#### 5.2.4.1 Description
The multi-talker control function manages the multiple talker facilities in
combination with the multi-talker participants.
MCPTT-4 is the unicast reference point for talker control purposes. MCPTT-9
reference point is an option when using multicast services.
Multi-talker on-network communication may require multi-talker audio mixing in
the network that provides a single voice audio stream to the group listeners.
For this purpose, reference points MCPTT-7 and MCPTT-8 are reused, but
existing functionalities must be extended.
NOTE: Whether audio mixing in the network or in the UE is applied can be
configured by the network.
#### 5.2.4.2 Architectural requirements
The media mixing function in the media distribution function (see 3GPP TS
23.379 [3] subclause 7.4.2.3.5) is re-used for multi-talker audio mixing in
the MCPTT server.
NOTE: Media mixing in the network cannot be used when e2e encryption is
required, but e2ae encryption (between the client and the network) is still
possible.
Media mixing in the network requires that the feedback of own voice within the
mixed audio is minimal to avoid echoes.
Editor\'s note: Whether audio mixing has any implications when using existing
voice codecs is FFS.
A multi-talker control server, which relies on extended floor control
functionality in the MCPTT server, is used together with an enhanced multi-
talker participant in the MCPTT UE.
#### 5.2.4.3 Solution evaluation
The solution relies on existing audio mixing functionality in the MCPTT server
and on existing functional entities managing floor control. The solution
addresses gap #1 and gap #2 in subclause 4.4.3.3; gap #2 in subclause 4.3.2.3.
The solution assumes the use of existing voice codecs.
### 5.2.5 Solution MT5: Parameters to support multi-talker control
#### 5.2.5.1 Description
Parameters required in the MCPTT user profile configuration data:
\- Enable MCPTT Administrators to create a priority hierarchy for determining
what participants, participant types, and urgent transmission types shall be
granted a request to override an active MCPTT transmission
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-002]. Already supported by existing group configuration, see
3GPP TS 23.280 [4] subclause A.4 table A.4-1 \"User priority for the group\".
\- The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to override shall
contain at least four (4) levels [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-003]. At least four levels are
already supported, see 3GPP TS 24.481 [13] subclause 7.2.4.2.
\- The MCPTT Service shall allow an authorized MCPTT User to change the
maximum number of simultaneous talkers [R-6.2.3.7.2-006].
Missing parameters to be stored in MCPTT user profile data are illustrated in
table 5.2.5.1-1:
\- Authorised MCPTT user to change the maximum number of simultaneous talkers.
Table 5.2.5.1-1: MCPTT user profile data (on network)
* * *
Reference Parameter description MCPTT UE MCPTT Server Configuration management
server MCPTT user database [R-6.2.3.7.2-006] of 3GPP TS 22.179 [11] >
Authorisation of an MCPTT user to change the maximum number of simultaneous
talkers Y Y Y Y
* * *
Missing parameters to be stored in MCPTT group configuration data are
illustrated in table 5.2.5.1-2:
\- An MCPTT Group shall be configurable to allow multi-talker control.
\- Enable a MCPTT Administrator to configure the maximum number of
simultaneous talkers in a MCPTT Group.
\- Enable the MCPTT Administrator to configure whether audio mixing is
performed in the UE or in the network.
\- The MCPTT Service shall determine which Participant(s) are allowed to
transmit to all other Participant(s) in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-
talker control [R-6.2.3.7.2-003].
Table 5.2.5.1-2: Group configuration data (on network)
* * *
Reference Parameter description MCPTT UE MCPTT Server Group management server
[R-6.2.3.7.2-001] of 3GPP TS 22.179 [11] Support of multi-talker control Y Y Y
[R-6.2.3.7.2-005] of 3GPP TS 22.179 [11] Maximum number of simultaneous
talkers Y Y subclause 4.3.2.3 gap #2 Audio mixing in UE or network Y Y Y
[R-6.2.3.7.2-003] of 3GPP TS 22.179 [11], [R-6.4.9-004] of 3GPP TS 22.280 [10]
List of group members which are allowed to talk  
> MCPTT IDs Y Y
* * *
#### 5.2.5.2 Architectural requirements
The solution reuses existing MCPTT user profile data and adds new group
configuration data and has no other architectural impacts
#### 5.2.5.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides missing parameters to be stored in the network for the
support of multi-talker control and addresses gap #1 ([R-6.2.3.7.2-005],
[R-6.2.3.7.2-006]), gap #2 ([R-6.2.3.7.2-001], [R-6.2.3.7.2-003]) and gap #4
([R-6.2.3.7.4.1-002], [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-003]) in subclause 4.2.2. The solution
allows to configure whether audio mixing is performed in the UE or the network
as requested by gap #2 in subclause 4.3.2.3.
## 5.3 Functional alias(es)
### 5.3.1 Solution FA1: Call processing to support functional alias(es)
#### 5.3.1.1 Description
##### 5.3.1.1.1 Functional alias ID used for pre-arranged group call setup
The procedures in figure 5.3.1.1.1-1 are the signalling control plane
procedures for the MCPTT client using a Functional alias ID when initiating
establishment of an MCPTT group call with a pre-arranged group.
Pre-conditions:
1\. As described in subclause 10.6.2.3.1.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.379 [3].
2\. MCPTT client 1, MCPTT client 2 and MCPTT client 3 each have an activated
functional alias to be used during the group communication.
Figure 5.3.1.1.1-1: Pre-arranged group call setup when using functional
alias(es)
1\. The user at MCPTT client 1 initiates an MCPTT group call with a selected
group identified by the MCPTT group ID and a selected Functional alias ID of
MCPTT client 1for this communication.
2\. MCPTT client 1 sends a group call request towards the MCPTT server hosting
the selected group.
3\. The MCPTT server resolves the Functional alias ID for the MCPTT ID. MCPTT
server checks whether the user of MCPTT client 1 is authorized to initiate a
group call for the selected group. The MCPTT server also checks whether the
Functional alias ID used as calling party ID is valid and has been activated
for the user.
4\. MCPTT server sends the corresponding group call request(s) via the SIP
core towards the MCPTT clients of each of those affiliated group members.
MCPTT users are notified about the incoming group call and the Functional
alias ID of the group call initiating user may be displayed. When the
functional alias ID is included in the response, the MCPTT server checks the
functional alias is valid and has been activated for the user.
NOTE: The functional alias(es) used by MCPTT client 1, MCPTT client 2 and
MCPTT client 3 can be different.
5\. The receiving MCPTT clients accept the group call request, and a group
call response is sent to the group host MCPTT server. This response may
contain the Functional alias ID of the receiving MCPTT client.
Steps 6, 7 and 8 in this procedure are the same as steps 6, 7 and 8 from
subclause 10.6.2.3.1.1.2 of 3GPP TS 23.379 [3].
The selected Functional alias ID is not changed for the duration of the MCPTT
group call, i.e. a MCPTT client uses the same Functional alias until the group
call is released or the MCPTT client has left the group call.
##### 5.3.1.1.2 Functional alias ID used for chat group calls
The procedures in figure 5.3.1.1.2-1 shows the signalling control plane
procedures when a MCPTT client using a Functional alias ID joins a chat group
call.
Pre-condition:
1\. As described in subclause 10.6.2.3.1.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.379 [3].
2\. MCPTT client 1 has an activated functional alias configured. MCPTT client
2 and MCPTT client 3 may have activated functional alias(es) configured to be
used during the group call communication.
Figure 5.3.1.1.2-1: Chat group call when using functional alias(es)
1\. MCPTT user 1 has selected a Functional alias ID and indicates to join the
group communication for the group.
1a. MCPTT client 1 sends a group join request with the MCPTT group ID of the
desired group. It contains the selected Functional alias ID and the MCPTT
client media parameters.
1b. The MCPTT server receives the group join request. The MCPTT server
resolves the Functional alias ID to resolve the MCPTT ID. MCPTT server checks
whether the user of MCPTT client 1 is authorized to join the group call. This
check includes whether the Functional alias ID used as calling party ID is
valid and has been activated for the user. MCPTT server generates an implicit
affiliation (if the MCPTT user is not already affiliated to the group) and
verifies that MCPTT user 1 is authorized to affiliate to the group by
following the affiliation procedure (subclause 10.8.3 in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4]).
1c. The MCPTT server replies with a group join response indicating the
acceptance of the group join request and returns the MCPTT server selected
media parameters for the group call in the group join response.
2\. If MCPTT user 1 requests to transmit, the MCPTT server establishes the
media plane (if not already established) for the call. The associated floor
participants for MCPTT client 1, client 2, and client 3 use the floor control
procedure to initiate the call. For example, the floor participant for MCPTT
client 1 receives the MCPTT floor grant, floor participants for MCPTT client 2
and MCPTT client 3 receive the MCPTT floor taken containing the Functional
alias ID of MCPTT client 1.
3\. Floor control will continue to be used by the floor participants
associated with MCPTT client 1, MCPTT client 2 and MCPTT client 3 for the
duration of the call and the Functional alias ID is used where appropriate
(i.e. replacing the MCPTT ID). The MCPTT server verifies proper use of
Functional alias IDs in floor control messages.
#### 5.3.1.2 Architectural requirements
The solution relies on existing procedures defined in 3GPP TS 23.379 [3].
Affiliation and de-affiliation to/from MC service group(s) rely on the MC
service ID (e.g. MCPTT ID), i.e. Functional alias(es) are not used within
affiliation and de-affiliation procedures. Floor control procedures support
Functional alias(es), i.e. the Functional alias ID is transferred as talking
party identity in floor control messages.
#### 5.3.1.3 Solution evaluation
The proposed solutions in subclause 5.3.1.1 allow that the functional
alias(es) of the transmitting MCPTT client can be used to join a group call.
In addition, the associated functional alias(es) can be forwarded to the
receiving MCPTT clients for notification. The description addresses gap #1 in
subclause 4.3.2.
### 5.3.2 Solution FA2: Configuration exchanges between the UE and the network
to support functional alias(es)
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
##### 5.3.2.1.1 MC service user obtains a list of functional alias(es) from
the network
The procedure for the MC service user obtaining a list of functional alias(es)
from the network from which the MC service user can select for activation is
illustrated in figure 5.3.2.1.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service user has performed user authentication in the identity
management server.
\- The MC service UE has secure access to the configuration management server.
Figure 5.3.2.1.1-1: MC service user obtains a list of functional alias(es)
from the network
1\. The configuration management client sends a get MC service user profile
request message to the configuration management server.
2\. The configuration management server obtains the MC service user profile
information containing a list of functional alias(es) for activation. The list
may contain functional alias(es) based on a certain context, like location of
the MC service user, operational schedule, etc.
NOTE: The length of the list of functional alias(es) provided to the UE needs
to be reasonable. The configuration management server may interact with
external nodes to create a proper list of functional alias(es) (e.g. for
location based functional alias(es)).
3\. The configuration management server sends get MC service user profile
response message to the configuration management client, which contains a list
of functional alias(es) offered to the MC service user for activation.
##### 5.3.2.1.2 Authorised MC service user retrieves active functional
alias(es) for a certain MC service user from the network
An authorised MC service user can request the active functional alias(es) for
a certain MC service user. The procedure is similar to the procedure described
in subclause 10.2.5 Membership and affiliation list query of 3GPP TS 23.280
[4].
Figure 5.3.2.1.2-1 below illustrates the active functional alias(es) list
query for a certain MC service user.
Figure 5.3.2.1.2-1: Active functional alias(es) list query
1\. The functional alias(es) management client of the MC servicer user
requests a list of active functional alias(es) for a certain MC service user
from the functional alias(es) management server by sending a functional
alias(es) information query request. The MC service ID is included.
2\. The functional alias(es) management server checks whether the MC servicer
user is authorized to perform the query. If authorized, then the functional
alias(es) management server retrieves the requested active functional
alias(es) information based on the MC service ID.
3\. The functional alias(es) management server sends a functional alias(es)
information query response including the active functional alias(es)
information to the functional alias(es) management client.
##### 5.3.2.1.3 MC service user receives updated functional alias(es)
information from the network
The procedure for MC service user receiving updated functional alias(es)
information from the network and initiated by the network is illustrated in
figure 5.3.2.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service user has performed user authentication in identity
management server.
\- The MC service UE has secure access to the configuration management server.
\- The MC service UE has already obtained one or more MC service user
profiles.
\- The configuration management server has access to the MC service user
profile(s) associated with the MC service ID of the MC service user.
Figure 5.3.2.1.3-1: MC service user receives updated functional alias(es)
information from the network
1\. The configuration management server obtains updated MC service user
profile data due to changes in conjunction with functional alias(es), e.g.
another MC service user has activated the same alias or a functional alias has
been deactivated and was taken over by another MC service user.
2\. The configuration management server sends a notification for MC service
user profile data update message to the configuration management client.
3\. The configuration management client sends get updated MC service user
profile data request message to the configuration management server.
4\. The configuration management server sends get updated MC service user
profile data response message to the configuration management client which
includes the updated MC service user profile data containing the changes to
the list of activated functional alias(es). The MC service user may get a
related notification on his(her) display.
##### 5.3.2.1.4 MC service user activates functional alias(es) to the network
The procedure for MC service user activates functional alias(es) is
illustrated in figure 5.3.2.1.4-1. The procedure is similar to the procedure
described in subclause 10.8.3 MC service group affiliation procedure of 3GPP
TS 23.280 [4].
Pre-conditions:
1\. MC service client has already been provisioned (statically or dynamically)
with the functional alias(es) information that the MC service client is
allowed to activate.
2\. MC service server may have retrieved the user subscription and functional
alias(es) policy e.g. which user(s) are authorized to activate to what
functional alias(es), priority, and other configuration data.
3\. MC service client may have indicated to the functional alias(es)
management server that it wishes to receive updates of functional alias(es)
data for the functional alias(es) for which it is authorized.
4\. The MC service client triggers the functional alias(es) activation
procedure. This is an explicit activation caused either by the MC service user
or determined by a trigger event such as the MC service UE coming within a
permitted geographic operational area of a functional alias(es).
Figure 5.3.2.1.4-1: Functional alias(es) activation procedure
1\. MC service client of the MC service user requests the MC service server to
activate a functional alias or a set of functional alias(es).
2a. MC service server checks if the functional alias(es) activation policy is
locally cached. If the function alias(es) activation policy is not locally
cached on the MC service server then MC service server requests the function
alias(es) activation policy from the function alias(es) management server.
2b. MC service server receives the function alias(es) activation policy from
the functional alias(es) management server.
3\. Based on the function alias(es) activation policy and user subscription,
the MC service server checks if there are any conflicts with active functional
alias(es).
4\. If the user of the MC service client is authorised to activate the
requested functional alias(es) then the MC service server stores the
functional alias(es) status of the user for the requested functional
alias(es).
a. If a certain functional alias(es) can be simultaneously active for multiple
MC service users and the upper limit of number of simultaneous MC service
users is not reached, the MC service shall activate the functional alias(es)
for the MC service user and inform all other MC service user(s) with sharing
the same functional alias(es). If the limit of simultaneous MC service users
is reached or the functional alias is not allowed to be shared, the request is
rejected and the MC service user is notified.
b. If the functional alias(es) is already used by another MC service user and
that functional alias can be taken over, an authorized MC service user gets an
offer to take over the functional alias from the MC service user currently
using the alias(es). The MC service user may resend a functional alias(es)
activation request to the MC service server, which includes those functional
alias(es) which shall be taken over. The MC service user(s) whose functional
alias(es) has been taken over is(are) notified.
5\. MC service server confirms to the MC service client the activation of the
function alias(es).
##### 5.3.2.1.5 MC service user de-activates functional aliases to the network
The procedure for MC service user de-activates functional alias(es) is
illustrated in figure 5.3.2.1.5-1. The procedure is similar to the procedure
described in subclause 10.8.4.2 MC service group de-affiliation procedure of
3GPP TS 23.280 [4].
When an MC service user does not want to use a functional alias(es) anymore,
then the MC service user can de-activate functional alias(es).
Pre-conditions:
1\. MC service server has already subscribed to the functional alias(es)
information from the functional alias(es) management server and has stored the
data of the functional alias(es) a MC service user has activated.
2\. The MC service client triggers the functional alias(es) de-activation
procedure. This is an explicit de-activation request either by the MC service
user or determined by a trigger event such as the MC service UE moving outside
a permitted geographic operational area of a function alias(es).
Figure 5.3.2.1.5-1: Functional alias(es) de-activation procedure
1\. MC service client requests the MC service server to de-activate a
functional alias or a set of functional alias(es).
2\. Based on the user subscription and stored functional alias(es) policy, the
MC service server checks if the user of the MC service client is authorized to
de-activate from the requested functional alias(es) and if the user of the MC
service client has activated to the requested functional alias(es).
3\. If the user of the MC service client has activated the requested
functional alias(es), is authorized to de-activate from the requested
functional alias(es) then the MC service server updates the functional
alias(es) activation status of the user for the requested functional
alias(es).
4\. MC service server provides to the MC service client the functional
alias(es) de-activation response (4a) and updates the functional alias(es)
management server with the new status of the user for the requested functional
alias(es) (4b).
NOTE: Steps 4a and 4b can occur in any order or in parallel.
#### 5.3.2.2 Architectural requirements
The solution relies on existing user profile management and group management
procedures. Existing functional entities are used for handling and storing
functional alias(es) related configuration data. New functional entities
(Functional alias(es) management client and Functional alias(es) management
server) are introduced to manage functional alias(es) status information.
#### 5.3.2.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides functional alias(es) related management exchanges
between the client and the network to fulfil gap #2 in subclause 4.3.2
([R-5.9a-001], [R-5.9a-003], [R-5.9a-004], [R-5.9a-006], [R-5.9a-007],
[R-5.9a-008], [R-5.9a-009], [R-5.9a-010], [R-5.9a-011]).
### 5.3.3 Solution FA3: Parameters to support functional alias(es)
#### 5.3.3.1 Description
Missing parameters to be stored in the user profile data are illustrated in
Table 5.3.3.1-1:
  * An authorized MC service user can interrogate the MC service system activated functional alias(es) for another MC service user.
  * A MC service administrator can authorize a MC service user to take over a functional alias from another MC service user.
\- The list of functional alias(es) available for the MC service user.
Table 5.3.3.1-1: MCPTT user profile data to support functional alias(es)
* * *
Reference Parameter description MCPTT UE MCPTT Server Configuration management
server MCPTT user database [R-5.9a-013] Authorised to interrogate the
functional alias(es) active for another MCPTT user Y Y Y [R-5.9a-012]
Authorised to take over a functional alias from another MCPTT user Y Y Y List
of alphanumeric functional alias(es) of the user  
[R-5.9a-005] > Functional alias Y Y Y Y
* * *
Missing parameters to be stored in functional alias(es) service configuration
data are illustrated in Table 5.3.3.1-2:
  * The list of available functional alias(es) for the MC service.
  * The limit of simultaneous activations per functional alias.
  * The permission to be taken over by an authorised MC service user.
Table 5.3.3.1-2: Functional alias(es) service configuration data
* * *
**Reference** **Parameter description** **MCPTT UE** **MCPTT Server**
**Configuration management server** [R-5.9a-005] Functional alias Y Y Y
[R-5.9a-005] Limit number of simultaneous activations Y Y [R-5.9a-005] This
functional alias can be taken over Y Y Y List of configured users  
> MCPTT ID Y Y > Activation status Y Y
* * *
NOTE: The format used for Functional alias(es) should allow maximum
flexibility as available when using the URI format.
#### 5.3.3.2 Architectural requirements
The solution extends only existing MCPTT user profile and service
configuration data and has no architectural impacts.
#### 5.3.3.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides missing parameters to be stored in the network for the
support of functional alias(es) and fulfils gap #3 in subclause 4.3.2
([R-5.9a-005], [R-5.9a-012], [R-5.9a-013]).
### 5.3.4 Solution FA4: Architectural enhancements to support functional
alias(es)
#### 5.3.4.1 Description
The current architecture in 3GPP TS 23.280 [4] subclause 7.3 does not deal
with the management of functional alias(es).
This solution suggests a dedicated functional alias(es) management server and
a dedicated functional alias management client to maintain the association
among the subscriber identity and functional alias(es). The functional alias
management server is part of the common services core.
A new reference point between MC service server and functional alias
management server provides the ability for specific purposes e.g. routing to
lookup the association among subscriber identity and functional alias(es).
Figure 5.3.4.1-1 shows the functional alias(es) management server and
functional alias management client functional model.
Figure 5.3.4.1-1: Functional model showing a functional alias(es) management
server and functional alias(es) management client
\- The CSC-xx reference point allows interactions between the Functional
alias(es) management client in the UE and the Functional alis(es) management
server in the Common Services Core of the network (e.g. an authorised MC
service user can request the active functional alias(es) for a certain MC
service user).
\- The CSC-yy reference point allows interactions between the Functional
alias(es) management server and the MC service server (e.g. used for
functional alias(es) activation and de-activation).
Editor\'s note: Whether there is a need for a reference point allowing
interactions between the Functional alias(es) management server and the
Configuration management server (e.g. to retrieve user profile information to
verify whether an authorised user is allowed to query the active functional
alias(es) for another user) is FFS.
#### 5.3.4.2 Architectural requirements
The solution requires new functional entities in the network and the client.
New reference points are required between the network and the client and
between the common services core and the MC service server.
#### 5.3.4.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides a new architecture defining functional entities managing
the associations among subscriber identity and functional alias(es) and
describes new reference points as questioned by gap #1 and gap #2 listed in
subclause 4.4.3.3.
### 5.3.5 Solution FA5: Functional alias(es) management operations
#### 5.3.5.1 Description
The procedures in the subclause are based on the architecture in solution FA4
to solve the gap about functional alias(es) management operations.
##### 5.3.5.1.1 Functional alias(es) activation
The procedure for the MC service user to activate functional alias(es) is
illustrated in figure 5.3.5.1.1-1.
Figure 5.3.5.1.1-1: Functional alias(es) activation
1\. The functional alias management client sends a functional alias activate
request to the functional alias management server with the functional alias
ID(s) and MC service ID.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the functional alias management server checks
the user authorization to activate the functional alias based on functional
alias policy.
> If the functional alias has not been activated, or it is activated by other
> MC service users and the maximum number is not reached, then the functional
> alias management server accepts the request and updates the functional alias
> status by adding the MC service ID.
>
> If the functional alias is activated by other MC service user and the
> maximum number is reached, the functional alias management server rejects
> the request with a cause.
>
> If the functional alias is activated by other MC service user and the
> functional alias allows to be taken over, the functional alias management
> server rejects the request with a taken over indication, which may trigger
> the taken over procedure as described in subclause 5.3.5.1.3.
3\. The functional alias management server sends functional alias activate
response to the functional alias management client 1.
4\. If the functional alias is activated by other MC service users, the
functional alias management server sends a functional alias activate notify
message to inform about the functional alias activation operation from
functional alias management client 1.
5\. If the functional alias is subscribed by MC service server, the functional
alias management server sends a functional alias status update notify message
to the MC service server.
##### 5.3.5.1.2 Functional alias(es) deactivation
The procedure for the MC service user to deactivate functional alias(es) is
illustrated in figure 5.3.5.1.2-1.
Figure 5.3.5.1.2-1: Functional alias(es) deactivation
1\. The functional alias management client 1 sends a functional alias
deactivate request to the functional alias management server with the
functional alias ID(s) and MC service ID.
2\. The functional alias management server accepts the request and updates the
functional alias status by remove the MC service ID.
3\. The functional alias management server sends functional alias deactivate
response to the functional alias management client 1.
4\. If the functional alias is activated by other MC service users, the
functional alias management server sends a functional alias deactivate notify
message to inform about the functional alias deactivation operation from
functional alias management client 1.
5\. If the functional alias is subscribed by MC service server, the functional
alias management server sends a functional alias status update notify message
to the MC service server.
##### 5.3.5.1.3 Functional alias(es) taken over
The procedure for the MC service user to take over functional alias(es) from
another user is illustrated in figure 5.3.5.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions:
\- Functional alias management client 2 has activated the functional alias
with attribute that it can be taken over.
\- The previous functional alias activation initiated by functional alias
management client 1 has been rejected with the taken over indication.
Figure 5.3.5.1.3-1: Functional alias(es) taken over
1\. The functional alias management client 1 sends a functional alias take-
over request to the functional alias management server with the functional
alias ID(s) and MC service ID.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the functional alias management server checks
the user authorization to take over the functional alias based on functional
alias policy and taken over attribute.
> If authorized, then the functional alias management server accepts the
> request and updates the functional alias status by adding the MC service ID
> of functional alias management client 1 and removing the MC service ID of
> functional alias management client 2.
3\. The functional alias management server sends functional alias take-over
response to the functional alias management client 1.
4\. The functional alias management server sends a functional alias deactivate
notify message to functional alias management client 2 to inform about the
functional alias is taken over by functional alias management client 1.
5\. If the functional alias is subscribed by MC service server, the functional
alias management server sends a functional alias status update notify message
to the MC service server.
##### 5.3.5.1.4 Functional alias(es) subscribe to status notifications
The procedure for the MC service server to subscribe the functional alias(es)
status to be notified the MC service user newly activating or deactivating the
functional alias(es). This feature can be used to manage the participants
during the call.
The functional alias(es) status subscription is illustrated in figure
5.3.5.1.4-1.
Figure 5.3.5.1.4-1: Functional alias(es) subscribe to status notifications
1\. The MC service server sends the functional alias subscribe request to the
functional alias management server to subscribe the functional alias status.
The functional alias ID(s) is included.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the functional alias management server accepts
the requesting and starts monitoring the status of the functional alias
requested, i.e., newly activation, deactivation and taken over operations.
3\. When the functional alias status is changed by activation, deactivation
and taken over operations, functional alias management server sends the
functional alias status update notify message to the MC service server.
##### 5.3.5.1.5 Functional alias(es) unsubscribe from status notifications
The functional alias(es) unsubscribe from status notification is illustrated
in figure 5.3.5.1.5-1
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC service server has subscribed the functional alias.
Figure 5.3.5.1.5-1: Functional alias(es) unsubscribe from status notifications
1\. The MC service server sends the functional alias subscribe request to the
functional alias management server to subscribe the functional alias status.
The functional alias ID(s) is included.
2\. Upon receiving the request, the functional alias management server removes
the subscription and stops sending to the MC service server. 5.3.5.2
Architectural requirements
#### 5.3.5.2 Architectural requirements
The solution inquires new functional entities, i.e. the Functional alias(es)
management client/server to support the functional alias management operation
including functional alias registration, activation, deactivation, taken over.
#### 5.3.5.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides functional alias(es) related management operation by
introducing the functional alias management client and the functional alias
management server, to fulfil gaps in subclause 4.3.2 ([R-5.9a-001],
[R-5.9a-003], [R-5.9a-004], [R-5.9a-006], [R-5.9a-007], [R-5.9a-008],
[R-5.9a-009], [R-5.9a-010], [R-5.9a-011]).
# 6 Overall evaluation
## 6.1 General
The following subclauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions
presented in this technical report, and their applicability to the key issues
raised. Subclause 6.2 provides an evaluation of the solutions provided in
subclause 5.2 Multi-talker feature control, subclause 6.3 an evaluation of the
solutions provided in subclause 5.3 Functional alias(es). The impacts on other
entities and working groups are indicated as well as the mapping of the
solutions to the key issues outlined in subclause 4 Gap Analyses.
## 6.2 Solution evaluation: Multi-talker feature control
The solutions specified in this technical report are described in table 6.2-1.
The evaluation text is abridged from the subclauses describing the solution;
the full text is available in those subclauses.
Table 6.2-1: Solution evaluation for multi-talker feature control
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution | Applicable | Evaluation | Impact on | | | gaps | | other entities | | | | | and working | | | | | groups | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution MT1: | S | The solution | Impact on CT1 | | Floor request | ubclause 4.2.2 | describes | for the | | and floor | gap #2 | missing floor | protocol | | granted during | | control | update. | | an MCPTT | | procedures for | | | session | | MCPTT groups | | | | | using the | | | | | multi-talker | | | | | option. Floor | | | | | request and | | | | | floor granted | | | | | during a MCPTT | | | | | call is | | | | | described. | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | [R-6. | | | | | 2.3.7.2-003], | | | | | [R-6. | | | | | 2.3.7.3-001], | | | | | [R-6. | | | | | 2.3.7.3-002], | | | | | [R-6. | | | | | 2.3.7.3-003], | | | | | [R-6. | | | | | 2.3.7.3-004]. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: The | | | | | solution is | | | | | only a small | | | | | modification | | | | | of existing | | | | | floor control. | | | | | Floor taken is | | | | | indicated | | | | | without floor | | | | | revoked and | | | | | the floor | | | | | arbitration | | | | | functionality | | | | | in the MCPTT | | | | | server is | | | | | extended. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution MT2: | S | The solution | No impact. | | Floor override | ubclause 4.2.2 | describes | | | using floor | gap #4 | missing floor | Note: Impacts | | revoked during | | control | due to | | an MCPTT | | procedures for | modified | | session | | MCPTT groups | configuration | | | | using the | data are not | | | | multi-talker | addressed by | | | | option. Floor | this solution. | | | | override using | | | | | floor revoked | | | | | (also floor | | | | | rejected) | | | | | during a MCPTT | | | | | call is | | | | | described. | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | [R-6.2. | | | | | 3.7.4.1-001], | | | | | [R-6.2. | | | | | 3.7.4.1-004], | | | | | [R-6.2. | | | | | 3.7.4.1-005], | | | | | [R-6.2. | | | | | 3.7.4.1-006], | | | | | [R-6.2. | | | | | 3.7.4.1-007], | | | | | [R-6.2. | | | | | 3.7.4.1-008]. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: The | | | | | solution is | | | | | only a small | | | | | modification | | | | | of existing | | | | | floor control | | | | | requiring that | | | | | floor | | | | | arbitration | | | | | functionality | | | | | in the MCPTT | | | | | server is | | | | | extended. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution MT3: | S | This solution | Impact on CT1 | | Change the | ubclause 4.2.2 | provides a | for the | | maximum number | gap #1 | means (for an | protocol | | of | | authorized | update. | | simultaneous | | user) for | | | talkers | | controlling | | | | | the maximum | | | | | number of | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | talkers for | | | | | MCPTT groups | | | | | using the | | | | | multi-talker | | | | | option. A | | | | | group | | | | | management | | | | | client (of an | | | | | authorised | | | | | user) sets a | | | | | new value for | | | | | the maximum | | | | | number of | | | | | simultaneous | | | | | talkers in the | | | | | group | | | | | management | | | | | server. | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | [R-6. | | | | | 2.3.7.2-006]. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: The | | | | | solution | | | | | re-uses the | | | | | existing group | | | | | management | | | | | framework; the | | | | | required | | | | | changes are | | | | | minor. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution MT4: | S | The solution | Impact on CT1 | | Architectural | ubclause 4.4.3 | relies on | for protocol | | enhancements | gap #1 and | existing audio | changes to | | to support | gap #2 | mixing | control audio | | multi-user | | functionality | mixing in the | | talker control | | in the MCPTT | network. | | | | server and on | | | | | existing | Impact on SA3 | | | | functional | to enable | | | | entities | media plane | | | | managing floor | security. | | | | control. | | | | | | Impact on SA4 | | | | Relation to | regarding | | | | normative | voice codec | | | | stage 1 | aspects when | | | | requirements: | applying audio | | | | None. | mixing. | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | Re-use of | | | | | existing | | | | | functionality; | | | | | some H.248 | | | | | changes may be | | | | | needed to | | | | | perform proper | | | | | audio mixing. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.3 Solution evaluation: Functional alias(es)
The solutions specified in this technical report are described in table 6.3-1.
The evaluation text is abridged from the subclauses outlining the solution;
the full text is available in those subclauses.
Table 6.3-1: Solution evaluation for functional alias(es)
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution | Applicable | Evaluation | Impact on | | | gaps | | other entities | | | | | and working | | | | | groups | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution FA1: | S | The proposed | Impact on CT1 | | Call | ubclause 4.3.2 | solution | for protocol | | processing to | gap #1 | describes how | updates. | | support | | functional | | | functional | | alias(es) are | | | alias(es) | | in MCPTT group | | | | | call setup | | | | | procedures, | | | | | either by the | | | | | MCPTT server | | | | | for control or | | | | | to display the | | | | | functional | | | | | alias(es). | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-002]. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | Minor changes | | | | | to existing | | | | | MCPTT group | | | | | call setup | | | | | messages to | | | | | replace the | | | | | MCPTT ID by | | | | | the functional | | | | | alias. | | | | | Additional | | | | | checking | | | | | functionality | | | | | in the MCPTT | | | | | server. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution FA2: | S | The solution | Impact on CT1 | | Configuration | ubclause 4.3.2 | provides | for protocol | | exchanges | gap #2 | functional | updates. | | between the UE | | alias(es) | | | and the | | related | | | network to | | management | | | support | | exchanges | | | functional | | between the | | | alias(es) | | client and the | | | | | server. | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | (\ | | | | | [R-5.9a-001], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-003], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-004], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-006], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-007], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-008], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-009], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-010], | | | | | [ | | | | | R-5.9a-011]). | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | Uses existing | | | | | user profile | | | | | management and | | | | | group | | | | | management | | | | | procedures. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution FA3: | S | The solution | Impact on CT1 | | Parameters to | ubclause 4.3.2 | provides | for protocol | | support | gap #3 | missing | updates. | | functional | | parameters to | | | alias(es) | | be stored in | | | | | the network | | | | | for the | | | | | support of | | | | | functional | | | | | alias(es). | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-005], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-012], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-013]. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | Uses existing | | | | | user profile | | | | | management and | | | | | group | | | | | management | | | | | procedures. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution FA4: | Sub | The solution | Impact on CT1 | | Architectural | clause 4.4.3.3 | describes a | for protocol | | enhancements | gap #1 and | new | updates. | | to support | gap #2 | architecture | | | functional | | allowing | | | alias(es) | | separate | | | | | functional | | | | | entities | | | | | managing the | | | | | associations | | | | | among | | | | | subscriber | | | | | identity and | | | | | functional | | | | | alias(es) and | | | | | describes new | | | | | reference | | | | | points. | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | None. | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | Offers | | | | | dedicated | | | | | functions for | | | | | functional | | | | | alias(es) | | | | | handling to | | | | | separate from | | | | | them existing | | | | | functions. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution FA5: | S | The solution | Impact on CT1 | | Functional | ubclause 4.3.2 | provides | for protocol | | alias(es) | gap #2 | functional | updates | | management | | alias(es) | | | operations | | related | | | | | management | | | | | exchanges | | | | | between the | | | | | client and the | | | | | server. | | | | | | | | | | Relation to | | | | | normative | | | | | stage 1 | | | | | requirements: | | | | | (\ | | | | | [R-5.9a-001], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-003], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-004], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-006], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-007], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-008], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-009], | | | | | \ | | | | | [R-5.9a-010], | | | | | [ | | | | | R-5.9a-011]). | | | | | | | | | | Advantage: | | | | | Replicates | | | | | existing GSM-R | | | | | functionality | | | | | (Follow-Me). | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 7 Conclusions
This technical report presents a gap analyses and solutions for handling of
functional alias(es) and to support multi-talker feature control as required
for railway communication.
All issues identified by the gap analyses are addressed at least by one
solution as presented in clause 5. None of the issues identified are
considered out of scope of this technical report.
The first set of solutions described in this Technical Report are candidate
solutions for normative work to support the multi-talker feature control:
  * Solution MT1: Floor request and floor granted during an MCPTT session
  * Solution MT2: Floor override using floor revoked during an MCPTT session
  * Solution MT3: Change the maximum number of simultaneous talkers
  * Solution MT4: Architectural enhancements to support multi-user talker control
  * Solution MT5: Parameters to support multi-talker control
Another set of solutions described in this Technical Report are candidate
solutions for normative work on functional alias(es):
  * Solution FA1: Call processing to support functional alias(es)
  * Solution FA2: Configuration exchanges between the UE and the network to support functional alias(es)
  * Solution FA3: Parameters to support functional alias(es)
The architectural aspects of FA1, FA2 and FA3 need further study during the
normative phase.
  * Solution FA4: Architectural enhancements to support functional alias(es)
FA4 may require additional architectural enhancements, which needs to be
further studied during normative phase.
Both sets of solution describing procedures for MCPTT group call setup, for
exchanging configuration between the client and the network and the
configuration data required to support the two features.
Most of the solutions will impact stage 3 work, mainly CT1. Some key issues
and some solutions have security considerations (e.g. using Functional
alias(es) with MIKEY-SAKKE).
###### ### Annex A: Gap Analyses for future features
# A.1 Introduction
This annex provides text for a gap analyses of those features documented in
3GPP TR 22.889 [9] that are candidates for future features. The text may be
reused if needed for subsequent work on FRMCS beyond Rel-15. This annex stays
as is, i.e. no further changes are expected.
# A.2 Assured Voice Communication (AVC)
## A.2.1 Description
Voice communication link monitoring is not supported by current MCPTT / MC
service specification. To support this FRMCS specific requirement, new
procedures and functions need to be introduced.
According to 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] ([R-9.2.2 to R-9.2.4]), Assured Voice
Communication (AVC) shall provide an indication to FRMCS users as soon as a
voice communication link is interrupted. It is invoked on an existing voice
communication between two or more FRMCS users.
## A.2.2 Potential gaps
> 1\. Missing mechanism(s) to detect voice communication link interruption
> during ongoing voice communication;
>
> 2\. If a voice communication link is interrupted, indicate to the remaining
> FRMCS users of the ongoing voice communication about the loss of a
> particular FRMCS user;
>
> 3\. Missing procedures, to report voice communication interruption event to
> the FRMCS server.
# A.3 Multi-train voice communication between Drivers including Ground user(s)
## A.3.1 Description
In current MCPTT group call model, there is some support of different type of
users, but the concept of different roles (e.g. head of fire brigade) linked
with certain privileges and priorities is limited. MCPTT supports normal calls
and emergency calls, but a more general approach for supporting other call
types is not supported. Same applies for providing a list of call candidates
based on criteria like location or roles. The MCPTT ID is known by other MCPTT
clients, but additional role information (e.g. head of fire brigade) is not
provided, if not indicated by the MCPTT ID. MCPTT group communication has no
automatic location based affiliation concept, e.g. users may be allowed to
join a group based on their location, but they are not automatically put into
the group based on their location.
According to 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] ([R-6.2.2 to R-6.2.3]), FRMCS system needs to,
depending on the communication application i.e. multi-train voice
communication, driver to controller voice communication or railway emergency
communication, determine and handle which communication is presented to a
FRMCS user, i.e. the priority of the communication type needs to be taken into
account.
The FRMCS system needs to determine and present an initiating FRMCS user a
list of other FRMCS user(s) that could be included in the communication. The
determination may be based on different criteria (e.g. location information,
speed and direction of travel and/or functional identities).
The FRMCS system needs to take the role (e.g. driver) of a FRMCS user into
account in order to restrict the establishment of a voice communication to
certain other FRMCS user (e.g. responsible controller).
The FRMCS system needs to provide the identities of the initiating entity
(e.g. functional identity, user identity and/or subscriber identity).
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether functional identity, user identity and/or
subscriber identity should be treated as identities or simply aliases.
The FRMCS system needs to add or remove FRMCS user from an ongoing group
communication once criteria are met or not met anymore (e.g. FRMCS user
entering or leaving a certain area) and inform all involved FRMCS users which
FRMCS user were added or removed from the group communication.
## A.3.2 Potential gaps
1\. Missing procedures to handle different roles and communication types when
initiating a voice communication (e.g. for restricting or prioritization);
2\. Missing mechanisms to guide an initiating FRMCS user with information of
other available FRMCS users when initiating a voice communication;
3\. Study whether additional mechanisms are needed to provide the identities
(e.g. functional identity) of an initiating FRMCS user to target FRMCS
user(s);
4\. Missing mechanism and procedures to add or remove FRMCS user(s) during a
voice group communication once certain criteria are met or not met anymore.
# A.4 Location management
## A.4.1 Description
Location services are supported by the MC system, and according to 3GPP TS
23.280 [4], the location management server and location management client take
the responsibility of the related handling.
According to 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] ([R-9.4.2 to R-9.4.4), since countries adopt
different positioning solutions in legacy railway systems, multiple
positioning solutions to locate an FRMCS may be supported. MC location
management functions may be reused.
Various positioning information sources to be used by the FRMCS system that
requires further enhancements on the current MC location functionality.
## A.4.2 Potential gaps
1\. Missing is the management of the different positioning sources. Evaluate
the solutions of defining new FRMCS location function or invoking MC location
functionality to satisfy FRMCS positioning requirement;
2\. Missing is the aggregation of several positioning information. Study the
enhancement on MC location service to aggregate various FRMCS positioning
information to a consolidated positioning information of a FRMCS user.
Editor\'s note: It is for FFS whether there are any impacts to the
specification when multiple positioning methods are used to determine the
location.
# A.5 FRMCS user communication handling
## A.5.1 Description
The current mission critical call model does not support a framework that
considers to permit or reject call attempts. MC services have defined a number
of call scenarios when a call arrives at a MC user, those may work for FRMCS
users too.
According to 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] ([R-9.5.3 to R-9.5.5]), FRMCS system shall
only provide invitations for communication to entitled FRMCS users (e.g. based
on called FRMCS user identity, functional identity or communication
application).
If a subsequent call request arrives at a called FRMCS user during an ongoing
communication, the FRMCS user may leave or terminate the ongoing communication
or merge the ongoing communication with the new communication. A called FRMCS
user may also reject or ignore an incoming call request.
## A.5.2 Potential gaps
> 1\. Missing procedures or system configuration to handle different roles and
> communication types when initiating a voice communication (e.g. for
> restricting or prioritization).
Editor\'s note: It is for FFS whether there are any enhancements needed to
support additional call requests during a communication or to support if a
called party can simply reject or ignore an incoming call request.
# A.6 Interworking with GSM-R
## A.6.1 Description
Interworking issues between MC system and legacy LMR system (e.g. TETRA, P25)
are studied under FS_MCCI and captured in 3GPP TR 23.782 [8] and are
considered under FS_FRMCS and captured in 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] as well. The
basic call control functions are similar between MC system and legacy LMR
system, however, in the railway scenarios, the call control model and
interworking scenario are completely different, and thus interworking between
FRMCS and GSM-R need further study.
According to 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] FRMCS system should support interworking with
GSM-R system without impacting the GSM-R system.
## A.6.2 Potential gaps
The MC service specification does not support interworking with GSM-R:
1\. Identify interworking scenarios between FRMCS and GSM-R;
2\. Impact on FRMCS system architecture to support interworking with GSM-R.
Editor\'s note: It is for FFS whether there are any impacts due to different
call models used by FRMCS and GSM-R.
# A.7 Emergency communication
## A.7.1 Description
Emergency communication is supported in MC system according to service types
(e.g. emergency voice) captured in 3GPP TS 23.379 [3], emergency video in 3GPP
TS 23.281 [5] and emergency data in 3GPP TS 23.282 [6].
Per 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] ([R-6.4.3 to R-6.4.8]), FRMCS system shall support
multiple multimedia emergency communication service types including emergency
data (e.g. alert) and emergency voice, which can be supported by enhancing
current MC emergency services.
The following issues need further study.
## A.7.2 Potential gaps
1\. Enhancements on MCData emergency service to support FRMCS alert and to
determine the target for an alert based on certain conditions (e.g. track
section);
2\. Enhancements to allow the FRMCS system to enhance the alert with
additional information (e.g. text or voice prompts) and to combine alerts, if
appropriate;
3\. Enhancements on MCPTT emergency service to support FRMCS emergency voice
in conjunction with an existing alert;
# A.8 FRMCS system security framework
## A.8.1 Description
The current mission critical system has several security related features
which can be re-used by FRMCS. The handling of stolen or lost equipment is not
part of the mission critical system.
According to 3GPP TR 22.889 [9] ([R-10.15.2]), FRMCS system needs to allow
blocking the use of any FRMCS equipment when it is detected as being stolen or
lost. If needed, the FRMCS system needs to allow unblocking of previously
blocked FRMCS equipment.
## A.8.2 Potential gaps
1\. Missing procedures to block and unblock stolen or lost FRMCS equipment.
Editor\'s note: As only LTE is considered as access technology for Rel-15, it
is FFS whether additional mechanisms beyond those already provided by the PLMN
are required.
###### ### Annex B: List of normative stage 1 requirements
# B.1 Overview
This annex provides the list of normative stage 1 requirements applicable for
the study. The requirements are grouped by functional areas. The information
provided within the annex allows a mapping of normative requirements to
solutions documented in this TR, sub clauses are referenced.
The annex shall provide an overview on the progress made and which
requirements are not yet fulfilled.
# B.2 Functional alias(es)
## B.2.1 Description
The FRMCS system is using functional alias to identify both FRMCS users and
FRMCS equipment logged into the FRMCS system and build the so-called FRMCS
role management to handle communication to railway equipment and railway
personnel.
The normative stage 1 requirements for functional aliases are documented in
3GPP TS 22.280 [10].
## B.2.2 Requirements
Table B.2.2-1 contains the list requirements to support functional aliases.
Table B.2.2-1: Requirements to support functional alias(es)
+-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Reference | Description | Solution | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-001] | If the MCX Service | subclause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | system supports | (solution FA2) | | | functional aliases, | subclause 5.3.5.1.1 | | | then the MCX Service | (solution FA5 | | | shall provide a | | | | mechanism for the MCX | | | | User to activate one | | | | or more functional | | | | alias(es). | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-002] | If the MCX Service | | | | system supports | | | | functional aliases, | | | | the MCX User shall be | | | | reachable by its | | | | functional alias(es). | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-003] | If the MCX Service | subclause 5.3.2.1.5 | | | system supports | (solution FA2) | | | functional aliases, | subclause 5.3.5.1.2 | | | then the MCX Service | (solution FA5) | | | shall provide a | | | | mechanism for the MCX | | | | User to deactivate a | | | | functional alias. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-004] | If the MCX Service | subclause 5.3.2.1.1 | | | system supports | (solution FA2) | | | functional aliases, | | | | then the MCX Service | | | | shall upon request | | | | provide the MCX User a | | | | list of functional | | | | aliases from which the | | | | user can select for | | | | activation. | | | | | | | | NOTE: The list may | | | | contain functional | | | | aliases based on a | | | | certain context, like | | | | location of the MCX | | | | User, operational | | | | schedule, etc. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-005] | If an MCX Service | subclause 5.3.3.1 | | | system supports | (solution FA3) | | | functional alias, the | | | | MCX Service shall | | | | provide a mechanism | | | | for an MCX Service | | | | Administrator to | | | | manage functional | | | | aliases, and for each | | | | functional alias | | | | indicate either if it | | | | can be simultaneously | | | | active for multiple | | | | MCX Users up to a | | | | per-alias configurable | | | | number, or if it is | | | | allowed to be taken | | | | over by an authorized | | | | MCX User, or none of | | | | these two options. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-006] | If a MCX User attempts | subclause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | to activate a | (solution FA2) | | | functional alias that | subclause 5.3.5.1.1 | | | is already active for | (solution FA5) | | | another MCX User, and | | | | not allowed to be | | | | simultaneously active | | | | for multiple MCX Users | | | | or the number of | | | | simultaneous MCX Users | | | | is reached to the | | | | upper limit, the MCX | | | | Service shall inform | | | | the MCX User that the | | | | functional alias is | | | | already in use. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-007] | If a MCX User attempts | subclause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | to activate a | (solution FA2) | | | functional alias that | subclause 5.3.5.1.1 | | | is already active for | (solution FA5) | | | at least one other MCX | | | | User, and that | | | | functional alias is | | | | allowed to be | | | | simultaneously active | | | | for multiple MCX Users | | | | and the upper limit of | | | | number of simultaneous | | | | MCX Users is not | | | | reached, the MCX | | | | Service shall activate | | | | the functional alias | | | | for the MCX user and | | | | inform all other MCX | | | | User(s) with the same | | | | functional alias. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-008] | If an authorized MCX | subclause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | User attempts to | (solution FA2) | | | activate a functional | subclause 5.3.5.1.1 | | | alias that is already | (solution FA5) | | | used by another MCX | | | | User, and that | | | | functional alias is | | | | allowed to be taken | | | | over, and is not | | | | indicated for | | | | simultaneous | | | | activation to multiple | | | | MCX Users, the MCX | | | | Service shall offer | | | | the MCX User to take | | | | over the functional | | | | alias from the MCX | | | | User using the alias. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-008a] | If an authorized MCX | sub-clause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | User attempts to | (solution FA2) | | | activate a functional | subclause 5.3.5.1.1 | | | alias that is already | (solution FA5) | | | active for at least | | | | one other MCX User, | | | | and the upper limit of | | | | number of simultaneous | | | | MCX Users is reached, | | | | the MCX Service shall | | | | reject the MCX User's | | | | request. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-009] | If an authorized MCX | subclause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | User takes over the | (solution FA2) | | | functional alias that | subclause 5.3.5.1.3 | | | is already active for | (solution FA5) | | | another MCX User, the | | | | MCX Service shall | | | | activate the | | | | functional alias to | | | | the MCX User and | | | | inform the previous | | | | MCX User that the | | | | alias has been | | | | deactivated. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-010] | If an MCX Service | subclause 5.3.2.1.4 | | | system supports | (solution FA2) | | | functional alias, the | subclause 5.3.5.1.1 | | | MCX Service shall | (solution FA5) | | | allow the MCX User to | | | | perform an activation | | | | of an unlisted | | | | functional alias. that | | | | is defined in the MCX | | | | Service system. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-011] | If an MCX Service | subclause 5.3.2.1.2 | | | system supports | (solution FA2) | | | functional alias, then | | | | an authorized MCX User | | | | shall be able to | | | | interrogate the MCX | | | | Service System of the | | | | alias(es) active for a | | | | certain MCX User. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-012] | If an MCX Service | subclause 5.3.3.1 | | | system supports | (solution FA3) | | | functional alias, the | subclause 5.3.5.1.3 | | | MCX Service shall | (solution FA5) | | | provide a mechanism | | | | for an MCX Service | | | | Administrator to | | | | authorize a MCX User | | | | to take over a | | | | functional alias. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | [R-5.9a-013] | If an MCX Service | subclause 5.3.3.1 | | | system supports | (solution FA3) | | | functional alias, the | | | | MCX Service shall | | | | provide a mechanism | | | | for an MCX Service | | | | Administrator to | | | | authorize a MCX User | | | | to interrogate the MCX | | | | Service System of the | | | | alias(es) active for a | | | | certain MCX User. | | +-----------------+------------------------+------------------------+
# B.3 Multi-talker control
## B.3.1 Description
The multi-talker control applies to designated MCPTT groups and allows several
participants talking simultaneously within the MCPTT group. When a MCPTT group
is configured for multi-talker control, the requirements listed below apply.
The normative stage 1 requirements for multi-talker control are documented in
3GPP TS 22.179 [11].
## B.3.2 General requirements
Table B.3.2-1 contains the list of general requirements applicable for multi-
talker control.
Table B.3.2-1: General requirements to support multi-talker control
* * *
Reference Description Solution [R-6.2.3.7.2-001] An MCPTT Group shall be
configurable to allow multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.5 (solution MT5)
[R-6.2.3.7.2-002] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for multiple
MCPTT Users to talk simultaneously in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-
talker control. subclause 5.2.4 (solution MT4) [R-6.2.3.7.2-003] The MCPTT
Service shall determine which Participant(s) are allowed to transmit to all
other Participant(s) in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control.
subclause 5.2.1 (solution MT1) subclause 5.2.5 (solution MT5)
[R-6.2.3.7.2-004] The MCPTT Service shall support all Participant(s) to
receive audio from all other Participant(s) that are transmitting in an MCPTT
Group configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.4 (solution MT4)
[R-6.2.3.7.2-005] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism for the MCPTT
Administrator to configure the maximum number of simultaneous talkers in an
MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.5 (solution
MT5) [R-6.2.3.7.2-006] The MCPTT Service shall allow an authorized MCPTT User
to change the maximum number of simultaneous talkers at any time during a
group call in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control. subclause
5.2.3 (solution MT3) subclause 5.2.5 (solution MT5)
* * *
## B.3.3 Requesting permission to transmit
Table B.3.3-1 contains the list of requirements for requesting a permission to
transmit.
Table B.3.3-1: Requirements to request permission to transmit
* * *
Reference Description Solution [R-6.2.3.7.3-001] The MCPTT Service shall
enable authorized Participants to request to transmit to an MCPTT Group
configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.1 (solution MT1)
[R-6.2.3.7.3-002] At call setup the MCPTT Service shall provide a
notification, for example audio and/or visual, to the MCPTT Group Member
attempting to transmit that there are no other Group Members who have
affiliated to the MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control. subclause
5.2.1 (solution MT1) [R-6.2.3.7.3-003] The MCPTT Service shall determine the
transmitting Participant(s) when there are simultaneous requests for
permission to transmit within the same call for an MCPTT Group configured for
multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.1 (solution MT1) [R-6.2.3.7.3-004]
Following an MCPTT Request for permission to transmit on the Selected MCPTT
Group configured for multi-talker control the MCPTT Service shall provide an
Affiliated MCPTT Group Member that made and was granted the request an
indication of being allowed to transmit. subclause 5.2.1 (solution MT1)
* * *
## B.3.4 Override an active MCPTT transmission
Table B.3.4-1 contains the list of requirements to support overriding of
active MCPTT transmissions.
Table B.3.4-1: Requirements to override an active MCPTT transmission
* * *
Reference Description Solution [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-001] If the number of MCPTT
Users requesting the permission to talk exceeds the maximum number of
simultaneous talkers in an MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control,
the MCPTT Service shall apply the override mechanism. subclause 5.2.2
(solution MT2) [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-002] The MCPTT Service shall enable MCPTT
Administrators to create a priority hierarchy for determining what
Participants, Participant types, and urgent transmission types shall be
granted a request to override an active MCPTT transmission on an MCPTT Group
configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.5 (solution MT5)
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-003] The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to
override an active MCPTT transmission on a group configured for multi-talker
control shall contain at least four (4) levels. subclause 5.2.5 (solution MT5)
[R-6.2.3.7.4.1-004] The transmitting Participant on an MCPTT Group configured
for multi-talker control shall be determined by the relative priorities of the
Participants and Call type based on priority (e.g. MCPTT Emergency). subclause
5.2.2 (solution MT2) [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-005] Transmission requests of Participants
with insufficient relative priority shall be rejected. subclause 5.2.2
(solution MT2) [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-006] The MCPTT Service shall provide a mechanism
for Participants, to override an active MCPTT transmission of a transmitting
Participant when the priority level of the overriding Participant or Call type
based on priority (e.g. MCPTT Emergency) are ranked higher than the priority
level of the transmitting Participant or Call type based on priority for an
MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.2 (solution
MT2) [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-007] If an authorized Participant overrides an MCPTT
transmission, the MCPTT Service shall provide a means of notifying the
overridden Participant(s) that the transmission has been overridden for an
MCPTT Group configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.2 (solution
MT2) [R-6.2.3.7.4.1-008] The MCPTT Service shall revoke the transmit
permission of the overridden transmitting Participant on an MCPTT Group
configured for multi-talker control. subclause 5.2.2 (solution MT2)
* * *
#