# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
# 1 Scope
This document establishes the Base Station minimum RF characteristics of the
FDD mode of UTRA.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329, \" Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain
\".
[2] (void)
[3] ETSI ETR 273-1-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using test
sites) and evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.942 \"RF System Scenarios\".
[5] 3GPP TS 45.004: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Modulation\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[7] ITU-R recommendation SM.328: \"Spectra and bandwidth of emissions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.104: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Base
Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
[9] ECC/DEC/(09)03 "Harmonised conditions for MFCN in the band 790-862 MHz",
30 Oct. 2009
[10] 3GPP TS 37.104: "E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**Output power:** The mean power of one carrier of the base station, delivered
to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the
transmitter.
**Rated output power:** Rated output power of the base station is the mean
power level per carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
**Maximum output Power:** The mean power level per carrier of the base station
measured at the antenna connector in a specified reference condition.
**Mean power:** When applied to a W-CDMA modulated signal this is the power
(transmitted or received) in a bandwidth of at least (1+ α) times the chip
rate of the radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be at least one
timeslot unless otherwise stated.
**Power control dynamic range:** The difference between the maximum and the
minimum transmit output power of a code channel for a specified reference
condition.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power as measured through a root raised
cosine filter with roll-off factor α and a bandwidth equal to the chip rate of
the radio access mode.
NOTE 1: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated W-CDMA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
**Code domain power:** That part of the mean power which correlates with a
particular (OVSF) code channel. The sum of all powers in the code domain
equals the mean power in a bandwidth of (1+ α) times the chip rate of the
radio access mode.
**Total power dynamic range:** The difference between the maximum and the
minimum total transmit output power for a specified reference condition.
NOTE 2: The roll-off factor α is defined in section 6.8.1.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
16QAM 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
BER Bit Error Ratio
BLER Block Error Ratio
CW Continuous Wave (unmodulated signal)
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DC-HSUPA Dual Cell HSUPA
DL Down Link (forward link)
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
FDD Frequency Division Duplexing
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
P~out~ Output Power
P~RAT~ Rated Output Power
PHS Personal Handyphone System
PPM Parts Per Million
RAT Radio Access Technology
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
SIR Signal to Interference ratio
TDD Time Division Duplexing
TPC Transmit Power Control
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UE User Equipment
UL Up Link (reverse link)
WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
# 4 General
## 4.1 Relationship between Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification 25.141 section 4 defines Test
Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test.
The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273 Part 1 sub-part 2 section 6.5.
## 4.2 Base station classes
The requirements in this specification apply to Wide Area Base Stations,
Medium Range Base Stations, Local Area Base Stations and Home Base Stations
unless otherwise stated.
Wide Area Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from Macro
Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 70 dB. The Wide
Area Base Station class has the same requirements as the base station for
General Purpose application in Release 99, 4 and 5.
Medium Range Base Stations are characterised by requirements derived from
Micro Cell scenarios with a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 53 dB.
Local Area Base Stations are **characterised by requirements derived from Pico
Cell** scenarios with **a BS to UE minimum coupling loss equals to 45 dB**.
Home Base Stations are **characterised by requirements derived from Femto
Cell** scenarios.
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements in TS 25.104 may only apply in certain regions. Table 4.1
lists all requirements that may be applied differently in different regions.
Table 4.1: List of regional requirements
* * *
**Clause number** **Requirement** **Comments**
5.2 Frequency bands Some bands may be applied regionally.
5.3 Tx-Rx Frequency Separation The requirement is applied according to what
frequency bands in Clause 5.2 that are supported by the BS.
5.4 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied according to what frequency
bands in Clause 5.2 that are supported by the BS.
6.2.1 Base station maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum
requirement for normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside
the range of conditions defined as normal.
6.6.2.1 Spectrum emission mask The mask specified may be mandatory in certain
regions. In other regions this mask may not be applied.
6.6.2.2.1 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio In Japan, the requirement
depicted in the note of Table 6.7 shall be applied.
6.6.3.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A) These requirements shall be met in
cases where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [1], are applied.
6.6.3.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) These requirements shall be met in
cases where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [1], are applied.
6.6.3.3 Co-existence with other systems in the same geographical area These
requirements may apply in geographic areas in which both UTRA FDD and GSM900,
DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD operating in another frequency band
are deployed.
6.6.3.4 Co-existence with co-located and co-sited base stations These
requirements may be applied for the protection of other BS receivers when
GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or FDD BS operating in another frequency
band are co-located with a UTRA FDD BS.
6.6.3.5 Co-existence with PHS This requirement may be applied for the
protection of PHS in geographic areas in which both PHS and UTRA FDD are
deployed.
6.6.3.6 Co-.existence with services in adjacent frequency bands This
requirement may be applied for the protection in bands adjacent to the
downlink bands as defined in clause 5.2 in geographic areas in which both an
adjacent band service and UTRA FDD are deployed.
6.6.3.7.1 Co-existence with UTRA TDD ‑\ This requirement may be applied to
geographic areas in which both UTRA-TDD and UTRA-FDD are deployed. Operation
in the same geographic area
6.6.3.7.2 Co-existence with UTRA TDD ‑\ This requirement may be applied for
the protection of UTRA-TDD BS receivers when UTRA-TDD BS and UTRA FDD BS are
co-located. Co-located base stations
6.6.3.8 Protection of public safety operations This requirement shall be
applied to BS operating in Bands XIII and XIV to ensure that appropriate
interference protection is provided to 700 MHz public safety operations.
7.4.2 Adjacent Channel Selectivity Co-location with UTRA-TDD This requirement
may be applied for the protection of UTRA-FDD BS receivers when UTRA-FDD BS
and UTRA-TDD BS are co-located.
7.5 Blocking characteristic The requirement is applied according to what
frequency bands in Clause 5.2 that are supported by the BS.
7.5.2 Blocking characteristics Co-location with GSM900, DCS 1800, PCS1900
and/or UTRA This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA FDD BS
receivers when UTRA FDD BS and GSM 900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA
BS (operating in different frequency bands) are co-located.
7.5.3 Blocking characteristics Co-location with UTRA TDD This requirement may
be applied for the protection of UTRA FDD BS receivers when UTRA FDD BS and
UTRA TDD BS are co-located.
7.6 Intermodulation characteristics The requirement is applied according to
what frequency bands in Clause 5.2 that are supported by the BS.
7.7 Spurious emissions The requirement is applied according to what frequency
bands in Clause 5.2 that are supported by the BS.
7.7.1 Additional spurious emissions requirement The requirement in Table 7.8
may be applied to geographic areas in which both UTRA-TDD and UTRA-FDD are
deployed.
                      Base station classes\*                                                            Only requirements for Wide Area (General Purpose), Medium Range and Local Area Base Stations are applicable in Japan.
* * *
Note *: Base station classes,: This regional requirement should be reviewed to
check its necessity every TSG RAN meeting.
## 4.4 Environmental requirements for the BS equipment
The BS equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class from the
relevant IEC specifications listed below
60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\"
60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\"
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 25.141.
## 4.5 Applicability of requirements
For BS that is UTRA (single-RAT) capable only, the requirements in the present
document are applicable and additional conformance to TS 37.104 [10] is
optional. For a BS additionally conforming to TS 37.104 [10], conformance to
some of the RF requirements in the present document can be demonstrated
through the corresponding requirements in TS 37.104 [10] as listed in Table
4.2.
Table 4.2: Alternative RF minimum requirements for a BS additionally
conforming to TS 37.104 [10]
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RF requirement | Clause in the | Alternative clause | | | present document | in TS 37.104 [10] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Base station output | 6.2 | 6.2.1 | | power | | | | | | 6.2.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Unwanted emissions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spectrum emission | 6.6.2.1 | 6.6.2 (except for | | mask | | 6.6.2.3 and 6.6.2.4) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmitter spurious | 6.6.3 (except for | 6.6.1 (except for | | emissions | 6.6.3.8) | 6.6.1.1.3) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmitter | 6.7.1 | 6.7.1 | | intermodulation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Narrowband blocking | 7.5.1 | 7.4.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Blocking | 7.5.1 | 7.4.1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Out-of-band blocking | 7.5.1 | 7.5.1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Co-location with | 7.5.2, 7.5.3 | 7.5.2 | | other base stations | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver spurious | 7.7.1 | 7.6.1 | | emissions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Intermodulation | 7.6.1 | 7.7.1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Narrowband | 7.6.1 | 7.7.2 | | intermodulation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 5 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The information presented in this section is based on a chip rate of 3.84
Mcps.
NOTE 1: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.
## 5.2 Frequency bands
a) UTRA/FDD is designed to operate in the following paired bands:
Table 5.0: Frequency bands
* * *
Operating Band UL Frequencies\ DL frequencies\ UE transmit, Node B receive UE
receive, Node B transmit
I 1920 - 1980 MHz 2110 -2170 MHz
II 1850 -1910 MHz 1930 -1990 MHz
III 1710-1785 MHz 1805-1880 MHz
IV 1710-1755 MHz 2110-2155 MHz
V 824 - 849MHz 869-894MHz
VI 830-840 MHz 875-885 MHz
VII 2500 - 2570 MHz 2620 - 2690 MHz
VIII 880 - 915 MHz 925 - 960 MHz
IX 1749.9 - 1784.9 MHz 1844.9 - 1879.9 MHz
X 1710-1770 MHz 2110-2170 MHz
XI 1427.9 - 1447.9 MHz 1475.9 - 1495.9 MHz
XII 699 - 716 MHz 729 - 746 MHz
XIII 777 - 787 MHz 746 - 756 MHz
XIV 788 - 798 MHz 758 - 768 MHz
XV Reserved Reserved
XVI Reserved Reserved
XVII Reserved Reserved
XVIII Reserved Reserved
XIX 830 -- 845 MHz 875 -890 MHz
XX 832 - 862 MHz 791 - 821 MHz
XXI 1447.9 - 1462.9 MHz 1495.9 - 1510.9 MHz
* * *
b) Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded
c) DB-DC-HSDPA is designed to operate in the following configurations:
Table 5.0aA: DB-DC-HSDPA configurations
* * *
DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration UL Band DL Bands 1 I or VIII I and VIII 2 II or IV
II and IV 3 I or V I and V
* * *
## 5.3 Tx-Rx frequency separation
> a) UTRA/FDD is designed to operate with the following TX-RX frequency
> separation:
Table 5.0A: Tx-Rx frequency separation
* * *
Operating Band TX-RX frequency separation I 190 MHz II 80 MHz III 95 MHz IV
400 MHz V 45 MHz VI 45 MHz VII 120 MHz VIII 45 MHz IX 95 MHz X 400 MHz XI 48
MHz XII 30 MHz XIII 31 MHz XIV 30 MHz XIX 45 MHz XX 41 MHz XXI 48 MHz
* * *
b) UTRA/FDD can support both fixed and variable transmit to receive frequency
separation.
c) The use of other transmit to receive frequency separations in existing or
other frequency bands shall not be precluded.
d) When configured to operate in DC-HSDPA with a single UL frequency, the TX-
RX frequency separation in Table 5.0A shall be applied for the serving HS-DSCH
cell. For bands XII, XIII and XIV, the TX-RX frequency separation in Table
5.0A shall be the minimum spacing between the UL and either of the DL
carriers.
e) When configured to operate on dual cells in both the DL and UL, the TX-RX
frequency separation in Table 5.0A shall be applied to the primary UL
frequency and DL frequency of the serving HS-DSCH cell, and to the secondary
UL frequency and the frequency of the secondary serving HS-DSCH cell
respectively.
f) For bands XII, XIII and XIV, the requirements in TS 25.104 are applicable
only for a single uplink carrier frequency, however dual cell uplink operation
may be considered in future releases.
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
### 5.4.1 Channel spacing
The nominal channel spacing is 5 MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that the centre
frequency must be an integer multiple of 200 kHz. In addition a number of
additional centre frequencies are specified according to table 5.1A, which
means that the centre frequencies for these channels are shifted 100 kHz
relative to the general raster.
### 5.4.3 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency
Channel Number (UARFCN). For each operating Band, the UARFCN values are
defined as follows:
Uplink: N~U~ = 5 * (F~UL~ - F~UL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~UL_low~ ≤ F~UL~ ≤ F~UL_high~
Downlink: N~D~ = 5 * (F~DL~ - F~DL_Offset~), for the carrier frequency range
F~DL_low~ ≤ F~DL~ ≤ F~DL_high~
For each operating Band, F~UL_Offset~, F~UL_low~, F~UL_high~, F~DL_Offset~,,
F~DL_low~ and F~DL_high~ are defined in Table 5.1 for the general UARFCN. For
the additional UARFCN, F~UL_Offset~, F~DL_Offset~ and the specific F~UL~ and
F~DL~ are defined in Table 5.1A.
Table 5.1: UARFCN definition (general)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | * | **D | | | | | | *Band** | _UPLINK | OWNLINK | | | | | | | (UL)__| (DL)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | tr | r | | | | | | | ansmit, | eceive, | | | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | | | receive | t | | | | | | | | ransmit | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | * | ** | * | ** | | | | |_ UARFCN | Carrier | _UARFCN | Carrier | | | | | formula | fr | formula | fr | | | | | o | equency | o | equency | | | | | ffset_ _| (F~UL~) | ffset_ _| (F~DL~) | | | | | | range | | range | | | | | * | [ | * | [ | | | | |_ F~UL_ | MHz]**| *F~DL_ | MHz]** | | | | | Offset~ | | Offset~ | | | | | | [ | | [ | | | | | | MHz]**| | MHz]** | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | **F~UL\ | * | |** F~DL\ | * | | | | _low~**| *F~UL_ | | _low~** | _F~DL_ | | | | | high~__| | | high~_ * | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | 0 | 1922.4 | 1977.6 | 0 | 2112.4 | 2167.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | II | 0 | 1852.4 | 1907.6 | 0 | 1932.4 | 1987.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | III | 1525 | 1712.4 | 1782.6 | 1575 | 1807.4 | 1877.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | IV | 1450 | 1712.4 | 1752.6 | 1805 | 2112.4 | 2152.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | V | 0 | 826.4 | 846.6 | 0 | 871.4 | 891.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VI | 0 | 832.4 | 837.6 | 0 | 877.4 | 882.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VII | 2100 | 2502.4 | 2567.6 | 2175 | 2622.4 | 2687.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VIII | 340 | 882.4 | 912.6 | 340 | 927.4 | 957.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | IX | 0 | 1752.4 | 1782.4 | 0 | 1847.4 | 1877.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | X | 1135 | 1712.4 | 1767.6 | 1490 | 2112.4 | 2167.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XI | 733 | 1430.4 | 1445.4 | 736 | 1478.4 | 1493.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XII | -22 | 701.4 | 713.6 | -37 | 731.4 | 743.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIII | 21 | 779.4 | 784.6 | -55 | 748.4 | 753.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIV | 12 | 790.4 | 795.6 | -63 | 760.4 | 765.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XIX | 770 | 832.4 | 842.6 | 735 | 877.4 | 887.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XX | -23 | 834.4 | 859.6 | -109 | 793.4 | 818.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | XXI | 1358 | 1450.4 | 1460.4 | 1326 | 1498.4 | 1508.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 5.1A: UARFCN definition (additional channels)
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Band** | UPLINK (UL) | DOWNLINK | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | UE | | | | | | transmit, | UE receive, | | | | | Node B | Node B | | | | | receive | transmit | | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **UARFCN |** Carrier | **UARFCN |** Carrier | | | formula | frequency | formula | frequency | | | offset**| [MHz]** | offset**| [MHz]** | | | | | | | | | **F~ | (F~UL~) |** F~ | (F~DL~) | | | UL_Offset~ | | DL_Offset~ | | | | [MHz]**| | [MHz]** | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | II | 1850.1 | 1852.5, | 1850.1 | 1932.5, | | | | 1857.5, | | 1937.5, | | | | 1862.5, | | 1942.5, | | | | 1867.5, | | 1947.5, | | | | 1872.5, | | 1952.5, | | | | 1877.5, | | 1957.5, | | | | 1882.5, | | 1962.5, | | | | 1887.5, | | 1967.5, | | | | 1892.5, | | 1972.5, | | | | 1897.5, | | 1977.5, | | | | 1902.5, | | 1982.5, | | | | 1907.5 | | 1987.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | III | - | - | - | - | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IV | 1380.1 | 1712.5, | 1735.1 | 2112.5, | | | | 1717.5, | | 2117.5, | | | | 1722.5, | | 2122.5, | | | | 1727.5, | | 2127.5, | | | | 1732.5, | | 2132.5, | | | | 1737.5 | | 2137.5, | | | | 1742.5, | | 2142.5, | | | | 1747.5, | | 2147.5, | | | | 1752.5 | | 2152.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | V | 670.1 | 826.5, | 670.1 | 871.5, | | | | 827.5, | | 872.5, | | | | 831.5, | | 876.5, | | | | 832.5, | | | | | | 837.5, | | 877.5, | | | | 842.5 | | 882.5, | | | | | | 887.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | VI | 670.1 | 832.5, | 670.1 | 877.5, | | | | 837.5 | | 882.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | VII | 2030.1 | 2502.5, | 2105.1 | 2622.5, | | | | 2507.5, | | 2627.5, | | | | 2512.5, | | 2632.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2517.5, | | 2637.5, | | | | 2522.5, | | 2642.5, | | | | 2527.5, | | 2647.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2532.5, | | 2652.5, | | | | 2537.5, | | 2657.5, | | | | 2542.5, | | 2662.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2547.5, | | 2667.5, | | | | 2552.5, | | 2672.5, | | | | 2557.5, | | 2677.5, | | | | | | | | | | 2562.5, | | 2682.5, | | | | 2567.5 | | 2687.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | VIII | - | - | - | - | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IX | **-** | **-** | **-** | **-** | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | X | 1075.1 | 1712.5, | 1430.1 | 2112.5, | | | | 1717.5, | | 2117.5, | | | | 1722.5, | | 2122.5, | | | | 1727.5, | | 2127.5, | | | | 1732.5, | | 2132.5, | | | | 1737.5, | | 2137.5, | | | | 1742.5, | | 2142.5, | | | | 1747.5, | | 2147.5, | | | | 1752.5, | | 2152.5, | | | | 1757.5, | | 2157.5, | | | | 1762.5, | | 2162.5, | | | | 1767.5 | | 2167.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XI | - | - | - | - | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XII | **-39.9** | **701.5, |** -54.9**|** 731.5, | | | | 706.5, | | 736.5, | | | | 707.5, | | 737.5, | | | | 712.5, | | 742.5, | | | | 713.5**| | 743.5** | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIII | 11.1 | 779.5, | -64.9 | 748.5, | | | | 784.5 | | 753.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIV | 2.1 | 790.5, | -72.9 | 760.5, | | | | 795.5 | | 765.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XIX | 755.1 | 832.5, | 720.1 | 877.5, | | | | 837.5, | | 882.5, | | | | 842.5 | | 887.5 | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XX | - | - | - | - | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | XXI | - | - | - | - | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 6 Transmitter characteristics
## 6.1 General
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in clause 6 are expressed for a
single transmitter antenna connector. In case of transmit diversity, DB-DC-
HSDPA or MIMO transmission, the requirements apply for each transmitter
antenna connector.
A BS supporting DC-HSDPA and DB-DC-HSDPA transmits two cells simultaneously. A
BS supporting DC-HSDPA transmits two cells simultaneously on adjacent carrier
frequencies.
Unless otherwise stated, the transmitter characteristics are specified at the
BS antenna connector (test port A) with a full complement of transceivers for
the configuration in normal operating conditions. If any external apparatus
such as a TX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices is used,
requirements apply at the far end antenna connector (port B).
Figure 6.1: Transmitter test ports
## 6.2 Base station output power
Output power, Pout, of the base station is the mean power of one carrier
delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the
transmitter.
Rated output power, PRAT, of the base station is the mean power level per
carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be available at the antenna
connector.
### 6.2.1 Base station maximum output power
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the base station is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector in specified reference condition.
The rated output power, PRAT, of the BS shall be as specified in Table 6.0A.
Table 6.0A: Base Station rated output power
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **BS class** | **PRAT** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Wide Area BS | - (note) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Medium Range BS | [\ Maximum code domain power: BS maximum output power - 3 dB or greater
>
> Minimum code domain power: BS maximum output power - 28 dB or less
### 6.4.3 Total power dynamic range
The total power dynamic range is the difference between the maximum and the
minimum output power for a specified reference condition.
NOTE: The upper limit of the dynamic range is the BS maximum output power. The
lower limit of the dynamic range is the lowest minimum power from the BS when
no traffic channels are activated.
#### 6.4.3.1 Minimum requirement
The downlink (DL) total power dynamic range shall be 18 dB or greater.
### 6.4.4 Primary CPICH power
Primary CPICH power is the code domain power of the Common Pilot
Channel.Primary CPICH power is indicated on the BCH. CPICH power accuracy is
defined as the maximum deviation between the Primary CPICH code domain power
indicated on the BCH and the Primary CPICH code domain power measured at the
TX antenna interface.
#### 6.4.4.1 Minimum requirement
Primary CPICH code domain power shall be within ± 2.1dB of the Primary CPICH
code domain power indicated on the BCH.
### 6.4.5 IPDL time mask
To support IPDL location method, the Node B shall interrupt all transmitted
signals in the downlink (i.e. common and dedicated channels).
The IPDL time mask specifies the limits of the BS output power during these
idle periods.
The requirement in this section shall apply to BS supporting IPDL.
#### 6.4.5.1 Minimum Requirement
The mean power measured over a period starting 27 chips after the beginning of
the IPDL period and ending 27 chips before the expiration of the IPDL period
shall be equal to or less than
BS maximum output power - 35 dB
see also Figure 6.1A.
Figure 6.1A: IPDL Time Mask
The requirement applies to all output powers within the total power dynamic
range as specified in subclause 6.4.3.
### 6.4.6 Home base station output power for adjacent channel protection
The Home BS shall be capable of adjusting the transmitter output power to
minimize the interference level on the adjacent channels licensed to other
operators in the same geographical area while optimize the Home BS coverage.
These requirements are only applicable to Home BS. The requirements in this
clause are applicable for AWGN radio propagation conditions.
The output power, Pout, of the Home BS shall be as specified in Table 6.3
under the following input conditions:
\- CPICH Êc, measured in dBm, is the code power of the Primary CPICH on one of
the adjacent channels present at the Home BS antenna connector for the CPICH
received on the adjacent channels. If Tx diversity is applied on the Primary
CPICH, CPICH Êc shall be the sum in [W] of the code powers of the Primary
CPICH transmitted from each antenna.
\- Ioh, measured in dBm, is the total received power density, including
signals and interference but excluding the own Home BS signal, present at the
Home BS antenna connector on the Home BS operating channel.
In case that both adjacent channels are licensed to other operators, the most
stringent requirement shall apply for Pout. In case the Home BS's operating
channel and both adjacent channels are licensed to the same operator, the
requirements of this clause do not apply.
The input conditions defined for the requirements in this section are
specified at the antenna connector of the Home BS. For Home BS receivers with
diversity, the requirements apply to each antenna connector separately, with
the other one(s) terminated or disabled .The requirements are otherwise
unchanged. For Home BS(s) without measurement capability, a reference antenna
with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed for converting these power levels into field
strength requirements.
Table 6.3: Home BS output power for adjacent operator channel protection
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Input Conditions | Output power, Pout | Output power, Pout | | | | | | | (without transmit | (with transmit | | | diversity or MIMO) | diversity or MIMO) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ioh > CPICH Êc + | **≤ 10 dBm**|** ≤ 7dBm**| | 43 dB** | | | | | | | | **And CPICH Êc ≥ | | | | -105dBm** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ioh ≤ CPICH Êc + |** ≤ max(8 dBm, | **≤ max(5 dBm, | | 43 dB** | min(20 dBm, CPICH Êc | min(17 dBm, CPICH Êc | | | + 100 dB))**| + 97 dB))** | | **and CPICH Êc ≥ | | | | -105dBm** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: The Home BS transmitter output power specified in Table 6.3 assumes a
Home BS reference antenna gain of 0 dBi, an target outage zone of 47dB around
the Home BS for an UE on the adjacent channel, with an allowance of 2 dB for
measurement errors, an ACIR of 33 dB, an adjacent channel UE CPICH Ec/Io
target of -18 dB and the same CPICH Êc value at the adjacent channel UE as for
the Home BS.
Note 2: For CPICH Êc \ACK) (= false ACK detection when
DTX is transmitted) shall not exceed the required error ratio for the
E~c~/N~0~ specified in Table 8.16.
Table 8.16: Performance requirements for ACK false alarm
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Propagation |** Received E~c~/N~0~ | **Required error | | condition** | (Test condition)**| ratio** | | | | | | | **For BS with Rx | | | | Diversity** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Static | -19.9 dB | \NACK or DTX) (= mis-detected when
ACK is transmitted) shall not exceed the required error ratio for the
E~c~/N~0~ specified in Table 8.17.
Table 8.17: Performance requirements for ACK mis-detection
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Propagation |** Received | **Required error | | condition** | E~c~/N~0~**| ratio** | | | | | | | **For BS with Rx | | | | Diversity** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Static | -17.3 dB | \ DPDCH | > DTCH | > Information | 12.2 | kbps | | | | > bit rate | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | | > Physical | 60 | kbps | | | | > channel | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | | > Repetition | 22 | \% | | | | > rate | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > DCCH | > Information | 2.4 | kbps | | | | > bit rate | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | | > Physical | 15 | kbps | | | | > channel | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | | > Repetition | 22 | \% | | | | > rate | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > Spreading | 64 | | | | | > factor | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > Interleaving | 20 | ms | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > Number of | 1 | | | | | > DPDCHs | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > DPCCH | > Dedicated | 6 | bits/slot | | | | > pilot | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > Power | 2 | bits/slot | | | | > control | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > TFCI | 2 | bits/slot | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | | > Spreading | 256 | | | | | > factor | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > Power ratio | -2.69 | dB | | | | > of | | | | | | > DPCCH/DPDCH | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > Amplitude | 0.7333 | | | | | > ratio of | | | | | | > DPCCH/DPDCH | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > Closed loop | OFF | | | | | > power | | | | | | > control | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > HS-DPCCH | 1 | | | | | > repetition | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > HS-DPCCH | 0 | dB | | | | > power offset | | | | | | > to DPCCH | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+ | > HS-DPCCH | 0 | symbol | | | | > timing | | | | | | > offset to | | | | | | > DPCCH | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+-----------+------+
DPDCH/DPCCH are same as 12.2kbps reference measurement channel specified in
Annex A.2.
# A.9 Summary of E-DPDCH Fixed reference channels
Table A.9
* * *
Fixed Ref Channel TTI [ms] N~INF~ SF~1~ SF~2~ SF~3~ SF~4~ N~BIN~ Coding rate
Max inf bit rate [kbps] FRC1 2 2706 4 4 0 0 3840 0.705 1353.0 FRC2 2 5412 2 2
0 0 7680 0.705 2706.0 FRC3 2 8100 2 2 4 4 11520 0.703 4050.0 FRC4 10 5076 4 0
0 0 9600 0.529 507.6 FRC5 10 9780 4 4 0 0 19200 0.509 978.0 FRC6 10 19278 2 2
0 0 38400 0.502 1927.8 FRC7 10 690 16 0 0 0 2400 0.288 69.0 FRC8 2 16218 2 2 4
4 23040 0.704 8109.0
* * *
# A.10 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 1 (FRC1)
Table A.10
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum. Inf. Bit | kbps | 1353.0 | | Rate | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TTI | ms | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 8 | | Processes | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Bit | Bits | 2706 | | Payload (N~INF~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | Bits | 3840 | | per TTI (N~BIN~)\ | | | | (3840 / SF x TTI sum | | | | for all channels) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding Rate (N~INF~/ | | 0.705 | | N~BIN~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical Channel | SF for each physical | {4,4} | | Codes | channel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPDCH testing:\ | dB\ | Diversity: 8.94\ | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | Non-diversity: | | ratio\ | dB\ | 12.04\ | | \ | dB | Diversity: 2.05\ | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | Non-diversity: 6.02 | | ratio | | | | | | E-DPDCH /DPCCH power | | | | ratio is calculated | | | | for a single | | | | E-DPDCH. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPCCH missed | dB\ | Diversity: 8.94\ | | detection testing:\ | dB\ | Non-diversity: | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | 12.04\ | | ratio\ | dB | Diversity: -1.94\ | | \ | | Non-diversity: 0.00 | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | | | ratio | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A.10
# A.11 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 2 (FRC2)
Table A.11
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum. Inf. Bit | kbps | 2706.0 | | Rate | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TTI | ms | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 8 | | Processes | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Bit | Bits | 5412 | | Payload (N~INF~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | Bits | 7680 | | per TTI (N~BIN~)\ | | | | (3840 / SF x TTI sum | | | | for all channels) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding Rate (N~INF~/ | | 0.705 | | N~BIN~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical Channel | SF for each physical | {2,2} | | Codes | channel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPDCH testing:\ | dB\ | Diversity: 9.92\ | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | Non-diversity: | | ratio\ | dB\ | 13.00\ | | \ | dB | Diversity: 4.08\ | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | Non-diversity: 6.02 | | ratio | | | | | | E-DPDCH /DPCCH power | | | | ratio is calculated | | | | for a single | | | | E-DPDCH. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A.11
# A.12 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 3 (FRC3)
Table A.12
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum. Inf. Bit | kbps | 4050.0 | | Rate | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TTI | ms | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 8 | | Processes | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Bit | Bits | 8100 | | Payload (N~INF~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | Bits | 11520 | | per TTI (N~BIN~)\ | | | | (3840 / SF x TTI sum | | | | for all channels) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding Rate (N~INF~/ | | 0.703 | | N~BIN~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical Channel | SF for each physical | {2,2,4,4} | | Codes | channel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPDCH testing:\ | dB\ | Diversity: 6.02\ | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | Non-diversity: 8.94\ | | ratio\ | dB\ | Diversity: 0.0\ | | \ | dB | Non-diversity: 2.05 | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | | | ratio | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | | | | ratio is calculated | | | | for a single E-DPDCH | | | | with SF 4 _._ The | | | | power of an E-DPDCH | | | | with SF2 is twice | | | | that of an E-DPDCH | | | | with SF4. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A.12
# A.13 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 4 (FRC4)
Table A.13
* * *
Parameter Unit Value
Maximum. Inf. Bit Rate kbps 507.6
TTI ms 10
Number of HARQ Processes Processes 4
Information Bit Payload (N~INF~) Bits 5076
Binary Channel Bits per TTI (N~BIN~)\ Bits 9600 (3840 / SF x TTI sum for all
channels)
Coding Rate (N~INF~/ N~BIN~) 0.529
Physical Channel Codes SF for each physical channel {4}
E-DPDCH testing:\ dB\ Diversity: 8.94\ E-DPDCH/DPCCH power ratio\ dB\ Non-
diversity: 12.04\ \ dB\ Diversity: -1.94\ E-DPCCH/DPCCH power ratio dB Non-
diversity: 0.0
E-DPCCH missed detection testing:\ dB\ Diversity: 8.94\ E-DPDCH/DPCCH power
ratio\ dB\ Non-diversity: 12.04\ \ dB\ Diversity: -7.96\ E-DPCCH/DPCCH power
ratio dB Non-diversity: -5.46
* * *
Figure A.13
# A.14 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 5 (FRC5)
Table A.14
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum. Inf. Bit | kbps | 978.0 | | Rate | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TTI | ms | 10 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 4 | | Processes | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Bit | Bits | 9780 | | Payload (N~INF~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | Bits | 19200 | | per TTI (N~BIN~)\ | | | | (3840 / SF x TTI sum | | | | for all channels) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding Rate (N~INF~/ | | 0.509 | | N~BIN~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical Channel | SF for each physical | {4,4} | | Codes | channel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPDCH testing:\ | dB\ | Diversity: 8.94\ | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | Non-diversity: | | ratio\ | dB\ | 12.04\ | | \ | dB | Diversity: -1.94\ | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | Non-diversity: 0.0 | | ratio | | | | | | E-DPDCH /DPCCH power | | | | ratio is calculated | | | | for a single | | | | E-DPDCH. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A.14
# A.15 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 6 (FRC6)
Table A.15
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum. Inf. Bit | kbps | 1927.8 | | Rate | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TTI | ms | 10 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 4 | | Processes | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Bit | Bits | 19278 | | Payload (N~INF~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | Bits | 38400 | | per TTI (N~BIN~)\ | | | | (3840 / SF x TTI sum | | | | for all channels) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding Rate (N~INF~/ | | 0.502 | | N~BIN~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical Channel | SF for each physical | {2,2} | | Codes | channel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPDCH testing:\ | dB\ | Diversity: 9.92\ | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | Non-diversity: | | ratio\ | dB\ | 13.00\ | | \ | dB | Diversity: -5.46\ | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | Non-diversity: -1.94 | | ratio | | | | | | E-DPDCH /DPCCH power | | | | ratio is calculated | | | | for a single | | | | E-DPDCH. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A.15
# A.16 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 7 (FRC7)
Table A.16
* * *
Parameter Unit Value
Maximum. Inf. Bit Rate kbps 69.0
TTI ms 10
Number of HARQ Processes Processes 4
Information Bit Payload (N~INF~) Bits 690
Binary Channel Bits per TTI (N~BIN~)\ Bits 2400 (3840 / SF x TTI sum for all
channels)
Coding Rate (N~INF~/ N~BIN~) 0.288
Physical Channel Codes SF for each physical channel {16}
E-DPDCH testing:\ dB\ Diversity: 6.02\ E-DPDCH/DPCCH power ratio\ dB\ Non-
diversity: 8.94\ \ dB\ Diversity: 0.0\ E-DPCCH/DPCCH power ratio dB Non-
diversity: 4.08
* * *
Figure A.16
# A.17 E-DPDCH Fixed reference channel 8 (FRC8)
Table A.17
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Modulation | | 16QAM | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum. Inf. Bit | kbps | 8109.0 | | Rate | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TTI | ms | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of HARQ | Processes | 8 | | Processes | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information Bit | Bits | 16218 | | Payload (N~INF~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Binary Channel Bits | Bits | 23040 | | per TTI (N~BIN~)\ | | | | (3840 / SF x TTI sum | | | | for all channels) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coding Rate (N~INF~/ | | 0.704 | | N~BIN~) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical Channel | SF for each physical | {2,2,4,4} | | Codes | channel | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-DPDCH testing:\ | dB\ | **Non E-DPCCH | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | dB\ | boosting** \ | | ratio\ | dB\ | Diversity: 4.09\ | | \ | dB | Non-diversity: 6.98\ | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | Diversity: -9.54\ | | ratio | dB\ | Non-diversity: -5.46 | | | dB\ | | | ΔT2TP | dB\ | **E-DPCCH Boosting** | | | dB | | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | | Diversity: 12\ | | ratio\ | dB\ | Non-diversity: 15\ | | \ | dB | Diversity: 19.99\ | | E-DPCCH/DPCCH power | | Non-diversity: | | ratio | | 22.00\ | | | | Diversity: 16.03\ | | | | Non-diversity: 14.09 | | | | | | | | E-DPDCH/DPCCH power | | | | ratio is calculated | | | | for a single E-DPDCH | | | | with SF 4 _._ The | | | | power of an E-DPDCH | | | | with SF2 is twice | | | | that of an E-DPDCH | | | | with SF4. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Figure A.17
###### ## Annex B (normative): Propagation conditions
# B.1 Static propagation condition
The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading or multi-paths exist for this
propagation model.
# B.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
Table B.1 shows propagation conditions that are used for the performance
measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have classical Doppler
spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.7777777777777777in" height="0.25in"} for f ∈ -fd, fd.
Table B.1: Propagation Conditions for Multi-path Fading Environments
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Case | Case | Case | Case | | | | | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | I, | I, | I, | I, | | | | | | II, | II, | II, | II, | | | | | | III, | III, | III, | III, | | | | | | IV, | IV, | IV, | IV, | | | | | | IX, X | IX, X | IX, X | IX, X | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3 | 3 | 120 | 250 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | V, | V, | V, | V, | | | | | | VI, | VI, | VI, | VI, | | | | | | VIII, | VIII, | VIII, | VIII, | | | | | | XIX, | XIX, | XIX, | XIX, | | | | | | XX | XX | XX | XX | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7 | 7 | 280 | 583 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | VII | VII | VII | VII | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2.3 | 2.3 | 92 | 192 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | XI, | XI, | XI, | XI, | | | | | | XXI | XXI | XXI | XXI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4.1 | 4.1 | 166 | 345 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | XII, | XII, | XII, | XII, | | | | | | XIII, | XIII, | XIII, | XIII, | | | | | | XIV | XIV | XIV | XIV | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | 8 | 320 | 668 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rel | Av | Rel | Av | Rel | Av | Rel | Av | | ative | erage | ative | erage | ative | erage | ative | erage | | Delay | Power | Delay | Power | Delay | Power | Delay | Power | | \ | \ | \ | \ | \ | \ | \ | \ | | [ns] | [dB] | [ns] | [dB] | [ns] | [dB] | [ns] | [dB] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 976 | -10 | 976 | 0 | 260 | -3 | 260 | -3 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 20000 | 0 | 521 | -6 | 521 | -6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | 781 | -9 | 781 | -9 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
NOTE 1: Speed above 250km/h is applicable to demodulation performance
requirements only.
# B.3 Moving propagation conditions
The dynamic propagation conditions for the test of the base band performance
are non-fading channel models with two taps. The moving propagation condition
has two tap, one static, Path0, and one moving, Path1. The time difference
between the two paths is according Equation (B.1). The parameters for the
equation are shown in Table B.2. The taps have equal strengths and equal
phases.
Figure B.1: The moving propagation conditions
$\text{Δτ} = B + \frac{A}{2}\left( 1 + \text{sin}(\text{Δω} \cdot t) \right)$
(B.1)
Table B.2: Parameters for moving propagation
* * *
Parameter Value A 5 μs B 1 μs ∆ω 40⋅10^-3^ s^-1^
* * *
# B.4 Birth-Death propagation conditions
The dynamic propagation conditions for the test of the baseband performance is
a non-fading propagation channel with two taps. The birth-death propagation
conditions has two taps, Path1 and Path2 which alternate between \'birth\' and
\'death\'. The positions the paths appear are randomly selected with an equal
probability rate and are shown in Figure B.2. For BS with receiver diversity,
the same path positions shall be applied to both receiver antenna connectors,
and the path switching times shall be synchronized on the two receiver antenna
connectors, but the AWGN signals applied to the two receiver antenna
connectors shall be uncorrelated.
{width="6.303472222222222in" height="1.195138888888889in"}
Figure B.2: Birth death propagation sequence
1\. Two paths, Path1 and Path2 are randomly selected from the group [-5, -4,
-3, -2, -1, 0 ,1, 2, 3, 4, 5] μs. The paths have equal magnitudes and equal
phases.
2\. After 191 ms, Path1 vanishes and reappears immediately at a new location
randomly selected from the group [-5, -4, -3, -2, -1, 0 ,1, 2, 3, 4, 5] μs but
excludes the point Path2. The magnitudes and the phases of the tap
coefficients of Path 1 and Path 2 shall remain unaltered.
3\. After an additional 191 ms, Path2 vanishes and reappears immediately at a
new location randomly selected from the group [-5, -4, -3, -2, -1, 0 ,1, 2, 3,
4, 5] μs but excludes the point Path1. The magnitudes and the phases of the
tap coefficients of Path 1 and Path 2 shall remain unaltered.
4\. The sequence in 2) and 3) is repeated.
# B.4A High speed train conditions
High speed train conditions are as follows:
> Scenario 1: Open space
>
> Scenario 2: Tunnel with leaky cable
>
> Scenario 3: Tunnel for multi-antennas
The high speed train conditions for the test of the baseband performance are 2
non fading propagation channels (scenario 1 and 3) and 1 fading propagation
channel (scenario 2) with one tap. For BS with Rx diversity defined in
scenario 1, the Doppler shift variation is the same between anttenas.
For scenario 1 and 3, Doppler shift is given by:
$f_{s}\left( t \right) = f_{d}\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right)$ (B.2)
where $f_{s}\left( t \right)$ is the Doppler shift and $f_{d}$ is the maximum
Doppler frequency. The cosine of angle $\theta\left( t \right)$is given by
$\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right) = \frac{D_{s}/2 -
\text{vt}}{\sqrt{D_{\text{min}^{2}} + \left( D_{s}/2 - \text{vt}
\right)^{2}}}$, $0 \leq t \leq D_{s}/v$ (B.3)
$\text{cos}\theta\left( t \right) = \frac{- 1\text{.}5D_{s} +
\text{vt}}{\sqrt{D_{\text{min}^{2}} + \left( - 1\text{.}5D_{s} + \text{vt}
\right)^{2}}}$, $D_{s}/v  2D_{s}/v$ (B.5)
where $D_{s}/2$ is the initial distance of the train from BS, and
$D_{\text{min}}$ is BS-Railway track distance, both in meters; $v$ is the
velocity of the train in m/s, $t$ is time in seconds.
For scenario 2, Rician fading is considered where Rician factor, _K_ is
defined as the ratio between the dominant signal power and the variant of the
other weaker signals.
Doppler shift and cosine angle is given by equation B.2 and B.3-B.5
respectively, where the required input parameters listed in table B.2A and the
resulting Doppler shift shown in Figure B.3 and B.4 are applied for all
frequency bands.
Table B.2A: Parameters for high speed train conditions
* * *
Parameter Value  
Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3 1000 m Infinity 300 m 50 m - 2 m _K_ \- 10 dB
- 350 km/h 300 km/h 300 km/h 1340 Hz 1150 Hz 1150 Hz
* * *
NOTE1: Parameters for HST conditions in table B.2A including $f_{d}$ and
Doppler shift trajectories presented on figures B.3 and B.4 were derived for
Band1.
{width="5.075in" height="3.1527777777777777in"}
Figure B.3: Doppler shift trajectory for scenario 1
{width="5.075in" height="3.1527777777777777in"}
Figure B.4: Doppler shift trajectory for scenario 3
# B.5 Multipath fading propagation conditions for E‑DPDCH and E-DPCCH
Table B.3 shows propagation conditions that are used for E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH
performance measurements in multipath fading environment. For DC-HSUPA
requirements, the fading of the signals for each cell shall be independent.
Table B.3: Propagation Conditions for Multipath Fading Environments for
E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH Performance Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ITU | ITU | ITU | ITU | | | | | | Pedes | Pedes | vehi | vehi | | | | | | trian | trian | cular | cular | | | | | | A | B | A | A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | 3km/h | 3km/h | 3 | 12 | | | | | | | | 0km/h | 0km/h | | | | | | (PA3) | (PB3) | | | | | | | | | | ( | (V | | | | | | | | VA30) | A120) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | I, | I, | I, | I, | | | | | | II, | II, | II, | II, | | | | | | III, | III, | III, | III, | | | | | | IV, | IV, | IV, | IV, | | | | | | IX, | IX, | IX, | IX, | | | | | | X\ | X\ | X\ | X\ | | | | | | 3 | 3 | 30 | 120 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | V, | V, | V, | V, | | | | | | VI, | VI, | VI, | VI, | | | | | | VIII, | VIII, | VIII, | VIII, | | | | | | XIX, | XIX, | XIX, | XIX, | | | | | | XX\ | XX\ | XX\ | XX\ | | | | | | 7 | 7 | 71 | 282 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | VII\ | VII\ | VII\ | VII\ | | | | | | 2.3 | 2.3 | 23 | 92 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | XI, | XI, | XI, | XI, | | | | | | XXI | XXI | XXI | XXI | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4.1 | 4.1 | 41 | 166 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | for | for | for | for | | | | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | | | XII, | XII, | XII, | XII, | | | | | | XIII, | XIII, | XIII, | XIII, | | | | | | XIV | XIV | XIV | XIV | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8 | 8 | 80 | 320 | | | | | | km/h | km/h | km/h | km/h | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rel | Rel | Rel | Rel | Rel | Rel | Rel | Rel | | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | ative | | Delay | Mean | Delay | Mean | Delay | | Delay | | | | Power | | Power | | Mean | | Mean | | \ | \ | \ | | \ | Power | \ | Power | | [ns] | [dB] | [ns] | \ | [ns] | | [ns] | | | | | | [dB] | | \ | | \ | | | | | | | [dB] | | [dB] | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 110 | -9.7 | 200 | -0.9 | 310 | -1.0 | 310 | -1.0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 190 | -19.2 | 800 | -4.9 | 710 | -9.0 | 710 | -9.0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 410 | -22.8 | 1200 | -8.0 | 1090 | -10.0 | 1090 | -10.0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2300 | -7.8 | 1730 | -15.0 | 1730 | -15.0 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 3700 | -23.9 | 2510 | -20.0 | 2510 | -20.0 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Speed | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | | | 0km/h | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | only. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
###### ## Annex C (normative): Characteristics of the W-CDMA interference
signal
The W-CDMA interference signal shall be a DPCH containing the DPCCH and one
DPDCH. The data content for each channelization code shall be uncorrelated
with each other and to the wanted signal and spread and modulated according to
clause 4 of TS25.213 [6]. Further characteristics of DPDCH and DPCCH are
specified in table C.1.
Table C.1.: Characteristics of the W-CDMA interference signal
* * *
Channel Bit Rate Spreading Factor Channelization Code Relative Power DPDCH 240
kbps 16 4 0 dB DPCCH 15 kbps 256 0 -5.46 dB NOTE: The DPDCH and DPCCH settings
are chosen to simulate a signal with realistic Peak to Average Ratio.
* * *
###### ## Annex D (normative): Regional requirement for protection of DTT
The European Communications Committee (ECC) has adopted the "ECC Decision on
harmonised conditions for Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks operating in
the band 790-862 MHz" [9] applicable for BS operating in band XX. The decision
defines a requirement for "Out-of-block BEM baseline requirements for
'mobile/fixed communications network' (MFCN) base stations within the spectrum
allocated to the broadcasting (DTT) service", where three different cases A,
B, and C for protecting broadcasting DTT are defined. These cases can be
applied on a per-channel and/or per-region basis, i.e. for the same channel
different cases can be applied in different geographic areas (e.g. area
related to DTT coverage) and different cases can be applied to different
channels in the same geographic area.
For band XX, compliance with the regulatory requirements in Europe referenced
above can be assessed based on the manufacturer's declaration of P~EM,N~
specified in subclause 6.6.2.1, together with the deployment characteristics.
Maximum output Power in 10 MHz (P~10MHz~) is also declared by the
manufacturer. The parameters G~ant~ and N~ant~ are deployment specific
parameters related to the deployment of the BS, where G~ant~ is the antenna
gain and N~ant~ is the number of antennas.
For each channel (N) the EIRP level is calculated using: P~EIRP,N~ = P~EM,N~ +
G~ant~ + 10*log(N~ant~ ). The regulatory requirement in [9] limits the EIRP
level to the Maximum level in Table D-1 for the protection case(s) defined in
the regulation.
Table D-1: EIRP limits for protection of broadcasting (DTT) service
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case | Measurement | Condition | Maximum | Measurement | | | filter | on BS | Level | Bandwidth | | | centre | maximum | | | | | frequency | aggregate | P~ | | | | | EIRP / 10 | EIRP,N,MAX~ | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | P~E | | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A: for DTT | N*8 + 306 | P~E | 0 dBm | 8 MHz | | frequencies | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | where | | ≥ 59 dBm | | | | b | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | | roadcasting | | | | | | is | | | | | | protected | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | 36 ≤ | P~E | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | P~E | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | -- 59 dBm | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | \< 59 dBm | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | P~E | -23 dBm | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | \< 36 dBm | | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B: for DTT | N*8 + 306 | P~E | 10 dBm | 8 MHz | | frequencies | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | where | | ≥ 59 dBm | | | | b | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | | roadcasting | | | | | | is subject | | | | | | to an | | | | | | i | | | | | | ntermediate | | | | | | level of | | | | | | protection | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | 36 ≤ | P~E | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | P~E | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | -- 49 dBm | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | \< 59 dBm | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | N*8 + 306 | P~E | -13 dBm | 8 MHz | | | MHz, | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | \< 36 dBm | | | | | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C: for DTT | N*8 + 306 | N.A. | 22 dBm | 8 MHz | | frequencies | MHz, | | | | | where | | | | | | b | 21 ≤ N ≤ 60 | | | | | roadcasting | | | | | | is not | | | | | | protected | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | P~E | | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | (dBm) is | | | | | | defined by | | | | | | the | | | | | | expression | | | | | | P~E | | | | | | IRP_10MHz~ | | | | | | = P~10MHz~ | | | | | | + G~ant~ + | | | | | | 10*l | | | | | | og10(N~ant~ | | | | | | ) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#