# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the services provided by
the physical layer of UTRA to upper layers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.110: \"UMTS Access Stratum; Services and Functions\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical Layer Procedures (TDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical Layer -- Measurements (FDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.123: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(FDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical Layer -- Measurements (TDD)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels
onto physical channels (TDD)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); protocol specification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.346: \"Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast Multicast
Service (MBMS) in the Radio Access Network (RAN); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[3] and the following apply:
**E-DCH active set (FDD only):** The set of cells which carry the E-DCH for
one UE. In CELL_FACH state and Idle mode, the E-DCH active set contains the
Serving E-DCH cell only.
**Serving E-DCH cell:** Cell from which the UE receives Absolute Grants from
the Node-B scheduler. A UE has one Serving E-DCH cell.
**Serving E-DCH RLS or Serving RLS (FDD only):** Set of cells which contains
at least the Serving E-DCH cell and from which the UE can receive and combine
one Relative Grant. The UE has only one Serving E-DCH RLS.
**Non-serving E-DCH RL or Non-serving RL (FDD only):** Cell which belongs to
the E-DCH active set but does not belong to the Serving E-DCH RLS and from
which the UE can receive one Relative Grant. The UE can have zero, one or
several Non-serving E-DCH RL(s).
**Primary downlink frequency:** If a single downlink frequency is configured
for the UE, then it is the primary downlink frequency. In case more than one
downlink frequencies are configured for the UE, then the primary downlink
frequency is the frequency on which the Serving HS-DSCH cell is transmitted.
**Secondary downlink frequency:** In case more than one downlink frequencies
are configured for the UE, then the secondary downlink frequency is a
frequency on which the secondary Serving HS-DSCH cell is transmitted.
**Activated uplink frequency:** For a specific UE, an uplink frequency is said
to be activated if the UE is allowed to transmit on that frequency. The
primary uplink frequency is always activated when configured while a secondary
uplink frequency has to be activated by means of an HS-SCCH order in order to
become activated.
**Configured uplink frequency** : For a specific UE, an uplink frequency is
said to be configured if the UE has received all relevant information from
higher layers in order to perform transmission on that frequency.
**Primary uplink frequency:** If a single uplink frequency is configured for
the UE, then it is the primary uplink frequency. In case more than one uplink
frequencies are configured for the UE, then the primary uplink frequency is
the frequency on which the E-DCH corresponding to the serving E-DCH cell
associated with the serving HS-DSCH cell is transmitted. The association
between a pair of uplink and downlink frequencies is indicated by higher
layers.
**Secondary uplink frequency:** A secondary uplink frequency is a frequency on
which an E-DCH corresponding to a serving E-DCH cell associated with a
secondary serving HS-DSCH cell is transmitted. The association between a pair
of uplink and downlink frequencies is indicated by higher layers.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BCH Broadcast Channel
C- Control-
CC Call Control
CCCH Common Control Channel
CCH Control Channel
CCTrCH Coded Composite Transport Channel
CN Core Network
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DC Dedicated Control (SAP)
DCA Dynamic Channel Allocation
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DCH Dedicated Channel
DL Downlink
DRNC Drift Radio Network Controller
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
DTCH Dedicated Traffic Channel
E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel
E-DCH Enhanced DCH
E-DPCCH E-DCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel (FDD only)
E-DPDCH E-DCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel (FDD only)
E-HICH E-DCH HARQ Acknowledgement Indicator Channel
E-PUCH E-DCH Physical Uplink Channel (TDD only)
E-RGCH E-DCH Relative Grant Channel (FDD only)
E-RUCCH E-DCH Random access Uplnk Control Channel (TDD only)
E-TFC E-DCH Transport Format Combination
E-UCCH E-DCH Uplink Control Channel (3.84 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD only)
FACH Forward Link Access Channel
FCS Fame Check Sequence
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
F-DPCH Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel (FDD only)
GC General Control (SAP)
GANSS Galileo and Additional Navigation Satellite Systems
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HS-DPCCH High Speed Dedicated Physical Control CHannel
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared CHannel
HS-SCCH High Speed Shared Control CHannel
HS-SICH High Speed Shared Information CHannel
HO Handover
ITU International Telecommunication Union
kbps kilo-bits per second
L1 Layer 1 (physical layer)
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
LAC Link Access Control
LAI Location Area Identity
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MCCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Control Channel
MICH MBMS notification Indicator Channel
MM Mobility Management
MSCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Scheduling Channel
MTCH MBMS point-to-multipoint Traffic Channel
Nt Notification (SAP)
PCCH Paging Control Channel
PCH Paging Channel
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PHY Physical layer
PhyCH Physical Channels
RACH Random Access Channel
RLC Radio Link Control
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNS Radio Network Subsystem
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identity
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SDU Service Data Unit
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SRNS Serving Radio Network Subsystem
SS Synchronisation Shift
TCH Traffic Channel
TDD Time Division Duplex
TFCI Transport Format Combination Indicator
TFI Transport Format Indicator
TFRI Transport Format and Resource Indicator
TMSI Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity
TPC Transmit Power Control
TSN Transmission Sequence Number
U- User-
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
URA UTRAN Registration Area
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Interfaces to the physical layer
The physical layer (layer 1) is the lowest layer in the OSI Reference Model
and it supports all functions required for the transmission of bit streams on
the physical medium.
The physical layer interfaces the Medium Access Control (MAC) Layer and the
Radio Resource Control (RRC) Layer as depicted in figure 1.
{width="5.551388888888889in" height="2.125in"}
Figure 1: Interfaces with the Physical Layer
## 4.1 Interface to MAC
The physical layer interfaces the MAC entity of layer 2. Communication between
the Physical Layer and MAC is in an abstract way performed by means of
PHY‑primitives defined which do not constrain implementations.
NOTE: The terms physical layer and layer 1, will be used synonymously in this
description.
The PHY‑primitives exchanged between the physical layer and the data link
layer provide the following functions:
\- transfer of transport blocks over the radio interface;
\- indicate the status of the layer 1 to layer 2.
## 4.2 Interface to RRC
The physical layer interfaces the RRC entity of layer 3 in the UE and in the
network.
Communication is performed in an abstract way by means of CPHY‑primitives.
They do not constrain implementations.
The CPHY‑primitives exchanged between the physical layer and the Network layer
provide the following function:
\- control of the configuration of the physical layer.
The currently identified exchange of information across that interface has
only a local significance to the UE or Network.
# 5 Services and functions of the physical layer
## 5.1 General
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of transport channels via the MAC sub-
layer. The characteristics of a transport channel are defined by its transport
format (or format set), specifying the physical layer processing to be applied
to the transport channel in question, such as convolutional channel coding and
interleaving, and any service-specific rate matching as needed.
The physical layer operates exactly according to the L1 radio frame timing. A
transport block is defined as the data accepted by the physical layer to be
jointly CRC protected. The transmission block timing is then tied exactly to
the TTI timing, e.g. every transmission block is generated precisely every
TTI.
A UE can set up multiple transport channels simultaneously, each having own
transport characteristics (e.g. offering different error correction
capability). Each transport channel can be used for information stream
transfer of one radio bearer or for layer 2 and higher layer signalling
messages.
The multiplexing of transport channels onto the same or different physical
channels is carried out by L1. Except for HS-DSCH and E-DCH the Transport
Format Combination Indication field (TFCI) shall uniquely identify the
transport format used by each transport channel of the Coded Composite
Transport Channel within the current radio frame.
In case of HS-DSCH the identification of the transport format and
channelisation codes is realised with the Transport Format and Resource
Indication field (TFRI) on an associated shared control channel.
In case of FDD E-DCH the identification of the transport format is realised
with the E-DCH Transport Format Combination Indication field (E-TFCI) on a
associated dedicated control channel.
In the case of TDD E-DCH the identification of the transport format is
realised with the E-DCH Transport Format Combination Indication field (E-TFCI)
multiplexed onto E-PUCH.
## 5.2 Overview of L1 functions
The physical layer performs the following main functions:
\- FEC encoding/decoding of transport channels;
\- measurements and indication to higher layers (e.g. FER, SIR, interference
power, transmission power, etc...);
\- macrodiversity distribution/combining and soft handover execution;
\- error detection on transport channels;
\- multiplexing of transport channels and demultiplexing of coded composite
transport channels;
\- rate matching;
\- mapping of coded composite transport channels on physical channels;
\- modulation and spreading/demodulation and despreading of physical channels;
\- frequency and time (chip, bit, slot, frame) synchronisation;
\- closed-loop power control;
\- power weighting and combining of physical channels;
\- RF processing;
\- support of Uplink Synchronisation as defined in [5] (TDD only);
\- timing advance on uplink channels (TDD only).
## 5.3 L1 interactions with L2 retransmission functionality
Provided that the RLC PDUs are mapped one-to-one onto the Transport Blocks,
Error indication may be provided by L1 to L2. For that purpose, the L1 CRC can
be used for individual error indication of each RLC PDU.
The L1 CRC may serve multiple purposes:
\- error indication for uplink macro diversity selection combining (L1);
\- error indication for each erroneous Transport Block in transparent and
unacknowledged mode RLC;
\- quality indication;
\- error indication for each erroneous Transport Block in acknowledged mode
RLC.
Regardless of the result of the CRC check, all Transport Blocks are delivered
to L2 along with the associated error indications for transport channel other
than HS-DSCH and E-DCH. In case of HS-DSCH and E-DCH an error indication is
provided to L2 in case of CRC failure.
In case of HS-DSCH and E-DCH retransmissions of Transport Blocks may be
requested before transport blocks are delivered to L2.
# 6 Model of physical layer of the UE
## 6.1 Uplink models
Figure 2 shows models of the UE\'s physical layer in the uplink for both FDD
and TDD mode. It shows the models for DCH, RACH, E-DCH, and USCH (TDD only).
Some restriction exist for the use of different types of transport channel at
the same time, these restrictions are described in the clause \"UE
Simultaneous Physical Channel combinations\". More details can be found in [3]
and [4].
NOTE 1: USCH is for TDD only.
Figure 2: Model of the UE\'s physical layer -- uplink
The DCH model shows that one or several DCHs can be processed and multiplexed
together by the same coding and multiplexing unit. The detailed functions of
the coding and multiplexing unit are not defined in the present document but
in [3] and [4]. The single output data stream from the coding and multiplexing
unit is denoted _Coded Composite Transport Channel (CCTrCH)_.
The bits on a CCTrCH Data Stream can be mapped on the same Physical Channel
and should have the same C/I requirement.
On the downlink, multiple CCTrCH can be used simultaneously with one UE. In
the case of FDD, only one fast power control loop is necessary for these
different CCtrCH, but the different CCtrCH can have different C/I requirements
to provide different QoS on the mapped Transport Channels. In the case of TDD,
different power control loops can be applied for different CCTrCH. One
physical channel can only have bits coming from the same CCTrCH.
On the uplink and in the case of FDD, when E-DCH is not configured, only one
CCTrCH can be used simultaneously. On the uplink and in the case of TDD,
multiple CCTrCH can be used simultaneously.
On the uplink and in case of FDD, two CCTrCHs are used simultaneously when the
E-DCH Transport Channel is configured.
When multiple CCTrCH are used by one UE, one or several TFCI can be used, but
each CCTrCH has only zero or one corresponding TFCI. In the case of FDD, these
different words are mapped on the same DPCCH. In the case of TDD, these
different TFCIs can be mapped on different DPCH.
The data stream of the CCTrCH is fed to a data demultiplexing/splitting unit
that demultiplexes/splits the CCTrCH\'s data stream onto one or several
_Physical Channel Data Streams_.
The current configuration of the coding and multiplexing unit is either
signalled to, or optionally blindly detected by, the network for each 10 ms
frame. If the configuration is signalled, it is represented by the _Transport
Format Combination Indicator (TFCI)_ bits. Note that the TFCI signalling only
consists of pointing out the current transport format combination within the
already configured transport format combination set. In the uplink there is
only one TFCI representing the current transport formats on all DCHs of one
CCTrCH simultaneously. In FDD mode, the physical channel data stream carrying
the TFCI is mapped onto the physical channel carrying the power control bits
and the pilot. In TDD mode the TFCI is time multiplexed onto the same physical
channel(s) as the DCHs. The exact locations and coding of the TFCI are
signalled by higher layers.
The DCH and USCH have the possibility to perform Timing Advance in TDD mode.
The model for the RACH case shows that RACH is a common type transport channel
in the uplink. RACHs are always mapped one-to-one onto physical channels
(PRACHs), i.e. there is no physical layer multiplexing of RACHs, and there can
only be one RACH TrCH and no other TrCH in a RACH CCTrCH. Service multiplexing
is handled by the MAC layer. In one cell several RACHs/PRACHs may be
configured. If more than one PRACH is configured in a cell, the UE performs
PRACH selection as specified in [4].
In FDD, the RACHs mapped to the PRACHs may all employ the same Transport
Format and Transport Format Combination Sets, respectively. It is however also
possible that individual RACH Transport Format Sets are applied on each
available RACH/PRACH.
In TDD, there is no TFCI transmitted in the burst, and therefore each RACH is
configured with a single transport format within its TFS. The RACHs mapped to
the PRACHs may all employ the same Transport Format. It is however also
possible that individual RACH Transport Formats are applied on each available
RACH/PRACH combination.
The available pairs of RACH and PRACHs and their parameters are indicated in
system information. In FDD mode, the various PRACHs are distinguished either
by employing different preamble scrambling codes, or by using a common
scrambling code but distinct (non-overlapping) partitions of available
signatures and available subchannels. In TDD mode, the various PRACHs are
distinguished either by employing different timeslots, or by using a common
timeslot but distinct (non-overlapping) partitions of available channelisation
codes and available subchannels. Examples of RACH/PRACH configurations are
given in [6].
In FDD in case of a configured HS-DSCH in CELL_DCH state, one physical channel
(HS-DPCCH) is configured for the reporting of HS-DSCH transport block
acknowledgement / negative acknowledgement and channel quality indicator. The
HS-DPCCH is only configured on the primary uplink frequency. When MIMO mode is
configured, the HS-DPCCH also carries precoding control information.
In TDD in case of a configured HS-DSCH a shared physical channel (HS-SICH) is
configured for the reporting of HS-DSCH transport block acknowledgement /
negative acknowledgement, channel quality indicator and transmit power control
symbols.
In FDD in case of a configured HS-DSCH reception in CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH or
URA_PCH states there is neither acknowledgement / negative acknowledgement nor
channel quality indicator. Therefore, no physical channel (HS-DPCCH) is
configured.
If the E-DCH is applicable, there can only be one E-DCH TrCH and no other TrCH
in an E-DCH CCTrCH per activated uplink frequency. For FDD, the E-DCH CCTrCH
is carried on E-DPDCH(s) physical channel(s). E-DCH TFCI and E-DCH HARQ
information are carried on an E-DPCCH physical channel. For FDD, a single bit
is transmitted on the E-DPCCH physical channel per activated uplink frequency
to indicate whether the UE could use more resources or not. For TDD, the E-DCH
is carried on the E-PUCH physical channel(s). The E-PUCH also carries E-UCCH
(E-DCH TFCI and E-DCH HARQ information).
In FDD mode and CELL_DCH state when Dual Cell E-DCH operation is configured,
one E-DCH transport channel is transmitted on each activated uplink frequency.
Each E-DCH transport channel has its own associated uplink signalling.
## 6.2 Downlink models
Figure 3 and figure 4 show the model of the UE\'s physical layer for the
downlink in FDD and TDD mode, respectively. Note that there is a different
model for each transport channel type.
{width="6.467361111111111in" height="3.520138888888889in"}
Figure 3: Model of the UE\'s physical layer - downlink FDD mode
Figure 4: Model of the UE\'s physical layer - downlink TDD mode
For the DCH case, the mapping between DCHs and physical channel data streams
works in the same way as for the uplink. Note however, that the number of
DCHs, the coding and multiplexing etc. may be different in uplink and
downlink.
In the FDD mode, the differences are mainly due to the soft and softer
handover. Further, the pilot, TPC bits and TFCI are time multiplexed onto the
same physical channel(s) as the DCHs, in case of HS-DSCH(s) without a DCH in
the DL TPC bits are carried onto F-DPCH(s). Further, the definition of
physical channel data stream is somewhat different from the uplink. In TDD
mode the TFCI is time multiplexed onto the same physical channel(s) as the
DCHs. The exact locations and coding of the TFCI are signalled by higher
layers.
Note that it is logically one and the same physical data stream in the active
set of cells, even though physically there is one stream for each cell. The
same processing and multiplexing is done in each cell. The only difference
between the cells is the actual codes, and these codes correspond to the same
spreading factor.
The physical channels carrying the same physical channel data stream are
combined in the UE receiver, excluding the pilot, and in some cases the TPC
bits. TPC bits received on certain physical channels may be combined provided
that UTRAN has informed the UE that the TPC information on these channels is
identical.
A PCH and one or several FACH can be encoded and multiplexed together forming
a CCTrCH. Similarly as in the DCH model there is one TFCI for each CCTrCH for
indication of the transport formats used on each PCH and FACH. The PCH is
associated with a separate physical channel carrying page indicators (PIs)
which are used to trigger UE reception of the physical channel that carries
PCH. A FACH or a PCH can also be individually mapped onto a separate physical
channel. The BCH is always mapped onto one physical channel without any
multiplexing with other transport channels, and there can only be one BCH TrCH
and no other TrCH in a BCH CCTrCH.
For point-to-multipoint transmission [14], FACH can be distributed on a set of
physical layer combinable CCTrCHs, i.e., for macro-diversity combining: soft
combining (FDD and TDD) or transport channel combining (TDD only). The
physical layer combinable CCTrCHs shall have the same TFC during the TTIs in
which soft combining can be used. The physical layer combinable CCTrCHs need
not have the same TFC during the TTIs in which transport channel combining can
be used. The possibility of performing macro-diversity combining (either soft
combining or transport channel combining) shall be signalled to the UE.
In the TDD mode a CCTrCh carrying PCH and one or several FACH can be
multiplexed onto one or several physical channel data streams.
For each HS-DSCH TTI, each HS-SCCH carries HS-DSCH-related downlink signalling
for one UE when in CELL_DCH state, or in FDD and 1.28Mcps TDD mode for one UE
or multiple UEs in CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH or URA_PCH state. The following
information is carried on the HS-SCCH:
\- Transport Format and Resource Indicator (TFRI);
\- Hybrid-ARQ-related Information (HARQ information);
\- UE Identity via a UE specific CRC;
\- HS-SCCH Cyclic Sequence Number (HCSN) for TDD.
In addition, for the case of 1.28 Mcps TDD, the HS-SCCH also carries Transmit
Power Control and Synchronisation Shift symbols.
In FDD mode and CELL_DCH state when MIMO mode is configured, single stream and
dual stream transmission of HS-DSCH can be performed for each HS-DSCH TTI in
the Serving HS-DSCH cell. In case of dual stream transmission two HS-DSCHs are
transmitted to UE and the HS-SCCH includes information for both HS-DSCHs. When
UE is configured into Dual Cell HSDPA operation, one HS-DSCH transport channel
is transmitted on each configured downlink frequency. Each of these HS-DSCH
transport channels has its own associated uplink and downlink signalling, and
own HARQ entity. When UE is configured into Dual Band HSDPA operation, single
stream transmission of HS-DSCH is performed for each HS-DSCH TTI on each
configured downlink frequency. When UE is configured to operate in Dual Cell
HSDPA and MIMO mode, either or both of the HS-DSCH serving cells can be
configured with MIMO operation, i.e. depending on the configuration up to four
HS-DSCHs can be transmitted to UE per HS-DSCH TTI.
In TDD mode, HS-DSCH operation is supported without an associated DL DPCH.
In FDD mode, if the UE is in CELL_DCH state, the E-DCH active set can be
identical or a subset of the DCH active set. If the UE is in CELL_FACH state
or Idle mode, the UE's E-DCH active set consists of a single serving cell. If
Dual Cell E-DCH operation is configured in CELL_DCH state, DCH is not
supported in uplink and downlink. The active set and E-DCH active set on both
uplink frequencies are independent, but the Serving E-DCH cells in both E-DCH
active sets belong to the same Node B. On secondary uplink frequency the
active set and E-DCH active set have the same size.
For FDD: The E-DCH ACK/NACKs are transmitted by each cell of the E-DCH active
set on a physical channel called E-HICH. The E-HICHs of the cells belonging to
the same RLS (same MAC-e entity i.e. same Node B) shall have the same content
and be combined by the UE. The set of cells transmitting identical ACK/NACK
information is the same as the set of cells sending identical TPC bits
(excluding the cells which are not in the E-DCH active set).
For 3.84 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD: The E-DCH ACK/NACKs are transmitted via the
current serving cell on a physical channel called the E-HICH.
For 1.28 Mcps TDD: The E-DCH ACK/NACK is transmitted via the current serving
cell on the E-HICH indicated on E-AGCH.
The E-DCH Absolute Grant is transmitted by a single cell, the Serving E-DCH
cell (Cell e~s~ on figure 4) on a physical channel called E-AGCH. The Serving
E-DCH cell and the HS-DSCH Serving cell are identical.
The E-DCH Relative Grants (FDD only) can be transmitted by each cell of the
E-DCH active set on a physical channel called E-RGCH. The E-RGCHs of the cells
belonging to the same serving E-DCH RLS shall have the same content and be
combined by the UE. There is one Serving E-DCH RLS (containing the Serving
E-DCH cell) and optionally one or several Non-serving E-DCH RL(s).
In FDD mode and CELL_DCH state when Dual Cell E-DCH operation is configured,
for each activated uplink frequency the F-DPCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH and E-HICH are
transmitted on the corresponding downlink frequency. The E-DCH Absolute Grant
and E-DCH Relative Grants are provided per uplink frequency.
# 7 Formats and configurations for L1 data transfer
## 7.1 General concepts about Transport Channels
Layer 2 is responsible for the mapping of data onto L1 via the L1/L2 interface
that is formed by the transport channels. In order to describe how the mapping
is performed and how it is controlled, some definitions and terms are
required. The required definitions are given in the following subclauses. Note
that the definitions are generic for all transport channel types, i.e. not
only for DCHs.
All Transport Channels are defined as unidirectional (i.e. uplink or
downlink). This means that a UE can have simultaneously (depending on the
services and the state of the UE) one or several transport channels in the
downlink, and one or more Transport Channel in the uplink.
### 7.1.1 Transport Block
This is the basic unit exchanged between L1 and MAC, for L1 processing.
Layer 1 adds a CRC for each Transport Block.
### 7.1.2 Transport Block Set
This is defined as a set of Transport Blocks, which are exchanged between L1
and MAC at the same time instance using the same transport channel.
In case of HS-DSCH and E-DCH the Transport Block Set consists of one Transport
Block only.
### 7.1.3 Transport Block Size
This is defined as the number of bits in a Transport Block. The Transport
Block Size is always fixed within a given Transport Block Set, i.e. all
Transport Blocks within a Transport Block Set are equally sized.
### 7.1.4 Transport Block Set Size
This is defined as the number of bits in a Transport Block Set.
### 7.1.5 Transmission Time Interval
This is defined as the inter-arrival time of Transport Block Sets, and is
equal to the periodicity at which a Transport Block Set is transferred by the
physical layer on the radio interface. It is always a multiple of the minimum
interleaving period (e.g. 10ms, the length of one Radio Frame). The MAC
delivers one Transport Block Set to the physical layer every TTI.
Figure 6 shows an example where Transport Block Sets, at certain time
instances, are exchanged between MAC and L1 via three parallel transport
channels. Each Transport Block Set consists of a number of Transport Blocks.
The Transmission Time Interval, i.e. the time between consecutive deliveries
of data between MAC and L1, is also illustrated.
Figure 6: Exchange of data between MAC and L1
### 7.1.6 Transport Format
This subclause applies to transport channel types other than HS-DSCH and
E-DCH.
This is defined as a format offered by L1 to MAC (and vice versa) for the
delivery of a Transport Block Set during a Transmission Time Interval on a
Transport Channel. The Transport Format constitutes of two parts -- one
_dynamic_ part and one _semi-static_ part.
Attributes of the dynamic part are:
\- Transport Block Size;
\- Transport Block Set Size;
\- Transmission Time Interval (optional dynamic attribute for TDD only);
Attributes of the semi-static part are:
\- Transmission Time Interval (mandatory for FDD, optional for the dynamic
part of TDD NRT bearers);
\- error protection scheme to apply:
\- type of error protection, turbo code, convolutional code or no channel
coding (TDD only);
\- coding rate;
\- static rate matching parameter;
\- size of CRC.
In the following example, the Transmission Time Interval is seen as a semi-
static part.
EXAMPLE:\ Dynamic part: {320 bits, 640 bits}, Semi-static part: {10ms,
convolutional coding only, static rate matching parameter = 1}.
An empty Transport Format is defined as a Transport Format that has Block Set
Size equal to zero.
For the two realisations of an empty Transport Format, see clause 11.
### 7.1.6a Transport Format for HS-DSCH
This is defined as a format offered by L1 to MAC (and vice versa) for the
delivery of a transport block during a Transmission Time Interval on a
Transport Channel. The Transport Format consists of three parts -- one
_dynamic_ part, one _semi-static_ part and one _static_ part.
The Transport Format for HS-DSCH is always explicitly signalled. There is no
support of blind transport format detection.
Attributes of the dynamic part are:
\- Transport block size (same as Transport block set size);
\- Redundancy version/Constellation;
\- Modulation scheme.
Attributes of the semi-static part are:
\- no semi-static attributes are defined.
Attributes of the static part are:
\- Transmission time interval. The Transmission time interval is fixed to 2ms
in FDD, 10ms in 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD and 5ms in 1.28 Mcps TDD.
\- error protection scheme to apply:
\- type of error protection is turbo coding;
\- coding rate is 1/3;
\- size of CRC is 24 bits.
### 7.1.7 Transport Format for E-DCH
This is defined as a format offered by L1 to MAC (and vice versa) for the
delivery of a transport block during a Transmission Time Interval on a
Transport Channel. The Transport Format consists of three parts -- one
_dynamic_ part, one _semi-static_ part and one _static_ part.
The Transport Format for E-DCH is always explicitly signalled. There is no
support of blind transport format detection.
Attributes of the dynamic part are:
\- Transport block size (same as Transport block set size);
\- Redundancy version;
Attributes of the semi-static part are:
\- Transmission Time Interval. For FDD, both Transmission time interval of 2ms
and 10 ms are supported; for 3.84 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD only a Transmission
time interval of 10 ms is supported, for 1.28 Mcps TDD only a transmission
time interval of 5 ms is supported.
Attributes of the static part are:
\- error protection scheme to apply:
\- type of error protection is turbo coding;
\- coding rate is 1/3;
\- size of CRC is 24 bits.7.1.
### 7.1.7a Transport Format Set
This is defined as the set of Transport Formats associated to a Transport
Channel.
The semi-static parts of all Transport Formats are the same within a Transport
Format Set.
Effectively the Transport Block Size and Transport Block Set Size form the
instantaneous bit rate on the Transport Channel. Variable bit rate on a
Transport Channel may, depending on the type of service, which is mapped onto
the transport channel, be achieved by changing between each Transmission Time
Interval one of the following:
1\. the Transport Block Set Size only (not applicable for HS-DSCH and E-DCH);
2\. both the Transport Block Size and the Transport Block Set Size
Example 1 for DCHs:
\- dynamic part: {20 bits, 20 bits}; {40 bits, 40 bits}; {80 bits, 80 bits};
{160 bits, 160 bits}.
\- Semi-static part: {10ms, Convolutional coding only, static rate matching
parameter = 1}
Example 2 for DCHs:
\- dynamic part: {320 bits, 320 bits}; {320 bits, 640 bits}; {320 bits, 1 280
bits}.
\- Semi-static part: {10ms, Convolutional coding only, static rate matching
parameter = 2}.
Example 3 for HS-DSCH:
\- dynamic part: {320 bits, 320 bits, Redundancy version 1, QPSK}; {640, 640,
Redundancy version 1, QPSK}; {1280, 1280, Redundancy version 2, 16QAM}.
\- static part: See subclause 7.1.6a.
Example 4 for E-DCH:
\- dynamic part: {320 bits, 320 bits, Redundancy version 0}; {320 bits, 320
bits, Redundancy version 1}; {640, 640, Redundancy version 0 }; {640, 640,
Redundancy version 1 };
\- Semi-static part: {10ms}.
\- static part: See subclause 7.1.7.
The first example may correspond to a Transport Channel carrying a speech
service, requiring blocks delivered on a constant time basis. In the second
example, which illustrates the situation where a non-real time service is
carried by the Transport Channel, the number of blocks delivered per
Transmission Time Interval varies between the different Transport Formats
within the Transport Format Set. Referring to figure 6, the Transport Block
Size is varied on DCH1 and DCH2. That is, a Transport Format Set where the
dynamic part has a variable Transport Block Size has been assigned for DCH1.
On DCH3 it is instead only the Transport Block Set Size that is varied. That
is, the dynamic parts of the corresponding Transport Format Sets only include
variable Transport Block Set Sizes.
### 7.1.8 Transport Format Combination
The layer 1 multiplexes one or several Transport Channels, and for each
Transport Channel, there exists a list of transport formats (Transport Format
Set) which are applicable. Nevertheless, at a given point of time, not all
combinations may be submitted to layer 1 but only a subset, the Transport
Format Combination. This is defined as an authorised combination of the
combination of currently valid Transport Formats that can be submitted
simultaneously to the layer 1 for transmission on a Coded Composite Transport
Channel of a UE, i.e. containing one Transport Format from each Transport
Channel.
EXAMPLE:
DCH1:\ Dynamic part: {20 bits, 20 bits}, Semi-static part: {10ms,
Convolutional coding only, static rate matching parameter = 2};
DCH2:\ Dynamic part: {320 bits, 1 280 bits}, Semi-static part: {10ms,
Convolutional coding only, static rate matching parameter = 3};
DCH3:\ Dynamic part: {320 bits, 320 bits}, Semi-static part: {40ms, Turbo
coding, static rate matching parameter = 2}.
An empty Transport Format Combination is defined as a Transport Format
Combination that is only made up of empty Transport Formats.
### 7.1.9 Transport Format Combination Set
This is defined as a set of Transport Format Combinations on a Coded Composite
Transport Channel.
EXAMPLE for DCHs:
\- dynamic part:
\- combination 1: DCH1: {20 bits, 20 bits}, DCH2: {320 bits, 1280 bits}, DCH3:
{320 bits, 320 bits};
\- combination 2: DCH1: {40 bits, 40 bits}, DCH2: {320 bits, 1280 bits}, DCH3:
{320 bits, 320 bits};
\- combination 3: DCH1: {160 bits, 160 bits}, DCH2: {320 bits, 320 bits},
DCH3: {320 bits, 320 bits}
\- semi-static part:
\- DCH1: {10ms, Convolutional coding only, static rate matching parameter =
1};
\- DCH2: {10ms, Convolutional coding only, static rate matching parameter =
1};
\- DCH3: {40ms, Turbo coding, static rate matching parameter = 2}.
The Transport Format Combination Set is what is given to MAC for control.
However, the assignment of the Transport Format Combination Set is done by L3.
When mapping data onto L1, MAC chooses between the different Transport Format
Combinations given in the Transport Format Combination Set. Since it is only
the dynamic part that differ between the Transport format Combinations, it is
in fact only the dynamic part that MAC has any control over.
The semi-static part, together with the target value for the L1 closed loop
power control, correspond to the service attributes:
\- quality (e.g. BER);
\- transfer delay.
These service attributes are then offered by L1. However, it is L3 that
guarantees that the L1 services are fulfilled since it is in charge of
controlling the L1 configuration, i.e. the setting of the semi-static part of
the Transport Formats. Furthermore, L3 controls the target for the L1 closed
loop power control through the outer loop power control (which actually is a
quality control rather than a power control).
Note that a Transport Format Combination Set need not contain all possible
Transport Format Combinations that can be formed by Transport Format Sets of
the corresponding Transport Channels. It is only the allowed combinations that
are included. Thereby a maximum total bit rate of all transport channels of a
Code Composite Transport Channel can be set appropriately. That can be
achieved by only allowing Transport Format Combinations for which the included
Transport Formats (one for each Transport Channel) do not correspond to high
bit rates simultaneously.
The selection of Transport Format Combinations can be seen as a fast part of
the radio resource control. The dedication of these fast parts of the radio
resource control to MAC, close to L1, means that the flexible variable rate
scheme provided by L1 can be fully utilised. These parts of the radio resource
control should be distinguished from the slower parts, which are handled by
L3. Thereby the bit rate can be changed very fast, without any need for L3
signalling.
### 7.1.10 Transport Format Indicator (TFI)
The TFI is a label for a specific transport format within a transport format
set. It is used in the inter-layer communication between MAC and L1 each time
a transport block set is exchanged between the two layers on a transport
channel.
When the DSCH is associated with a DCH, the TFI of the DSCH also indicates the
physical channel (i.e. the channelisation code) of the DSCH that has to be
listened to by the UE.
### 7.1.11 Transport Format Combination Indicator (TFCI)
This is a representation of the current Transport Format Combination.
There is a one-to-one correspondence between a certain value of the TFCI and a
certain Transport Format Combination. The TFCI is used in order to inform the
receiving side of the currently valid Transport Format Combination, and hence
how to decode, de-multiplex and deliver the received data on the appropriate
Transport Channels. The TFCI is not used for the HS-DSCH and E-DCH.
MAC indicates the TFI to Layer 1 at each delivery of Transport Block Sets on
each Transport Channel. Layer 1 then builds the TFCI from the TFIs of all
parallel transport channels of the UE , processes the Transport Blocks
appropriately and appends the TFCI to the physical control signalling. Through
the detection of the TFCI the receiving side is able to identify the Transport
Format Combination. For FDD, in case of limited Transport Format Combination
Sets the TFCI signalling may be omitted, instead relying on blind detection.
Nevertheless, from the assigned Transport Format Combinations, the receiving
side has all information it needs in order to decode the information and
transfer it to MAC on the appropriate Transport Channels.
The multiplexing and exact rate matching patterns follow predefined rules and
may therefore be derived (given the Transport Format Combinations) by
transmitter and receiver without signalling over the radio interface.
When the meaning of the TFCI field needs to be reconfigured, two procedures
can be used depending on the level of reconfiguration:
\- **complete reconfiguration of TFCI:** in this procedure all TFCI values are
reinitialised and new values are defined instead. The complete reconfiguration
requires an explicit synchronisation between the UE and UTRAN regarding when
the reconfiguration becomes valid.
\- **incremental reconfiguration of TFCI:** in this procedures, a part of the
TFCI values before and after the reconfiguration remain identical (note that
this must be true for at least a TFCI that carry the signalling connection).
This procedure supports addition, removal or redefinition of TFCI values. This
procedure does not require an explicit execution time. This procedure may
imply the loss of some user-plane data.
### 7.1.12 Rate matching
Two levels of rate matching are defined on the radio interface:
\- a static rate matching per Transport Channel. The static rate matching is
part of the semi-static attributes of the Transport Channel. Static rate
matching is not applicable to HS-DSCH;
\- a dynamic rate matching per CCTrCH. The dynamic rate matching adjusts the
size of the physical layer data payload to the physical channel as requested
by RRC.
The static rate matching and the dynamic rate matching to be applied by the
physical layer are indicated by RRC to the physical layer.
In FDD, RRC is also responsible for configuring the physical layer on whether:
\- Blind Rate Detection or TFCI is used;
\- dynamic rate matching is applied or not on the downlink.
### 7.1.13 HARQ information
Hybrid ARQ is defined for HS-DSCH and E-DCH. For HS-DSCH with the help of the
HARQ information the UE is enabled to identify the process being used for the
transport block that is received on the HS-DSCH For FDD E-DCH the HARQ process
is derived in an implicit way. For TDD E-DCH the HARQ process identifier is
signalled via the E-UCCH. For both HS-DSCH and E-DCH the HARQ information also
includes information that indicates whether a new data block is transmitted
for the first time or a retransmission. Furthermore it is used to decode the
received data correctly. For FDD, the redundancy version is either explicitly
indicated as part of the HARQ information (for the HS-DSCH) or is derived from
the retransmission indicator (RSN) and the CFN and in case of 2ms TTI
additionally from sub-frame number (for the E-DCH). For TDD, the redundancy
version is either explicitly indicated as part of the HARQ information (for
the HS-DSCH) or is derived from the retransmission indicator (RSN).
### 7.1.14 Transport Format and Resource Indication (TFRI)
The TFRI includes information about the dynamic part of the HS-DSCH transport
format, including transport block set size and modulation scheme. The TFRI
also includes information about the set of physical channels (channelisation
codes) onto which HS-DSCH is mapped in the corresponding HS-DSCH TTI.
### 7.1.15 E-DCH Transport Format Combination Indication (E-TFCI)
The E-TFCI includes information about the transport block set size.
## 7.2 Types of Transport Channels
A general classification of transport channels is into two groups:
\- common channels; and
\- dedicated channels (where the UEs can be unambiguously identified by the
physical channel, i.e. code and frequency).
Common transport channel types are:
1\. Random Access Channel(s) (RACH) characterised by:
\- existence in uplink only;
\- limited data field;
\- collision risk;
\- open loop power control.
2\. Forward Access Channel(s) (FACH) characterised by:
\- existence in downlink only;
\- possibility to use slow power control;
\- possibility to change rate fast (each 10ms); and
\- lack of inner loop power control.
3\. Broadcast Channel (BCH) characterised by:
\- existence in downlink only;
\- low fixed bit rate; and
\- requirement to be broadcast in the entire coverage area of the cell.
4\. Paging Channel (PCH) characterised by:
\- existence in downlink only;
\- association with a physical layer signal, the Page Indicator, to support
efficient sleep mode procedures; and
\- requirement to be broadcast in the entire coverage area of the cell.
5\. Downlink Shared Channel(s) (DSCH) characterised by:
\- used in TDD only;
\- existence in downlink only;
\- possibility to use beamforming;
\- possibility to use slow power control;
\- possibility to use inner loop power control, when associated with dedicated
channel(s);
\- possibility to be broadcast in the entire cell;
\- always associated with another channel (DCH or FACH).
6\. Uplink Shared channel (USCH) characterised by:
\- used in TDD only;
\- existence in uplink only;
\- possibility to use beam forming;
\- possibility to use power control;
\- possibility to change rate fast;
\- possibility to use Uplink Synchronisation;
\- possibility to use Timing advance.
7\. High Speed Downlink Shared Channel (HS-DSCH) characterised by:
\- existence in downlink only;
\- possibility to use beamforming;
\- possibility to use MIMO;
\- for FDD, possibility to be configured into Dual Cell operation;
\- for FDD, possibility to be configured into Dual Band operation;
\- possibility of applying HARQ;
\- possibility of applying link adaptation by varying the modulation, coding
and transmit power:
\- possibility to be broadcast in the entire cell;
\- associated with a DPCH or F-DPCH (CELL_DCH state only) and one or more
shared physical control channel.
\- In FDD and 1.28Mcps TDD, in CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states
associated with one or more shared physical control channel.
8\. Dedicated Channel (E-DCH) characterised by (FDD and 1.28Mcps TDD only):
\- existing in uplink only for CELL_FACH state and Idle mode;
\- for FDD, collision risk, with collision resolution possible if E-RNTI is
allocated to the UE;
\- for 1.28Mcps TDD, E-RNTI collision risk, with collision resolution possible
in case of CCCH transmission;
\- possibility to change rate fast (each TTI) after collision resolution;
\- inner loop power control;
\- possibility of applying HARQ;
\- possibility of applying link adaptation by varying the coding and transmit
power;
\- for FDD, E-DCH is always associated with a DPCCH and one or more physical
control channel.
\- for 1.28Mcps TDD, E-DCH is always associated with uplink and downlink
physical control channels.
Dedicated transport channel type:
1\. Dedicated Channel (DCH) characterised by:
\- existing in uplink or downlink;
\- possibility to use beam forming;
\- possibility to change rate fast (each 10ms);
\- inner loop power control;
\- possibility to use timing advance in uplink (TDD only);
\- possibility to use Uplink Synchronisation.
2\. Dedicated Channel (E-DCH) characterised by:
\- existing in uplink only;
\- for FDD, possibility to be configured into Dual Cell operation;
\- possibility to change rate fast (each TTI);
\- inner loop power control;
\- possibility of applying HARQ;
\- possibility of applying link adaptation by varying the coding and transmit
power;
\- For FDD, E-DCH is always associated with a DPCCH and one or more physical
control channel.
\- For TDD, E-DCH is always associated with uplink and downlink physical
control channels.
To each transport channel, there is an associated Transport Format (for
transport channels with a fixed or slow changing rate) or an associated
Transport Format Set (for transport channels with fast changing rate).
## 7.3 Compressed Mode
Compressed Mode is defined as the mechanism whereby certain idle periods are
created in radio frames so that the UE can perform measurements during these
periods (more details can be found in [3]).
Compressed Mode is obtained by layer 2 using transport channels provided by
the layer 1 as follows:
\- compressed mode is controlled by the RRC layer, which configures the layer
2 and the physical layer;
\- the number of occurrences of compressed frames is controlled by RRC, and
can be modified by RRC signalling;
\- it is under the responsibility of the layer 2 if necessary and if possible
to either buffer some layer 2 PDUs (typically at the RLC layer for NRT
services) or to rate-adapt the data flow (similarly to GSM) so that there is
no loss of data because of compressed mode. This will be service dependent and
controlled by the RRC layer.
For measurements in compressed mode, a transmission gap pattern sequence is
defined. A transmission gap pattern sequence consists of alternating
transmission gap patterns 1 and 2, and each of these patterns in turn consists
of one or two transmission gaps. The transmission gap pattern structure,
position and repetition are defined with physical channel parameters described
in [6]. In addition, the UTRAN configures compressed mode pattern sequences
with the following parameters:
\- **TGMP:** Transmission Gap pattern sequence Measurement Purpose: This
parameter defines the purpose this transmission gap pattern sequence is
intended for. The following values are used:
\- for TDD measurements, one compressed mode pattern sequence can be
configured with purpose \'TDD measurement\',
\- for FDD measurements, one compressed mode pattern sequence can be
configured with purpose \'FDD measurement\',
\- for GSM measurements, three simultaneous compressed mode pattern sequences
can be configured with purposes \'GSM carrier RSSI measurement\', \'Initial
BSIC identification\' and \'BSIC re-confirmation\',
\- **TGPSI:** Transmission Gap Pattern Sequence Identifier selects the
compressed mode pattern sequence for which the parameters are to be set. The
range of TGPSI is [1 to \].
The UE shall support a total number of simultaneous compressed mode pattern
sequences, which is determined by the UE\'s capability to support each of the
measurement types categorised by the TGMP. For example, a UE supporting FDD
and GSM shall support four simultaneous compressed mode pattern sequences and
a UE supporting FDD and TDD shall support two simultaneous compressed mode
pattern sequences.
When using simultaneous pattern sequences, it is the responsibility of the NW
to ensure that the compressed mode gaps do not overlap and are not scheduled
to overlap the same frame. Gaps exceeding the maximum gap length shall not be
processed by the UE and shall interpreted as a faulty message. If the UE
detects overlapping gaps, it shall process the gap from the pattern sequence
having the lowest TGPSI.
# 8 UE Simultaneous Physical Channels combinations
This clause describes the requirements from the UE to send and receive on
multiple Transport Channels, which are mapped on different physical channels
simultaneously depending on the service capabilities and requirements. The
clause will describe the impacts on the support for multiple services (e.g.
speech call and SMS-CB) depending on the UE capabilities.
## 8.1 FDD Uplink
The table 1-1 describes the possible combinations of FDD physical channels
that can be supported in the uplink on the same frequency by one UE
simultaneously.
Table 1-1: FDD Uplink
* * *
      Physical Channel Combination                                     Transport Channel Combination                            Mandatory or dependent on UE radio access capabilities   Comment
1 PRACH RACH Mandatory The PRACH physical channel includes the preambles and
the message. 2 (Void)  
3 DPCCH+DPDCH One or more DCH coded into a single CCTrCH Mandatory The maximum
number of DCHs and the maximum channel bit rate are dependent on UE radio
access capabilities. 4 DPCCH+ more than one DPDCH One or more DCH coded into a
single CCTrCH Depending on UE radio access capabilities The maximum number of
DCHs and the maximum channel bit rate are dependent on UE radio access
capabilities. 5 DPCCH+one or more DPDCH+ HS-DPCCH One or more DCH coded into a
single CCTrCH Depending on UE radio access capabilities The maximum number of
DCHs and the maximum bit rate are dependent on UE radio access capabilities.
In this combination HS-DSCH(s) are configured in downlink. 6 DPCCH+one or more
DPDCH+E-DPCCH+one or more E-DPDCH One or more DCH coded into a single CCTrCH +
One E-DCH Depending on UE radio access capabilities The maximum number of DCHs
and the maximum channel bit rate are dependent on UE radio access
capabilities. 7 DPCCH+one or more DPDCH+ HS-DPCCH+E-DPCCH+ one or more E-DPDCH
One or more DCH coded into a single CCTrCH + One E-DCH Depending on UE radio
access capabilities The maximum number of DCHs and the maximum bit rate are
dependent on UE radio access capabilities. In this combination HS-DSCH(s) are
configured in downlink. 8 DPCCH+HS-DPCCH+E-DPCCH+ one or more E-DPDCH One
E-DCH Depending on UE radio access capabilities The maximum bit rate is
dependent on UE radio access capabilities. In this combination HS-DSCH(s) are
configured in downlink. 9 DPCCH+E-DPCCH+ one or more E-DPDCH One E-DCH
Depending on UE radio access capabilities The maximum bit rate is dependent on
UE radio access capabilities. In this combination HS-DSCH(s) are configured in
downlink.
* * *
The table 1-2 describes the possible combinations of FDD physical channels
that can be supported in the uplink on two configured uplink frequencies by
one UE simultaneously.
Table 1-2: FDD Uplink
* * *
Physical Channel Combination Physical Channel Combination on Primary uplink
frequency Physical Channel Combination on Secondary uplink frequency Mandatory
or dependent on UE radio access capabilities Comment A 8 9 Depending on UE
radio access capabilities In this combination HS-DSCH(s) are configured on
each corresponding downlink frequency.
* * *
## 8.2 FDD Downlink
The table 2-1 describes the possible combinations of FDD physical channels
that can be supported in the downlink on the same frequency by one UE
simultaneously.
Table 2-1: FDD Downlink
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent | | | | Combination | Combination | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | PCCPCH | BCH | Mandatory | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | SCCPCH | One or more | Mandatory | The maximum | | | | FACH | | channel bit | | | | | | rate that | | | | Or | | can be | | | | | | supported | | | | PCH | | is | | | | | | dependent | | | | Or | | on the UE | | | | | | radio | | | | one or more | | access | | | | FACH + PCH | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | The PCH is | | | | | | included | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | receive | | | | | | paging on | | | | | | the SCCPCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of (one or | | | | | | more FACH + | | | | | | PCH) is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | PCCPCH + | BCH + (one | Mandatory | S | | | SCCPCH | or more | | imultaneous | | | | FACH or PCH | | reception | | | | or (one or | | of PCCPCH | | | | more FACH + | | and SCCPCH | | | | PCH)) | | is only | | | | | | needed at | | | | | | occurrences | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | read system | | | | | | information | | | | | | on BCH | | | | | | while being | | | | | | in | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | state, i.e. | | | | | | continuous | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of both | | | | | | PCCPCH and | | | | | | SCCPCH at | | | | | | the same | | | | | | time is not | | | | | | required. | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | holds for | | | | | | PCCPCH and | | | | | | SCCPCH sent | | | | | | in | | | | | | different | | | | | | cells or in | | | | | | the same | | | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | | | | | The PCH is | | | | | | included | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | receive | | | | | | paging on | | | | | | the SCCPCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of (one or | | | | | | more FACH + | | | | | | PCH) is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | SCCPCH + | (One or | Mandatory | The maximum | | | AICH | more FACH | | channel bit | | | | or PCH or | | rate that | | | | (one or | | can be | | | | more FACH + | | supported | | | | PCH))+ RACH | | is | | | | in uplink | | dependent | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capa | | | | | | bilities _._ | | | | | | | | | | | | The PCH is | | | | | | included | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | receive | | | | | | paging on | | | | | | the SCCPCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of (one or | | | | | | more FACH + | | | | | | PCH) is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | (Void) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | More than | More than | Depending | The PCH is | | | one SCCPCH | one (one or | on UE radio | included | | | | more FACH | access | when the UE | | | | or PCH or | c | needs to | | | | (one or | apabilities | receive | | | | more FACH + | | paging on | | | | PCH)) | | the SCCPCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of (one or | | | | | | more FACH + | | | | | | PCH) is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | | | | | | | | | | | | One or more | | | | | | FACHs are | | | | | | used to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of MBMS | | | | | | (i.e., | | | | | | MCCH, MSCH | | | | | | and MTCH). | | | | | | The maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | SCCPCHs and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | includes | | | | | | the case | | | | | | where one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | MBMS FACHs | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the same | | | | | | SCCPCH as | | | | | | used for | | | | | | non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH or | | | | | | PCH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | PICH | N/A | Mandatory | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | DPCCH + | One or more | Mandatory | The maximum | | | DPDCH | DCH coded | | number of | | | | into a | | DCHs and | | | | single | | the maximum | | | | CCTrCH | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9 | DPCCH + | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | more than | DCH coded | on UE radio | number of | | | one DPDCH | into a | access | DCHs and | | | | single | c | the maximum | | | | CCTrCH | apabilities | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | (Void) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | (Void) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | (Void) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | One DPCCH + | More than | Depending | | | | more than | one DCH | on UE radio | | | | one DPDCH | coded into | access | | | | | one or more | c | | | | | CCTrCH | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | PCCPCH | BCH | Mandatory | This | | | (neighbour | (neighbour | | combination | | | cell) + | cell) + one | | is required | | | DPCCH + one | or more | | by a UE in | | | or more | DCHs | | CELL_DCH | | | DPDCH | | | state to be | | | | | | able to | | | | | | read the | | | | | | SFN of a | | | | | | n | | | | | | eighbouring | | | | | | cell and | | | | | | support | | | | | | \"SFN-CFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | and | | | | | | \"SFN-SFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | me | | | | | | asurements. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | DPCCH + one | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | or more | DCH coded | on UE radio | number of | | | DPDCH + one | into a | access | DCHs and | | | or more | single | c | the maximum | | | HS-SCCH + | CCTrCH + | apabilities | channel bit | | | zero, one | one or two | | rate are | | | or more | HS-DSCH | | dependent | | | HS-PDSCH | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | PCCPCH | BCH | Depending | This | | | (neighbour | (neighbour | on UE radio | combination | | | cell) + | cell) + one | access | is required | | | DPCCH + one | or more | c | by a UE in | | | or more | DCHs + one | apabilities | CELL_DCH | | | DPDCH + one | or two | | state to be | | | or more | HS-DSCH | | able to | | | HS-SCCH + | | | read the | | | zero, one | | | SFN of a | | | or more | | | n | | | HS-PDSCH | | | eighbouring | | | | | | cell and | | | | | | support | | | | | | \"SFN-CFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | and | | | | | | \"SFN-SFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurements | | | | | | while | | | | | | HS-DSCH(s) | | | | | | are | | | | | | configured. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17 | DPCCH + one | One or more | Depending | > The | | | or more | DCH coded | on UE radio | > maximum | | | DPDCH + one | into a | access | > number of | | | or more | single | c | > DCHs and | | | E-HICH + | CCTrCH | apabilities | > the | | | one E-AGCH | | | > maximum | | | + zero, one | | | > channel | | | or more | | | > bit rate | | | E-RGCH | | | > are | | | | | | > dependent | | | | | | > on UE | | | | | | > radio | | | | | | > access | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | > In this | | | | | | > | | | | | | combination | | | | | | > E-DCH is | | | | | | > | | | | | | configured | | | | | | > in | | | | | | > uplink. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 18 | DPCCH + one | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | or more | DCH coded | on UE radio | number of | | | DPDCH + one | into a | access | DCHs and | | | or more | single | c | the maximum | | | HS-SCCH + | CCTrCH + | apabilities | channel bit | | | zero, one | one or two | | rate are | | | or more | HS-DSCH | | dependent | | | HS-PDSCH+ | | | on UE radio | | | one or more | | | access | | | E-HICH + | | | ca | | | one E-AGCH | | | pabilities. | | | + zero, one | | | In this | | | or more | | | combination | | | E-RGCH | | | E-DCH is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in uplink. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 19 | PCCPCH | BCH | Depending | This | | | (neighbour | (neighbour | on UE radio | combination | | | cell) + | cell) + one | access | is required | | | DPCCH + one | or more | c | by a UE in | | | or more | DCHs + one | apabilities | CELL_DCH | | | DPDCH + one | or two | | state to be | | | or more | HS-DSCH | | able to | | | HS-SCCH + | | | read the | | | zero, one | | | SFN of a | | | or more | | | n | | | HS-PDSCH + | | | eighbouring | | | one or more | | | cell and | | | E-HICH + | | | support | | | E-AGCH + | | | \"SFN-CFN | | | zero, one | | | observed | | | or more | | | time | | | E-RGCH | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | and | | | | | | \"SFN-SFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurements | | | | | | while | | | | | | HS-DSCH(s) | | | | | | are | | | | | | configured. | | | | | | In this | | | | | | combination | | | | | | E-DCH is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in uplink. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | F-DPCH + | One or two | Depending | The maximum | | | one or more | HS-DSCH | on UE radio | channel bit | | | HS-SCCH + | | access | rate is | | | zero, one | | c | dependent | | | or more | | apabilities | on UE radio | | | HS-PDSCH | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 21 | PCCPCH | BCH | Depending | This | | | (neighbour | (neighbour | on UE radio | combination | | | cell) + | cell) + one | access | is required | | | F-DPCH + | or two | c | by a UE in | | | one or more | HS-DSCH | apabilities | CELL_DCH | | | HS-SCCH + | | | state to be | | | zero, one | | | able to | | | or more | | | read the | | | HS-PDSCH | | | SFN of a | | | | | | n | | | | | | eighbouring | | | | | | cell and | | | | | | support | | | | | | \"SFN-CFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | and | | | | | | \"SFN-SFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurements | | | | | | while | | | | | | HS-DSCH(s) | | | | | | are | | | | | | configured. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 22 | F-DPCH + | One or two | Depending | The maximum | | | one or more | HS-DSCH | on UE radio | channel bit | | | HS-SCCH + | | access | rate is | | | zero, one | | c | dependent | | | or more | | apabilities | on UE radio | | | HS-PDSCH+ | | | access | | | one or more | | | ca | | | E-HICH + | | | pabilities. | | | one E-AGCH | | | In this | | | + zero, one | | | combination | | | or more | | | E-DCH is | | | E-RGCH | | | configured | | | | | | in uplink. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 23 | PCCPCH | BCH | Depending | This | | | (neighbour | (neighbour | on UE radio | combination | | | cell) + | cell) + one | access | is required | | | F-DPCH + | or two | c | by a UE in | | | one or more | HS-DSCH | apabilities | CELL_DCH | | | HS-SCCH + | | | state to be | | | zero, one | | | able to | | | or more | | | read the | | | HS-PDSCH+ | | | SFN of a | | | one or more | | | n | | | E-HICH + | | | eighbouring | | | one E-AGCH | | | cell and | | | + zero, one | | | support | | | or more | | | \"SFN-CFN | | | E-RGCH | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | and | | | | | | \"SFN-SFN | | | | | | observed | | | | | | time | | | | | | d | | | | | | ifference\" | | | | | | m | | | | | | easurements | | | | | | while | | | | | | HS-DSCH(s) | | | | | | are | | | | | | configured. | | | | | | In this | | | | | | combination | | | | | | E-DCH is | | | | | | configured | | | | | | in uplink. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 24 | MICH | N/A | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 25 | MICH + PICH | N/A | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 26 | MICH + one | More than | Depending | Allowing | | | SCCPCH | one (one or | on UE radio | MBMS | | | | more FACH | access | n | | | | or PCH or | c | otification | | | | (one or | apabilities | indication | | | | more FACH + | | during | | | | PCH)) | | reception | | | | | | of non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH or | | | | | | PCH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 27 | PICH + one | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | or more | FACH | on UE radio | number of | | | SCCPCH | | access | SCCPCHs and | | | | | c | the maximum | | | | | apabilities | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 28 | PCCPCH + | BCH + one | Depending | S | | | one or more | HS-DSCH + | on UE radio | imultaneous | | | HS-SCCH + | one or more | access | reception | | | zero, one | FACH | c | of PCCPCH, | | | or more | | apabilities | SCCPCH and | | | HS-PDSCH + | | | HS-SCCH is | | | SCCPCH | | | only needed | | | | | | at | | | | | | occurrences | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | read system | | | | | | information | | | | | | on BCH | | | | | | while being | | | | | | in | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state, i.e. | | | | | | continuous | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of PCCPCH, | | | | | | and SCCPCH | | | | | | and HS-SCCH | | | | | | at the same | | | | | | time is not | | | | | | required. | | | | | | SCCPCH and | | | | | | HS-SCCH are | | | | | | to be | | | | | | detected at | | | | | | the same | | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | | | One HS-DSCH | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of BCCH, | | | | | | DCCH, DTCH, | | | | | | or PCCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel | | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of one or | | | | | | more FACH | | | | | | is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | holds for | | | | | | PCCPCH, | | | | | | SCCPCH and | | | | | | HS-SCCH | | | | | | sent in | | | | | | different | | | | | | cells or in | | | | | | the same | | | | | | cell. NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 29 | Zero, one | One HS-DSCH | Depending | One HS-DSCH | | | or more | | on UE radio | is used in | | | HS-SCCHs + | | access | CELL_FACH | | | zero, one | | c | state to | | | or more | | apabilities | enable the | | | HS-PDSCH | | | reception | | | | | | of BCCH, | | | | | | CCCH, DCCH, | | | | | | or DTCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel | | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | | | One HS-DSCH | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state to | | | | | | enable | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of BCCH, | | | | | | DCCH, DTCH | | | | | | or PCCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | One HS-DSCH | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | URA_PCH | | | | | | state to | | | | | | enable | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of PCCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is required | | | | | | by a UE in | | | | | | CELL_DCH | | | | | | state to be | | | | | | able to | | | | | | receive the | | | | | | HS-DSCH on | | | | | | the | | | | | | secondary | | | | | | DL | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 30 | One or more | One HS-DSCH | Depending | One HS-DSCH | | | HS-SCCHs + | + one or | on UE radio | is used in | | | zero, one | more FACH | access | CELL_FACH | | | or more | | c | state to | | | HS-PDSCH + | | apabilities | enable the | | | more than | | | reception | | | one SCCPCH | | | of BCCH, | | | | | | CCCH, DCCH, | | | | | | or DTCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel | | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | | | One HS-DSCH | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state to | | | | | | enable | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of BCCH, | | | | | | DCCH, DTCH | | | | | | or PCCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of (one or | | | | | | more FACH) | | | | | | is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | | | | | | | | | | | | One or more | | | | | | FACHs are | | | | | | used to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of MBMS | | | | | | (i.e., | | | | | | MCCH, MSCH | | | | | | and MTCH) | | | | | | in | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | or | | | | | | CELL_PCH | | | | | | state. The | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | SCCPCHs and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | includes | | | | | | the case | | | | | | where one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | MBMS FACHs | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the same | | | | | | SCCPCH as | | | | | | used for | | | | | | non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH. NOTE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 31 | MICH + one | One HS-DSCH | Depending | Allowing | | | or more | | on UE radio | reception | | | HS-SCCH + | | access | of MBMS | | | zero, one | | c | n | | | or more | | apabilities | otification | | | HS-PDSCH + | | | indication | | | SCCPCH | | | during | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of HS-DSCH | | | | | | in | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | state. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: When | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | HS-PDSCHs | | | | | | are | | | | | | received, | | | | | | it is | | | | | | sufficient | | | | | | for the UE | | | | | | to monitor | | | | | | only one | | | | | | HS-SCCH. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The table 2-2 describes the possible combinations of FDD physical channels
that can be supported in the downlink on two configured downlink frequencies
by one UE simultaneously.
Table 2-2: FDD Downlink
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Physical | Physical | Physical | Mandatory | Comment | | Channel | Channel | Channel | or | | | Combination | Combination | Combination | dependent | | | | on Primary | on | on UE radio | | | | downlink | | access | | | | frequency | Secondary | c | | | | | downlink | apabilities | | | | | frequency | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A1 | 15 | 29 | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A2 | 16 | 29 | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A3 | 18 | 29 | Depending | In this | | | | | on UE radio | combination | | | | | access | E-DCH is | | | | | c | configured | | | | | apabilities | on the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | to the | | | | | | primary | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A4 | 19 | 29 | Depending | In this | | | | | on UE radio | combination | | | | | access | E-DCH is | | | | | c | configured | | | | | apabilities | on the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | to the | | | | | | primary | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B1 | 20 | 29 | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B2 | 21 | 29 | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B3 | 22 | 29 | Depending | In this | | | | | on UE radio | combination | | | | | access | E-DCH is | | | | | c | configured | | | | | apabilities | on the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | to the | | | | | | primary | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B4 | 23 | 29 | Depending | In this | | | | | on UE radio | combination | | | | | access | E-DCH is | | | | | c | configured | | | | | apabilities | on the | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | to the | | | | | | primary | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C1 | 22 | 22 | Depending | In this | | | | | on UE radio | combination | | | | | access | E-DCH is | | | | | c | configured | | | | | apabilities | on each | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | C2 | 23 | 22 | Depending | In this | | | | | on UE radio | combination | | | | | access | E-DCH is | | | | | c | configured | | | | | apabilities | on each | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The table 2-3 describes the possible combinations of FDD physical channels
that can be supported on two configured downlink and uplink frequencies by one
UE simultaneously.
Table 2-3: FDD Downlink and Uplink
* * *
Physical Channel Combination Downlink frequency Uplink frequency  
**Primary** **Secondary** **Primary** **Secondary** D1 22 22 8 9 D2 23 22 8 9
D3 22 29 8 N/A D4 23 29 8 N/A
* * *
## 8.3 TDD Uplink
### 8.3.1 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD Uplink
The table addresses the possible combinations of 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD physical
channels that can be supported in the uplink by one UE simultaneously on the
same frequency in any one 10ms frame. In 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD a physical channel
corresponds to one code, one timeslot and one frequency.
Table 3: 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD Uplink
+----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory or | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent on | | | | Combination | Combination | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1 | PRACH | RACH | Mandatory | | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | DPCH | One or more | Mandatory | The maximum | | | | DCH coded | | number of | | | | into a single | | DCHs and the | | | | CCTrCH | | maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is used as | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | than one DPCH | DCH coded | UE radio | number of | | | | into one or | access | DCHs and the | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 4 | PRACH | RACH | Depending on | The maximum | | | | | UE radio | number of | | | + one or | + one or | access | DCHs and the | | | more DPCH | more DCH | capabilities | maximum | | | | coded into | | channel bit | | | | one or more | | rate are | | | | CCTrCH | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | for shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation | | | | | | only. | | | | | | | | | | | | At least the | | | | | | usage of two | | | | | | timeslots is | | | | | | required. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 5 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | This | | | PUSCH | USCH coded | UE radio | combination | | | | onto one or | access | is used for | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 6 | PRACH | RACH | Depending on | This | | | | | UE radio | combination | | | + one or | + One or | access | may be used | | | more PUSCH | more USCH | capabilities | for shared | | | | coded onto | | channel | | | | one or more | | operation | | | | CCTrCH | | only. At | | | | | | least the | | | | | | usage of two | | | | | | timeslots is | | | | | | required. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 7 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | PUSCH | USCH coded | UE radio | number of | | | | onto one or | access | DCHs and the | | | + one or | more CCTrCH | capabilities | maximum | | | more DPCH | | | channel bit | | | | + one or | | rate are | | | | more DCH | | dependent on | | | | coded into | | UE radio | | | | one or more | | access | | | | CCTrCH | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | for shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 8 | PRACH | RACH | Depending on | The maximum | | | | | UE radio | number of | | | + one or | + one or | access | DCHs and the | | | more PUSCH | more USCH | capabilities | maximum | | | | coded onto | | channel bit | | | + one or | one or more | | rate are | | | more DPCH | CCTrCH | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | + one or | | access | | | | more DCH | | capabilities. | | | | coded into | | | | | | one or more | | This | | | | CCTrCH | | combination | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | for shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | | | At least the | | | | | | usage of two | | | | | | timeslots is | | | | | | required. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 9 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | | | | DPCH + | DCH coded | UE radio | | | | HS-SICH | into one or | access | | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 10 | Zero, one or | One or more | Depending on | 3.84 and 7.68 | | | more DPCH + | DCH | UE radio | Mcps only. | | | zero or one | | access | | | | HS-SICH + | | capabilities | The maximum | | | E-RUCCH | | | number of | | | | | | DCHs and the | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 11 | Zero, one or | One or more | Depending on | 3.84 and 7.68 | | | more DPCH + | DCH + E-DCH | UE radio | Mcps only. | | | zero or one | | access | | | | HS-SICH + one | | capabilities | The maximum | | | E-PUCH | | | number of | | | | | | DCHs and the | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
### 8.3.2 1.28 Mcps TDD Uplink
The table addresses the possible combinations of 1.28 Mcps TDD physical
channels that can be supported in the uplink by one UE simultaneously on the
same frequency in the TDD 1.28 Mcps option in any one 5 ms subframe. In 1.28
Mcps TDD a physical channel corresponds to one code, one timeslot, one
frequency.
Table 4: 1.28 Mcps TDD Uplink
+----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory or | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent on | | | | Combination | Combination | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1 | UpPCH | N/A | Mandatory | UpPCH is used | | | | | | to establish | | | | | | the uplink | | | | | | syn | | | | | | chronisation. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | PRACH | RACH | Mandatory | | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | UpPCH + One | One or more | Mandatory | One DPCH is | | | DPCH | DCH coded | | needed as | | | | into a single | | reference | | | | CCTrCH | | measurement | | | | | | channel.\ | | | | | | UpPCH | | | | | | transmission | | | | | | to target | | | | | | cell in case | | | | | | of handover. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 4 | One DPCH | One or more | Mandatory | The maximum | | | | DCH coded | | number of | | | | into a single | | DCHs and the | | | | CCTrCH | | maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is required | | | | | | for the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 5 | More than one | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | DPCH | DCH coded | UE radio | number of | | | | into one or | access | DCHs, the | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CCTrCH and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 6 | UpPCH+ one or | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | more DPCH | DCH coded | UE radio | number of | | | | into one or | access | DCHs, the | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CCTrCH and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | is required | | | | | | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | si | | | | | | multaneously. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 7 | PRACH | RACH + one or | Depending on | The maximum | | | | more DCH | UE radio | number of | | | + one or | coded into | access | DCHs, the | | | more DPCHs | one or more | capabilities | maximum | | | | than one | | number of | | | | CCTrCH | | CCTrCH and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | is required | | | | | | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | si | | | | | | multaneously. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 8 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | This | | | PUSCH | USCH coded | UE radio | configuration | | | | onto one or | access | is required | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 9 | UpPCH + one | One or more | Depending on | This | | | or more PUSCH | USCH coded | UE radio | combination | | | | onto one or | access | may be used | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | for shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation | | | | | | only. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 10 | PRACH | RACH + One or | Depending on | This | | | | more USCH | UE radio | combination | | | + one or | coded onto | access | may be used | | | more PUSCH | one or more | capabilities | for shared | | | | CCTrCH | | channel | | | | | | operation | | | | | | only | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 11 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | PUSCH | USCH coded | UE radio | number of | | | | onto one or | access | DCHs and the | | | + one or | more CCTrCH + | capabilities | maximum | | | more DPCH | one or more | | channel bit | | | | DCH coded | | rate are | | | | onto one or | | dependent on | | | | more CCTrCH | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | is required | | | | | | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | s | | | | | | imultaneously | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 12 | UpPCH + one | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | or more PUSCH | USCH coded | UE radio | number of | | | + one or more | onto one or | access | DCHs and the | | | DPCH | more CCTrCH + | capabilities | maximum | | | | one or more | | channel bit | | | | DCH coded | | rate are | | | | into one or | | dependent on | | | | more CCTrCH | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | for shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 13 | PRACH + one | RACH + one or | Depending on | The maximum | | | or more PUSCH | more USCH | UE radio | number of | | | + one or more | coded onto | access | DCHs and the | | | DPCH | one or more | capabilities | maximum | | | | CCTrCH + one | | channel bit | | | | or more DCH | | rate are | | | | coded into | | dependent on | | | | one or more | | UE radio | | | | CCTrCH | | access | | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | for shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 14 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | | | | DPCH + | DCH coded | UE radio | | | | HS-SICH | into one or | access | | | | | more CCTrCH | capabilities | | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 15 | One or more | One or more | Depending on | The maximum | | | DPCH + Zero | DCH + one | UE radio | number of | | | or one | E-DCH | access | DCHs and the | | | HS-SICH+ one | | capabilities | maximum | | | or more | | | channel bit | | | E-RUCCH + | | | rate are | | | E-PUCH | | | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 16 | One HS-SICH+ | One E-DCH | Depending on | The maximum | | | one or more | | UE radio | channel bit | | | E-RUCCH + | | access | rate are | | | E-PUCH | | capabilities | dependent on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | +----+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
## 8.4 TDD Downlink
### 8.4.1 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD Downlink
The table describes the possible combinations of 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD physical
channels that can be supported in the downlink by one UE simultaneously on the
same frequency in any one 10ms frame, where a 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD physical
channel corresponds to one code, one timeslot and one frequency.
Depending on UE radio capabilities UEs may be required to decode occasionally
P-CCPCH of its own cell in the following Physical Channel Combinations to
maintain open loop power control and/or acquire parameters for RACH access: 4,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13.
Depending on UE radio capabilities UEs may be required to decode occasionally
one P-CCPCH of neighbour cells in the following Physical Channel Combinations
for handover: 6, 8, 11, 12, 13.
Table 5: 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD Downlink
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | or | | | | Combination | Combination | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | P-CCPCH + | BCH and | Mandatory | | | | One | | | | | | | PCH and/or | | | | | S-CCPCH | | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | FACH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | P-CCPCH | BCH | Mandatory | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | S-CCPCH | FACH or/and | Mandatory | | | | | PCH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | More than | one or more | Depending | One or more | | | one S-CCPCH | FACH+ | on UE | FACHs are | | | | | c | used to | | | | one or more | apabilities | enable the | | | | PCH | | reception | | | | | | of MBMS | | | | | | (i.e., | | | | | | MCCH, MSCH | | | | | | and MTCH). | | | | | | The maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | SCCPCHs and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | includes | | | | | | the case | | | | | | where one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | MBMS FACHs | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the same | | | | | | SCCPCH as | | | | | | used for | | | | | | non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH or | | | | | | PCH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | PICH | N/A | Mandatory | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | Three or | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | more DPCH | DCH coded | on UE radio | number of | | | | into one or | access | DCHs and | | | | more CCTrCH | c | the maximum | | | | | apabilities | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | One or two | One or more | Mandatory | This | | | DPCH | DCH coded | | combination | | | | into a | | is used for | | | | single | | reference | | | | CCTrCH | | measurement | | | | | | channel. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | One or more | PCH and/or | Depending | The number | | | | | on UE radio | of DCHs and | | | S-CCPCH + | one or more | access | the maximum | | | one or more | FACH + one | c | channel bit | | | DPCH | or more DCH | apabilities | rate are | | | | coded into | | dependent | | | | one or more | | on the UE | | | | CCTrCH | | radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is used for | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation | | | | | | only. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9 | One or more | One or more | Depending | This | | | PDSCH | DSCH coded | on UE radio | combination | | | | onto one or | access | is used for | | | | more CCTrCH | c | shared | | | | | apabilities | channel | | | | | | operation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | One or more | PCH and/or | Depending | This | | | PDSCH + one | | on UE radio | combination | | | or more | one or more | access | is used for | | | S-CCPCH | FACH + one | c | shared | | | | or more | apabilities | channel | | | | DSCH coded | | operation. | | | | onto one or | | | | | | more CCTrCH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | One or more | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | PDSCH | DSCH coded | on UE radio | number of | | | | onto one or | access | DCHs and | | | + one or | more CCTrCH | c | the maximum | | | more DPCH | | apabilities | channel bit | | | | + one or | | rate are | | | | more DCH | | dependent | | | | coded into | | on UE radio | | | | one or more | | access | | | | CCTrCH | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is used for | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | One or more | PCH and/or | Depending | The maximum | | | PDSCH + one | | on UE radio | number of | | | or more | one or more | access | DCHs and | | | S-CCPCH + | FACH + one | c | the maximum | | | one or more | or more | apabilities | channel bit | | | DPCH | DSCH coded | | rate are | | | | onto one or | | dependent | | | | more CCTrCH | | on UE radio | | | | + one or | | access | | | | more DCH | | ca | | | | coded into | | pabilities. | | | | one or more | | | | | | CCTrCH | | This | | | | | | combination | | | | | | is used for | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channel | | | | | | operation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | Zero, one | Zero, one | Depending | | | | or more | or more DCH | on UE radio | | | | DPCH + | coded into | access | | | | zero, one | one or more | c | | | | or more | CCTrCH + | apabilities | | | | HS-PDSCH + | one or more | | | | | one or more | HS-DSCH | | | | | HS-SCCH | coded into | | | | | | one CCTrCH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | MICH | N/A | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | MICH + PICH | N/A | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | MICH + one | One or more | Depending | Allowing | | | or more | FACH + one | on UE radio | MBMS | | | SCCPCH | or more PCH | access | n | | | | + (NOTE 2) | c | otification | | | | | apabilities | indication | | | | | | during | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH or | | | | | | PCH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17 | PICH + one | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | or more | FACH + | on UE radio | number of | | | SCCPCH | (NOTE 2) | access | SCCPCHs and | | | | | c | the maximum | | | | | apabilities | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 18 | MICH + PICH | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | + one or | FACH + | on UE radio | number of | | | more SCCPCH | (NOTE 2) | access | SCCPCHs and | | | | | c | the maximum | | | | | apabilities | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 19 | Zero, one | Zero, one | Depending | 3.84 and | | | or more | or more | on UE radio | 7.68 Mcps | | | DPCH + | DCHs coded | access | only. | | | zero, one | into zero, | c | | | | or more | one or more | apabilities | | | | HS-PDSCH + | CCTrCH + | | | | | one or more | one HS-DSCH | | | | | HS-SCCH + | | | | | | zero, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | E-AGCH + | | | | | | zero or one | | | | | | E.HICH | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Reference: | | | | | | [12]. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 2: + | | | | | | (zero, one | | | | | | or more DCH | | | | | | coded onto | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | CCTrCh) + | | | | | | (zero, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | DSCH coded | | | | | | onto one or | | | | | | more | | | | | | CCTrCH) + | | | | | | (zero, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | HS-DSCH | | | | | | coded onto | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | CCTrCH). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 8.4.2 1.28 Mcps TDD Downlink
The table addresses the possible combinations of 1.28 Mcps TDD physical
channels that can be supported in the downlink by one UE simultaneously on the
same frequency in any one 5ms subframe. In 1.28 Mcps TDD a physical channel
corresponds to one code, one timeslot, one frequency.
Depending on UE radio capabilities UEs may be required to decode occasionally
P-CCPCH of its own cell in the following Physical Channel Combinations: 5, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18.
To support handover it depends on UE capabilities if a UE can support the
occasional decoding of neighbour cell P-CCPCH in the physical channel
combinations 8, 9, 10, 11, 15,16, 17, 18.
Table 6: 1.28 Mcps TDD Downlink
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | or | | | | Combination | Combination | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 | FPACH | N/A | Mandatory | FPACH is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | answer the | | | | | | UE and to | | | | | | adjust the | | | | | | timing and | | | | | | sync | | | | | | hronization | | | | | | shift of | | | | | | the UE | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | P-CCPCH | BCH | Mandatory | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | S-CCPCH | FACH or/and | Mandatory | | | | | PCH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | P-CCPCH | BCH + | Mandatory | | | | | | | | | | +S-CCPCH | (FACH | | | | | | or/and PCH) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | More than | one or more | Depending | One or more | | | one S-CCPCH | FACH+ | on UE | FACHs are | | | | | c | used to | | | | one or more | apabilities | enable the | | | | PCH | | reception | | | | | | of MBMS | | | | | | (i.e., | | | | | | MCCH, MSCH | | | | | | and MTCH). | | | | | | The maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | SCCPCHs and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | includes | | | | | | the case | | | | | | where one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | MBMS FACHs | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the same | | | | | | SCCPCH as | | | | | | used for | | | | | | non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH or | | | | | | PCH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | PICH | N/A | Mandatory | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | FPACH + | BCH + | Depending | | | | P-CCPCH + | (none, one | on UE | | | | none, one | or more | c | | | | or more | FACH+ | apabilities | | | | S-CCPCH | | | | | | | none, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | PCH) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | 2 DPCH | One or more | Mandatory | The maximum | | | | DCH coded | | number of | | | | into a | | DCH and the | | | | single | | maximum | | | | CCTrCH | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities\ | | | | | | This | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | used as | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9 | One or more | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | DPCH | DCH coded | on UE radio | number of | | | | into one or | access | DCHs, the | | | | more CCTrCH | c | maximum | | | | | apabilities | number of | | | | | | CCTrCH and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | FPACH + one | One or more | Depending | FPACH is | | | or more | DCH coded | on UE radio | used to | | | DPCH | into one or | access | answer the | | | | more CCTrCH | c | UE and to | | | | | apabilities | adjust the | | | | | | timing and | | | | | | sync | | | | | | hronization | | | | | | shift of | | | | | | the UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | The maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | DCHs, the | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | CCTrCH and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | channel bit | | | | | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | is required | | | | | | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels | | | | | | and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | simu | | | | | | ltaneously. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | One or more | (One or | Depending | The maximum | | | S-CCPCH | more FACH | on UE radio | number of | | | | or/and PCH) | access | DCHs, the | | | + one or | | c | maximum | | | more DPCH | + one or | apabilities | number of | | | | more DCH | | CCTrCH and | | | | coded into | | the maximum | | | | one or more | | channel bit | | | | CCTrCH | | rate are | | | | | | dependent | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | is required | | | | | | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels | | | | | | and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | simu | | | | | | ltaneously. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | One or more | One or more | Depending | This | | | PDSCH | DSCH coded | on UE radio | co | | | | onto one or | access | nfiguration | | | | more CCTrCH | c | is required | | | | | apabilities | for UE that | | | | | | operate | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | FPACH + one | One or more | Depending | This | | | or more | DSCH coded | on UE radio | co | | | PDSCH | onto one or | access | nfiguration | | | | more CCTrCH | c | is | | | | | apabilities | desirable | | | | | | but not | | | | | | essential | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | One or more | (One or | Depending | This | | | S-CCPCH | more FACH | on UE radio | co | | | | and/or PCH) | access | nfiguration | | | +one or | | c | is | | | more PDSCH | + One or | apabilities | desirable | | | | more DSCH | | but not | | | | coded onto | | essential | | | | one or more | | for UE | | | | CCTrCH | | supporting | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | One or more | One or more | Depending | This | | | PDSCH | DSCH coded | on UE radio | co | | | | onto one or | access | nfiguration | | | + one or | more CCTrCH | c | is required | | | more DPCH | + one or | apabilities | for UE that | | | | more DCH | | operate | | | | coded into | | shared | | | | one or more | | channels | | | | CCTrCH | | and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | simu | | | | | | ltaneously. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | FPACH | one or more | Depending | FPACH is | | | | DSCH coded | on UE radio | used to | | | + one or | onto one or | access | answer the | | | more PDSCH | more CCTrCH | ca | UE and to | | | | | pabilities. | adjust the | | | + one or | + one or | | timing and | | | more DPCH | more DCH | | sync | | | | coded into | | hronization | | | | one or more | | shift of | | | | CCTrCH | | the UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | is | | | | | | desirable | | | | | | but not | | | | | | essential | | | | | | for UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | shared | | | | | | channels | | | | | | and | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | channels | | | | | | simu | | | | | | ltaneously. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17 | One or more | (One or | Depending | This | | | S-CCPCH | more FACH | on UE radio | co | | | | and/or PCH) | access | nfiguration | | | + one or | | ca | is | | | more PDSCH | + one or | pabilities. | desirable | | | | more DSCH | | but not | | | + one or | coded onto | | essential | | | more DPCH | one or more | | for UE | | | | CCTrCH | | supporting | | | | | | shared | | | | + one or | | channels | | | | more DCH | | and | | | | coded into | | dedicated | | | | one or more | | channels | | | | CCTrCH | | simu | | | | | | ltaneously. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 18 | One or more | One or more | Depending | | | | DPCH + | DCH coded | on UE radio | | | | zero, one | into one or | access | | | | or more | more CCTrCH | c | | | | HS-PDSCH + | + one or | apabilities | | | | one or more | more | | | | | HS-SCCH | HS-DSCH | | | | | | coded into | | | | | | one CCTrCH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 19 | MICH | N/A | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | MICH + PICH | N/A | Depending | | | | | | on UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 21 | MICH + one | One or more | Depending | Allowing | | | or more | FACH + one | on UE radio | MBMS | | | SCCPCH | or more PCH | access | n | | | | + (NOTE 1) | c | otification | | | | | apabilities | indication | | | | | | during | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH or | | | | | | PCH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 22 | PICH + one | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | or more | FACH + | on UE radio | number of | | | SCCPCH | (NOTE 1) | access | SCCPCHs and | | | | | c | the maximum | | | | | apabilities | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 23 | MICH + PICH | One or more | Depending | The maximum | | | + one or | FACH + | on UE radio | number of | | | more SCCPCH | (NOTE 1) | access | SCCPCHs and | | | | | c | the maximum | | | | | apabilities | bit rate | | | | | | depend on | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 24 | FPACH | Zero, one | Depending | The maximum | | | +Zero, one | or more | on UE radio | number of | | | or more | DCHs coded | access | SCCPCHs and | | | DPCH + | into zero, | c | the maximum | | | zero, one | one or more | apabilities | bit rate | | | or more | CCTrCH + | | depend on | | | HS-PDSCH + | one HS-DSCH | | the UE | | | one or more | | | impl | | | HS-SCCH + | | | ementation. | | | zero, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | E-AGCH + | | | | | | zero or one | | | | | | E.HICH | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 25 | P-CCPCH + | BCH + one | Depending | S | | | one or more | HS-DSCH + | on UE radio | imultaneous | | | HS-SCCH + | one or more | access | reception | | | zero, one | FACH | c | of P-CCPCH, | | | or more | | apabilities | S-CCPCH and | | | HS-PDSCH + | | | HS-SCCH is | | | S-CCPCH | | | only needed | | | | | | at | | | | | | occurrences | | | | | | when the UE | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | read system | | | | | | information | | | | | | on BCH | | | | | | while being | | | | | | in | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | state, i.e. | | | | | | continuous | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of P-CCPCH, | | | | | | and S-CCPCH | | | | | | and HS-SCCH | | | | | | at the same | | | | | | time is not | | | | | | required. | | | | | | S-CCPCH and | | | | | | HS-SCCH are | | | | | | to be | | | | | | detected at | | | | | | the same | | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | | | One HS-DSCH | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | state to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of CCCH, | | | | | | BCCH, DCCH | | | | | | and DTCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel | | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of one or | | | | | | more FACH | | | | | | is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | holds for | | | | | | P-CCPCH, | | | | | | S-CCPCH and | | | | | | HS-SCCH | | | | | | sent in | | | | | | different | | | | | | cells or in | | | | | | the same | | | | | | cell. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 26 | One or more | One HS-DSCH | Depending | One HS-DSCH | | | HS-SCCHs + | | on UE radio | is used in | | | zero, one | | access | CELL_FACH | | | or more | | c | state to | | | HS-PDSCH | | apabilities | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of CCCH, | | | | | | BCCH, DCCH | | | | | | and DTCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel | | | | | | data. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 27 | One or more | One HS-DSCH | Depending | One HS-DSCH | | | HS-SCCHs + | + one or | on UE radio | is used in | | | zero, one | more FACH | access | CELL_FACH | | | or more | | c | state to | | | HS-PDSCH + | | apabilities | enable the | | | more than | | | reception | | | one SCCPCH | | | of CCCH, | | | | | | DCCH and | | | | | | DTCH | | | | | | logical | | | | | | channel | | | | | | data. | | | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | state the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of (one or | | | | | | more FACH) | | | | | | is to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | services on | | | | | | the CTCH, | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | one of the | | | | | | FACH. | | | | | | | | | | | | One or more | | | | | | FACHs are | | | | | | used to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of MBMS | | | | | | (i.e., | | | | | | MCCH, MSCH | | | | | | and MTCH). | | | | | | The maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | S-CCPCHs | | | | | | and the | | | | | | maximum bit | | | | | | rate depend | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | impl | | | | | | ementation. | | | | | | The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | includes | | | | | | the case | | | | | | where one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | MBMS FACHs | | | | | | are | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the same | | | | | | S-CCPCH as | | | | | | used for | | | | | | non-MBMS | | | | | | FACH. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 28 | MICH + one | One HS-DSCH | Depending | Allowing | | | or more | | on UE radio | reception | | | HS-SCCH + | | access | of MBMS | | | zero, one | | c | n | | | or more | | apabilities | otification | | | HS-PDSCH + | | | indication | | | S-CCPCH | | | during | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of HS-DSCH | | | | | | in | | | | | | CELL_FACH | | | | | | state. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: + | | | | | | (zero, one | | | | | | or more DCH | | | | | | coded onto | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | CCTrCh) + | | | | | | (zero, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | DSCH coded | | | | | | onto one or | | | | | | more | | | | | | CCTrCH) + | | | | | | (zero, one | | | | | | or more | | | | | | HS-DSCH | | | | | | coded onto | | | | | | one or more | | | | | | CCTrCH). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 8.4.3 3.84 Mcps TDD IMB Downlink
The table describes the possible combinations of 3.84 Mcps TDD IMB physical
channels that can be supported in the downlink on the same frequency by one UE
simultaneously.
Table 6a: 3.84 Mcps TDD IMB Downlink
+---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | | Physical | Transport | Mandatory or | Comment | | | Channel | Channel | dependent on | | | | Combination | Combination | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 1 | PCCPCH | BCH | Mandatory | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 2 | SCCPCH | FACH | Mandatory | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 3 | SCCPCH frame | One or more | Mandatory | The maximum | | | type 2 | FACH | | channel bit | | | | | | rate that can | | | | | | be supported | | | | | | is dependent | | | | | | on the UE | | | | | | radio access | | | | | | capabilities. | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 4 | SCCPCH + | More than one | Mandatory | One or more | | | SCCPCH frame | FACH | | FACHs are | | | type 2 | | | used to | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | reception of | | | | | | MBMS (i.e., | | | | | | MCCH and | | | | | | MTCH). The | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | number of | | | | | | SCCPCHs and | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | bit rate | | | | | | depend on the | | | | | | UE | | | | | | im | | | | | | plementation. | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 5 | More than one | More than one | Depending on | | | | SCCPCH frame | FACH | UE radio | | | | type 2 | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 6 | MICH | N/A | Depending on | | | | | | UE radio | | | | | | access | | | | | | capabilities | | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 7 | MICH + SCCPCH | FACH | Depending on | Allowing MBMS | | | | | UE radio | notification | | | | | access | indication | | | | | capabilities | during | | | | | | reception of | | | | | | MBMS FACH. | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 8 | MICH+ | One or more | Depending on | Allowing MBMS | | | | FACH | UE radio | notification | | | SCCPCH frame | | access | indication | | | type 2 | | capabilities | during | | | | | | reception of | | | | | | MBMS FACH. | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+ | 9 | MICH + | More than one | Depending on | Allowing MBMS | | | SCCPCH+ | FACH | UE radio | notification | | | | | access | indication | | | SCCPCH frame | | capabilities | during | | | type 2 | | | reception of | | | | | | MBMS FACH. | +---+---------------+---------------+---------------+---------------+
# 9 Measurements provided by the physical layer
One of the key services provided by the physical layer is the measurement of
various quantities, which are used to trigger or perform a multitude of
functions. Both the UE and the UTRAN are required to perform a variety of
measurements. The standard will not specify the method to perform these
measurements or stipulate that the list of measurements provided in this
clause must all be performed. While some of the measurements are critical to
the functioning of the network and are mandatory for delivering the basic
functionality (e.g., handover measurements, power control measurements),
others may be used by the network operators in optimising the network (e.g.,
radio environment).
Measurements may be made periodically and reported to the upper layers or may
be event-triggered (e.g., primary CCPCH becomes better than the previous best
primary CCPCH). Another reporting strategy may combine the event triggered and
the periodical approach (e.g. falling of link quality below a certain
threshold initiates periodical reporting). The measurements are tightly
coupled with the service primitives in that the primitives\' parameters may
constitute some of the measurements.
The list and frequency of measurements, which the physical layer reports to
higher layers, is described in this clause. The detailed definition of
measurement control and abilities is contained in [6] for FDD and [11] for
TDD. The measurement performance requirements together with accuracy, range
and mapping is specified in [9] for TDD and in [10] for FDD.
The measurement quantities measured by the physical layer shall be such that
the following principles are applied:
\- for handover measurements, the decoding of parameters on the BCCH logical
channel of monitored neighbouring cells, should not, in general, be needed for
calculating the measurement result. If there is a need to adjust the
measurement result with parameters broadcast on the PCCPCH, these parameters
shall be provided by the UTRAN in inband measurement control messages. There
may be some exceptions to this rule;
EXAMPLE:\ It may be necessary to decode the SFN of the measured neighbouring
cell for time difference measurements.
\- in idle mode or in RRC connected mode using common Transport Channels, the
UE shall be able to monitor cells for cell reselection, without being required
to frequently decode parameters on the BCCH logical channel of the monitored
neighbouring cells. The decoding frequency of these parameters, set by the
cell reselection algorithm, should be such that UE standby times are not
significantly decreased.
## 9.1 Model of physical layer measurements
This subclause describes a model for how the physical layer measurements are
performed. This model applies both to the UE and Node B measurements. This
model sets the requirement on the behaviour of the measurement elaboration and
reporting performed by L1 as well as filtering controlled by higher layers. It
is not meant to be a requirement for implementation as long as the performance
requirements in [9] and [10] are fulfilled.
The measurement model for physical layer measurements is represented in the
figure 7.
Figure 7: Measurement model
The model is described below:
**\- A:** measurements (samples) internal to the physical layer in support to
the measurements to be provided to higher layers;
**\- Layer 1 filtering:** internal layer 1 filtering of the inputs measured at
point A. Exact filtering is implementation dependant. How the measurements are
actually executed in the physical layer by an implementation (inputs A and
Layer 1 filtering) in not constrained by the standard i.e. the model does not
state a specific sampling rate or even if the sampling is periodic or not.
What the standard specifies in [9] and [10] is the performance objective and
measurement period at point B in the model. The performance objectives for the
physical layer measurements are specified in [9] and [10];
**\- B:** A measurement reported by layer 1 after layer 1 filtering. The
reporting rate at point B shall be sufficient to meet the performance
objectives as defined in [9] and [10];
**\- Layer 3 filtering:** Filtering performed on the measurements provided at
point B. The behaviour of the Layer 3 filters are standardised and the
configuration of the layer 3 filters is provided by RRC signalling (UE
measurements) or NBAP signalling (Node B measurements). Each filtered result
at point C shall correspond to a Layer 3 filtering performed using a reporting
period equal to one measurement period at point B;
**\- C:** A measurement after processing in the layer 3 filter. The reporting
rate is identical to the reporting rate at point B and is therefore also
measurement type specific. Although this is not shown in the figure, one
measurement can be used by a multiplicity of evaluation of reporting criteria;
**\- Evaluation of reporting criteria:** This checks whether actual
measurement reporting is necessary at point D i.e. whether a message need to
be sent to higher layers on the radio interface or Iub interface. The
evaluation can be based on more than one flow of measurements at reference
point C e.g. to compare between different measurements. This is illustrated by
input C, C\', etc. The UE shall evaluate the reporting criteria at least every
time a new measurement result is reported at point C, C\' etc. The reporting
criteria are standardised and the configuration is provided by RRC signalling
(UE measurements) or NBAP signalling (Node B measurements). Examples are
periodic reporting and event based reporting. In case periodical reporting is
in use and if the reporting interval is different from the filtering period
defined by the layer 3 filter, the last measurement result filtered by the L3
filter shall be used as the value of the reported result. In case event
triggered reporting is in use and the reporting criteria is fulfilled, the
last measurement result filtered by the L3 filter shall be used as the value
for reporting criteria evaluation and as the value of the reported result.
This applies also for any additional measurements that shall be reported as a
consequence of the event;
**\- D:** a measurement report information (message) sent on the radio or Iub
interface.
## 9.2 UE Measurements
For definitions of the measurements, see [6] and [11].
### 9.2.1 SFN-CFN observed time difference
This measure is mandatory for UE.
* * *
Measurement SFN-CFN observed time difference Source L1 (UE) Destination RRC
(RNC) for handover Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered Description
Time difference between the SFN of the target neighbouring cell and the CFN in
the UE.
* * *
### 9.2.2 Void
### 9.2.3 CPICH E~c~/N~0~
This measure is mandatory for UE with FDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement CPICH Ec/No Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (UE, RNC) Reporting
Trigger Periodic, on demand and event triggered Description The received
energy per chip of the CPICH divided by the power density in the frequency
band.
* * *
### 9.2.4 Void
### 9.2.5 CPICH RSCP
This measure is mandatory for UE with FDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement CPICH RSCP Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (UE, RNC) Reporting
Trigger periodic or event triggered Description Received signal code power of
the CPICH.
* * *
### 9.2.6 P-CCPCH RSCP
This measure is mandatory for UE with TDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement P-CCPCH RSCP Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (UE, RNC) Reporting
Trigger periodic or event triggered Description Received signal code power of
the P-CCPCH
* * *
### 9.2.7 Timeslot ISCP
This measure is mandatory for UE with TDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement Timeslot ISCP Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (UE, RNC) Reporting
Trigger periodic or event triggered Description Interference Signal Code Power
is the interference on the received signal in a specified timeslot.
* * *
### 9.2.8 Void
### 9.2.9 SIR
This measure is mandatory for UE with TDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement SIR Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (UE,RNC) Reporting Trigger
Periodic, once every power control cycle , event triggered Description Signal
to Interference Ratio
* * *
### 9.2.10 UTRA carrier RSSI
This measure is mandatory for UE.
* * *
Measurement UTRA carrier RSSI Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting
Trigger Periodic, event triggered, on demand Description Received Signal
Strength Indicator, the wideband received power within the relevant channel
bandwidth. For TDD this is measured in specified timeslots.
* * *
### 9.2.11 GSM carrier RSSI
This measure is mandatory for UE with GSM capability.
* * *
Measurement GSM carrier RSSI Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting
Trigger Periodic, event triggered, on demand Description Received Signal
Strength Indicator, the wide-band received power within the relevant channel
bandwidth. Details are specified in the GSM specification 05.08
* * *
### 9.2.12 Transport channel BLER
This measure is mandatory for UE.
* * *
Measurement Transport channel BLER (BLock Error Rate) Source L1(UE)
Destination RRC (RNC,UE) Reporting Trigger Periodic, on demand Description
Estimation of the transport channel block error rate (BLER).
* * *
### 9.2.13 UE transmitted power
This measure is mandatory for UE.
* * *
Measurement UE transmitted power Source L1(UE) Destination RRC (UE,RNC)
Reporting Trigger On-demand, periodic, Event-triggered Description Sum of the
total UE transmitted power on all configured uplink carriers. For TDD this is
measured in specified timeslots.
* * *
### 9.2.14 UE Rx-Tx time difference
This measure is mandatory for UE with FDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement UE Rx-Tx time difference Source L1 (UE) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger On-demand, periodic, event-triggered Description Time
difference between the UE uplink DPCCH/DPDCH frame transmission and the first
detected path (in time) of the downlink DPCH or F-DPCH frame from the measured
radio link. Type 1 and Type 2 are defined.
* * *
### 9.2.15 SFN-SFN Observed time difference
This measure is mandatory for UE.
* * *
Measurement SFN-SFN observed time difference Source L1 (UE) Destination RRC
(RNC) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered Description Time difference
between a specific reference UTRA cell and a target UTRA cell. Type 1 and Type
2 are defined.
* * *
### 9.2.16 UE GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
This measure is mandatory for UE that has the capability to measure GPS
reference time.
* * *
Measurement UE GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning Source L1 (UE)
Destination RRC (RNC-UE positioning) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-
triggered, Periodic Description The timing between UTRA cell and GPS Time Of
Week.
* * *
### 9.2.17 Timing Advance (T~ADV~) for 1.28 Mcps TDD
This measure is mandatory for 1.28 Mcps TDD UE.
* * *
Measurement Timing Advance (T~ADV~) for 1.28 Mcps TDD Source L1 (UE)
Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic
Description Difference between the uplink transmission of the UE and the
downlink reception.
* * *
### 9.2.18 UE GPS code phase
This measure is mandatory for UE with UE-assisted GPS capability.
NOTE: The UE transmits the GPS code phase in the IE \"Whole GPS Chips\" and in
the IE \"Fractional GPS Chips\" defined in [13].
* * *
Measurement UE GPS code phase Source L1 (UE) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting
Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic Description The whole and
fractional phase of the spreading code of the GPS satellite signal.
* * *
### 9.2.19 UE GANSS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
This measure is mandatory for UE that has the capability to measure GANSS
reference time for a given GANSS system and signal.
* * *
Measurement UE GANSS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning Source L1 (UE)
Destination RRC (RNC-UE positioning) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-
triggered, Periodic Description The timing between UTRA cell and GANSS Time of
Day.
* * *
### 9.2.20 UE GANSS code measurement
This measure is mandatory for UE with UE-assisted GANSS capability.
NOTE: The UE transmits the GANSS code phase in the IE \"GANSS Code Phase\" and
in the IE \"GANSS Integer Code Phase\" defined in [13].
* * *
Measurement UE GANSS code phase Source L1 (UE) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting
Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic Description The code phase and
optionally the Integer code phase of the spreading code of the GANSS satellite
signal.
* * *
### 9.2.21 UE transmission power headroom
This measure is mandatory for UE with FDD mode capability.
* * *
Measurement UE transmission power headroom Source L1(UE) Destination MAC
(UE,Node B) Reporting Trigger Periodic, Event-triggered Description For each
uplink DPCCH, the ratio of the maximum UE transmission power and the DPCCH
code power.
* * *
## 9.3 UTRAN Measurements
### 9.3.1 Received total wide band power
* * *
Measurement Received total wide band power Source L1 (Node B) Destination
RRC(RNC) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic Description
The received wide band power including noise generated in the receiver, within
the bandwidth defined by the pulse shaping filter. For TDD mode, this is
measured in specified timeslots.
* * *
### 9.3.2 Transmitted carrier power
* * *
Measurement Transmitted carrier power Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger On-demand, periodic, Event-triggered Description Transmitted
carrier power is the ratio between the total transmitted power on one DL
carrier from one UTRAN access point, compared to the maximum power possible to
use on that DL carrier at this moment of time. For TDD mode, this is measured
in specified timeslots.
* * *
### 9.3.3 Transmitted code power
* * *
Measurement Transmitted code power Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger On-demand, periodic, Event-triggered Description Transmitted
Code Power is the transmitted power on one carrier, one scrambling and one
channelisation code. For TDD mode, this is measured in specified timeslots.
* * *
### 9.3.4 Void
### 9.3.5 Physical channel BER
* * *
Measurement Physical channel BER
Source L1(Node B)
Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered, periodic
Description The Physical channel BER is an estimation of the average bit error
rate (BER) on the DPCCH of a Radio Link Set.\ This measurement applies to FDD
mode only.
* * *
### 9.3.6 Transport channel BER
* * *
Measurement Transport channel BER Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-triggered, periodic Description The
transport channel BER is an estimation of the average bit error rate (BER)
data part.
* * *
### 9.3.7 RX timing deviation
* * *
Measurement RX timing deviation Source L1 (Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger Periodic, event triggered Description The difference of the
time of arrival of the UL transmissions in relation to the arrival time of a
signal with zero propagation delay. This measurement is applicable for TDD
mode.
* * *
### 9.3.8 Timeslot ISCP
* * *
Measurement Timeslot ISCP Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting
Trigger periodic or event triggered Description Interference on Signal Code
Power, is the interference on the received signal in a specified timeslot.
This measurement is applicable is applicable to TDD mode only.
* * *
### 9.3.9 RSCP
* * *
Measurement RSCP Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting Trigger
periodic or event triggered Description Received Signal Code Power is the
received power on DPCH or PRACH, PUSCH or HS-SICH. This measurement is
applicable for TDD mode only.
* * *
### 9.3.10 Round Trip Time
* * *
Measurement Round Trip Time Source L1(Node B or LMU) Destination RRC (RNC-UE
positioning) Reporting Trigger on demand, event triggered Description This is
an estimate of the round trip time of signals between the Node B and the UE
This measurement is applicable for FDD mode only.
* * *
### 9.3.11 Void
### 9.3.12 Acknowledged PRACH preambles
* * *
Measurement Acknowledged PRACH preambles Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC
(RNC) Reporting Trigger Periodic, event triggered, On demand Description This
measurement indicates the number of positive acquisition indicators used to
allow transmission on the PRACH message part transmitted per access frame on
each AICH. This measurement is applicable for FDD mode only.
* * *
### 9.3.13 Void
### 9.3.14 Void
### 9.3.15 SIR
* * *
Measurement SIR Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC) Reporting Trigger
Periodic, event triggered Description Signal to Interference Ratio.
* * *
### 9.3.16 PRACH Propagation Delay
* * *
Measurement Propagation delay Source L1( Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger Event triggered, periodic Description The one-way
propagation delay as measured during PRACH access. This measurement is
applicable for FDD mode only.
* * *
### 9.3.17 UTRAN GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
Measurement UTRAN GPS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning Source L1 (LMU)
Destination RRC (RNC-UE positioning) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-
triggered, Periodic Description This is the absolute time reference
measurement in respect to GPS Time Of Week for the transmission of a
particular frame.
* * *
### 9.3.18 SIR ERROR
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | SIR ERROR | +-------------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1(Node B) | +-------------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | Periodic, event triggered | +-------------------+------------------------------------------------------+ | Description | Signal to Interference Ratio Error | | | | | | > This measurement is applicable for FDD cells only. | +-------------------+------------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.19 Received SYNC_UL Timing Deviation
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | Received SYNC_UL Timing Deviation | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1 (Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | Event triggered | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Definition | \'Received SYNC_UL Timing Deviation\' is the | | | time difference | | | | | | UpPCH~POS~ = UpPTS~Rxpath~ - UpPTS~TS~ | | | | | | Where | | | | | | UpPTS~Rxpath~: time of the reception in the | | | Node B of the SYNC_UL to be used in the uplink | | | synchronization process | | | | | | UpPTS~TS~: time instance two symbols prior to | | | the end of the DwPCH according to the Node B | | | internal timing | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.20 Cell Sync Burst Timing
* * *
Measurement Cell Sync Burst Timing Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger Periodic, event triggered Definition Cell sync burst timing
is the time of start (defined by the first detected path in time) of the cell
sync burst of a neighbouring cell. Type 1 is used for the initial phase of
Node B synchronization. Type 2 is used for the steady-state phase of Node B
synchronization.
* * *
### 9.3.21 Cell Sync Burst SIR
* * *
Measurement Cell Sync Burst SIR Source L1(Node B) Destination RRC (RNC)
Reporting Trigger Periodic, event triggered Definition Signal to Interference
Ratio for the cell sync burst, defined as: RSCP/Interference, where:
* * *
### 9.3.22 SFN-SFN Observed time difference
* * *
Measurement SFN-SFN observed time difference Source L1 (LMU) Destination RRC
(RNC-UE positioning) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Periodic, On Modification
Description Measured time between reception of signal from a specific
reference UTRA cell and from a neighbour UTRA cell.
* * *
### 9.3.23 Angle of Arrival (AOA) for 1.28 Mcps TDD
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | Angle of Arrival (AOA) for 1.28Mcps TDD | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1 (Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | Event-triggered, on-demand | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Description | AOA defines the estimated angle of a user with | | | respect to a reference direction. The reference | | | direction for this measurement shall be the | | | North, positive in a counter-clockwise | | | direction. | | | | | | The AOA is determined at the UTRAN access point | | | antenna for an UL channel corresponding to this | | | UE. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.24 HS-SICH reception quality
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | HS-SICH reception quality | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1 (Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Description | The HS-SICH reception quality is defined via | | | the the number of expected HS-SICH | | | transmissions from a given UE and the number of | | | unsuccessful HS-SICH receptions for this same | | | UE in the Node B. For 1.28 Mcps TDD, only | | | measurements made on HS-SICH transmissions that | | | were transmitted using open loop power control | | | are reported as part of this measurement. | | | | | | This measurement is applicable for TDD cells | | | only. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.25 Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used for HS-PDSCH, HS-
SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH transmission
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used | | | for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH | | | transmission | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1 (Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | On-demand, periodic, Event-triggered | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Description | Transmitted carrier power of all codes not used | | | for HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH | | | transmission is the ratio between the total | | | transmitted power of all codes not used for | | | HS-PDSCH, HS-SCCH, E-AGCH, E-RGCH or E-HICH | | | transmission on one DL carrier from one UTRAN | | | access point, and the maximum transmission | | | power possible to use on that DL carrier at | | | this moment of time. | | | | | | For TDD mode, this is measured in specified | | | timeslots. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.26 UpPTS interference (1.28Mcps TDD)
* * *
Measurement UpPTS interference (1.28Mcps TDD) Source L1 (Node B) Destination
RRC (RNC) Reporting Trigger On-demand, periodic, Event-triggered Description
The level of interference in the UpPTS is the difference between the mean
received power in the UpPTS and the sum of the estimated mean power levels of
all detected UpPCH transmissions. In the case of antenna diversity, the linear
average of the UpPTS interference levels for each antenna branch shall be
calculated. The reference point for the UpPTS interference measurement shall
be the Rx antenna connector.
* * *
### 9.3.27 DL Transmission Branch Load
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | DL Transmission Branch Load | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1(Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Description | The \'DL transmission branch load\' is the | | | maximum of the transmission branch loads | | | calculated for each branch. | | | | | | A \'transmission branch load\' is the ratio | | | between the total transmitted power [W] on | | | the considered branch and the \'maximum DL | | | branch capability\' on this branch. | | | | | | The \'maximum DL branch capability\' defines | | | the maximum transmission power possible to use | | | on that branch. | | | | | | The reference point for the transmission branch | | | load measurement shall be the TX antenna | | | connector. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.28 Received scheduled E-DCH power share (RSEPS)
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | Received scheduled E-DCH power share (RSEPS) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1 (Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC(RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | On-demand, Event-triggered, Periodic | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Description | The \'Received scheduled E-DCH power share\' is | | | defined as a report of 2 values for a | | | considered cell: | | | | | | 1. RSEPS: defined as a quotient:\ | | | sum of all scheduled E-DPDCH and corresponding | | | E-DPCCH power contributions determined in the | | | RSEPS measurement period T=t2-t1>0 for all UEs | | | for which this cell is the serving E-DCH cell | | | divided by the corresponding total received | | | wideband power value determined for this cell | | | during T. | | | | | | 2. RTWP*:\ | | | This is the received total wideband power | | | (RTWP) measured for this cell as defined in | | | section 9.3.1 but determined for the same time | | | period T starting at t1 and ending at t2 during | | | which RSEPS is determined. | | | | | | If the E-DPCCH can but the E-DPDCH transport | | | block can not be decoded successfully even from | | | subsequent retransmissions, it is considered as | | | scheduled transmission. | | | | | | The reference point for the RSEPS and RTWP* | | | measurements shall be the Rx antenna connector. | | | | | | When cell portions are defined in the cell, | | | RSEPS (and RTWP*) shall be measured for each | | | cell portion. | | | | | | This measurement applies to FDD mode only. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
### 9.3.29 UTRAN GANSS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning
* * *
Measurement UTRAN GANSS Timing of Cell Frames for UE positioning Source L1
(LMU) Destination RRC (RNC-UE positioning) Reporting Trigger On-demand, Event-
triggered, Periodic Description This is the absolute time reference
measurement in respect to GANSS Time Of Day for the transmission of a
particular frame. This is provided in a specific GANSS system time.
* * *
### 9.3.30 Common E-DCH resource usage
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Measurement | Common E-DCH resource usage | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Source | L1(Node B) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Destination | RRC (RNC) | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Reporting Trigger | Periodic, event triggered, On demand | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Description | This measurement pertains only to the case | | | where Enhanced Uplink in CELL_FACH state and | | | Idle mode is enabled in the considered cell. | | | This measurement is applicable for FDD mode | | | only. | | | | | | The 'Common E-DCH resource usage' is defined as | | | a report of 2 values for a considered cell: | | | | | | 1. Granted E-DCH Resources: defined as the | | | number of common E-DCH resources that have | | | been granted per access frame on each AICH. | | | | | | 2. Denied E-DCH Resources: defined as the | | | number of PRACH preambles received at the | | | NodeB that were not granted a common E-DCH | | | resource. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
# 10 Primitives of the physical layer
The Physical layer interacts with other entities as illustrated in figure 1.
The interactions with the MAC layer and the RRC layer are shown in terms of
primitives where the primitives represent the logical exchange of information
and control between the physical layer and higher layers. They do not specify
or constrain implementations. The (adjacent) layers connect to each other
through Service Access Points (SAPs). Primitives, therefore, are the conveyers
of the information exchange and control through SAPs.
Four types of primitives are used for the present document, as follows.
\- **REQUEST (REQ):**
\- This type is used when a higher layer is requesting a service from a lower
layer.
\- **INDICATION (IND):**
\- This type is used by a lower layer providing a service to notify its higher
layer of activities concerning that higher layer.
\- **RESPONSE (RESP):**
\- This type is used by a higher layer providing the indicated service to
respond to its lower layer that the activity has been completed.
\- **CONFIRM (CNF):**
\- This type is used by a lower layer providing the requested service to
confirm to the higher layer that the activity has been completed.
The primitives defined below are for local communications between MAC and L1,
as well as RRC and L1 in the same protocol stack.
For the physical layer two sets of primitives are defined:
**\- Primitives between layer 1 and 2:**
\- PHY ‑ Generic name ‑ Type: Parameters.
**\- Primitives between layer 1 and the RRC entity:**
\- CPHY ‑ Generic name ‑ Type: Parameters.
NOTE: This is a logical description of the primitives and does not cover
addressing aspects (e.g. Transport Channel ID, Physical Channel ID, start
frame number or disconnect frame number).
## 10.1 Generic names of primitives between layers 1 and 2
The primitives between layer 1 and layer 2 are shown in table 7.
Table 7: Primitives between layer 1 and 2
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Generic | Parameter | | | | | Name | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | REQ | IND | RESP | CNF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PHY-Access | Transport | Not Defined | Not Defined | access | | | Format | | | information | | | subset (1), | | | (1) | | | ASC | | | | | | selected | | | | | | for | | | | | | Transport | | | | | | Block Set | | | | | | to be | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | (5) | | | | | | | | | | | | Random | | | | | | Access Type | | | | | | (9), Random | | | | | | access for | | | | | | common | | | | | | E-DCH | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | (1) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PHY-Data | TFI, E-TFI | TFI, E-TFI | Not Defined | Not Defined | | | (8), | ( | | | | | Transport | 8)Transport | | | | | Block Set, | Block Set, | | | | | CFN~CELL~, | CRC check | | | | | TTI within | result, TD | | | | | CFN (7), | (4), HARQ | | | | | Paging | process (7) | | | | | Indicators | | | | | | (2), ASC | | | | | | selected | | | | | | for that | | | | | | Transport | | | | | | Block Set | | | | | | (3), | | | | | | HS-DSCH | | | | | | information | | | | | | (6), E-DCH | | | | | | information | | | | | | (8) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PHY-Status | HARQ status | Event | Not Defined | Not Defined | | | (7) | value, | | | | | | HS-DSCH | | | | | | Feedback | | | | | | information | | | | | | (7) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE (1): | | | | | | FDD only. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (2): | | | | | | PCH only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (3): | | | | | | 3.84/7.68 | | | | | | Mcps TDD | | | | | | RACH only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (4): | | | | | | optional, | | | | | | TDD only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (5): | | | | | | FDD RACH, | | | | | | and 1.28 | | | | | | Mcps TDD | | | | | | RACH and | | | | | | E-DCH | | | | | | access only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (6): | | | | | | HS-DSCH | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (7): | | | | | | HS-DSCH and | | | | | | E-DCH only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (8): | | | | | | E-DCH only | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE (9): | | | | | | 1.28 Mcps | | | | | | TDD only | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 10.1.1 PHY-Access-REQ
The PHY-Access-REQ primitive is used to request access to either a RACH
transport channel from the physical layer. A PHY-Access primitive is submitted
once before the actual data for peer-to-peer communication is passed to the
physical layer using the PHY-Data primitive. This primitive is used in FDD and
1.28 Mcps TDD only.
In FDD, the PHY-Access-REQ primitive is also used to request the physical
layer to access a common E-DCH transport channel. A PHY-Access-REQ primitive
is submitted before the actual data for peer-to-peer communication is passed
to the physical layer.
**Parameters:**
**-** Transport Format subset.
**-** ASC selected for Transport Block Set to be transmitted (FDD RACH, FDD
common E-DCH and 1.28 Mcps TDD RACH and E-DCH access only)
**-** Random Access Type (1.28 Mcps TDD only)
**-** Random access for common E-DCH transmission (FDD only for common E-DCH)
### 10.1.2 PHY-Access-CNF
The PHY-Access-CNF primitive is used to confirm that physical layer
synchronisation has been established and that the physical layer is ready for
data transmission using the PHY-Data primitive. This primitive is used in FDD
and 1.28 Mcps TDD only.
**Parameters:**
**-** access information.
### 10.1.3 PHY-Data-REQ
The PHY-Data primitives are used to request SDUs used for communications
passed to and from the physical layer. One PHY-Data primitive is submitted
every Transmission Time Interval for each Transport Channel.
**Parameters:**
\- TFI;
\- E-TFI (E-DCH only);
\- HARQ Process (TDD E-DCH only);
\- Transport Block Set;
\- CFN~CELL~;
\- TTI within CFN (HS-DSCH and FDD E-DCH (2ms TTI) only);
\- Page Indicators (PIs) (PCH only);
\- HS-DSCH information (HS-DSCH information);
\- E-DCH information (E-DCH information);
\- ASC selected for that Transport Block Set (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD RACH only);
\- Random access type (1.28 Mcps TDD RACH only).
### 10.1.4 PHY-Data-IND
The PHY-Data primitives are used to indicate SDUs used for Layer 2 passed to
and from the physical layer. One PHY-Data primitive is submitted every
Transmission Time Interval for each Transport Channel.
**Parameters:**
\- TFI;
\- E-TFI (E-DCH only);
\- Transport Block Set;
\- CRC check result;
\- TD (RX Timing Deviation measurement) (optional, TDD only);
\- Process Id (HS-DSCH and E-DCH only);
\- Retransmission number (E-DCH only).
### 10.1.5 Void
### 10.1.6 Void
### 10.1.7 PHY-Status-IND
The PHY-Status-IND primitive can be used by the layer 1 to notify higher
layers of an event that has occurred.
**Parameters:**
\- Feedback information (HS-DSCH and E-DCH only);
\- Event value:
\- L1 hardware failure has occurred.
## 10.2 Generic names of primitives between layers 1 and 3
The status primitives between layer 1 and 3 are shown in table 8.
Table 8: Status primitives between layer 1 and 3
* * *
Generic Name Parameter  
REQ IND RESP CNF CPHY-Sync Not Defined CCTrCH ID (1) Not Defined Not Defined
CPHY-Out-of-Sync Not Defined CCTrCH ID (1) Not Defined Not Defined CPHY-
Measurement transmission power threshold, measurement parameters measurement
parameters Not Defined Not Defined CPHY-Error Not Defined error code Not
Defined Not Defined NOTE (1): TDD only.
* * *
### 10.2.1 STATUS PRIMITIVES
#### 10.2.1.1 CPHY-Sync-IND
This primitive is used for L1 to indicate to RRC that synchronisation of a
certain physical channel has been done in the receiver. In FDD synchronisation
is based on reception of the DPCCH or F-DPCH, and in TDD synchronisation is
based on Special Burst, TB reception, and DPCH burst quality estimation. For
3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD, when the UE is in cell_DCH state but no DL DPCH is
configured the primitive is based on the methods specified in [5].
**Parameters:**
\- CCTrCH ID (TDD only).
#### 10.2.1.2 CPHY-Out-of-Sync-IND
Primitive sent from L1 to RRC indicating that synchronisation of a previously
configured connection has been lost in the receiver. In FDD synchronisation is
based on reception of the DPCCH or F-DPCH, and in TDD synchronisation is based
on Special Burst, TB reception, and DPCH burst quality estimation. For 3.84
/7.68Mcps TDD, when the UE is in cell_DCH state but no DL DPCH is configured
the primitive is based on the methods specified in [5].
**Parameters:**
\- CCTrCH ID (TDD only).
#### 10.2.1.3 CPHY-Measurement-REQ
The Request primitive is used for RRC to configure L1 measurements.
**Parameters:**
\- transmission power threshold;
\- refer to clause 9 for measurement parameters.
#### 10.2.1.4 CPHY-Measurement-IND
The Indication primitive is used to report the measurement results.
**Parameters:**
\- refer to clause 9 for measurement parameters.
#### 10.2.1.5 CPHY-Error-IND
The CPHY-Error primitive is used to indicate to the management entity that an
error has occurred as a result of a physical layer fault.
**Parameters:**
\- error code.
#### 10.2.1.6 Void
### 10.2.2 CONTROL PRIMITIVES
The control primitives between layer 1 and 3 are shown in table 9.
Table 9: Control primitives between layer 1 and 3
* * *
Generic Name Parameter  
REQ IND RESP CNF CPHY-TrCH-Config transport channel description Not Defined
Not Defined No Parameter CPHY-TrCH-Release No Parameter Not Defined Not
Defined No Parameter CPHY-RL-Setup physical channel description Not Defined
Not Defined No Parameter CPHY-RL-Release No Parameter Not Defined Not Defined
No Parameter CPHY-RL-Modify physical channel description Not Defined Not
Defined No Parameter CPHY-Commit activation time Not Defined Not Defined Not
Defined CPHY-Out-of-Sync-Config Out of Sync detection parameters Not Defined
Not Defined No Parameter CPHY-MBMS-Config MBMS information Not Defined Not
Defined No Parameter
* * *
#### 10.2.2.1 CPHY-TrCH-Config-REQ
This primitive is used for setting up and configuring a transport channel, and
also to modify an existing transport channel.
**Parameters:**
\- transport channel description.
#### 10.2.2.2 CPHY-TrCH-Config-CNF
This primitive is used for confirming the setting up and configuring a
transport channel, and also modifying an existing transport channel.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.3 CPHY-TrCH-Release-REQ
This primitive is used for releasing a transport channel.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.4 CPHY-TrCH-Release-CNF
This primitive is used for confirming the releasing a transport channel.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.5 CPHY-RL-Setup-REQ
The Request primitive is sent from RRC to L1 for establishment of a Radio link
to a certain UE.
**Parameters:**
\- physical channel description.
#### 10.2.2.6 CPHY-RL-Setup-CNF
The Confirm primitive is returned from L1 to RRC when the Radio link is
established. In case L1 is unable to execute the request, this is indicated in
the confirm primitive.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.7 CPHY-RL-Release-REQ
The Request primitive is sent from RRC to L1 for release of a Radio link to a
certain UE.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.8 CPHY-RL-Release-CNF
The Confirm primitive is returned from L1 to RRC when the radio link is
released.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.9 CPHY- RL-Modify-REQ
The Request primitive is sent from RRC to L1 for modification of a Radio link
to a certain UE.
**Parameters:**
\- physical channel description.
#### 10.2.2.10 CPHY-RL-Modify-CNF
The Confirm primitive is returned from L1 to RRC when the radio link is
modified. In case L1 is unable to execute the request, this is indicated in
the confirm primitive.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.11 CPHY-Commit-REQ
This primitive is sent from RRC to L1 to synchronise UE and NW for the
physical channel modification.
**Parameters:**
\- activation time.
#### 10.2.2.12 Void
#### 10.2.2.13 Void
#### 10.2.2.14 Void
#### 10.2.2.15 Void
#### 10.2.2.16 CPHY-Out-of-Sync-Config-REQ
This primitive is sent from RRC to Node B L1 to reconfigure the parameters to
detect \"in sync\" and \"out of sync\" conditions of uplink physical channel
transmission.
**Parameters:**
\- Out of Sync detection parameters
#### 10.2.2.17 CPHY-Out-of-Sync-Config-CNF
This primitive is sent from Node B L1 to RRC for confirming the
Reconfiguration of the Out-of-Sync parameters on Node B L1.
**Parameters:**
\- No Parameter.
#### 10.2.2.18 CPHY-MBMS-Config-REQ
This primitive is sent from UE RRC to L1 for the configuration of the MBMS
information.
**Parameters:**
\- MBMS information.
#### 10.2.2.19 CPHY-MBMS-Config-CNF
This primitive is used to confirm the configuration of the MBMS information.
**Parameters:**
> \- No Parameter.
## 10.3 Parameter definition
### 10.3.1 Error code
\- Hardware failure.
### 10.3.2 Event value
\- Maximum transmission power has been reached.
\- Allowable transmission power has been reached.
\- Average transmission power is below allowable transmission power.
\- Maximum number of retransmissions has been reached.
\- Loss of DL DPCCH.
### 10.3.3 Access Information
\- Ready for RACH data transmission (in case of FDD mode: when Ack on AICH has
been received and Random access for common E-DCH transmission was not included
in the PHY-Access-REQ, in case of 1.28 Mcps TDD: when Ack on FPACH has been
received);
\- timeout, no response on AICH (FDD only) or FPACH (1.28 Mcps TDD only) has
been received while maximum number of access preamble transmissions (FDD only)
/synchronisation attempts (1.28 Mcps TDD only) has been performed.
The following value of this parameter apply to FDD only:
\- NACK has been received carried with an AI, if the use of E-AIs is not
configured, or carried with an E-AI, if the use of E-AIs is configured on
AICH;
\- E-DCH resource index received on AICH (when Ack carried with an AI has been
received, or when Nack carried with an AI and no Nack carried with an E-AI has
been received), if Random access for common E-DCH transmission was included in
the PHY-Access-REQ.
### 10.3.4 Transport Format Subset
\- A subset of the Transport Format set of a Transport Channel.
### 10.3.5 Physical channel description
#### 10.3.5.1 Primary SCH
\- Tx diversity mode.
#### 10.3.5.2 Secondary SCH
\- Tx diversity mode.
#### 10.3.5.3 Primary CCPCH
\- Frequency info.
\- DL scrambling code.
\- Tx diversity mode.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Burst type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.4 Secondary CCPCH
\- DL scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Tx diversity mode.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Burst type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- Midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
\- TFCI presence (TDD only).
\- MCCH modification period (only S-CCPCH carrying MCCH).
\- MCCH repetition period (only S-CCPCH carrying MCCH).
\- MCCH access info period (only S-CCPCH carrying MCCH).
\- MSCH scheduling period/offset (only S-CCPCH carrying MSCH).
#### 10.3.5.4a Secondary CCPCH frame type 2
\- Channelisation code(s).
\- Sub-frame.
\- MSCH scheduling period/offset (only S-CCPCH carrying MSCH).
#### 10.3.5.5 PRACH
\- Access Slot (FDD only).
\- Preamble scrambling code (FDD only).
\- Available preamble signatures (FDD only).
\- Spreading factor for data part.
\- Power control info:
\- UL target SIR;
\- primary CCPCH DL TX Power;
\- UL interference;
\- power offset (Power ramping) (FDD only).
\- Access Service Class Information (PRACH Partitioning):
\- Available signatures for each ASC (FDD only).
\- Available Channelisation codes for each ASC (TDD only).
\- Available Subchannels for each ASC.
\- AICH transmission timing parameter (FDD only).
\- Timeslots (TDD only).
\- Available Channelisation Codes (TDD only)
\- Spreading Factor (TDD only).
\- Midamble Type (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.6 Uplink DPDCH+DPCCH
\- UL scrambling code.
\- DPCCH slot structure (N~pilot~, N~TPC~, N~TFCI~, N~FBI~).
\- Transmission Time offset value.
#### 10.3.5.7 Uplink DPCH
\- Timing Advance (TDD only).
\- DPCH channelisation code (TDD only).
\- Burst Type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- DPCH midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition Period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
\- TFCI presence (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.8 Downlink DPCH
\- Transmission Time offset value.
\- DL scrambling code:
\- DL Channelisation code.
\- Tx diversity mode:
\- FB mode (FDD only).
\- Slot structure (N~pilot,~ N~TPC~, N~TFCI~, N~FBI,~ , N~data1~, N~data2~)
(FDD only).
\- Burst Type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- DPCH midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
\- TFCI presence (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.8a F-DPCH (FDD only)
\- Transmission Time offset value.
\- DL scrambling code:
\- DL Channelisation code.
#### 10.3.5.9 Void
#### 10.3.5.10 PICH
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Burst Type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- Midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.11 AICH
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Tx diversity mode.
NOTE: The value for the parameters needs to be consistent with the
corresponding PRACH.
#### 10.3.5.12 Void
#### 10.3.5.13 Void
#### 10.3.5.14 Void
#### 10.3.5.15 Void
#### 10.3.5.16 PDSCH (TDD only)
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Tx diversity mode:
\- DL channelisation code (TDD only).
\- Burst Type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- PDSCH Midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
\- TFCI presence (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.17 PUSCH
\- PUSCH channelisation code.
\- Burst Type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- PUSCH midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
\- Repetition length (TDD only).
\- TFCI presence (TDD only).
\- Timing Advance (TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.18 DwPCH (1.28 Mcps TDD only)
\- Tx diversity mode.
\- SYNC_DL code ID.
#### 10.3.5.19 UpPCH (1.28 Mcps TDD only)
\- SYNC_UL code ID.
#### 10.3.5.20 FPACH (1.28 Mcps TDD only)
\- Scrambling code
\- Channelisation code
\- Timeslot
\- Midamble shift
\- Tx diversity mode.
#### 10.3.5.21 PNBSCH (Physical Node B Synchronisation channel)
\- Node B - Node B over the air communication.
\- Only for TDD cells.
\- Repetition period.
\- **[C]{.underline}** oncatenated periodically **[E]{.underline}** xtended
**[C]{.underline}** omplementary sequences.
#### 10.3.5.22 HS-SCCH
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Burst type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.23 HS-SICH (TDD only)
\- Channelisation code.
\- Burst Type 1 (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- Midamble shift.
\- Timeslot.
#### 10.3.5.24 E-AGCH
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Tx diversity mode.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Burst type (3.84 Mcps and 7.68 Mcps TDD only).
#### 10.3.5.25 E-DPCCH (FDD only)
\- No parameter.
#### 10.3.5.26 E-DPDCH (FDD only)
\- No parameter.
#### 10.3.5.27 E-HICH
FDD:
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Hadamard sequence.
TDD:
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- First Hadamard sequence.
\- Second Hadamard sequence.
\- Timeslot.
#### 10.3.5.28 E-RGCH (FDD only)
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Hadamard sequence.
#### 10.3.5.28a E-RUCCH (TDD only)
\- Power control info:
\- UL target SIR;
\- primary CCPCH DL TX Power;
\- UL interference.
\- Timeslot;
\- Available Channelisation Code;
\- Random access type (1.28 Mcps TDD only)
#### 10.3.5.29 MICH
\- Scrambling code.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Burst Type (3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD only).
\- Midamble shift (TDD only).
\- Offset (TDD only).
\- Repetition period (TDD only).
> \- Repetition length (TDD only).
### 10.3.6 Feedback information
In CELL_DCH state:
\- Quality indication (HS-DSCH only).
\- HARQ Status (HS-DSCH and E-DCH only).
In CELL_FACH state, if a common E-DCH is allocated to a UE (FDD only):
> \- Quality indication (HS-DSCH only).
>
> \- HARQ Status (HS-DSCH and E-DCH only).
In Idle mode, if a common E-DCH is allocated to a UE (FDD only):
\- HARQ Status (E-DCH only).
### 10.3.7 HARQ process
\- Process Id.
### 10.3.8 HS-DSCH information
\- Modulation scheme.
\- Channelisation code.
\- Timeslot (TDD only).
\- Redundancy version/Constellation.
\- Process Id.
\- HS-SCCH Cyclic Sequence Number (HCSN) for TDD.
### 10.3.9 HARQ status
\- HARQ acknowledgement (acknowledgement or negative acknowledgement).
### 10.3.10 E-DCH information
\- Number of allowed redundancy versions.
\- Maximum number of transmissions
\- New transmission indication
\- Process Id.
\- Power offset
### 10.3.11 MBMS information
\- MBMS L1 combining schedule.
\- MBMS service transmission schedule.
# 11 Transport block transmission
Data exchange between MAC and the physical layer, is defined in terms of
Transport Block Sets (TBS). On a Transport Channel, one Transport Block Set
can be transmitted for every Transmission Time Interval. A TBS consists of one
or several Transport Blocks which shall be numbered 1,..., _m,... ,M_ and is
delivered in the order of the index _m_. A Transport Block is identical with a
MAC PDU. A Transport Block (MAC PDU) is a bit string ordered from first to
last, where the first and last bits are numbered 1 and _A_ , respectively,
where _A_ is the number of bits of the Transport Block. In case of Transport
Block size=0 bit and _M_ ≠0, only parity bits as given by the CRC size are
sent and _A_ =0. This case is one realisation of an empty Transport Format.
The second realisation of an empty Transport Format is represented by _M_ =0
(no transport block). In this case, no parity bits are transmitted for this
Transport Format.
The bits of the _m_ th Transport Block in a TBS, are denoted as _a~im1~_ ,
..., _a~imA~_ for a Transport Channel identified by an index _i_ (cf. [3] and
[4]).
###### ## Annex A (normative): Description of Transport Formats
The following table describes the characterisation of a Transport Format.
Table A.1: Characterisation of Transport Format
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | At | BCH | PCH | FACH | RACH | | | | tribute | | | | | | | | values | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Dynamic | Tr | 0 to 5 | 246 | 1 to | 0 to 5 | 0 to 5 | | part | ansport | 000 | | 5000 | 000 | 000 | | | Block | | | | | | | | Size | 1 bit | | 1 bit | 1 bit | 1 bit | | | | gran | | gran | gran | gran | | | | ularity | | ularity | ularity | ularity | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Tr | 0 to | 246 | 1 to | 0 to | 0 to | | | ansport | 200 000 | | 200 000 | 200 000 | 200 000 | | | Block | | | | | | | | Set | 1 bit | | 1 bit | 1 bit | 1 bit | | | Size | gran | | gran | gran | gran | | | | ularity | | ularity | ularity | ularity | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Trans | 10, 20 | | | | | | | mission | ms, 40 | | | | | | | Time | and 80 | | | | | | | I | ms | | | | | | | nterval | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (option | | | | | | | | for TDD | | | | | | | | only) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Semi | Trans | 10, 20 | 20 ms | 10ms | 10, 20 | 10 ms | | -static | mission | ms, 40 | | for | ms, 40 | and | | part | Time | and 80 | 40ms | FDD, | and 80 | 20 ms | | | I | ms | (only | | ms | for | | | nterval | | for | 20ms | | FDD, | | | | | 1.28 | for TDD | | | | | (FDD, | | Mcps | | | 10 ms | | | option | | TDD | | | for | | | for TDD | | MBSFN | | | 3. | | | NRT | | only | | | 84/7.68 | | | b | | mode) | | | Mcps | | | earers) | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5ms, | | | | | | | | 10ms | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | 20ms | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | 1.28 | | | | | | | | Mcps | | | | | | | | TDD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Type of | No | Convol | Convol | No | Convol | | | channel | Coding | utional | utional | coding | utional | | | coding | (TDD | coding | coding | (TDD | coding | | | | only) | | | only) | | | | | | | | | | | | | Turbo | | | Turbo | | | | | coding | | | coding | | | | | | | | | | | | | Convol | | | Convol | | | | | utional | | | utional | | | | | coding | | | coding | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Code | 1/2, | 1/2 for | 1/2 for | 1/2, | 1/2 | | | rates | 1/3 | FDD and | FDD and | 1/3 | | | | | | 3. | 3. | | | | | | | 84/7.68 | 84/7.68 | | | | | | | Mcps | Mcps | | | | | | | TDD\ | TDD\ | | | | | | | 1/3 for | 1/2, | | | | | | | 1.28 | 1/3 for | | | | | | | Mcps | 1.28 | | | | | | | TDD | Mcps | | | | | | | | TDD | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | CRC | 0, 8, | 16 | 0, 8, | 0, 8, | 0, 8, | | | size | 12, 16, | | 12, 16, | 12, 16, | 12, 16, | | | | 24 | | 24 | 24 | 24 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Re | 0,5 to | | | | | | | sulting | 4 | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | | static | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | atching | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | A | DCH | DSCH | USCH | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | values | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Dynamic | T | 0 to 5 | 0 to 5 | 0 to 5 | 0 to 5 | | part | ransport | 000 | 000 | 000 | 000 | | | Block | | | | | | | Size | 1 bit | 1 bit | 1 bit | 1 bit | | | | gra | gra | gra | gra | | | | nularity | nularity | nularity | nularity | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | T | 0 to 200 | 0 to 200 | 0 to 200 | 0 to 200 | | | ransport | 000 | 000 | 000 | 000 | | | Block | | | | | | | Set Size | 1 bit | 1 bit | 1 bit | 1 bit | | | | gra | gra | gra | gra | | | | nularity | nularity | nularity | nularity | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Tran | 10, 20 | 10, 20 | 10, 20 | 10, 20 | | | smission | ms, 40 | ms, 40 | ms, 40 | ms, 40 | | | Time | and 80 | and 80 | and 80 | and 80 | | | Interval | ms | ms | ms | ms | | | | | | | | | | (option | | | | | | | for TDD | | | | | | | only) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Sem | Tran | 10, 20 | 10, 20 | 10, 20 | 10, 20 | | i-static | smission | ms, 40 | ms, 40 | ms, 40 | ms, 40 | | part | Time | and 80 | and 80 | and 80 | and 80 | | | Interval | ms | ms | ms | ms | | | | | | | | | | (FDD, | | | | | | | option | | | | | | | for TDD | | | | | | | NRT | | | | | | | bearers) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Type of | No | No | No | No | | | channel | coding | coding | coding | coding | | | coding | (TDD | (TDD | (TDD | (TDD | | | | only) | only) | only) | only) | | | | | | | | | | | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | Turbo | | | | coding | coding | coding | coding | | | | | | | | | | | Convo | Convo | Convo | Convo | | | | lutional | lutional | lutional | lutional | | | | coding | coding | coding | coding | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | code | 1/2, 1/3 | 1/2, 1/3 | 1/2, 1/3 | 1/2, 1/3 | | | rates | | | | | | | (in case | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | convo | | | | | | | lutional | | | | | | | coding) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | CRC size | 0, 8, | 0, 8, | 0, 8, | 0, 8, | | | | 12, 16, | 12, 16, | 12, 16, | 12, 16, | | | | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | R | 0,5 to 4 | | | | | | esulting | | | | | | | ratio | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | static | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | matching | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
+--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | | HS-DSCH | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Dynamic part | Transport Block Size | 1 to 200 000 | | | | | | | | 8 bit granularity | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | Transport Block Set Size | 1 to 200 000 | | | | | | | | 8 bit granularity | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | Modulation scheme | QPSK, 16 QAM | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | Redundancy version/Constellation | 1 to 8 | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | Static part | Transmission Time Interval | 2ms for FDD | | | | | | | | 5 ms for 1.28 Mcps TDD\ | | | | 10 ms for 3.84/7.68 Mcps TDD | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | Type of channel coding | Turbo coding | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | Code rates | 1/3 | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+ | | CRC size | 24 | +--------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------+
+------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | | E-DCH | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Dynamic part | Transport Block Size | FDD: 1 to 200 000 | | | | | | | | 1 bit granularity | | | | | | | | 3.84 Mcps TDD: 1 to | | | | 92014 | | | | | | | | 1.28 Mcps TDD: 1 to | | | | 11160 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | Transport Block Set | FDD: 1 to 200 000 | | | Size | | | | | 1 bit granularity | | | | | | | | 3.84 Mcps TDD: 1 to | | | | 92014 | | | | | | | | 7.68 Mcps TDD: 1 to | | | | 177130 | | | | | | | | 1.28 Mcps TDD: 1 to | | | | 11160 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | Redundancy version | 0 to 3 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Semi-static part | Transmission Time | (FDD only) 2ms, | | | Interval | | | | | (FDD, 3.84 Mcps and | | | | 7.68 Mcps TDD) 10ms | | | | | | | | (1.28 Mcps TDD) 5ms | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | Static part | Type of channel coding | Turbo coding | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | Code rates | 1/3 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+ | | CRC size | 24 | +------------------+------------------------+------------------------+
NOTE 1: The maximum size of the Transport Block has been chosen so as to avoid
any need for segmentation in the physical layer into sub-blocks (segmentation
should be avoided in the physical layer).
NOTE 2: Code rate is fixed to 1/3 in case of Turbo coding.
NOTE 3: All channels using the same resources as the BCH (i.e. the same
timeslot and code, e.g. in a multiframe pattern) have to use different
Transport Formats than the BCH to allow the identification of the BCH channel
by physical layer parameters. Due to the differing parameters, decoding of
other transport channels than BCH will result in an erroneous CRC.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of Transport format attributes for
AMR speech codec
The support for the AMR speech codec is exemplified below. On the radio
interface, one Transport Channel is established per class of bits i.e. DCH A
for class A, DCH B for class B and DCH C for class C. Each DCH has a different
transport format combination set which corresponds to the necessary protection
for the corresponding class of bits as well as the size of these class of bits
for the various AMR codec modes.
With this principle, the AMR codec mode which is used during a given TTI can
be deduced from the format of the transport channels DCH A, DCH B and DCH C
for that particular TTI.
Note that a similar principle can also be applied for other source codecs e.g.
other speech codecs or video codecs.
An example of transport channel description for each class of bits is given in
table B.1.
Table B.1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Attribute | Value | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Class A | Class B | Class C | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Dynamic | Transport | 81 | 103 | 60 | | part | Block Size | | | | | | | 65 | 99 | 40 | | | | | | | | | | 75 | 84 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 61 | 87 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 58 | 76 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 55 | 63 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 49 | 54 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 42 | 53 | 0 | | | | | | | | | | 39 | 0 | 0 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Transport | Same as the | | | | | Block Set | transport | | | | | Size | block sizes | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Semi-static | T | 20 ms | | | | part | ransmission | | | | | | Time | | | | | | Interval | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Type of | Co | | | | | channel | nvolutional | | | | | coding | coding | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | code rates | 1/2, 1/3 | None (TDD | None (TDD | | | | | only), 1/2, | only), 1/2, | | | | + | 1/3 | 1/3 | | | | cla | | | | | | ss-specific | + | + | | | | rate | cla | cla | | | | matching | ss-specific | ss-specific | | | | | rate | rate | | | | | matching | matching | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CRC size | 8 | 0 | 0 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Resulting | 0.5 to | | | | | ratio after | 4(with no | | | | | static rate | coding the | | | | | matching | rate | | | | | | matching | | | | | | ratio needs | | | | | | to be >1) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#