# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements on UEs supporting a DB-DC-HSDPA
configuration that is independent of release. TSG-RAN has agreed that the
standardisation of new configurations may be independent of a release.
However, in order to implement a UE that conforms to a particular release but
supports a configuration that is specified in a later release, it is necessary
to specify some extra requirements.
For example, Band I-XI combination for DB-DC-HSDPA (referred to as DB-DC-HSDPA
configuration 4 in [2]) is contained in the Release 10 specifications. In
order to implement a UE conforming to Release 9 but supporting this
configuration, it is necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some
parts of the Release 10 specifications, such as the radio frequency and radio
resource management requirements for the configuration.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 10): \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\".
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 12): \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.331 (Release 12): \"Radio Resource Control Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
# 4 DB-DC-HSDPA configurations independent of release
## 4.1 DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 4
DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration 4, i.e. Band I-XI combination, is specified in
Release 10 in [2] but is defined as a release-independent frequency band
combination. This approach aligns DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 4 with other DB-
DC-HSDPA configurations when considering features that have to be supported in
different releases.
UEs that conform to Release 9 and support DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 4 shall
support the following requirements of Release 10.
### 4.1.1 RF requirements
The UE shall comply with the RF requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 4,
as specified in [2]. These requirements are:
Table 4.1.1-1: RF Requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration 4 UE
* * *
Section / Clause Description 5.2 Frequency bands 6.2.1 UE maximum transmit
power 7.3 Reference sensitivity level 7.4 Maximum input level 7.5 Adjacent
channel selectivity 7.6 Blocking characteristics 7.7 Spurious response 7.8
Intermodulation characteristics 7.10 Reference input power adjustment for a
dual band device
* * *
All the receiver core requirements, which are defined relative to reference
sensitivity level, shall consider the reference sensitivity as specified in TS
25.101 REL-10 [2].
### 4.1.2 Signalling requirements
In order to signal its radio access capabilities, the UE shall support the DB-
DC-HSDPA configuration index 4 for the IE \"Band Combination\" in the IE
\"Radio Access Capability Band Combination List\".
## 4.2 DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 5
DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 5, i.e. Band II-V combination, is specified in
Release 10 in [2] but is defined as a release-independent frequency band
combination. This approach aligns DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 5 with other DB-
DC-HSDPA configurations when considering features that have to be supported in
different releases.
UEs that conform to Release 9 and support DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 5 shall
support the following requirements of Release 10.
### 4.2.1 RF requirements
The UE shall comply with the RF requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 5,
as specified in [2]. These requirements are:
Table 4.2.1-1: RF Requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration 5 UE
* * *
Section / Clause Description 5.2 Frequency bands 6.2.1 UE maximum transmit
power 7.3 Reference sensitivity level 7.4 Maximum input level 7.5 Adjacent
channel selectivity 7.6 Blocking characteristics 7.7 Spurious response 7.8
Intermodulation characteristics 7.10 Reference input power adjustment for a
dual band device
* * *
All the receiver core requirements, which are defined relative to reference
sensitivity level, shall consider the reference sensitivity as specified in TS
25.101 REL-10 [2].
### 4.2.2 Signalling requirements
In order to signal its radio access capabilities, the UE shall support the DB-
DC-HSDPA configuration index 5 for the IE \"Band Combination\" in the IE
\"Radio Access Capability Band Combination List\".
## 4.3 DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 6
DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration 6, i.e. Band I-XXXII combination, is specified in
Release 12 in [4] but is defined as a release-independent frequency band
combination. This approach aligns DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 6 with other DB-
DC-HSDPA configurations when considering features that have to be supported in
different releases.
UEs that conform to Release 9 and support DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 6 shall
support the following requirements of Release 12.
### 4.3.1 RF requirements
The UE shall comply with the RF requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 6,
as specified in [4]. These requirements are:
Table 4.3.1-1: RF Requirements for DB-DC-HSDPA Configuration 6 UE
* * *
Section / Clause Description 5.2 Frequency bands 5.4 Channel arrangement 6.2.1
UE maximum output power 7.3 Reference sensitivity level 7.4 Maximum input
level 7.5 Adjacent channel selectivity 7.6 Blocking characteristics 7.7
Spurious response 7.8 Intermodulation characteristics 7.9 Spurious emissions
7.10 Reference input power adjustment for a dual band device B.2.2 Multi-path
fading propagation conditions
* * *
All the receiver core requirements, which are defined relative to reference
sensitivity level, shall consider the reference sensitivity as specified in TS
25.101 REL-12 [4].
### 4.3.2 Signalling requirements
In order to signal its radio access capabilities, the UE shall support the DB-
DC-HSDPA configuration index 6 for the IE \"Band Combination\" in the IE
\"Radio Access Capability Band Combination List\".
In order to signal UE's measurement capabilities for band XXXII, the UE shall
support the RRC extension for the parameter value \"Band XXXII\" for the IE
\"FDD frequency band 3\" contained within the IE \"Measurement capability
extension\" [5].
#