# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the signalling transport related to NBAP
signalling to be used across the Iub Interface. The Iub interface is a logical
interface for the interconnection of Node B and Radio Network Controller (RNC)
components of the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN) for the UMTS
system. The radio network control signalling between these nodes is based on
the Node B application part (NBAP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2100 (07/94): \"B-ISDN signalling ATM adaptation
layer (SAAL) overview description\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2130 (07/94): \"B-ISDN signalling ATM adaptation
layer -- Service specific coordination function for support of signalling at
the user network interface (SSCF--UNI)\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2110 (07/94): \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer \--
Service specific connection oriented protocol (SSCOP)\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5 (08/96): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation Layer Type 5
Specification\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation I.361: B-ISDN ATM Layer Specification (11/95).
[6] ITU-T Rec. I.630 (2/99): ATM Protection Switching.
[7] IETF RFC 2960, (October 2000): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[8] IETF RFC 2460, (December 1998): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[9] IETF RFC 791, (September 1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[10] IETF RFC 2474, (December 1998): \"Definition of the Differentiated
Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[11] IETF RFC 1661, (July 1994): \"The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)\".
[12] IETF RFC 1662, (July 1994): \"PPP in HDLC-like Framing\".
[13] IETF RFC 2507, (February 1999): \"IP header compression\".
[14] IETF RFC 1990, (August 1996): \"The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)\".
[15] IETF RFC 2686, (September 1999): \"The Multi-Class Extension to Multi-
Link PPP\".
[16] IETF RFC 2509, (February 1999): \"IP Header Compression over PPP\".
[17] IETF RFC 3153, (August 2001): \"PPP Multiplexing\".
[18] IETF RFC 2364, (July 1998): \"PPP over AAL5\".
[19] IETF RFC 3031, (January 2001): \"Multiprotocol Label Switching
Architecture\".
[20] IETF RFC 3309: \"SCTP Checksum Change\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IP UTRAN node** : An UTRAN Node supporting the IP Transport Option
## 3.2 Symbols
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
AAL ATM Adaptation Layer
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
HDLC High-level Data Link Control
IP Internet Protocol
NBAP Node B Application Part
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
RNC Radio Network Controller
SAAL Signalling ATM Adaptation Layer
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SSCF Service Specific Coordination Function
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
UNI User-Network Interface
# 4 Data Link Layer
## 4.1 ATM Transport Option
ATM shall be used in the radio network control plane according to ITU-T Rec.
I.361 [5].
## 4.1.1 Protection switching at ATM Layer
If redundancy of pathways at ATM layer between RNC and Node B is supported, it
shall be implemented using ATM Protection Switching according to ITU-T Rec.
I.630 [6].
## 4.2 Data Link Layer for IP Transport Option
A RNC or Node B supporting IP Transport Option shall support the PPP protocol
with HDLC framing (IETF RFC 1661 [11], IETF RFC 1662 [12]).
NOTE: This does not preclude the single implementation and use of any other
L2/L1 protocols (e.g. PPPMux/AAL5/ATM (IETF RFC 3153 [17], IETF RFC 2364
[18]), PPP/AAL2/ATM, Ethernet, MPLS/ATM (IETF RFC 3031 [19]), etc.) fulfilling
the UTRAN requirements towards the upper layers.
A RNC or Node B supporting IP transport option and having interfaces connected
via slow bandwidth PPP links like E1/T1/J1 shall also support IP Header
Compression (IETF RFC 2507 [13]) and the PPP extensions ML/MC-PPP (IETF RFC
1990 [14], IETF RFC 2686 [15]). In this case, negotiation of header
compression (IETF RFC 2507 [13]) over PPP shall be performed via (IETF RFC
2509 [16]).
# 5 NBAP signalling bearer
## 5.1 Introduction
The Signalling Bearer for NBAP is a point-to-point protocol. There may be
multiple point-to-point links between an RNC and a Node B. As shown in figure
1, the standard allows operators to choose one out of two protocol suites for
transporting the NBAP messages.
Figure 1: Iub NBAP Signalling Transport
## 5.2 Signalling bearer in case of ATM Transport Option
The signalling bearer in the Radio Network Control Plane is SAAL-UNI (ITU-T
Rec. Q.2100 [1]) over ATM. The protocols to be used to support NBAP signalling
are SSCF-UNI (ITU-T Rec. Q.2130 [2]) on top of SSCOP (ITU-T Rec. Q.2110 [3])
and AAL Type 5 (ITU-T Rec. I.363.5 [4]).
## 5.3 Signalling bearer in case of IP Transport Option
SCTP (IETF RFC 2960 [7]) over IP shall be supported as the transport for NBAP
signalling bearer on Iub Interface. A RNC equipped with the SCTP stack option
shall initiate the INIT procedure for establishing association. The data link
layer is as specified in chapter 4.2.
The checksum method specified in IETF RFC 3309 [20] shall be used instead of
the method specified in IETF RFC 2960 ([7]).
An IP UTRAN node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [8]). The support of IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 [9]) is optional.
NOTE: This does not preclude single implementation and use of IPv4.
IP dual stack is recommended for the potential transition period from IPv4 to
IPv6 in the transport network.
Each signalling bearer between the RNC and Node B shall correspond to one
single SCTP stream in UL and one single SCTP stream in DL direction, both
streams belonging to the same SCTP association.
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [10]) shall be
supported. The Diffserv code point may be determined from the application
parameters.
#