# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the transport of implementation specific O&M
signalling between Node B and the Management Platform in case that the
transport is routed via the RNC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.431: \"UTRAN Iub interface Layer 1\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5 (8/1996): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation Layer Type
5 Specification\".
[4] IETF RFC 2225 (4/1998): \"Classical IP and ARP over ATM\".
[5] IETF RFC 2684 (9/1999): \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM Adaptation
Layer 5\".
[6] IETF RFC 791 (9/1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 2460 (12/1998): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.426: \"UTRAN Iur and Iub Interface Data Transport&Transport
Signalling for DCH\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Logical O &M**: Logical O&M is the signalling associated with the control of
logical resources owned by the RNC but physically implemented in Node B.
**Implementation Specific O &M**: Implementation Specific O&M functions depend
on the implementation of the Node B, both for it's hardware and software
components.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
ARP Address Resolution Protocol
RFC Request For Comment
IP Internet Protocol
O&M Operation and Maintenance
RNC Radio Network Controller
TNL Transport Network Layer
# 4 Implementation Specific O&M Transport
## 4.1 Requirements
While this specification only addresses the transport of Node B Implementation
Specific O&M signalling, many of the following requirements are derived from
generic requirements for O&M of UMTS network elements:
  * Common O&M infrastructure for all network elements.
  * Independence from various data link protocols.
  * Support of various higher layer protocols and applications.
  * Secure transmission.
  * No Impact of O&M transport on traffic transport and signalling.
  * Re-use of existing transport facilities, i.e. co-existence of Iub and Implementation Specific O&M on the same bearer.
### 4.2 Routing
It is the responsibility of the RNC to route Implementation Specific O&M
signalling traffic. The traffic exchanged over this signalling link is
completely transparent to the RNC. Both RNC and Node B have to support the
routing of Implementation specific O&M via the RNC.
Figure 1: Implementation Specific O&M Transport via RNC
## 4.3 Transport Bearer
An appropriate transport bearer for Implementation Specific O&M should
consider the requirements listed in subclause 4.1. IP (IETF RFC 791 [6])
should be the transport mechanism in order to allow a data link independent
support of a variety of O&M applications and protocols for the Implementation
Specific O&M of the Node B.
IP datagrams containing O&M signalling have to be carried over the same bearer
as Iub. There are two options for the implementation specific O&M signalling
bearer in Iub.
1) ATM Transport option
2) IP Transport option
### 4.3.1 ATM Transport Option
The following figure shows the protocol stack for Implementation Specific O&M
transport between Node B and RNC in case of ATM transport option in Iub:
{width="3.0840277777777776in" height="2.3180555555555555in"}
Figure 2: Protocol Stack for Implementation Specific O&M Transport (ATM
transport option)
AAL5 shall be used according to ITU-T Recommendation I.363.5 [3].
AAL5 virtual circuits are used to transport the IP packets containing
Implementation Specific O&M signalling data between Node B and RNC. Multiple
VCs can be used over the interface. An association shall be made between a VC
and the IP addresses that are related to this VC in the peer node side. This
association can be made using O&M or using ATM Inverse ARP according to
Classical IP over ATM.
Classical IP over ATM protocols are used to carry the IP packets over the ATM
transport network. Classical IP over ATM is specified in IETF RFC 2225 [4].
Multiprotocol Encapsulation over AAL5 is specified in IETF RFC 2684 [5].
### 4.3.2 IP Transport Option
The following figure shows the protocol stack for Implementation Specific O&M
transport between Node B and RNC in case of IP transport option in Iub:
Figure 3: Protocol Stack for Implementation Specific O&M Transport (IP TNL)
Implementation specific O&M signalling is conveyed by IP between the Node B
and the RNC. IP-in-IP tunneling may be applied when the Iub Transport Network
Layer is used.
IP based Transport Network Layer of Iub is further defined in TS 25.426 [8].
#