# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for the study item \"Evolved
UTRA and UTRAN\" [1]. The objective of the study item is to develop a
framework for the evolution of the 3GPP radio-access technology towards a
high-data-rate, low-latency and packet-optimized radio access technology.
This document provides guidance and collects requirements which an evolved
UTRA and UTRAN system should meet.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TD RP-040461: \"Proposed Study Item on Evolved UTRA and UTRAN\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TS
21.905 [2] and the following apply:
CAPEX Capital expenditure
CS Circuit Switched
DRX Discontinuous Reception
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
HSDPA High Speed Dowlink Packet Access
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
NAS Non Access Stratum
OPEX Operational expenditure
QoS Quality of Service
PS Packet Switched
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UE User Equipment
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #26 meeting, the Study Item description on \"Evolved UTRA
and UTRAN\" was approved [1].
The justification of the Study Item was that with enhancements such as HSDPA
and Enhanced Uplink, the 3GPP radio-access technology will be highly
competitive for several years. However, to ensure competitiveness in an even
longer time frame, i.e. for the next 10 years and beyond, a long-term
evolution of the 3GPP radio-access technology needs to be considered.
Important parts of such a long-term evolution include reduced latency, higher
user data rates, improved system capacity and coverage, and reduced cost for
the operator. In order to achieve this, an evolution of the radio interface as
well as the radio network architecture should be considered.
Considering a desire for even higher data rates and also taking into account
future additional 3G spectrum allocations the long-term 3GPP evolution should
include an evolution towards support for wider transmission bandwidth than 5
MHz. At the same time, support for transmission bandwidths of 5MHz and less
than 5MHz should be investigated in order to allow for more flexibility in
whichever frequency bands the system may be deployed.
# 5 Objectives
The objective of Evolved UTRA and UTRAN is to develop a framework for the
evolution of the 3GPP radio-access technology towards a high-data-rate, low-
latency and packet-optimized radio-access technology. Thus the study should
focus on supporting services provided from the PS-domain. In order to achieve
this, studies should be carried out in at least the following areas:
\- Related to the radio-interface physical layer (downlink and uplink):
\- e.g. means to support flexible transmission bandwidth up to 20 MHz,
introduction of new transmission schemes and advanced multi-antenna
technologies
\- Related to the radio interface layer 2 and 3:
\- e.g. signalling optimization
\- Related to the UTRAN architecture:
\- identify the most optimum UTRAN network architecture and functional split
between RAN network nodes, not precluding considerations on the functional
split between UTRAN and CN
\- RF-related issues
The targets for the evolution of the radio-interface and radio-access network
architecture should be:
\- Significantly increased peak data rate e.g. 100 Mbps (downlink) and 50 Mbps
(uplink)
**\- Increase \"cell edge bitrate\" whilst maintaining same site locations as
deployed today**
**\- Significantly improved spectrum efficiency ( e.g. 2-4 x Release 6)**
\- Possibility for a Radio-access network latency (user-plane UE -- RNC (or
corresponding node above Node B) - UE) below 10 ms
\- Significantly reduced C-plane latency (e.g. including the possibility to
exchange user-plane data starting from camped-state with a transition time of
less than 100 ms (excluding downlink paging delay))
\- Scaleable bandwidth
\- 5, 10, 20 and possibly 15 MHz
\- [1.25,] [1.6,] 2.5 MHz: to allow flexibility in narrow spectral allocations
where the system may be deployed
\- Support for inter-working with existing 3G systems and non-3GPP specified
systems
\- Further enhanced MBMS
\- Reduced CAPEX and OPEX including backhaul
\- Cost effective migration from Release 6 UTRA radio interface and
architecture
\- Reasonable system and terminal complexity, cost, and power consumption.
\- Support of further enhanced IMS and core network
\- Backwards compatibility is highly desirable, but the trade off versus
performance and/or capability enhancements should be carefully considered.
**\- Efficient support of the various types of services, especially from the
PS domain (e.g. Voice over IP, Presence)**
**\- System should be optimized for low mobile speed but also support high
mobile speed**
**\- Operation in paired and unpaired spectrum should not be precluded**
**\- Possibility for simplified co-existence between operators in adjacent
bands as well as cross-border co-existence**
# 6 Capability-related requirements
## 6.1 Peak Data Rate
E-UTRA should support significantly increased instantaneous peak data rates.
The supported peak data rate should scale according to size of the spectrum
allocation.
Note that the peak data rates may depend on the numbers of transmit and
receive antennas at the UE. The targets for downlink (DL) and uplink (UL) peak
data rates are specified in terms of a reference UE configuration comprising:
a) Downlink capability -- 2 receive antennas at UE
b) Uplink capability -- 1 transmit antenna at UE
For this baseline configuration, the system should support an instantaneous
downlink peak data rate of 100Mb/s within a 20 MHz downlink spectrum
allocation (5 bps/Hz) and an instantaneous uplink peak data rate of 50Mb/s
(2.5 bps/Hz) within a 20MHz uplink spectrum allocation. The peak data rates
should then scale linearly with the size of the spectrum allocation.
In case of spectrum shared between downlink and uplink transmission, E-UTRA
does not need to support the above instantaneous peak data rates
simultaneously.
## **6.2 Latency**
### 6.2.1 C-plane latency
Significantly reduced C-plane latency
a) Transition time (excluding downlink paging delay and NAS signalling delay)
of less than 100 ms from a camped-state, such as Release 6 Idle Mode, to an
active state such as Release 6 CELL_DCH, in such a way that the user plane is
established.
b) Transition time (excluding DRX interval) of less than 50 ms between a
dormant state such as Release 6 CELL_PCH and an active state such as Release 6
CELL_DCH.
{width="3.9993055555555554in" height="2.2493055555555554in"}
Figure 6.1: An example of state transition
#### 6.2.1.1 C-plane Capacity
The system should be able to support a large number of users per cell with
quasi instantaneous access to radio resources in the active state. It is
expected that at least 200 users per cell should be supported in the active
state for spectrum allocations up to 5 MHz, and at least 400 users for higher
spectrum allocation. A much higher number of users is expected to be supported
in the dormant and camped state.
### 6.2.2 U-Plane Latency
Following definitions apply to user-plane latency requirements:
**U-Plane Delay Definition** \-- U-plane delay is defined in terms of the one-
way transit time between a packet being available at the IP layer in either
the UE/RAN edge node and the availability of this packet at IP layer in the
RAN edge node/UE. The RAN edge node is the node providing the RAN interface
towards the core network.
Specifications shall enable an E-UTRA U-plane latency of less than 5 ms in
unload condition (ie single user with single data stream) for small IP packet,
e.g. 0 byte payload + IP headers E-UTRAN bandwidth mode may impact the
experienced latency
Note: This requirement, more specifically the exact definition of latency, may
be revisited and further clarified once there is a 3GPP system end-to-end
requirement agreed and the overall system architecture is settled, including
the RAN and core network functional split. This means that the network
entities between which the U-plane latency requirement of E-UTRA and E-UTRAN
applies, will finally be defined at a later stage.
# 7 System performance requirements
It is assumed that the different system performance targets defined in clause
7.1 and 7.2 should be achieved with a single system configuration of E-UTRA
and UTRA (i.e. same system configuration used for average/cell edge user
throughput or spectral efficiency).
## 7.1 User throughput
All the targets below are important, however the cell edge targets are
significant since they impact the dimensioning of the network and help deliver
a more uniform user experience across the cell area. For these reasons, and
considering that the average throughput and spectral efficiency will benefit
significantly from MIMO and improved orthogonality whereas cell edge
performance might not, the cell edge targets are more challenging than the
average throughput and spectral efficiency.
The upper limits of the target ranges should also be given serious
consideration in order that E-UTRA is as competitive possible.
**Downlink**
\- Target for user throughput per MHz at the 5 % point of the C.D.F., 2 to 3
times Release 6 HSDPA.
\- Target for averaged user throughput per MHz, 3 to 4 times Release 6 HSDPA
Both targets should be achieved assuming Release 6 reference performance is
based on a single Tx antenna at the Node B with enhanced performance type 1
receiver in UE whilst the E-UTRA may use a maximum of 2 Tx antennas at the
Node B and 2 Rx antennas at the UE.
\- The supported user throughput should scale with the spectrum bandwidth.
**Uplink**
\- Target for user throughput per MHz at the 5 % point of the C.D.F., 2 to 3
times Release 6 Enhanced Uplink (deployed with a single Tx antenna at the UE
and 2 Rx antennas at the Node B).
\- Target for averaged user throughput per MHz, 2 to 3 times Release 6
Enhanced Uplink (deployed with a single Tx antenna at the UE and 2 Rx antennas
at the Node B).
\- Both should be achievable by the E-UTRA using a maximum of a single Tx
antenna at the UE and 2 Rx antennas at the Node B. Greater user throughput
should be achievable using multiple Tx antennas at the UE.
\- The user throughput should scale with the spectrum bandwidth provided that
the maximum transmit power is also scaled.
## 7.2 Spectrum efficiency
**E-UTRA should deliver significantly improved spectrum efficiency and
increased cell edge bit rate whilst maintaining the same site locations as
deployed today.**
Spectrum efficiency needs to be significantly increased as followings:
**Downlink**
In a loaded network, target for spectrum efficiency (bits/sec/Hz/site), 3 to 4
times Release 6 HSDPA This should be achieved assuming Release 6 reference
performance is based on a single Tx antenna at the Node B with enhanced
performance type 1 receiver in UE whilst the E-UTRA may use a maximum of 2 Tx
antennas at the Node B and 2 Rx antennas at the UE.
**Uplink**
In a loaded network, target for spectrum efficiency (bits/sec/Hz/site), 2 to 3
times Release 6 Enhanced Uplink (deployed with a single Tx antenna at the UE
and 2 Rx antennas at the Node B). This should be achievable by the E-UTRA
using a maximum of a single Tx antenna at the UE and 2Rx antennas at the Node
B.
## 7.3 Mobility
The E-UTRAN shall support mobility across the cellular network and should be
optimized for low mobile speed from 0 to 15 km/h. Higher mobile speed between
15 and 120 km/h should be supported with high performance. Mobility across the
cellular network shall be maintained at speeds from 120 km/h to 350 km/h (or
even up to 500 km/h depending on the frequency band). Voice and other real-
time services supported in the CS domain in R6 shall be supported by E-UTRAN
via the PS domain with at least equal quality as supported by UTRAN (e.g. in
terms of guaranteed bit rate)~~ ~~over the whole of the speed range. The
impact of intra E-UTRA handovers on quality (e.g. interruption time) shall be
less than or equal to that provided by CS domain handovers in GERAN.
The mobile speed above 250 km/h represents special case, such as high speed
train environment. In such case a special scenario applies for issues such as
mobility solutions and channel models. For the physical layer parameterization
E-UTRAN should be able to maintain the connection up to 350 km/h, or even up
to 500 km/h depending on the frequency band.
The E-UTRAN shall also support techniques and mechanisms to optimize delay and
packet loss during intra system handover.
## 7.4 Coverage
E-UTRA should be sufficiently flexible to support a variety of coverage
scenarios for which the performance targets of clause 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 should
be met assuming the reuse of existing UTRAN sites and the same carrier
frequency. Reference scenarios shall be defined that are representative of
current UTRAN deployments.
When defining reference scenarios to determine whether the targets outlined in
this chapter are achieved, especially those for cell edge performance, it
should be taken into account that these are based on the assumption of a C/I
limited scenario. For C/N limited scenarios (e.g. deep indoor) the improvement
expected over HSDPA/Enhanced Uplink Release 6 is not as substantial
E-UTRA should support the following deployment scenarios in terms of maximum
cell range:
\- up to 5 km: performance targets defined in clause 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3 should
be met.
\- up to 30 km: slight degradations in the achieved performance for the
targets defined in clause 7.1 and more significant degradation for the targets
defined in the clause 7.2 is acceptable however mobility performance targets
defined in clause 7.3 should be met.
\- up to 100 km: should not be precluded by the specifications.
## 7.5 Further Enhanced MBMS
E-UTRA systems should support enhanced MBMS modes compared to UTRA operation.
Further requirements applicable to MBMS systems are:
As for the unicast case, E-UTRA should be capable of achieving the target
performance levels when operating from the same site locations as existing
UTRA systems.
Note: In sections referring to MBMS requirements, the term "broadcast" means
"point-to-multipoint"
For broadcast transmission, E-UTRA should be capable of achieving the
following target performance level at cell edge when operating from the same
site locations as existing UTRA systems:
In the deployment scenario where a dedicated carrier is used for broadcast
only:
\- When operating with the same content for all cells or for a group of cells
broadcasting MBMS, the target performance level is FFS. Additionally
techniques to improve the cell edge performance should be studied.
Note: In Broadcast mode E-UTRA MBMS should aim the cell edge spectrum
efficiency of [1 bit/s/Hz] equivalent to the support at least [16] Mobile TV
channels at around [300 kbps] per channel in a 5 MHz carrier in an urban or
suburban environment.
\- When operating with cell specific content the target performance level is
FFS.
In the deployment scenario where a carrier is shared between broadcast &
unicast traffic:
\- The target performance at cell edge for broadcast traffic should be in line
with the existing target performance for the unicast traffic.
Note: Additionally techniques to improve the cell edge performance without
modifying the system designed for unicast could be used.
**Interruption time requirements** :
It is understood than the total service interruption perceived by the user is
caused by different factors: E-UTRAN, CN, Application. The following targets
only concern the E-UTRAN part.
The following requirements should be based on the response from SA on the
overall service requirements requested in LS to TSG SA on service requirements
for LTE MBMS (Tdoc06-0216).
a) The interruption time when changing between two broadcast streams (e.g.:
two TV Channels) received in the same cell should be less than FFS.
b) The interruption time when changing between a broadcast stream and a
unicast stream of the same service type (e.g.: TV Channel) received in the
same cell should be less than FFS.
c) The interruption time when changing between two broadcast streams (e.g.:
two TV Channels) received on different carriers should be less than FFS.
d) The interruption time when changing between a broadcast stream and a
unicast stream of the same service type (e.g.: TV Channel) but received on
different carriers should be less than FFS.
e) The interruption time when changing between a broadcast stream on one cell
and a unicast stream of the same service (e.g.: same TV Channel) on a
different cell, but received on the same carrier, should be less than FFS.
E-UTRA should provide enhanced support for MBMS services. Specifically, E-UTRA
support for MBMS should take the following requirements into account:
**a) Physical Layer Component Re-use** \-- in order to reduce E-UTRA terminal
complexity, the same fundamental modulation, coding and multiple access
approaches used for unicast operation should apply to MBMS services, and the
same UE bandwidth mode set supported for unicast operation should be
applicable to MBMS operation.\ E-UTRA broadcast transmission shall be
supported on a dedicated carrier for broadcast traffic or a carrier shared (in
Frequency or Time Domain) with unicast traffic.\ E-UTRA broadcast transmission
should use the same fundamental modulation, coding and multiple access whether
it is deployed on dedicated carrier or a carrier shared with unicast.
Note: In the case of broadcast transmission being supported on a dedicated
MBMS carrier, modifications aiming at a simpler solution optimised for
Downlink-only traffic and reducing UE complexity whilst maximising the usage
of the radio resource should show a clear benefit.
**b) Voice and MBMS** \-- the E-UTRA approach to MBMS should permit
simultaneous, tightly integrated and efficient provisioning of dedicated voice
and MBMS services to the user.
**c) Data and MBMS** \-- The E-UTRA approach to MBMS should permit
simultaneous, tightly integrated and efficient provisioning of dedicated data
and MBMS services to the user.
**d) Unpaired MBMS Operation** \-- the deployment of E-UTRA carriers bearing
MBMS services in unpaired spectrum arrangements should be supported
## 7.6 Network synchronization
It is expected that the system performance requirements defined in this TR
should be achieved in a network deployment not using any inter-site time
synchronization. However optimizations based on inter-site time
synchronization should be supported provided these bring sufficient benefits.
# 8 Deployment-related requirements
## 8.1 Deployment Scenarios
There is a huge range of deployment scenarios that could be considered however
at a high-level E-UTRAN shall support the following two deployment scenarios:
\- Standalone deployment scenario: In this scenario the operator is deploying
E-UTRAN either with no previous network deployed in the area or it could be
deployed in areas where there is existing UTRAN/GERAN coverage but for any
reason there is no requirement for interworking with UTRAN/GERAN (e.g.
standalone wireless broadband application).
\- Integrating with existing UTRAN and/or GERAN deployment scenario: In this
scenario it is assumed that the operator is having either a UTRAN and/or a
GERAN network deployed with full or partial coverage in the same geographical
area. It is assumed that the GERAN and UTRAN networks respectively can have
differently levels of maturity.
The exact nature of the deployment and the associated requirements (e.g.
common equipment, inter-working) will be driven by the demand for mobile
services and the competitive environment.
## 8.2 Spectrum flexibility
a) Support for spectrum allocations of different size
1) E-UTRA shall operate in spectrum allocations of different sizes, including
1.25 MHz, 1.6MHz (intended primarily for use due spectrum compatibility on the
bands with 1.28 Mcps TDD), 2.5 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz and 20 MHz. in both
the uplink and downlink. Operation in paired and unpaired spectrum shall be
supported.
2) E-UTRA shall enable the flexibility to support broadcast transmission in
both modes: "Downlink--only", and "Downlink and Uplink" allowing an optimised
usage of the available spectrum.
3) E-UTRA shall enable the flexibility to modify the radio resource allocation
for broadcast transmission according to specific demand or operator's policy.
Eg: Emergency situation, special local or global events.
4) Unnecessary fragmentation of technologies for paired and unpaired band
operation shall be avoided. This shall be achieved with minimal additional
complexity.
b) Support for diverse spectrum arrangements
1) The system shall be able to support (same and different) content delivery
over an aggregation of resources including Radio Band Resources (as well as
power, adaptive scheduling, etc) in the same and different bands, in both
uplink and downlink and in both adjacent and non-adjacent channel
arrangements.
2) The degree to which the above requirement is supported is conditioned on
the increase in UE and network complexity and cost.
3) A \"Radio Band Resource\" is defined as all spectrum available to an
operator.
## 8.3 **Spectrum deployment**
E-UTRA is required to cope with following scenarios:
a) Co-existence in the same geographical area and co-location with GERAN/3G on
adjacent channels.
b) Co-existence in the same geographical area and co-location between
operators on adjacent channels.
c) Co-existence on overlapping and/or adjacent spectrum at country borders.
d) E-UTRA shall be possible to operate standalone, i.e. there is no need for
any other carrier to be available.
e) All frequency bands should be allowed following release independent
frequency band principles
Note In case of border co-ordination requirement, other aspects such as
possible scheduling solutions should be considered together with physical
layer behaviour.
## 8.4 Co-existence and interworking with 3GPP RAT
The following requirements are applicable to inter-working between E-UTRA and
other 3GPP systems:
a) E-UTRAN Terminals supporting also UTRAN and/or GERAN operation should be
able to support measurement of, and handover from and to, both 3GPP UTRA and
3GPP GERAN systems correspondingly with acceptable impact on terminal
complexity and network performance.
b) E-UTRAN is required to efficiently support inter-RAT measurements with
acceptable impact on terminal complexity and network performance, by e.g.
providing UE\'s with measurement opportunities through downlink and uplink
scheduling.
c) The interruption time during a handover of real-time services between
E-UTRAN and UTRAN is less than 300 msec
d) The interruption time during a handover of non real-time services between
E-UTRAN and UTRAN should be less than 500 msec
e) The interruption time during a handover of real-time services between
E-UTRAN and GERAN is less than 300 msec
f) The interruption time during a handover of non real-time services between
E-UTRAN and GERAN should be less than 500 msec
g) Non-active terminals (such as one being in Release 6 idle mode or CELL_PCH)
which support UTRAN and/or GERAN in addition to E-UTRAN shall not need to
monitor paging messages only from one of GERAN, UTRA or E-UTRA
h) The interruption time during a handover between an E-UTRA broadcast stream
and a UTRAN unicast stream providing the same service (e.g. same TV channel)
is less than FFS. (Value to be agreed following SA guidance)
> i) The interruption time during a handover between an E-UTRA broadcast
> stream and a GERAN unicast stream providing the same service (e.g. same TV
> channel) is less than FFS. (Value to be agreed following SA guidance)
j) The interruption time during a handover between an E-UTRA broadcast stream
and a UTRAN broadcast stream providing the same service (e.g. same TV channel)
is less than FFS. (Value to be agreed following SA guidance)
The above requirements are for the cases where the GERAN and/or UTRAN networks
provide support for E-UTRAN handover.
Reduction in network and terminal complexity and cost by not mandating support
for the measurements and handovers to/from GERAN/UTRAN should be considered.
Note: The interruption times above are to be considered as maximum values.
These values may be revisited when the overall architecture and the E-UTRA
physical layer has been defined in more detail.
# 9 Requirements for E-UTRAN architecture and migration
a) A single E-UTRAN architecture should be agreed.
b) The E-UTRAN architecture shall be packet based, although provision should
be made to support systems supporting real-time and conversational class
traffic.
c) E-UTRAN architecture shall minimize the presence of \"single points of
failure\" where possible without additional cost for backhaul.
d) E-UTRAN architecture shall simplify and minimize the introduced number of
interfaces where possible
e) Radio Network Layer (RNL) and Transport Network Layer (TNL) interaction
should not be precluded if in the interest of improved system performance
f) E-UTRAN architecture shall support an end-to-end QoS. The TNL shall provide
the appropriate QoS requested by the RNL.
g) QoS mechanism(s) shall take into account the various types of traffic that
exists to provide efficient bandwidth utilization: \"Control Plane\" traffic,
\"User Plane\" traffic, O&M traffic etc.
h) The E-UTRAN shall be designed in such a way to minimize the delay variation
(jitter) for e.g. TCP/IP for packet communication.
# 10 Radio Resource Management requirements
This clause does not pre-suppose any particular architecture.
## 10.1 Enhanced support for end to end QoS
The E-UTRAN shall be enhanced to support improved QoS control, enabling a more
optimal matching of service, application and protocol requirements (including
higher layer signalling) to RAN resources and radio characteristics.
## 10.2 Efficient support for transmission of higher layers
The E-UTRAN shall provide mechanisms to support the efficient transmission and
operation of higher layer protocols over the radio interface, such as IP
header compression.
## 10.3 Support of load sharing and policy management across different Radio
Access Technologies
The E-UTRAN shall provide mechanisms to support load sharing and policy
management between E-UTRA and other RATs (GERAN, UTRA). To minimize latency
when data needs to be transferred, reselection mechanisms to direct UEs
towards appropriate RATs when the UEs are in a dormant state, as well as the
active state, should be considered. Support for end to end QoS during inter
RAT handover should be considered
# 11 Complexity requirements
## 11.1 Complexity requirements for overall system
E-UTRA and E-UTRAN shall satisfy the required performance. Additionally,
system complexity shall be minimized in order to stabilize the system & inter-
operability in earlier stage and decrease the cost of terminal & UTRAN. For
these requirements, the following shall be taken into account:
a) Minimize the number of options
b) No redundant mandatory features
c) Reduce the number of necessary test cases, e.g. Reduce the number of states
of protocols, minimize the number of procedures, appropriate parameter range
and granularity
## 11.2 Complexity requirements for UE
The E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Requirements should **_minimize the complexity_** of
the E-UTRA UE **_in terms of size, weight, battery life (standby and
active)_** consistent with the provision of the advanced services of the
E-UTRA/UTRAN.
For these requirements, the following shall be taken into account;
a) UE complexity in terms of supporting multi-RAT (GERAN/UTRA/E-UTRA) should
be considered when considering the complexity of E-UTRA features.
b) The mandatory features shall be kept to the minimum.
c) There shall be no redundant or duplicate specifications of mandatory
features, or for accomplishing the same task.
d) The number of options shall be minimized. Sets of options shall be
realizable in terms of separate distinct UE \"types/capabilities\". Different
UE \"types/capabilities\" shall be used to capture different complexity vs.
performance trade-offs, e.g. for the **impact of multiple antennas.**
e) The number of necessary test cases shall be minimizied so it is feasible to
complete the development of the test cases in a reasonable timeframe after the
Core Specifications are completed. No unnecessary test cases shall be
developed.
# 12 General requirements
## 12.1 Cost-related requirements
Cost related requirements for the E-UTRA and E-UTRAN are:
a) Backhaul communication protocols should be optimized.
b) The E-UTRAN architecture should reduce the cost of future network
deployment whilst enabling the usage of existing site locations.
c) All the interfaces specified shall be open for multi-vendor equipment
interoperability.
d) UE complexity and power consumption shall be minimized/optimized.
Complicated UTRAN architecture and unnecessary interfaces should be avoided.
e) More efficient and easy to use OAM&P.
## 12.2 Service-related requirements
The E-UTRA should efficiently support various types of service. These must
include currently available services like web-browsing, FTP, video-streaming
or VoIP, and more advanced services (e.g. real-time video or push-to-x) in the
PS- domain.
VoIP should be supported with at least as good radio, backhaul efficiency and
latency as voice traffic over the UMTS CS networks.
# 13 Working history and work plan
Working history and sork plan of this Study Item is summarized as following
milestones per TSG RAN meetings. Work plan for SAE is included taking into
account alignment between LTE and SAE work:
TSG RAN #28 (June 05)
\- Revised Work plan
\- Requirement TR Approved
\- Deployment Scenarios included
\- Requirements on Migration Scenarios included
TSG RAN #29 (September 05)
\- Revised Work plan
TSG RAN #30 (December 05)
\- Revised Work plan
\- Physical Layer basics
\- Multiple access scheme
\- Macro-diversity or not
TSG RAN #31 (March 06)
\- High-level concept of L1 key issues
\- Simulation conditions for the system evaluation
\- Radio Interface Protocol Architecture
> \- Functions of RRC, MAC etc
\- RAN Architecture
> \- Radio interface protocol termination points
>
> \- RRC, Outer ARQ etc. termination points
>
> \- Key concepts on Security
\- States and state transitions
> \- Final state model
>
> \- State transition between EUTRA and UTRA/GERA
\- Intra EUTRA mobility in Active mode
\- Revised work plan
TSG RAN #32 (June 06)
\- Remaining L1 key issues for evaluation
\- Down-selection from multiple alternatives on HARQ, Link Adaptation,
Scheduling, MIMO, Interference mitigation, including key aspects on related
L1/L2 signaling
\- Principles of access procedures, i.e. cell search and random access
(including L2 aspects)
\- Methodology for the system evaluation
\- RF scenarios
\- Spectrum aggregation, etc
\- UE capabilities
\- Core Network Architecture related to EUTRA/UTRA/GSM
\- Overall System Architecture: Nodes and interfaces related to EUTRA/UTRA/GSM
\- Remaining security issues
\- Remaining issues on Intra EUTRA in Idle mode and EUTRA-UTRA/GSM mobility in
Active and Idle modes
\- Service requirements
\- Legal intercept requirements
\- RAN TR25.912 ready for approval
> \- TR having stage 2 level of details in order for smooth transition to Work
> Item phase
>
> \- The TR shall include performance assessments, UE capabilities, and system
> and terminal complexities
\- Mobility between 3GPP and non-3GPP accesses
\- Remaining issues on QoS concept
\- MBMS
\- Documentation of overall system migration scenarios
\- Optimal routing and roaming including local breakout
\- Addressing/identification requirements and solutions
\- Work Items created and their time plans agreed
#