# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Packet-oriented features like HSDPA and E-DCH in UMTS systems will promote the
subscribers' desire for continuous connectivity, where the user stays
connected over a long time span with only occasional active periods of data
transmission, and avoiding frequent connection termination and re-
establishment with its inherent overhead and delay.
This is the perceived mode a subscriber is used to in fixed broadband networks
(e.g. DSL) and a precondition to attract users from fixed broadband networks.
For a high number of users in the cell it can be assumed that many users are
not transmitting any user data for some time (e.g. for reading during web
browsing or in between packets for periodic packet transmission such as
VoIP).The corresponding overhead control channels and dedicated channels will
significantly limit the number of users that can be efficiently supported.
As completely releasing dedicated channels during periods of temporary traffic
inactivity would cause considerable delays for reestablishing data
transmission and a corresponding bad user perception, this WI is intended to
reduce the impact of control channels while maintaining the DCH state and
allowing a much faster reactivation for temporarily inactive users.
# 1 Scope
The present document summarizes the work done under the WI \"Continuous
Connectivity for Packet Data Users for 1.28Mcps TDD\" defined in [1] by
listing technical concepts addressing the objectives of the work item (see
below), analysing these technical concepts and selecting the best solution
(which might be a combination of technical concepts).
The objective of this work item is to reduce the code consumption (e.g.
overhead of physical control channels or related signaling messages) of packet
data users for both real-time (e.g. VoIP) and non real-time services, e.g. for
users which have temporarily no data transmission in either uplink or
downlink. Packet data users as considered in this work item are using only HS-
DSCH/E-DCH channels without UL DPCH and DL DPCH.
The aim is to increase the number of packet data users in the UMTS 1.28Mcps
TDD system that can be kept efficiently in CELL_DCH state over a longer time
period and that can restart transmission after a period of temporary
inactivity with a much shorter delay (for example, \ edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP Tdoc RP- 080085: \" New Work item Proposal: Continuous Connectivity
for packet data users for 1.28Mcps TDD \", TSG RAN #39, Puerto Vallarta,
Mexico, 04 - 07 March 2008.
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.306: \"UE Radio Access Capabilities\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.308: \"UTRA High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.319: \"Enhanced uplink; Overall description; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol Specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.433: \"UTRAN Iub Interface NBAP Signalling\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the [following] terms and
definitions [given in ... and the following] apply.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACK Acknowledgement
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DCH Dedicated Channel
DL Downlink
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel
E-HICH E-DCH HARQ Acknowledgement Indicator Channel
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
HS-SCCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Control Channel
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
RL Radio Link
S-CCPCH Secondary Common Control Physical Channel
SIR Signal-to-Interference Ratio
TPC Transmit Power Control
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Technical concepts
## 4.0 General
This clause describes and analyses the suggested technical concepts addressing
the problem described by the work item \"Continuous Connectivity for Packet
Data Users\" defined in [1].
## 4.1 Semi-persistent scheduling in uplink
### 4.1.1 Description of the concept
In TD-SCDMA HSPA plus system, CPC technique serves as a solution to data
transmission for UE in CELL_DCH state, and the data transmission
characteristic for such as real-time (e.g. VoIP) service would be periodicly
and strictly delay sensitive. For uplink transmission, E-AGCH adds a
significant overhead to each E-DCH transmission. Although this overhead is
relatively small for transmission of large packets of data, such as in the
presence of full-buffer type of traffic, it is considerable for IMS real-time
services such as VoIP.
This concept alleviates this overhead by allowing UTRAN to allocate a kind of
semi-persistent or long term resource and NodeB can adjust this resource
during the transmission. When UE transmits new data using this resources it
should wait for the feedback from NodeB by detection corresponding E-HICH ,
i.e. E-HICH for non-schedule E-DCH shall be used in case of semi-
persistent/long term resource assignment.
### 4.1.2 Analysis of the concept
By this semi-persistent scheduling method, the control channel overhead could
be reduced and the VoIP capacity could be increased. The E-AGCH channels are
freed up to be used for other services and UEs.
### 4.1.3 Agreements
\- Long term resource assignment shall be introduced in Uplink, and the
assignment can be adjusted by NodeB dynamically.
\- E-HICH for non-schedule E-DCH shall be used in case of long term resource
assignment.
\- Node B can re-assign the UE's semi-persistent resource when the UE
transfers from the VoIP active period to the VoIP silence period.
### 4.1.4 Open issues of the concept
\- The mapping relation between semi-persistent or long term assignment E-PUCH
and E-HICH.
\- Semi-persistent resource assignment procedure and frame structure design.
\- Authorization trigger event design and authorization algorithm, NodeB data
receiving information (for instance, SIR measurement or effective traffic
statistics, etc) and the cell's Rot information.
## 4.2 Semi-persistent scheduling in downlink
### 4.2.1 Description of the concept
In TD-SCDMA HSPA plus system, CPC technique serves as a solution to data
transmission for UE in CELL_DCH state, and the data transmission
characteristic for such as real-time (e.g. VoIP) service would be periodicly
and strictly delay sensitive. For downlink tranmission, HS-SCCH adds a
significant overhead to each HS-DSCH transmission. Although this overhead is
relatively small for transmission of large packets of data, such as in the
presence of full-buffer type of traffic, it is considerable for IMS real-time
services such as VoIP.
This concept alleviates this overhead by allowing UTRAN to allocate a kind of
semi-persistent or long term resource. When the semi-persistent HS-DSCH
resources are configured for a UE, the first HS-DSCH transmission is performed
without the accompanying HS-SCCH. And HARQ retransmissions of the first HS-
DSCH transmission are accompanied by a new format HS-SCCH.
### 4.2.2 Analysis of the concept
By this semi-persistent scheduling method, the control channel overhead could
be reduced and the VoIP capacity could be increased.
### 4.2.3 Agreements
\- When the semi-persistent HS-DSCH resources are configured for a UE, the
first HS-DSCH transmission on the semi-persistent HS-DSCH resources is
performed without the accompanying HS-SCCH.
\- The Node B can assign and re-assign the UE's semi-persistent resource.
## 4.3 Uplink transmission simulation
### 4.3.1 Analysis of the scheme
Node B may assign semi-persistent resource for uplink VoIP transmission, and
the assignment can be adjusted by Node B via E-AGCH.
When semi-persistent resource is assigned to UE, UE sends uplink data on
E-PUCH in the allocated TTIs.
\- VoIP active period to silent period
Node B receives the uplink data on E-PUCH and judges whether UE transits from
VoIP active period to silent period. If UE transits from active period to
silent period, Node B re-assigns the E-PUCH physical resource and informs UE
via E-AGCH. Once UE receives the E-AGCH, UE shall send the uplink data on
E-PUCH occupying the allocated physical resource in the designated TTIs by
E-AGCH.
\- VoIP silent period to active period
When UE transits from silent period to active period, UE shall report SI via
MAC-e PDU or E-RUCCH to ask for more physical resources. Once Node B receives
the request, Node B re-assigns the E-PUCH resource and informs UE via E-AGCH.
The proposed transmission scheme may improve both the physical resource
efficiency and the VoIP capacity.
### 4.3.2 Simulation result
Based on the proposed uplink transmission scheme, the system simulation result
is shown below:
{width="5.76875in" height="4.326388888888889in"}
With the criteria that more than 95% users should be satisfied, the VoIP
capacity of a cell, namely the number of VoIP satisfied user is listed as
following:
* * *
Target BLER 1% BLER Target 2% BLER Target 3% BLER Target 5% BLER Target 7%
BLER Target 10% BLER Target User Number 23 21 20 19 18 18
* * *
Simulation Assumptions
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Multipath Channel Models** | - PA 3Km/h | | | | | | - Propagation model: | | | Cost231-Hata | | | | | | - Fast fading model: Jakes | | | spectrum | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Cell layout and link budget** | - Number of cells: 19. | | | | | | - Cell Radius: 500m. | | | | | | - 3-sectors per cell. | | | | | | - Node B Tx power: 34 dBm. | | | | | | - Log-normal shadowing: 8 dB. | | | | | | - Shadow-correlation between | | | co-located cells: 1.0. | | | | | | - Shadow-correlation between | | | non co-located cells: 0.5. | | | | | | - Carrier frequency: 2 GHz. | | | | | | - Bandwidth: 1.6 MHz. | | | | | | - Number of UE antennas: 1. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Node B resource** | - OVSF code used for E-PUCH: | | | | | | - 2 timeslots(2 SF2 OVSF | | | codes per timeslot) | | | | | | - Up to 2 E-AGCH transmissions | | | allowed. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **VoIP traffic details** | - AMR 12.2 kbps. | | | | | | - SID transmitted every 160 ms | | | of silence. | | | | | | - Voice activity model: | | | | | | - 50% voice activity. | | | | | | - ON and OFF periods of | | | duration exponentially | | | distributed, of average 2 | | | seconds. | | | | | | - 100 ms maximum delay bound | | | with 100 ms SDU discarding at | | | the MAC-hs. | | | | | | - Call length: 120 seconds. | | | | | | - Call Outage: VoIP calls with | | | FER over call length greater | | | than 5% are considered in | | | outage. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Signalling traffic** | - SRB, RTCP, and SIP not | | | modeled. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Parameters for transmission** | - TB sizes: | | | | | | - 2 TB sizes: 162 bits, 364 | | | bits | | | | | | - 24-bit CRC overhead. | | | | | | - Every transport block | | | occupies one resource block | | | which is 8 BRU | | | | | | - QPSK only | | | | | | - At most 2 retransmissions are | | | allowed. | | | | | | - No DRX or DTX. | | | | | | - Power control for E-PUCH | | | modeled. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Scheduler** | - [Voice traffic | | | scheduler:]{.underline} | | | | | | - HARQ re-transmissions | | | have highest priority | | | | | | - Oldest transmissions | | | are re-transmitted | | | first | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Feedback delays** | - HARQ delay: minimum 10ms from | | | end of a transmission to | | | start of a re-transmission. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Error modelling** | - No E-AGCH error modeled. | | | | | | - No E-HICH error modeled. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
### 4.3.3 Agreements
The Node B can assign/re-assign the semi-persistent physical resources via
E-AGCH.
## 4.4 Explicit state switch mechanism
### 4.4.1 Analysis of the scheme
Compare to the implicit state switch mechanism, the explicit state switch
mechanism use the fast reconfiguration procedure to change the physical
resource for different states. In explicit state switch mechanism, no timer
shall be maintained on UE side.
##### **Downlink** {#downlink .H6}
For Downlink, When NodeB detects the state switch according to the buffer
state. NodeB shall use the HS-SCCH order to reconfigure the physical resource
of the UE. The procedure is depicted as below:
1) When NodeB detect the state switch from active to silent according to the
buffer of UE, NodeB shall send reconfiguration command by HS-SCCH order to
reconfigure the physical resource of UE. The physical resource include the
channel code resource and Rx pattern
2) When NodeB detect the state switch from silent to active according to the
buffer of UE, NodeB shall also use the HS-SCCH order to reconfigure the
physical resource of UE.
##### **Uplink** {#uplink .H6}
Similar to the Downlink explicit state switch mechanism, a fast
reconfiguration procedure can also be used in uplink, the reconfiguration
command shall be carried by E-AGCH. The procedure is depicted as below:
  1. When NodeB detect the state switch from active to silent according to the buffer state in SI information, NodeB shall send reconfiguration command by E-AGCH to reconfigure the physical resource of UE. The physical resource include the channel code resource and Tx pattern
  2. When NodeB detect the state switch from silent to active according to the buffer state in SI information, NodeB shall also use the E-AGCH to reconfigure the physical resource of UE.
### 4.4.2 Agreements
For both uplink and downlink, explicit commands will be used to reconfigure
resources to handle voice traffic patterns.
# 5 Technical solution
This section describes which technical concepts of section 4 are selected to
solve the problems in the 3GPP standard described by the work item
\"Continuous Connectivity for Packet Data Users for 1.28Mcps TDD\" defined in
[1].
## 5.1 Overview of the selected solution
Editor's note: A summary of which concepts are selected.
## 5.2 Impact on RAN1 specifications
Editor's note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
## 5.3 Impact on RAN2 specifications
Editor's note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
## 5.4 Impact on RAN3 specifications
Editor's note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
## 5.5 Impact on RAN4 specifications
Editor's note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
#