# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is a Technical Report on Release 6 work item "FDD Base Station
Classification".
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.104 "BS Radio transmission and Reception (FDD)"
[2] 3GPP TS 25.133 "Requirements for Support of Radio Resource Management
(FDD)"
[3] 3GPP TS 25.141 "Base Station (BS) conformance testing (FDD)"
[4] 3GPP TR 25.942 "RF System Scenarios"
[5] UMTS 30.03
[6] 3GPP TR 25.905 "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions, symbols and
abbreviations given in TR 21.905 [6] apply.
# 4 General
Current TSG RAN WG4 specifications have been done according to the
requirements for the general purpose base stations (NodeBs) applications. For
the UTRA evolution requirement specifications for other types of base stations
are needed as well to take into account different use scenarios and radio
environments. In this technical report, base station classification is
described and requirements for each base station class are derived.
# 5 System scenarios
This section describes the system scenarios for UTRA operation that are
considered when defining base station classes. It also includes typical radio
parameters that are used to derive requirements.
## 5.1 Indoor Environment
### 5.1.1 Path Loss Model
The indoor path loss model expressed in dB is in the following form, which is
derived from the COST 231 indoor model:
L = 37 + 20 Log~10~I + Σ k~wi~ L~wi~ + 18.3 n ^((n+2)/(n+1)-0.46)^
where:
R transmitter-receiver separation given in metres
k~wi~ number of penetrated walls of type i
L~wi~ loss of wall type i
n number of penetrated floors
Two types of internal walls are considered. Light internal walls with a loss
factor of 3.4 dB and regular internal walls with a loss factor of 6.9 dB.
If internal walls are not modelled individually, the indoor path loss model is
represented by the following formula:
L = 37 + 30 Log10I + 18.3 n ((n+2)/(n+1)-0.46)
where:
R transmitter-receiver separation given in metres;
n number of penetrated floors
Slow fading deviation in pico environment is assumed to be 6 dB.
## 5.2 Mixed Indoor -- Outdoor Environment
### 5.2.1 Propagation Model
Distance attenuation inside a building is a pico cell model as defined in
Chapter 5.1.1. In outdoors UMTS30.03 model is used [5].
Attenuation from outdoors to indoors is sketched in Figure 5.1 below. In
figure star denotes receiving object and circle transmitting object. Receivers
are projected to virtual positions. Attenuation is calculated using micro
propagation model between transmitter and each virtual position. Indoor
attenuation is calculated between virtual transmitters and the receiver.
Finally, lowest pathloss is selected for further calculations. Only one floor
is considered.
The total pathloss between outdoor transmitter and indoor receiver is
calculated as
L = L~micro~ + L~OW~ + Σ k~wi~ L~wi~ + a * R ,
where:
L~micro~ Micro cell pathloss according UMTS30.03 Outdoor to Indoor and
Pedestrian Test Environment pathloss model
LOW outdoor wall penetration loss [dB]
R virtual transmitter-receiver separation given in metres;
kwi number of penetrated walls of type I;
Lwi loss of wall type I;
a = 0.8 attenuation [dB/m]
Slow fading deviation in mixed pico-micro environment shall be 6 dB.
Propagation from indoors to outdoors would be symmetrical with above models.
Figure 5.1: Simulation scenario and propagation model.
Parameters related to propagation models are summarised in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Parameters related to mixed indoor -- outdoor propagation model
* * *
Parameter value Inside wall loss 6.9 dB Outside wall loss 10 dB
Slow fading deviation in indoors 6 dB
Slow fading deviation in outdoors 6 dB Building size 110 x 110 meters Street
size 110 x 15 meters Room size 22 x 25 meters Number of rooms 5 rooms in 4
rows Corridor size 110 x 5 meters Number of corridors 2 Size of entrance point
5 meters Number of base stations 4 .. 6 BS coordinates tba
* * *
## 5.3 Minimum coupling loss (MCL)
Minimum Coupling Loss (MCL) is defined as the minimum distance loss including
antenna gain measured between antenna connectors.
### 5.3.1 MCL for Local Area scenario
The minimum coupling loss between UEs is independent of the scenario,
therefore the same minimum coupling loss is assumed for all environments.
Local area BSs are usually mounted under the ceiling, on wall or some other
exposed position. In [4] chapter 4.1.1.2 a minimal separation of 2 metres
between UE and indoor BS is assumed. Free space path loss is defined in [4]
as:
Path loss [dB] = 38.25 + 20 log10(d [m])
Taking into account 0 dBi antenna gain for Local area BS and UE and a body
loss of 1 dB at the terminal, a MCL of 45.27 dB is obtained. The additional 2
dB cable loss at the BS as proposed in TR 25.942 is not considered.
The assumed MCL values are summarised in table 5.2.
Table 5.2: Minimum Coupling Losses
* * *
                                  MCL
MS ↔ MS 40 dB Local area BS ↔ MS 45 dB Local area BS ↔ Local area BS 45 dB
* * *
## 5.4 FDD Base Station Classification for Medium range BS class
### 5.4.1 Proposal for Medium range (micro) BS class output power
#### 5.4.1.1 Discussion
2 contributions were presented during the TSG-RAN WG4 meeting #26 proposing a
maximum output power requirement for the Medium range BS class.
Contributions were proposing a value of 37 dBm and 39 dBm for the maximum
output power requirement for the Medium range BS class. It was concluded that
results from both simulations were in good agreement which each other. It
could be concluded that the capacity loss for the macro layer will be at most
5.8 % for a 37 dBm MR network layer and an upper bound of 6.3 % for a 39 dBm
MR network layer was established.
Taking into account that capacity losses of approximately the same order may
also occur for uncoordinated macro-macro networks and furthermore, that the TX
powers of the studied MR BSs were in excess of the required TX power for
coverage, it was concluded that also a 38 dBm micro layer should lead to
acceptable capacity losses.
As both proposals differed by only 2 dB the value of 38 dBm was suggested and
approved as a consensus requirement
The detailed simulation assumptions and results can be found in the
informative Annex A.3.
#### 5.4.1.2 Proposal
Based on the above investigation, the proposed maximum output power, which is
recommended for the Medium range BS, is +38 dBm as shown in the table below:
Table 5.3: Base Station maximum output power
* * *
BS Class Maximum output power Medium range BS [\ -66dBm is smaller than 1% but
the probability of an interference signal of > -68dBm is in the order of 10%.
Keeping the overall required probability of 0.01% and using a 10% probability
for the interference of the Micro network a target value of 0.999 for the CDF
of a Macro network is remaining. This results in an interferer level of
--33dBm for the** Int~high~**. (Figure X11a) The calculated interferer levels
are:**
Interferer Requirement [dBm] = (2* (-33) [dBm] +(-68) [dBm])/ 3 = -44.7dBm
Based on the calculation above an interfering signal mean power level of
\--44dBm is proposed. This value is 9dB smaller than the proposed interferer
level of --35dBm for blocking. This difference is in the same order of
magnitude like the difference between the interferers for blocking and
intermodulation in case of a wide area BS.
Assuming now two equal but independent Macro or Micro networks serving UEs
which interferers a victim Micro BS. In this case the probability for one
interfering signal increasing the required power level at the Micro BS
receiver should be smaller than 1.41 %. It is shown in Figure A.9 that the
proposed requirement of --44dBm interferer level for a medium range BS is
sufficient also for these scenarios.
### A.1.2.3 Simulation parameters
Table A.2: Simulation Parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation parameter\ | | | Uplink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MCL macro / micro | 70 / 53 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna gain (including losses\ | 11 dBi\ | | Base station\ | 0 dBi | | Mobile | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Log-normal shadow fading\ | 10 dB | | standard deviation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Noise floor RBS receiver\ | -103 / -93 dBm | | Macro / micro | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum TX power speech | 21, 24, 27, 33 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum TX power data | 21, 33 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum TX power speech | -50 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ACIR | 33 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control | Perfect PC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control error | 0.01 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Outage condition | C/I target not reached due to | | | lack of TX power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Admission control | Not included | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro User distribution in macro | Random and uniform over the | | network | network | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Micro User distribution in micro | Random and uniform over the | | network | streets | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro User distribution in micro | Random and uniform over the | | network | streets | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Bit rate speech | 8 kbps | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Activity factor speech | 100 % | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Eb/No target speech\ | 6.1 / 3.3 dB | | macro / micro | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Bit rate data | 144 kbps | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Activity factor data | 100 % | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Eb/No target data\ | 3.1 / 2.4 dB | | macro / micro | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Micro deployment | Manhattan scenario | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Block size | 75 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Road width | 15 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Intersite distance between | 180 | | line-of-sight | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of micro cells | 72 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of macro cells | 3 affected macros | | | | | | 36 in total | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macro cell radius | 1 km / 2km / 5km (5 km case for | | | information only) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## A.2 Pico base stations in FDD mode
## A.2.1 Mixed microcell-picocell scenario
Studies and simulations have been performed in order to define requirements
for the Local area BS class. The simulations were done using a mixed
microcell-picocell environment, where the pico environment is embedded in the
micro environment. The size of the pico environment is one building with 20
rooms, and the micro environment consists of 9 buildings in a 3x3 array.
Figure A.12 shows a diagram of the environment.
Figure A.12: Mixed micro-pico environment with 12 micro and 10 pico base
stations
Appropriate requirements for LA BS blocking are derived from the results of
these additional simulations.
Proposals for this and other relevant receiver requirements for the Local area
BS class will be presented in following sections.
## A.2.2 Receiver sensitivity
A number of simulations were performed to study the impact of the noise rise
in both micro- and picocell scenarios. The results are applicable for both
multi-operator or a single operator case.
### A.2.2.1 Simulation parameters
Used simulation parameters can be found in Table A.3.
Table A.3: Simulation parameters
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter | Value | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Active set size | 1 or 3 | 1 is HHO, 3 is SHO | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of BSs | 12 Micro BSs, | | | | | | | | 10 Pico BSs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ACS/ACLR/ACIR | UE: 33/33, BS:45/45 | | | | | | | | UL: 32.73, DL: 32.73 | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | UE: 43/43 , BS: | | | | 45/45, | | | | | | | | UL: 40.88, DL: 40.88 | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | UE: 33/33, BS: 50/50 | | | | | | | | UL: 32.91, DL: 32.91 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Base station | Micro: | The minimum BS tx | | transmission powers: | | powers are derived | | Min/Max/M | Min: 23 dBm, | from pilot powers: | | inPerUser/MaxPerUser | | Pilot power = BS max | | | Max 33 dBm, | power -- 10 dB. | | | | | | | Min per User: 5 dBm | | | | | | | | Max per User: 30 dBm | | | | | | | | Pico: | | | | | | | | Min: 14 dBm, | | | | | | | | Max 24 dBm, | | | | | | | | Min per User: 21 dBm | | | | | | | | Max per User: -4 dBm | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Simulated services | 12 kbps speech | One simulation is | | | (Processing | always either purely | | | gain=315) , | data or purely | | | | speech, there are no | | | 142 kbps data | mixed data-speech | | | (processing gain = | cases. | | | 27) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Speech EbNo-targets | Micro: | | | | | | | | UL 3.3 dB, DL 7.9 dB | | | | | | | | Pico: | | | | | | | | UL 3.3 dB, DL 6.1 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Data EbNo-targets | Micro: | | | | | | | | UL 2.4 dB, DL 1.9 dB | | | | | | | | Pico: | | | | | | | | UL 2.4 dB, DL 1.9 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL Outage target | 5 % | Same for both pico | | | | and micro. NOTE: | | | | This was basically | | | | irrelevant since it | | | | was not reached in | | | | any of the | | | | simulations. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL Noise rise target | 6 dB | Same for both pico | | | | and micro | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum Coupling | Micro : 53 dB | | | loss | | | | | Pico : 45 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Propagation Model | According to 25.951 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Tx power limits | Min: -50 dBm | | | | | | | | Max: 21 dBm | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Slow fading | Micro: 6 dB | | | deviation (Mean: 0 | | | | dB) | Pico: 6 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL System noise | -99 dBm (both micro | | | | and pico) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL system noise | -103 dBm (both micro | | | | and pico) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of Pico cell | Speech, AS1: 60 | The numbers of users | | users | | were selected such | | | Speech, AS3: 62 | that 6 dB noise rise | | | | was reached in | | | Data, AS1: 35 | reference cases | | | | | | | Data, AS3: 40 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of Micro cell | Speech, AS1: 185(0% | The numbers of users | | users | indoors) or 200(10% | were selected such | | | indoors) | that 6 dB noise rise | | | | was reached in | | | Speech, AS3: 185 (0% | reference cases | | | indoors) or 205 (10% | | | | indoors) | | | | | | | | Data, AS1: 65 (0% | | | | indoors) or 67 (10% | | | | indoors) | | | | | | | | Data,AS3: 75 (0% | | | | indoors) or 77 (10% | | | | indoors) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### A.2.2.2 Simulation results
Additional noise rise was studied for the both micro- and picocell BSs. In
cases where all micro users are outdoors different operators doesn't disturb
each others. There is no influence in UL.
Figure A.13 covers the situation where all micro users are located outdoors
and are using speech service. Also situation when 10 % of microcell users are
inside is presented in Figure A.13. UL noise rise in pico is growing and this
represent the worst case.
Figure A.14 covers the situation when 10 % of microcell users are indoors. UL
noise rise is presented as a function of ACIR value.
Results with data service are almost identical to speech service. Because user
bit rates are bigger, disturbance from single user is bigger and random
factors may affect the results. Micro suffers relatively less than pico.
The worst case noise rise for picocell BSs is 15.8 dB which means 9.8 dB noise
rise compared to macro. A macro value comparable to high load with 75% pole
capacity is 6 dB.
{width="5.428472222222222in" height="2.8270833333333334in"}
Figure A.13: UL noise rise versus ACIR value
{width="4.970138888888889in" height="2.9520833333333334in"}
Figure A.14: UL noise rise versus ACIR value with AS1 and AS3
As a conclusion the simulations results show that there is no noise rise if
all micro users are located outdoors. If some users are located indoors noise
rise will rise in pico UL.
### A.2.2.3 Noise rise for UL in Picocell environment
In this chapter we analyse more detail the noise rise for UL in Picocell
environment. The most important and a typical scenario for adjacent channel
interference could be a UE at the edge of a microcell transmitting high power
in UL close to a picocell BS. However, at the same time, the UE is receiving
interference from the picocell BS on the adjacent carrier in DL. This can lead
to DL blocking of an interfering UE thus reducing the overall level of
adjacent channel interference to picocell BS. A detailed analysis is presented
in section A.2.2.4. As a result a noise rise is 4 dB...11.7 dB depending on
the bit rate in the UL (12.2 kbps...144 kbps).
The analytical study indicates that the additional noise rise in picocell due
to other operator microcell is in the range of 4 dB...11.7 dB above the
microcell interference levels. Microcell noise rise compared to macrocell was
\ 31 dBm_.
In other words, the considered micro cell propagation environment is too
"small" (in the PL sense) to justify MR BS with > 31 dBm Tx power. The primary
reason for this is that in an obvious deviation from the real-life situation,
the in-building penetration losses are not considered, neither are users
distributed into the building blocks.
Due to this bias towards too low PLs inherent, care needs now to be exercised
when deriving requirements for the maximum TX powers of the MR layer from this
scenario.
Now we study the DL interference impact from the MR network onto the macro
network. Parameters are as in TR25.942 with exception of the DL dedicated
channel powers which are according to the limits of 25.104.
In line with the considerations of the previous Section, Figure A22 shows the
upper bound of macro layer DL outage due to MR layer with 33, 36 and 39 dBm TX
power respectively. When compared to the required DL power for coverage, there
is an excess of MR BS Tx power of 2, 5 and 8 dB respectively which will
correspondingly overestimate the interference impact from the MR layer towards
the macro layer.
Figure A.22 Upper bound of macro layer DL Outage due to MR layer with 33, 36,
39 dBm TX power
It can be seen from Figure A22 that the capacity loss for the macro layer will
be _[upper bounded]{.underline}_ by 6.3 % for a 39 dBm MR network layer. With
a propagation environment better matched to the 39 dBm TX power, i.e. micro-
cells exhibiting a higher PL, the impact would have been certainly less due to
the more favourable near-far PL distribution of the macro users. Without
modifying this scenario in a substantial way to match the 39 dBm Tx power
(e.g. by introducing in-building penetration losses), it cannot be asserted
whether the capacity losses actually will be of that size or smaller.
### A.3.2.3 Proposal
Based on the current micro-macro scenario of TR25.942 it can be concluded that
the capacity loss for the macro layer will be at most 6.3 % for a 39 dBm MR
network layer, however, that assumes that the MR layer has been operated with
8 dB more TX power than required, i.e. overestimating the interference impact.
With these considerations in mind, the proposed maximum output power, which is
recommended for the Medium range BS, is +39 dBm.
# A.4 Maximum output power for Local area BS class
## A.4.1 Simulation results #1
### A.4.1.1 Simulation scenario
This contribution provides simulation results based on the agreed baseline
scenario in TR 25.951 in order to define a suitable maximum output power for
the LA BS class. Necessary simulation parameters not already specified in TR
25.951 or TR 25.942 have been defined and are listed in Annex X.
The criteria for LA BS output power is defined so as not to cause undue outage
for an uncoordinated micro network UE:s.
### A.4.1.2 Simulation results
In here the philosophy for establishing a maximum output power requirement for
the LA BS class is to set this value as high as possible in order to maximise
the coverage per LA BS site (economic reasons), but yet low enough not to
cause noticeable outage on the DL of any surrounding uncoordinated micro
network.
All following simulation results are based on the agreed baseline scenario of
TR 25.951 see Figure A12.
The simulations were performed with all micro users located outdoors and 10 %
of the micro users located indoors.
As the BS coordinates for the locations of the LA BSs have not been fully
specified in TR 25.951, these have been taken from earlier simulations instead
and are marked by the '+' in Figure A12.
There certainly exists a strong relationship between the number of LA BSs
required for providing indoor coverage and their respective TX powers, hence
this trade-off is investigated first.
The indoor propagation loss (PL) according to L = 37 + 20 Log10I + Σ kwi Lwi
as defined in TR 25.951 will lead to values \ 14 dBm.
In line with the considerations of the previous section, Figure A24 shows the
upper bound of micro layer DL outage due to 1 LA BS with 20, 24 and 30 dBm TX
power respectively. Hence, when compared to the required DL power for
coverage, there is an excess of LA BS Tx power of 6, 10 and 16 dB
respectively, which correspondingly overestimates the interference impact from
the LA layer towards the micro layer.
Figure A.24 Upper bound of micro layer DL Outage due to 1 LA BS with 20, 24,
30 dBm TX power
Figure A24 would at a first glance suggest that there would be a significant
(> 5 %) impact from a LA network layer with > 20 dBm Tx power onto the
surrounding micro network. However, also for the micro network we have to
consider a reasonable DL operating point. E.g., the 5 % DL outage point for
the "30 dBm pico" curve at 1300 users total or, equivalently, 108 speech users
(with VA =1) /site cannot be realized for realistic VA factors as this is far
in excess of the code capacity limit. The same conclusion holds for data
services, here the code capacity limit will be exceeded even sooner due to the
much lower Eb/No requirement according to TR 25.942.
#### A.4.1.3 Proposal
The conclusion is that even for a 30 dBm LA network layer, interference caused
capacity losses in the micro layer could only occur for loads which are
unrealisable from the code capacity limit point of view.
In other words, for the given scenario here, the interference impact is purely
hypothetical if realistic DL operating points are considered.
On the other hand, as these results have been established for a specific
scenario only, some extra protection for the micro layer is desirable; we
propose an additional 3 dB safety margin. Hence, the proposed maximum output
power, which is recommended for the Local area BS, is +27 dBm.
A value of +27 dBm appears also appropriate from the perspective of balancing
the UL with the DL: relative to a general purpose BS, the LA BS will be
desensitised by 14 dB. On the other hand, 27 dBm Tx power is 16 dB below the
typical value of 43 dBm for a WA BS, hence UL and DL will remain balanced.
## A.4.2 Simulation results #2
### A.4.2.1 Simulation scenario
In this section, a statistical approach on the maximum output power is shown,
which is based on TR 25.942 and TR 25.951, and the maximum output power for
the Local area BS is proposed. In the simulation, the deployment of Micro BS
and Pico BS shown in Figure A12 is used. Parameters related to propagation
models are summarized in Table A6. The criteria for Local area BS output power
is defined as the capacity deterioration for an uncoordinated Micro network
UEs.
Table A.6: Parameters related to propagation models
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Local area BS | Medium range | | | | | BS | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | Indoor | Outdoor | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Propagation | Indoor model | Indoor model | Microcell | | Model | of UMTS30.03 | of UMTS30.03 | propagation | | | | | model | | | | | [25.942] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Outside wall | 10dB | 10 dB | N/A | | loss | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Slow fading | 6dB [25.942] | | | | deviation | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MCL | 45 dB | 53 dB | | | | [25.951] | [25.951] | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ACS | 33 dB | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ACLR | 45 dB (5MHz | | | | | offset) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Output power | 0 ... 31dBm | 33 dBm | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Deployment of | Max.10 / floor | 12 BS (wrap | | | BS | | around) | | | | | | | | | | Manhattan | | | | | model | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Building size | 110 x 110 | | | | | meters | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | 1 / building | | | | floors | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | 20 / floor | | | | rooms | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | In building | 0.02 ... 0.1 | | | | users ratio | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The number of Local area BSs can be decreased as the maximum output power of
Local area BSs increases. The minimum number of the Local area BSs that
supports the received power at UE higher than --90dBm in more than 95% area
out of the entire floor is shown in Table A7.
Table A.7: Number of Local area BS
* * *
Maximum output power of Local area BS 0 dBm 5 dBm 10 dBm 20 dBm 31 dBm Number
of Local area BS 10 4 3 2 2
* * *
### A.4.2.2 Simulation results
The simulation results on capacity deterioration for uncoordinated Micro and
Pico networks are shown in Figure A25.
In the simulations, the number of Local area BSs shown in Table A7 was used.
As the reference, capacity deterioration in the case of Macro-Macro and Micro-
Macro, calculated for Medium range BS class are also shown in Figure A25.
From Figure A25, the capacity deterioration for the Micro area network
increases as Local area BS output power increases. As is shown in the figure,
the output power of Local area BS should be less than +20dBm in order to
maintain the capacity deterioration less than 5% when 10% of micro network UEs
are in the building.
{width="5.467361111111111in" height="3.292361111111111in"}
Figure A.25: Capacity deterioration
### A.4.2.3 Proposal
Based on the above simulations, the proposed maximum output power for Local
area BSs is +20dBm. The proposed value is identical to the earlier results
presented in document R4-021635 where the interference between macro and pico
cells were considered.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Radio Network Planning Considerations
# B.1 Adjacent frequency Interference
## B.1.1 General
The RF specification for Base Stations is to a large extent based on
statistical averaging of interference effects. This should normally be
sufficient to eliminate significant interference effects on adjacent frequency
networks, if some simple rules (e.g. 30 dB MCL between Wide Area BS) are
followed.
Especially in the case of Local Area and Medium Range BS, also considering
some of their likely deployment environments (indoor, street canyons) there is
however a higher probability that the interference on adjacent frequencies is
localised. In these cases some co-ordination between operators may be
required.
This informative Annex considers Radio Network Planning (RNP) measures, which
can be applied in case there is significant interference between adjacent
radio networks of different hierarchy level, e.g. between a MR and a WA
network. In the following mainly aspects related to DL adjacent channel
interference will be considered.
## B.1.2 Example analysis for localized interference
Based on a number of assumptions on deployment of networks, the relevant
parameter for the impact of DL adjacent channel interference caused by a MR or
LA Node B is the maximum output power. From the Monte-Carlo simulation results
contained in Annex A it can be seen that the DL capacity loss for an adjacent
macro layer is upper-bounded by approximately no more than 6 % for a 38 dBm MR
network layer. Similarly, it was shown that the DL capacity impact from a 24
dBm LA network on an adjacent MR network is of similar order.
While the average impact is thus small, there is nevertheless a chance that a
macro layer UE gets localised interference by a MR or LA Node B under low
coupling loss (CL) and weak serving signal conditions. This will be
illustrated by the following example analysis for the case of a LA (indoor)
cell interfering to an adjacent macro cell.
The following parameters will be assumed:
Table B.1: Assumed parameters for the localized interference analysis
* * *
Parameter Value Unit Notes UE ACS 33 dB from 25.101 interfering LA BS maximum
Tx power 24 dBm from this TR interfering LA BS antenna gain 0 dBi from this TR
serving cell received DTCH level -90 dBm bit rate 12.2 kbps Eb/Io 7 dB
* * *
With these service parameters we obtain for the required Ec/Io:
Required Ec/Io = -25 dB [processing gain] + 7 dB [Eb/Io] = -18 dB
The area of the localized interference around the LA BS can be estimated as
follows (In this calculation the own system (cell) interference is not taken
into account, i.e. it is assumed that ACI dominates):
1) Maximum tolerated interference level on the own channel: -90 dBm + 18 dB
[Required Ec/Io] = -72 dBm
2) Maximum tolerated interference level on the adjacent channel: -72 dBm + 33
dB [UE ACS] = -39 dBm
3) Required coupling loss CL towards interfering LA BS: +24 dBm -- (-39 dBm) =
63 dB
4) Assuming the indoor path loss model from this TR for the case that internal
walls are not modelled individually and a single floor, the indoor path loss
model is represented by the following formula:
PL = 37 + 30 Log10I,
> with R the UE -- LA BS separation given in metres. From this, the required
> minimum distance towards the interfering LA BS is given by:
R = 10\^( (63 dB [CL] + 0 dBi [LA BS antenna gain] -- 37) / 30 ) = 7.36 m
As can be seen, the required minimum distance towards the interfering LA BS
depends not only on the parameters of the interfering system (i.e. TX power,
antenna gain), but also on the available DTCH signal level of the serving
macro cell.
The following figure shows the size of the localized interference around the
LA BS for serving cell received DTCH levels in the range of --70 ... -110 dBm:
Figure B.1: Localized interference around the LA BS as function of serving
cell received DTCH levels
In order to further reduce the likelihood of such localized interference
events, the measures presented in the following clause may be applied.
## B.1.3 Deployment guidelines to reduce interference
The following measures are applicable by the operator of the interfering radio
network (i.e. LA or MR network) in order to reduce the likelihood of
interference towards an adjacent band operator:
\- Avoid allocating LA, MR Node B carriers at the assigned band edge(s) to
another operator whenever possible. This may be possible e.g. at an early UMTS
deployment phase, where only part of the assigned band may be required.
\- During a later UMTS deployment phase, for the case that an operator wishes
to deploy 2 WA carriers and one MR or LA carrier, the latter carrier could be
"sandwiched" by the WA carriers.
\- Ensure sufficiently large MCL conditions across the planned micro cell (or
in-building) coverage area. This can be facilitated by choosing suitable
antenna types, heights and locations. Note that obtaining a sufficiently high
MCL (including antenna gains) is also desirable for the MR or LA network
operator due to the --25 dBm/3.84 MHz maximum input level requirement of the
UE [25.101]; hence, the MCL will also depend on the intended maximum Node B TX
power setting.
\- Match the setting of the maximum Node B TX power for MR or LA operation to
the requirements (i.e. CL) of propagation environment at hand, i.e. avoid
using substantially more TX power than is required for the micro cell or in-
building coverage. DL power planning can be facilitated by adjusting the CPICH
TX power in such a way that the received CPICH RSCP (or Ec/Io) across the
desired coverage area meets the outage target, but on the other hand, is not
unnecessarily high. Scaling the windows of the DTCH DL power allocations
accordingly, will then also lead to appropriate DTCH power levels.
\- Co-ordination between adjacent frequency operators of output powers,
antenna sites, heights, gains and patterns, or even co-location of interfering
sites. This would reduce worst case situations where a strong interfering
signal is received by an adjacent frequency UE connected to a BS at large
coupling loss, and thus under relatively poor radio conditions.
For temporary effects, and remaining problems a number of additional system
functionalities can be used:
\- In case that multiple WA carriers may have become available, the use of
IFHO for DL interference avoidance may be used. Hence, the UE may be handed
over to the 2^nd^ or 3^rd^ adjacent channel, which will reduce or eliminate
the interference.
\- In case that adjacent channel interference is encountered within a WA cell,
proper setting of the DTCH TX power window can provide the UE with additional
power to combat interference. Hence, there is possibility for trading off some
capacity / throughput for reducing possible DL coverage holes.
\- In case that adjacent channel interference is encountered within a WA cell,
reduction of the allocated peak data rate (or AMR codec rate) can provide the
UE with additional power to combat interference. Hence, there is possibility
for trading off peak data rates for reducing possible DL coverage holes.
\- For areas where the received Node B DL signals (or representatively the
CPICH RSCP's) from the own and adjacent interfering system differ by much more
than 40 dB, own system signal strength may be increased by RNP methods. This
can be done by means of directing / tilting antennas beams towards the
building in question (e.g. in case of interfering LA network) or by building
additional sites.
# B.2 Intra-frequency interference
## B.2.1 General
The RF specification for Base Stations is to a large extent based on
statistical averaging of interference effects and on specific MCL requirement.
This should normally be sufficient to eliminate significant interference.
In the case of Local Area and Medium Range BS, also considering some of their
likely deployment environments (indoor, street canyons) there is however a
high probability that the current UE and BS specifications lead to localised
significant intra-frequency interference and then to localised coverage and
capacity holes.
This informative Annex highlights through an example the impacts of UE
performance requirements on the range of coupling loss that can be operated
without degraded the network performance.
## B.2.2 Example analysis for localized interference
In this paragraph, the impact of the MCL requirement on UE and BS (either LA
or MR) sensitivity is analysed.
### B.2.2.1 UL issue
Regarding the UL, a LA or MR BS can be desensitised and suffer from UL
capacity/coverage loss if the CL at which the power control causes the UE
output power to reduce to the minimum output power is significantly higher
than the MCL. In such conditions, if the UE were to move closer to the serving
BS, the power control would be unable to reduce the UE output power further,
and desensitization would occur.
Then assuming the following parameters (Table B.2) the MCL requirement is
compared to the CL value from where a UE reaches its minimum output power.
Table B.2: Assumed parameters for the UL analysis
+----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+ | P | UE Value | LA BS | MR BS | Unit | Notes | | arameter | | Value | value | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+ | UE | -50 | | | dBm | from | | minimum | | | | | 25.101 | | output | | | | | | | power | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+ | BS | | -107 | -111 | dBm | from | | r | | | | | this TR | | eference | | | | | | | sen | | | | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | 2.2kbps, | | | | | | | BER | | | | | | | \<0.001) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+ | MCL | | 45 | 53 | dB | from | | | | | | | this TR | +----------+----------+----------+----------+------+----------+
The parameters listed in Table B.2 shows that a UE using speech service and
served by a LA BS reaches its minimum output power when the coupling loss is
such as:
-50 [UE min output power]-CL [coupling loss between UE and serving BS]=
-107 [LA BS reference sensitivity level] + NR [noise rise of the cell corresponding to its load]
That is to say: CL=57dB for an unloaded cell and 51dB for a 75% loaded cell
(NR=6dB) while the minimum coupling loss of a LA BS is 45dB.
The parameters listed in Table B.2 shows that a UE using speech service and
served by a MR BS reaches its minimum output power when the coupling loss is
such as:
-50 [UE min output power]-CL [coupling loss between UE and serving BS]=
-111 [LA BS reference sensitivity level] + NR [noise rise of the cell corresponding to its load]
That is to say: CL=61dB for an unloaded cell and 55dB for a 75% loaded cell
(NR=6dB) while the minimum coupling loss of a MR BS is 53dB.
All these evaluated coupling losses are significantly higher than the MCL
requirement of the corresponding BS classes. As a result a severe BS
desensitisation is expected if a UE is very close to its serving BS.
### B.2.2.2 DL issue
Regarding the DL, a LA or MR BS may degrade its own UE's performances and face
then DL capacity/coverage loss if the UE received input power level is higher
than the maximum requirement.
Then assuming the following parameters (Table B.3) the MCL requirement is
compared to the CL value from where a UE received its maximum input power.
Table B.3: Assumed parameters for the DL analysis
* * *
Parameter UE Value LA BS Value MR BS value Unit Notes UE maximum input level
-25 dBm from 25.101 BS maximum output power 24 38 dBm from this TR MCL 45 53
dB from this TR
* * *
The parameters listed in Table B.3 show that the maximum received input level
of a UE is reached by a serving LA BS transmitting its maximum output power
when the coupling loss is such as:
24 [BS maximum output power]-CL [coupling loss between UE and serving BS]=-25
[UE maximum input level]
That is to say: CL=49dB while the minimum coupling loss is 45dB.
The parameters listed in Table B.3 show that the maximum received input level
of a UE is reached by a serving MR BS transmitting its maximum output power
when the coupling loss is such as:
38 [BS maximum output power]-CL [coupling loss between UE and serving BS]=-25
[UE maximum input level]
That is to say: CL=63dB while the minimum coupling loss is 53dB.
Both these evaluated coupling losses are significantly higher than the MCL
requirement of the corresponding BS classes. As a result a UE performances may
be degraded by its serving BS.
## B.2.3 Deployment guidelines to reduce interference
The following measures may be applied by an operator deploying a LA or a MR
network in order to reduce the likelihood of localized interference inside its
own network:
\- Ensure sufficiently large MCL conditions across the planned micro cell or
in-building coverage area. This can be facilitated by choosing suitable
antenna types, heights and locations.
\- Match the setting of the maximum Node B TX power for MR or LA operation to
the requirements (i.e. CL) of propagation environment at hand, i.e. avoid
using substantially more TX power than is required for the micro cell or in-
building coverage. DL power planning can be facilitated by adjusting the CPICH
TX power in such a way that the received CPICH RSCP (or Ec/Io) across the
desired coverage area meets the outage target, but on the other hand, is not
unnecessarily high. Scaling the windows of the DTCH DL power allocations
accordingly, will then also lead to appropriate DTCH power levels.
\- Implement efficient handover algorithms to escape low coupling loss
situation.
#