# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of LCR TDD
Repeater.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329, \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[3] ITU-R Recommendation M.1545: "Measurement uncertainty as it applies to
test limits for the terrestrial component of International Mobile
Telecommunications-2000".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.153: "LCR TDD Repeater conformance testing"
[5] 3GPP TR 25.942: \"RF system scenarios\".
[6] IEC 60721-3-3 (2002): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 3: Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[7] IEC 60721-3-4 (1995): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Carrier: The modulated waveform conveying the LCR TDD physical channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single LCR TDD RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the LCR TDD carrier,
separated by the channel bandwidth.
**Donor coupling loss:** is the coupling loss between the repeater and the
donor base station.
**Downlink** : Signal path where base station transmits and mobile receives.
**Maximum output power, Pmax:** This is the mean power level per carrier
measured at the antenna connector of the Repeater in specified reference
condition.
**Output power, Pout:** This is the mean power of one carrier at maximum
repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load
impedance of the transmitter.
**Pass band:** The repeater can have one or several pass bands. The pass band
is the frequency range that the repeater operates in with operational
configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or several
consecutive nominal channels. If they are not consecutive each subset of
channels shall be considered as an individual pass band.
**Rated output power:** Rated output power of the repeater is the mean power
level per carrier that the manufacturer has declared to be available at the
antenna connector.
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station)
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
**Uplink:** Signal path where mobile transmits and base station receives.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in MHz.
BW~Meas~ Measurement bandwidth
BW~Signal~ Bandwidth of the repeater input signal filling the repeater pass
band
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
f_offset_PB Distance from the channel edge frequency of the first or last
channel in the pass band
N~DL~ Downlink LARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink LARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink LARFCN
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~UL~ Uplink LARFCN
Pmax Maximum output power
Pout Output power
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACRR Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio
BS Base Station
LARFCN LCR TDD Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
PB Pass Band
# 4 General
This specification applies only to LCR TDD repeaters.
Unless otherwise stated, all requirements in this specification apply to both
the up-link and down-link directions.
## 4.1 Relationship between Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements
The Minimum Requirements given in this specification make no allowance for
measurement uncertainty. The test specification TS 25.153 section 4 defines
Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each
test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in this
specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ITU-R M.1545 [3].
## 4.2 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions.
Table 4.2-1 lists all requirements that may be applied differently in
different regions.
Table 4.2-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments
5.2 Channel bandwidth Some channel bandwidths may be applied regionally.
5.3 Frequency bands Some bands may be applied regionally.
5.4 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied according to what frequency
bands in Clause 5.3 that are supported by the Repeater.
6.1 Maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum requirement for
normal conditions may apply also for some conditions outside the range of
conditions defined as normal.
9.1.1.1 Operating band unwanted emissions (Category A) This requirement is
mandatory for regions where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply.
9.1.1.2 Operating band unwanted emissions (Category B) This requirement is
mandatory for regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as
defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [2], apply.
9.1.3 Operating band unwanted emissions : Additional requirements These
requirements may be applied regionally for some operating bands.
9.2.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A) This requirement is mandatory for
regions where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [2] apply.
9.2.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) This requirement is mandatory for
regions where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [2], apply.
9.2.2.1 Co-existence with GSM900 -Operation in the same geographic area This
requirement may be applied for the protection of GSM 900 MS and GSM 900 BTS in
geographic areas in which both GSM 900 and LCR TDD repeater are deployed.
9.2.2.2 Co-existence with GSM900 -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of GSM 900 BTS receivers when GSM 900 BTS and LCR TDD repeater are
co-located. Co-located base stations
9.2.3.1 Co-existence with DCS1800 -Operation in the same geographic area This
requirement may be applied for the protection of DCS 1800 MS and DCS 1800 BTS
in geographic areas in which both DCS 1800 and LCR TDD repeater are deployed.
9.2.3.2 Co-existence with DCS1800 -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of DCS 1800 BTS receivers when DCS 1800 BTS and LCR TDD repeater
are co-located. Co-located base stations
9.2.4.1 Co-existence with UTRA FDD -\ This requirement may be applied to
geographic areas in which both LCR TDD repeater and UTRA-FDD are deployed.
Operation in the same geographic area
9.2.4.2 Co-existence with UTRA FDD -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of UTRA-FDD BS receivers when LCR TDD repeater and UTRA FDD BS are
co-located. Co-located base stations
9.2.5.1 Co-existence with unsynchronized TDD - Operation in the same
geographic area This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA-TDD
BS receivers in same geographic areas in which unsynchronized TDD is deployed.
9.2.5.2 Co-existence with unsynchronized TDD -Co-located base stations This
requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA-TDD BS receivers when
UTRA-TDD BS are unsynchronized co-located.
11.2 Input Intermodulation: Co-location with other systems These requirements
may be applied for the protection of FDD Repeater input when GSM900, DCS1800,
PCS1900, GSM850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS are co-located with an
LCR TDD Repeater.
11.3 Input Intermodulation: Co-existence with other systems These requirements
may be applied when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD
and/or E-UTRA BS operating in another frequency band co-exist with an LCR TDD
Repeater.
* * *
# 5 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The information presented in this section is based on the chip rates of 1.28
Mcps TDD.
NOTE: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.
## 5.2 Frequency bands
UTRA/TDD is designed to operate in the following bands;
a) 1900 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
2010 - 2025 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
b) 1850 - 1910 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
1930 - 1990 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
c) 1910 - 1930 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
d) 2570 - 2620 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
e) 2300 - 2400 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
f) 1880 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
Note: Deployment in existing and other frequency bands is not precluded.
The co-existence of TDD and FDD in the same bands is still under study in WG4.
## 5.3 TX-RX frequency separation
No TX-RX frequency separation is required as Time Division Duplex (TDD) is
employed. Each subframe consists of 7 main timeslots where all main timeslots
(at least the first one) before the single switching point are allocated DL
and all main timeslots (at least the last one) after the single switching
point are allocated UL.
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
### 5.4.1 Channel spacing
The channel spacing is 1.6MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that the carrier
frequency must be a multiple of 200 kHz.
### 5.4.3 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA absolute radio frequency
channel number (UARFCN). The value of the UARFCN in the IMT2000 band is
defined in the general case as follows:
N~t~ = 5 ∗ F 0.0 ≤ F ≤ 3276.6 MHz
where F is the carrier frequency in MHz.
# 6 Output power
Output power, Pout, of the repeater is the mean power of one carrier at
maximum repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal
load impedance of the transmitter.
Rated output power, PRAT, of the repeater is the mean power level per carrier
at maximum repeater gain that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
## 6.1 Maximum output power
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the repeater is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector in specified reference condition.
### 6.1.1 Minimum Requirements
The requirements shall apply at maximum gain, with LCR TDD signals in the pass
band of the repeater, at levels that produce the maximum rated output power
per channel.
When the power of all signals is increased by 10 dB, compared to the power
level that produce the maximum rated output power, the requirements shall
still be met.
In normal conditions, the Repeater maximum output power shall remain within
limits specified in Table 6.1 relative to the manufacturer\'s rated output
power.
Table 6.1: Repeater output power; normal conditions
* * *
Rated output power Limit P ≥ 31 dBm +2 dB and -2 dB P \< 31 dBm +3 dB and -3
dB
* * *
In extreme conditions, the Repeater maximum output power shall remain within
the limits specified in Table 6.2 relative to the manufacturer\'s rated output
power.
Table 6.2: Repeater output power; extreme conditions
* * *
Rated output power Limit P ≥ 31 dBm +2,5 dB and -2,5 dB P \< 31 dBm +4 dB and
-4 dB
* * *
In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal conditions may apply
also for some conditions outside the ranges of conditions defined as normal.
# 7 Frequency stability
Frequency stability is the ability to maintain the same frequency on the
output signal with respect to the input signal.
## 7.1 Minimum requirement
The frequency deviation of the output signal with respect to the input signal
shall be no more than ±0,01 ppm.
# 8 Out of band gain
Out of band gain refers to the gain of the repeater outside the pass band.
## 8.1 Minimum requirement
The intended use of a repeater in a system is to amplify the in band signals
and not to amplify the out of band emission of the donor base station.
In the intended application of the repeater, the out of band gain is less than
the donor coupling loss.
The repeater minimum donor coupling loss shall be declared by the
manufacturer. This is this the minimum required attenuation between the donor
BS and the repeater for proper repeater operation.
The gain outside the pass band shall not exceed the maximum level specified in
table 8.1, where:
\- f_offset is the distance from the centre frequency of the first or last
channel within the pass band.
Table 8.1: Out of band gain limits 1
* * *
Frequency offset from the carrier frequency, f_offset Maximum gain 1,0 ≤
f_offset \< 1,8 MHz 60 dB 1,8 ≤ f_offset \< 5,8 MHz 45 dB 5,8 ≤ f_offset \<
10,8 MHz 45 dB 10,8 MHz ≤ f_offset 35 dB
* * *
For 10,8 MHz ≤ f_offset the out of band gain shall not exceed the maximum gain
of table 8.2 or the maximum gain stated in table 8.1 whichever is lower.
Table 8.2: Out of band gain limits 2
* * *
Repeater maximum output power as in 9.1.1.1 Maximum gain P \< 31 dBm Out of
band gain ≤ minimum donor coupling loss 31 dBm ≤ P \< 43 dBm Out of band gain
≤ minimum donor coupling loss P ≥ 43 dBm Out of band gain ≤ minimum donor
coupling loss - (P-43dBm) NOTE 1: The out of band gain is considered with 10,8
MHz ≤ f_offset
* * *
# 9 Unwanted emission
## 9.1 Spectrum emission mask
The mask defined in Table 9.1 to 9.3 may be mandatory in certain regions. In
other regions this mask may not be applied.
For regions where this clause applies, the requirement shall be met by a LCR
TDD repeater transmitting on a single RF carrier configured in accordance with
the manufacturer's specification. Emissions shall not exceed the maximum level
specified in table 9.1 to 9.3 for the appropriate LCR TDD repeater maximum
output power, in the frequency range from ∆f = 0.8 MHz to ∆f ~max~ from the
carrier frequency, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the nominal -3dB
point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the carrier frequency and the center
frequency of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is either 4 MHz or the offset to the UMTS Tx band edge as
defined in section 5.2, whichever is the greater.
\- ∆f ~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measurement filter.
Figure 9.1
Table 9.1: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power P ≥ 34 dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter -3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 0.8 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 1.0 MHz 0.815MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.015MHz -20 dBm 30
kHz 1.0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 1.8 MHz 1.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.815MHz 30 kHz See note
1.815MHz ≤ f_offset \< 2.3MHz -28 dBm 30 kHz 1.8 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤∆f~max~ 2.3MHz ≤
f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -13 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
Table 9.2: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power 26 ≤ P \< 34
dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter -3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 0.8 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 1.0 MHz 0.815MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.015MHz P-54 dB 30
kHz 1.0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 1.8 MHz 1.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.815MHz 30 kHz See note
1.815 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 2.3 MHz P-62 dB 30 kHz 1.8 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤∆f~max~ 2.3 MHz ≤
f_offset \< f_offset~max~ P - 47 dB 1 MHz
* * *
Table 9.3: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power P \< 26 dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter -3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 0.8 MHz≤ ∆f \< 1.0 MHz 0.815MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.015MHz -28 dBm 30
kHz 1.0 MHz≤ ∆f \< 1.8 MHz 1.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.815MHz 30 kHz See note
1.815MHz ≤ f_offset \< 2.3MHz -36 dBm 30 kHz 1.8 MHz≤ ∆f ≤∆f~max~ 2.3MHz ≤
f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -21 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
NOTE: This frequency range ensures that the range of values of f_offset is
continuous.
## 9.2 Spurious emissions
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
This is measured at the base station RF output port.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi carrier). It applies for all transmission modes
foreseen by the manufacturer's.
For 1.28 Mcps TDD option, either requirement applies at frequencies within the
specified frequency ranges which are more than 4 MHz under the first carrier
frequency used or more than 4 MHz above the last carrier frequency used.
Unless otherwise stated, all requirements are measured as mean power.
### 9.2.1 Mandatory Requirements
The requirements of either subclause 9.2.1.1 or subclause 9.2.1.2 shall apply.
#### 9.2.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A)
The following requirements shall be met in cases where Category A limits for
spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329-9 [1], are
applied.
##### 9.2.1.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.4: LCR TDD repeater Mandatory spurious emissions limits, Category A
+------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | Band | Minimum | Measurement | Notes | | | requirement | Bandwidth | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 9kHz - 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 150kHz - 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 30MHz - 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | 1GHz - 12.75 GHz | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as in | | | | | ITU SM.329 | | | | | [1], s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Upper | | | | | frequency as in | | | | | ITU SM.329 | | | | | [1], s2.5 | | | | | table 1 | | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+--------+
NOTE: only the measurement bands are different according to the occupied
bandwidth.
#### 9.2.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B)
The following requirements shall be met in cases where Category B limits for
spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [1], are
applied.
##### 9.2.1.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.5: LCR TDD repeater Mandatory spurious emissions limits, Category B
+--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Band | Maximum Level | Measurement | Notes | | | | Bandwidth | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 9kHz - 150kHz | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 150kHz - 30MHz | - 36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 30MHz - 1GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | 1GHz | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 1 | | | | | | | ↔ | | | | | | | | | | Fl -10 MHz | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Fl -10MHz | -15 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | | | | | | ↔ | | | | | | | | | | Fu +10 MHz | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | Fu +10 MHz | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 3 | | | | | | | ↔ | | | | | | | | | | 12,5 GHz | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+ | NOTE 1: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU SM.329 | | | | | [1], s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Limit | | | | | based on ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 [1], s4.3 | | | | | and Annex 7 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Bandwidth | | | | | as in ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [1], s4.3 and | | | | | Annex 7. Upper | | | | | frequency as in | | | | | ITU-R SM.329 | | | | | [1], s2.5 table | | | | | 1 | | | | +--------------------+---------------+--------------------+--------+
Fl: Lower frequency of the band in which TDD operates
Fu: Upper frequency of the band in which TDD operates
### 9.2.2 Co-existence with GSM 900
#### 9.2.2.1 Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement may be applied for the protection of GSM 900 MS and GSM 900
BTS receivers in geographic areas in which both GSM 900 and UTRA are deployed.
##### 9.2.2.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.6: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for LCR TDD repeater in
geographic coverage area of GSM 900 MS and GSM 900 BTS receiver
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 876 - 915 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz  
921 - 960MHz -57 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
#### 9.2.2.2 Co-located base stations
This requirement may be applied for the protection of GSM 900 BTS receivers
when GSM 900 BTS and UTRA BS are co-located.
##### 9.2.2.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.7: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for protection of the
GSM 900 BTS receiver
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 876 - 915 MHz -98 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
### 9.2.3 Co-existence with DCS 1800
#### 9.2.3.1 Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement may be applied for the protection of DCS 1800 MS and DCS 1800
BTS receivers in geographic areas in which both DCS 1800 and UTRA are
deployed.
##### 9.2.3.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.8: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for LCR TDD repeater in
the band a), d) and e) when operating in geographic coverage area of DCS 1800
MS and DCS 1800 BTS receiver
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1710 - 1785 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz  
1805 - 1880MHz -47 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 9.8a: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for LCR TDD repeater in
the band f) when operating in geographic coverage area of DCS 1800 MS and DCS
1800 BTS receiver operating in 1710-1755 MHz/1805-1850 MHz
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1710 - 1755 MHz -61 dBm 100 kHz  
1805 - 1850MHz -47 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
#### 9.2.3.2 Co-located base stations
This requirement may be applied for the protection of DCS 1800 BTS receivers
when DCS 1800 BTS and UTRA BS are co-located.
##### 9.2.3.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.9: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for LCR TDD repeater in
the band a), d) and e) when co-located with DCS 1800 BTS
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1710 - 1785 MHz -98 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 9.10: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for LCR TDD repeater in
the band f) when co-located with DCS1800 BTS
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note 1710 - 1755 MHz -98 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
### 9.2.4 Co-existence with UTRA-FDD
#### 9.2.4.1 Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement may be applied to geographic areas in which both UTRA-TDD and
UTRA-FDD operating in bands specified in Table 9.11 are deployed.
##### 9.2.4.1.1 Minimum Requirement
For LCR TDD repeater which use carrier frequencies within the band 2010 \-
2025 MHz the requirements applies at all frequencies within the specified
frequency bands in table 9.11. For LCR TDD repeater which use carrier
frequencies within the band 1900-1920 MHz, the requirement applies at
frequencies within the specified frequency range which are more than 4 MHz
above the last carrier used in the frequency band 1900-1920 MHz.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.11: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for LCR TDD repeater in
geographic coverage area of UTRA-FDD
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | Band | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | | | Bandwidth | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | 1920 - 1980 MHz | -43 dBm (*) | 3,84 MHz | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | 2110 - 2170 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | 2500 - 2570 MHz | -43 dBm(**) | 3.84 MHz | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | 2620 - 2690 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | NOTE* For LCR TDD | | | | | repeater which use | | | | | carrier frequencies | | | | | within the band | | | | | 1900 - 1920 MHz or | | | | | 1880-1920MHz, the | | | | | requirement shall | | | | | be measured RRC | | | | | filtered mean power | | | | | with the lowest | | | | | centre frequency of | | | | | measurement at | | | | | 1922.6 MHz or 6.6 | | | | | MHz above the | | | | | highest TDD carrier | | | | | used, whichever is | | | | | higher. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE ** For LCR | | | | | TDD repeater which | | | | | use carrier | | | | | frequencies within | | | | | the band 2570 - | | | | | 2620 MHz, the | | | | | requirement shall | | | | | be measured RRC | | | | | filtered mean power | | | | | with the highest | | | | | centre frequency of | | | | | measurement at | | | | | 2567.5 MHz or 6.6 | | | | | MHz below the | | | | | lowest TDD carrier | | | | | used, whichever is | | | | | lower. | | | | +---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+
NOTE: The requirements in Table 9.11 are based on a coupling loss of 70 dB
between LCR TDD repeater and FDD Wide Area base stations.
#### 9.2.4.2 Co-located base stations
This requirement may be applied for the protection of UTRA-FDD BS receivers
when UTRA-TDD BS and UTRA FDD BS are co-located.
##### 9.2.4.2.1 Minimum Requirement
For LCR TDD repeater which use carrier frequencies within the band 2010 \-
2025 MHz the requirements applies at all frequencies within the specified
frequency bands in table 9.12. For LCR TDD repeater which use carrier
frequencies within the band 1900-1920 MHz, the requirement applies at
frequencies within the specified frequency range which are more than 4 MHz
above the last carrier used in the frequency band 1900-1920 MHz.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 9.12: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for BS co-located with
UTRA-FDD
+------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+ | Band | Maximum Level | Measurement Bandwidth | +------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+ | 1920 - 1980 MHz | -80 dBm (*) | 3,84 MHz | +------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+ | 2110 ­- 2170 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | +------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+ | 2500 - 2570 MHz | - 80 dBm(**) | 3.84 MHz | +------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+ | 2620 - 2690 MHz | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | +------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE * For LCR TDD | | | | repeater which use | | | | carrier frequencies | | | | within the band 1900 - | | | | 1920 MHz or | | | | 1880-1920MHz, the | | | | requirement shall be | | | | measured RRC filtered | | | | mean power with the | | | | lowest centre | | | | frequency of | | | | measurement at 1922.6 | | | | MHz or 6.6 MHz above | | | | the highest TDD | | | | carrier used, | | | | whichever is higher. | | | | | | | | NOTE ** For LCR TDD | | | | repeater which use | | | | carrier frequencies | | | | within the band 2570 - | | | | 2620 MHz, the | | | | requirement shall be | | | | measured RRC filtered | | | | mean power with the | | | | highest centre | | | | frequency of | | | | measurement at 2567.5 | | | | MHz or 6.6MHz below | | | | the lowest TDD carrier | | | | used, whichever is | | | | lower. | | | +------------------------+-----------------+-----------------------+
NOTE: The requirements in Table 9.12 are based on a minimum coupling loss of
30 dB between LCR TDD repeater and UTRA-FDD base stations.
### 9.2.5 Co-existence with unsynchronised TDD
#### 9.2.5.1 Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement shall apply in case the equipment is operated in the same
geographic area with unsynchronised TDD BS.
##### 9.2.5.1.1 Minimum Requirement
In geographic areas where only 1,28 Mcps TDD is deployed, the RRC filtered
mean power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits specified in
table 9.13, otherwise the limits in table 9.14 shall apply.
Table 9.13: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for operation in same
geographic area with unsynchronised 1,28 Mcps TDD
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth 1900 - 1920 MHz -39 dBm 1,28 MHz 2010
- 2025 MHz -39 dBm 1,28 MHz 2300 - 2400 MHz -39 dBm 1,28 MHz 2570 - 2620 MHz
-39 dBm 1,28 MHz 1880 -- 1920 MHz -39 dBm 1,28 MHz
* * *
Table 9.14: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for operation in same
geographic area with unsynchronised TDD
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth 1900 - 1920 MHz -39 dBm 3,84 MHz 2010
- 2025 MHz -39 dBm 3,84 MHz 2570 - 2620 MHz -39 dBm 3,84 MHz
* * *
NOTE: The requirements in Table 9.13 and 9.14 for the LCR TDD repeater are
based on a minimum coupling loss of 67 dB between LCR TDD repeater and
unsynchronised TDD base stations.
#### 9.2.5.2 Co-located base stations
This requirement shall apply in case of co-location with unsynchronised TDD
BS.
##### 9.2.5.2.1 Minimum Requirement
In geographic areas where only 1,28 Mcps TDD is deployed, the RRC filtered
mean power of any spurious emission in case of co-location shall not exceed
the limits specified in table 9.15, otherwise the limits in table 9.16 shall
apply.
Table 9.15: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for co-location with
unsynchronised 1,28 Mcps TDD
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth 1900 - 1920 MHz -76 dBm 1,28 MHz 2010
- 2025 MHz -76 dBm 1,28 MHz 2300 - 2400 MHz -76 dBm 1,28 MHz 2570 - 2620 MHz
-76 dBm 1,28 MHz 1880 - 1920 MHz -76 dBm 1,28 MHz NOTE: The requirement
applies for frequencies more than 10 MHz below or above the supported
frequency range declared by the vendor.
* * *
Table 9.16: LCR TDD repeater Spurious emissions limits for co-location with
unsynchronised TDD
* * *
Band Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth 1900 - 1920 MHz -76 dBm 3,84 MHz 2010
- 2025 MHz -76 dBm 3,84 MHz 2570 - 2620MHz -76 dBm 3,84 MHz
* * *
NOTE: The requirements in Table 9.15 and 9.16 for the LCR TDD repeater are
based on a minimum coupling loss of 30 dB between unsynchronised TDD base
stations.
# 10 Modulation accuracy
## 10.1 Error Vector Magnitude
The modulation accuracy is defined by the Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), which
is a measure of the difference between the theoretical waveform and a modified
version of the measured waveform. This difference is called the error vector.
The measured waveform is modified by first passing it through a matched root
raised cosine filter with bandwidth 1.28MHz and roll-off α=0.22. The waveform
is then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute phase, absolute
amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the error vector. The EVM
result is defined as root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the
mean reference signal power expressed as a %.
The measurement interval is one power control group (timeslot). The repeater
shall operate with an ideal LCR TDD signal in the pass band of the repeater at
a level, which produce the maximum rated output power per channel, as
specified by the manufacturer.
### 10.1.1 Minimum requirement
The Error Vector Magnitude shall not be worse than 8 %.
## 10.2 Peak code domain error
The code domain error is computed by projecting the error vector power onto
the code domain at a specific spreading factor. The error power for each code
is defined as the ratio to the mean power of the reference waveform expressed
in dB. And the Peak Code Domain Error is defined as the maximum value for Code
Domain Error. The measurement interval is one timeslot.
### 10.2.1 Minimum requirement
The peak code domain error shall not exceed -30 dB at spreading factor 16.
# 11 Input intermodulation
The input intermodulation is a measure of the capability of the repeater to
inhibit the generation of interference in the pass band, in the presence of
interfering signals on frequencies other than the pass band.
## 11.1 General requirement
The following requirement applies for interfering signals in the frequency
bands defined in sub-clause 5.2, depending on the repeaters pass band.
This requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of the repeater, at
maximum gain.
### 11.1.1 Minimum requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.1.1-1, the power in the pass band
shall not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as
measured in the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained
without interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the 3^rd^ order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre of
the pass band.
Table 11.1.1-1 specifies the parameters for two interfering signals, where:
\- f~1~ offset is the offset from the channel edge frequency of the first or
last channel in the pass band of the closer carrier.
Table 11.1.1-1: Input intermodulation requirement
* * *
f~1~ offset Interfering Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth
1,0 MHz -40 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
# 12 Output intermodulation
## 12.0 General
The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability of the
transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non linear elements
caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal reaching the
transmitter via the antenna.
The transmit intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation
products when a LCR TDD modulated interference signal is injected into the
antenna connector at a mean power level of 30 dB lower than that of the mean
power of the subject signal.
## 12.1 Minimum requirement
The frequency of the interference signal shall be ±1.6 MHz, ±3.2 MHz and ±4.8
MHz offset from the subject signal. The Transmit intermodulation level shall
not exceed the out of band or the spurious emission requirements of section
9.1 and 9.2.
# 13 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
## 13.1 Definitions and applicability
Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR) is the ratio of the RRC weighted gain
per carrier of the repeater in the pass band to the RRC weighted gain of the
repeater on an adjacent channel. The carrier in the pass band and in the
adjacent channel shall be of the same type (reference carrier).
The requirement shall apply to the uplink and downlink of Repeater, at maximum
gain, where the donor link is maintained via antennas (over the air Repeater).
## 13.2 Co-existence with UTRA
This requirement shall be applied for the protection of UTRA signals in
geographic areas in which LCR TDD Repeater and UTRA BS are deployed so that
they serve adjacent channels. The reference carrier is a UTRA-FDD carrier.
## 13.2.1. Minimum Requirements
In normal conditions the ACRR shall be higher than the value specified in the
Table 13.2.1-1.
Table 13.2.1-1: Repeater ACRR
* * *
Co-existence with other systems Repeater maximum output Pmax Channel offset
from the channel edge from the first or last 5MHz channel within the pass
band. ACRR limit UTRA P ≥ 31 dBm 2,5 MHz 33dB P ≥ 31 dBm 5,0 MHz 33dB P \< 31
dBm 2,5 MHz 20dB P \< 31 dBm 5,0 MHz 20dB
* * *
Note: For co-existence with TDD, a narrow band requirement is for further
study.
# 14 Timing Accuracy
Timing Accuracy is the repeater synchronization accuracy with NodeB, it
includes the downlink ramp on/off time and uplink ramp on/off time.
## 14.1 Minimum requirement
The downlink gain versus time should meet the mask specified in figure 14.1.
The beginning and end point of downlink burst is calculated according to the
trigger given by NodeB or LCR TDD signal generator.
Figure 14.1: Downlink gain ON/OFF template
The uplink gain versus time should meet the mask specified in figure 14.2. The
beginning and end point of uplink burst is calculated according to the trigger
given by NodeB or LCR TDD signal generator.
Figure 14.2: Uplink gain ON/OFF template
###### ## Annex A (normative): Environmental requirements for the Repeater
equipment
The Repeater equipment shall fulfil all the requirements in the full range of
environmental conditions for the relevant environmental class from the
relevant IEC specifications listed below
60 721-3-3 \"Stationary use at weather protected locations\" [6];
60 721-3-4 \"Stationary use at non weather protected locations\" [7]
Normally it should be sufficient for all tests to be conducted using normal
test conditions except where otherwise stated. For guidance on the use of test
conditions to be used in order to show compliance refer to TS 25.153.
#