# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the overall technical specification for the support of
the 7.68Mcps TDD option in UTRA.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 25.895 (V6.0.0): \"Analysis of higher chip rates for UTRA TDD
evolution\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical layer; Measurements (TDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.306: \"UE Radio Access capabilities\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.105 \"UTRAN (BS) TDD; Radio transmission and reception\".
[12] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [12] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[12].
(void)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[12] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [12].
BCH Broadcast Channel
CCPCH Common Control Physical Channel
DCH Dedicated Channel
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
E-HICH E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
E-PUCH E-DCH Physical Uplink Channel
E-RUCCH E-DCH Random Access Uplink Control Channel
FACH Forward Access Channel
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
HS-SCCH Shared Control Channel for HS-DSCH
HS-SICH Shared Information Channel for HS-DSCH
P-CCPCH Primary CCPCH
PCH Paging Channel
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PI Paging Indicator (value calculated by higher layers)
PICH Page Indicator Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RACH Random Access Channel
S-CCPCH Secondary CCPCH
SCH Synchronisation Channel
TrCH Transport Channel
USCH Uplink Shared Channel
# 4 Background and introduction
The 7.68Mcps TDD option is an evolution of the 3.84Mcps TDD option to a higher
chip rate. There exists a great degree of commonality between the 3.84Mcps TDD
option and the 7.68Mcps TDD option. Nevertheless, there are many aspects of
the 7.68Mcps TDD option that require separate specification to the 3.84Mcps
TDD option. The following aspects are specified at a high level in this
document:
\- Physical layer structure;
\- Physical layer procedures;
\- UE capabilities;
\- Layer 2/3 protocol aspects;
\- Iub / Iur aspects;
\- Radio aspects;
# 5 Requirements
\- The 7.68Mcps TDD option shall provide significant enhancements in terms of
user experience (throughput and delay) and/or capacity (at least to the extent
shown in [1]).
\- Full mobility shall be supported, i.e., mobility should be supported for
high-speed UE cases also, but optimisation should be for low-speed to medium-
speed scenarios.
\- It is highly desirable for the 7.68Mcps TDD option to maintain commonality
with the 3.84Mcps TDD option. New features shall therefore provide significant
incremental gain for an acceptable complexity.
\- The UE and network complexity shall be minimised for a given level of
system performance.
\- The impact on current releases in terms of both protocol and hardware
perspectives shall be taken into account.
# 6 Physical layer structure
## 6.0 Services offered to higher layers
The 7.68Mcps TDD option supports an identical set of transport channels and
indicators to the 3.84Mcps TDD option.
## 6.1 Frame structure
The 7.68Mcps TDD option frame is of length 10ms and consists of 15 timeslots
of duration 5120 *  _T~c~_ , where _T~c~_ is the chip duration (_T~c~_ = 1 /
7.68 * 10^6^ = 130.2ns). Any timeslot in the frame can be either uplink or
downlink. At least one timeslot in the frame is assigned to the uplink and at
least one timeslot in the frame is assigned to the downlink. The frame
structure is shown in Figure 6.1.1.
Figure 6.1.1: The 7.68Mcps TDD option frame structure
## 6.2 Burst structure
The 7.68Mcps burst consists of two data field portions, a midamble portion
containing a training sequence and a guard period as shown in Figure 6.2.1.
Several bursts can be transmitted at the same time where each burst uses a
different OVSF channelisation code, but the same scrambling code.
Figure 6.2.1: 7.68Mcps TDD option burst structure
Three burst types are specified: burst types 1, 2 and 3. The maximum number of
training sequences supported in burst types 1 and 3 is either 4, 8 or 16
depending on cell configuration and either 4 or 8 for burst type 2 depending
on cell configuration. The lengths of the fields within each burst are defined
in Table 6.2.1.
Table 6.2.1: Number of chips within fields of the 7.68Mcps burst
* * *
Field Burst Type 1 Burst Type 2 Burst Type 3 Data field 1 1952 2208 1952
Midamble 1024 512 1024 Data field 2 1952 2208 1760 Guard Period 192 192 384
* * *
On the downlink, a spreading factor of 32 is supported. Additionally for DPCH,
PDSCH and HS-PDSCH, a spreading factor of 1 is supported on the downlink.
On the uplink, spreading factors of 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and 32 are supported for
DPCH, PUSCH and E-PUCH. PRACH and E-RUCCH only support spreading factors 16
and 32 and HS-SICH only supports spreading factor 32.
The spreading factors and burst types supported for different physical
channels are defined in Table 6.2.2.
Table 6.2.2: Spreading factors and burst types supported by physical channels
* * *
Physical channel Supported spreading factors Supported burst types UL DPCH 1,
2, 4, 8, 16, 32 1, 2, 3 DL DPCH 1, 32 1, 2 P-CCPCH 32 1 S-CCPCH 32 1, 2 PRACH
16, 32 3 PUSCH 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32 1, 2, 3 PDSCH 1, 32 1, 2 HS-PDSCH 1, 32 1, 2
HS-SCCH 32 1, 2 HS-SICH 32 1, 2 E-PUCH 1, 2, 4, 8 ,16, 32 1, 2, 3 E-AGCH 32 1,
2 E-HICH 32 1, 2 E-RUCCH 16, 32 3
* * *
Transmission of TPC and TFCI are performed in accordance with the general
procedures used for the existing 3.84 Mcps TDD option. Due to the maximum
spreading factor being increased from 16 (3.84Mcps) to 32 (7.68Mcps), usage of
SF16 for TPC/TFCI is replaced with SF32 where appropriate.
## 6.3 Midambles
Midambles for burst types 1, 2 and 3 are created using the method applied for
3.84Mcps TDD. The basic midamble code for burst types 1 and 3 is of length
912; for burst type 2 the basic midamble code is of length 456.
Default, common and UE specific midamble modes are supported in the 7.68Mcps
TDD option. The characteristics of these midamble allocations at 7.68Mcps are
identical to their characteristics at 3.84Mcps. The number of active
channelisation codes is signaled via midamble through an extension of the
scheme applied at 3.84Mcps TDD (the extension accounts for the higher
spreading factor supported at 7.68Mcps).
Midamble transmit powers are allocated as for 3.84Mcps TDD.
The association between midambles and channelisation codes for burst types 1,
2 and 3 are as shown in figure 6.3.1 for K~cell~ = 16, figure 6.3.2 for
K~cell~ = 8 and figure 6.3.3 for K~cell~ = 4. Secondary channelisation codes
are marked with a *. These associations apply both for UL and DL.
Figure 6.3.1: Association of Midambles to Spreading Codes for K~Cell~ = 16
Figure 6.3.2: Association of Midambles to Spreading Codes for K~Cell~ = 8
Figure 6.3.3: Association of Midambles to Spreading Codes for K~Cell~ = 4
For PRACH and E-RUCCH, up to 16 midambles and channelisation codes may be
supported. The training sequences, i.e. midambles, of different users active
in the same time slot are time shifted versions of a basic midamble code,
m~1~, or a second basic midamble code, m~2~, which is a time inverted version
of the basic midamble code m~1~. A fixed association exists between
PRACH/E-RUCCH midambles and channelisation codes.
## 6.4 Coding and Modulation
Multiplexing and channel coding is aligned with 3.84Mcps TDD with the
exception that physical channel sequence numbering and the coding of the
channelisation code set information on HS-SCCH and E-AGCH shall account for
the support of SF32 at 7.68Mcps.
## 6.5 Scrambling Codes
The binary scrambling code, $c_{7\text{.}\text{68}}^{n}$, for cell parameter
_n_ in the 7.68Mcps TDD option is formed from the concatenation of the binary
scrambling codes $c_{3\text{.}\text{84}}^{n}$and
$c_{3\text{.}\text{84}}^{\left( n + 2 \right)\text{mod}\text{128}}$shown in
Annex A of [4].
## 6.6 Synchronisation Codes
The synchronisation codes for the 7.68Mcps TDD option are formed by repetition
coding of the 3.84Mcps TDD synchronisation code words. Unique modulation
sequences are applied to these code words that enable the UE to determine the
code group, frame alignment and chip rate of the cell.
The synchronization channel (SCH) is constructed in an identical manner to the
construction at 3.84Mcps. The relationship between code group, _n_ , and
_t~offset,n~_ at 7.68Mcps is:
$t_{\text{offset},n} =$
## 6.7 Transmit diversity
Support for beamforming and transmit diversity are aligned with the 3.84Mcps
TDD option.
6.8 Measurements
## 6.9 Indicator Channels
### 6.9.1 Paging Indicator Channel (PICH)
The paging indicator channel is spread at SF32, but in other respects is
identical to the 3.84Mcps TDD PICH [2].
The PICH block may comprise up to N~PICH~ = 8 frames. The PCH block may
comprise up to 2 × N~PCH~ = 2 × 16 frames.
### 6.9.2 MBMS Indicator Channel (MICH)
The MBMS indicator channel is spread at SF32, but in other respects is
identical to the 3.84Mcps TDD MICH [2].
## 6.10 Mapping of transport channels to physical channels
In the 7.68Mcps TDD option, transport channels are mapped onto physical
channels according to figure 6.10.1.
* * *
**Transport Channels** **Physical Channels** DCH {width="1.8402777777777777in"
height="1.875e-2in"} Dedicated Physical Channel (DPCH)
BCH {width="1.8402777777777777in" height="1.875e-2in"} Primary Common Control
Physical Channel (P-CCPCH)
FACH {width="1.8402777777777777in" height="1.875e-2in"} Secondary Common
Control Physical Channel (S-CCPCH) PCH {width="1.8701388888888888in"
height="0.14305555555555555in"}
RACH {width="1.8402777777777777in" height="1.875e-2in"} Physical Random Access
Channel (PRACH)
USCH {width="1.8402777777777777in" height="1.875e-2in"} Physical Uplink Shared
Channel (PUSCH)
DSCH {width="1.8402777777777777in" height="1.875e-2in"} Physical Downlink
Shared Channel (PDSCH)
                                                                                           Paging Indicator Channel (PICH)
                                                                                           MBMS Indication Channel (MICH)
                                                                                           Synchronisation Channel (SCH)
HS-DSCH{width="1.65625in" height="3.125e-2in"} High Speed Physical Downlink
Shared Channel (HS-PDSCH)
                                                                                           Shared Control Channel for HS-DSCH (HS-SCCH)
                                                                                           Shared Information Channel for HS-DSCH (HS-SICH)
E-DCH{width="1.8402777777777777in" height="1.875e-2in"} E-DCH Physical Uplink
Channel (E-PUCH)
                                                                                           E-DCH Random Access Uplink Control Channel (E-RUCCH)
                                                                                           E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel (E-AGCH)
                                                                                           E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel (E-HICH)
* * *
Figure 6.10.1: Transport channel to physical channel mapping
The mapping between DCH, BCH, FACH, USCH and DSCH transport channels to
physical channels is identical to the mapping at 3.84Mcps TDD.
The mapping between the RACH transport channel and the PRACH physical channel
is identical to the mapping at 3.84Mcps TDD.
The mapping between the HS-DSCH transport channel and HS-PDSCH physical
channels is identical to the mapping at 3.84Mcps TDD. The association and
timing between HS-SCCH, HS-DSCH and HS-SICH is identical to the association
and timing at 3.84Mcps TDD with the exception that the UE must monitor up to a
maximum of eight HS-SCCH (M=8).
The mapping between the E-DCH transport channel and E-PUCH physical channels
is identical to the mapping at 3.84Mcps TDD. The association and timing
between E-AGCH, E-PUCH and E-HICH is identical to the association and timing
at 3.84Mcps TDD with the exception that up to two channelisation codes for
E-HICH are supported for the 7.68Mcps option.
The mapping of E-DCH control information to E-RUCCH when E-PUCH resources are
unavailable is identical to that for 3.84Mcps TDD.
# 7 Physical layer procedures
## 7.1 Power Control
Transmitter power control, both on the uplink and downlink, is aligned with
that of 3.84Mcps TDD.
## 7.2 Timing Advance
The timing advance architecture is the same as for 3.84Mcps TDD. The required
timing advance, \'UL Timing Advance\' TA~ul~ will be represented as a 7 bit
number (0-127) and shall be the multiplier of 4 chips which is nearest to the
required timing advance.
PUSCH, UL DPCH and HS-SICH are timing advanced. PRACH and E-RUCCH are not
timing advanced.
## 7.3 HSDPA procedures
The HS-DSCH procedure is aligned with 3.84Mcps TDD. When SCTD antenna
diversity is applied to HS-PDSCH on the beacon channel, the presence of
channelisation code $c_{\text{32}}^{(k = 1)}$shall implicitly indicate
presence of channelisation code $c_{\text{32}}^{(k = 2)}$.
## 7.4 Synchronisation procedures
The synchronization procedures are aligned with 3.84Mcps TDD.
## 7.5 RACH procedures
The RACH procedure is aligned with 3.84Mcps TDD. However, the use of higher
layer signaling to indicate that in some frames a timeslot shall be blocked
for RACH uplink transmission is not supported.
## 7.6 Discontinuous transmission (DTX) procedure
The DTX procedure is aligned with that of 3.84Mcps TDD.
## 7.7 Downlink transmit diversity procedure
The downlink transmit diversity procedure is aligned with that of 3.84Mcps
TDD. In Space Code Transmit Diversity mode the data sequence is spread with
the channelisation codes $c_{\text{32}}^{(k = 1)}$and $c_{\text{32}}^{(k =
2)}$, the spread sequence on code $c_{\text{32}}^{(k = 2)}$ is then
transmitted on the diversity antenna.
## 7.8 DSCH procedure
Higher layer signaling is used to indicate to the UE the need for PDSCH
detection. Physical layer signaling is not used to indicate to the UE the need
for PDSCH detection.
## 7.9 Macrodiversity procedure
The macrodiversity procedure is aligned with that of 3.84Mcps TDD.
## 7.10 IPDL procedure
The IPDL procedure is aligned with that of 3.84Mcps TDD.
## 7.11 E-DCH procedures
The E-DCH procedures are aligned with those of 3.84Mcps TDD with modifications
to accommodate SF32 for the E-PUCH code hopping procedure and the E-PUCH power
control procedure.
# 8 UE capabilities
UE capabilities for the 7.68 Mcps TDD mode are based on those for 3.84 Mcps
TDD. The capabilities for 7.68Mcps TDD account for the higher number of
physical channels supported and additionally support higher peak bit rates.
The minimum MBMS capability at 7.68Mcps is twice the minimum capability at
3.84Mcps. The detailed UE capabilities for 7.68Mcps TDD are described in [8].
# 9 Layer 2/3 protocol aspects
## 9.1 Protocol architecture
The protocol architecture for 7.68 Mcps TDD is the same as the protocol
architecture for 3.84 Mcps TDD. Section 5.1 of [7] provides an overview of the
radio interface protocol architecture.
## 9.2 Signalling
### 9.2.1 General
There are signalling differences between 7.68 Mcps TDD and 3.84 Mcps TDD.
These differences concern L2/MAC and L3/RRC (see Section 5.1 of [7]) only.
L2/RLC, L2/BMC, L2/PDCP and L3 U-plane information are not impacted.
### 9.2.2 L2/MAC differences
The L2/MAC differences between 7.68Mcps TDD and 3.84Mcps TDD are due to the
support of a higher capability HSDPA UE at 7.68Mcps (20.4Mbps) and a higher
capability E-DCH UE at 7.68Mcps (17.7Mbps). The L2/MAC differences concern:
\- the maximum number of PDUs transmitted in a single TTI (636 at 7.68Mcps
compared to 318 for3.84 Mcps TDD).
\- HSPDA transport block size signalling. The maximum transport block size
that can be signalled at 7.68Mcps is twice that at 3.84Mcps. A new table and
formula for transport block size signalling for 7.68 Mcps TDD HS-DSCH is
included in [9].
\- E-DCH transport block size signalling. The maximum transport block size
that can be signalled at 7.68Mcps is approximately twice that at 3.84Mcps. A
new table and formula for transport block size signalling for 7.68 Mcps TDD
E-DCH is included in [9].
### 9.2.3 L2/RRC differences
The L2/RRC differences concern:
**Use of SF 32:** The signalling is extended to include support for SF32. The
7.68 Mcps cell will be configured to use SF 16 or 32 for PRACH and E-RUCCH
rather than SF 8 and 16 as 3.84 Mcps
**Open Loop Power Control:** Configuration of a cell for use of SF 16 or 32
with respect to the PRACH impacts calculation of the uplink transmit power for
PRACH and requires the UE to add 3dB to the RACH Constant Value in the
equation:
> P~PRACH~ = L~PCCPCH~ + I~BTS~ + PRACH Constant value
for the case where RACH Spreading Factor = 16.
The same applies for open loop power control of E-RUCCH.
**Capability Update Requirement:** A new IE \"UE radio access 7.68 Mcps TDD
capability update requirement\" is used.
**Uplink Timing Advance** : A different Uplink Timing Advance IE is required
at 7.68Mcps to account for the number of bits used to signal timing advance at
7.68Mcps. A number of RRC messages are impacted due to the use of a different
Uplink Timing Advance IE for 7.68 Mcps TDD to 3.84 Mcps TDD.
**DL Physical Channel Capability:** The physical channel capability at
7.68Mcps is extended in order to account for the greater number of physical
channels supported at 7.68Mcps.
**Burst Types and Midambles:** Signalling related to burst types is modified
since burst type 2 at 7.68Mcps supports K~cell~ of 4 or 8.
## 9.3 HSDPA related issues
The highest UE capability at 7.68Mcps is double that at 3.84Mcps, hence the
maximum transport block size and the maximum number of PDUs that can be
transmitted in a single TTI are double that of 3.84 Mcps. The range of UE
capabilities is extended and the maximum UE capablitity for 7.68 Mcps is 20.4
Mbits/s.
## 9.4 Mobility
Inter RAT and intra RAT handover for 7.68 Mcps TDD is as for 3.84 Mcps TDD
with handover between 3.84 Mcps TDD and 7.68 Mcps TDD cells also supported.
Bands a), b), c), a + b), a + c), b + c) and a + b + c) can be configured for
7.68 Mcps TDD or 3.84 Mcps TDD or 1.28 Mcps TDD.
## 9.5 Idle Mode Procedures
Idle mode procedures are as for 3.84 Mcps TDD.
## 9.6 E-DCH related issues
The highest UE capability at 7.68Mcps is approximately double that at
3.84Mcps, hence the maximum transport block size and the maximum number of
PDUs that can be transmitted in a single TTI are increasedwith respect to that
of 3.84 Mcps. The range of UE capabilities is extended and the maximum UE
capablitity for 7.68 Mcps is 17.7 Mbits/s.
# 10 Iub/Iur aspects
## 10.1 Impacts on Iub/Iur interfaces -- general aspects
### 10.1.1 Timing advance and Rx Timing Deviation
The timing advance algorithm (in RRM, at the RNC) uses Rx Timing Deviation
measurements made by the Node B and passed to the RNC in frame protocols. At
3.84 Mcps the resolution is 4 chips. The timing advance determined by RRM is
signalled to the UE (RRC).
In addition, the Node B can be configured to take more accurate Rx Timing
Deviation measurements of a UE, which are sent to the RNC as dedicated
measurements. At 3.84 Mcps the resolution of these is 0.0625 chips. These
accurate measurements can be used in location (they are passed to the location
system using the PCAP protocol).
Strategy for 7.68 Mcps :
Timing advance & Rx Timing Deviation over FP
> 4 chip resolution
> same dynamic range as 3.84 Mcps (in secs)
Rx Timing Deviation, dedicated measurement
> 0.0625 chip resolution giving greater measurement accuracy
> same dynamic range as 3.84 Mcps (in secs)
### 10.1.2 Paging
For the 7.68Mcps option, the maximum number of paging indicators per paging
block should be doubled to accommodate the greater number of users that may be
supported by the 10 MHz carrier. To achieve this:
• the number of PICH blocks per paging block (NPICH) is extended from {2,4} to
{2,4,8}
• the number of PCH blocks per paging block (NPCH) is extended from {1..8} to
{1..16}.
Consequently, a unique value range for the PI-bitmap needs to be defined for
7.68 Mcps.
### 10.1.3 DSCH Power Control from the RNC
In 3.84 Mcps TDD, the PDSCH may be power controlled from the RNC by sending a
transmit power level value in the DSCH DATA FRAME that carries DSCH transport
blocks to the Node B. For 7.68 Mcps, the same method can be used and this has
been agreed by RAN1. Since the transmit power level is expressed relative to
the maximum transmit power, no changes are needed to accommodate 7.68Mcps.
## 10.2 Impacts on Iub/Iur control plane protocols
There are a number of changes to RNSAP, PCAP & NBAP protocols to incorporate:
**\- Use of SF 32:** The signalling is extended to include support for SF32.
The 7.68 Mcps cell will be configured to use SF 16 or 32 for PRACH and E-RUCCH
rather than SF 8 and 16 as 3.84 Mcps
**\- Burst Types and Midambles:** Signalling related to burst types is
modified since burst type 2 at 7.68Mcps supports K~cell~ of 4 or 8.
**\- Number of physical channels:** the SF32 change implies an increase in the
number of physical channels that may be supported.
**\- Measurements:** changes are introduced for Rx Timing Deviation and SFN-
SFN measurements.
**\- Cell Synchronisation:** this procedure is not supported.
## 10.3 Impacts on Iub/Iur user plane protocols
Specifications 25.425, 25.427 and 25.435 are modified to include 7.68Mcps
operation in a similar fashion to 3.84 Mcps. Changes are also needed to
accommodate the different rx timing deviation and timing advance signalling
for 7.68Mcps compared to 3.84Mcps (see Section 10.1 above). The paging
indicator bit-map is also revised (see Section 10.1 above).
# 11 Radio aspects
## 11.1 UE radio transmission and reception
### 11.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 11.1.1.1 Transmit power
Common with 3.84Mcps TDD option.
#### 11.1.1.2 Output RF spectrum emissions
##### 11.1.1.2.1 Occupied bandwidth
Occupied bandwidth is a measure of the bandwidth containing 99% of the total
integrated power of the transmitted spectrum, centred on the assigned channel
frequency. The occupied channel bandwidth shall be less than 10 MHz based on a
chip rate of 7.68 Mcps.
##### 11.1.1.2.2 Out of band emission
Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the nominal
channel resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in the
transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out of band emission limit
is specified in terms of a spectrum emission mask and adjacent channel leakage
power ratio (ACLR).
###### 11.1.1.2.2.1 Spectrum emission mask
The spectrum emission mask of the UE applies to frequencies, which are between
5 MHz and 25MHz from the UE centre carrier frequency. The out of channel
emission is specified relative to the RRC filtered mean power of the UE
carrier. The power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 11.1.1.
Table 11.1.1: Spectrum Emission Mask of higher chip rate reference
configuration
* * *
Δf* in MHz Minimum requirement Measurement bandwidth 5.0 -- 7.0 30 kHz ** 7.0
- 15 1 MHz *** 15.0 -- 17.0 1 MHz *** 17.0 -- 25.0 -53 dBc 1 MHz *** * ∆f is
the separation between the carrier frequency and the centre of the measuring
filter.  
** The first and last measurement position with a 30 kHz filter is at ∆f
equals to 5.015 MHz and 6.985 MHz  
*** The first and last measurement position with a 1 MHz filter is at ∆f
equals to 7.5 MHz and 24.5 MHz. As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of
the measuring equipment should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. To
improve measurement accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution
bandwidth can be different from the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution
bandwidth is smaller than the measurement bandwidth, the result should be
integrated over the measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent
noise bandwidth of the measurement bandwidth.  
The lower limit shall be --47dBm/7.68 MHz or the minimum requirement presented
in this table which ever is the higher.
* * *
###### 11.1.1.2.2.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the RRC filtered
mean power centered on the assigned channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean
power centered on an adjacent channel frequency.
If the adjacent channel RRC filtered mean power is greater than --50dBm
measured with a 3.84 Mcps RRC filter then the ACLR shall be higher than the
value specified in Table 11.1.2.
Table 11.1.2: UE ACLR of higher chip rate reference configuration
* * *
Power Class adjacent channel Chip Rate for RRC Measurement Filter ACLR limit
2, 3 UE channel ± 7.5 MHz 3.84 MHz 33 dB 2, 3 UE channel ± 12.5 MHz 3.84 MHz
43 dB 2 ,3 UE channel ± 20.0 MHz 7.68 MHz 43 dB
* * *
NOTE:
1) The requirement shall still be met in the presence of switching transients.
2) The ACLR requirements reflect what can be achieved with present state of
the art technology.
###### 11.1.1.2.2.3 Spurious emissions
The spurious emissions limits shall be common with 3.84 Mcps TDD option and
shall be applicable for offsets greater than 25 MHz from the UE centre
frequency.
### 11.1.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 11.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity level
The reference sensitivity level is the minimum mean power received at the UE
antenna port at which the BIT Error Ratio BER shall not exceed a specific
value.
##### 11.1.2.1.1 Minimum Requirement
The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in Table 11.1.3.
Table 11.1.3: Test parameters for reference sensitivity (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Parameter Level Unit {width="0.8333333333333334in" height="0.44375in"} 0 dB
{width="0.19375in" height="0.2361111111111111in"} -105 dBm/7.68 MHz
* * *
#### 11.1.2.2 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to receive
a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of adjacent
channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency of the
assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter attenuation on the
assigned channel frequency to the receiver filter attenuation on the adjacent
channel(s).
##### 11.1.2.2.1 Minimum Requirement
The ACS shall be better than the value indicated in Table 11.1.4 for the test
parameters specified in Table 11.1.5 where the BER shall not exceed 0.001
Table 11.1.4: Adjacent Channel Selectivity (7.68 Mcps TDD Option)
* * *
Power Class Unit ACS 2 dB 33 3 dB 33
* * *
Table 11.1.5: Test parameters for Adjacent Channel Selectivity (7.68 Mcps TDD
Option)
* * *
Parameter Unit Level {width="0.7423611111111111in"
height="0.3541666666666667in"} dB 0 Î~or~ dBm/7.68 MHz -91 I~oac~ mean power
(modulated) dBm -52 F~uw~ offset (3.84 Mcps Modulated) MHz +7.5 or --7.5 F~uw~
offset (7.68 Mcps Modulated) MHz +10 or -10
* * *
#### 11.1.2.3 Blocking characteristics
The blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at is assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted
interferer on frequencies other than those of the spurious response or the
adjacent channels without this unwanted input signal causing a degradation of
the performance of the receiver beyond a specified limit. The blocking
performance shall apply at all frequencies except those at which a spurious
response occur.
##### 11.1.2.3.1 Minimum Requirement
The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in table 11.1.6
and table 11.1.7. For table 11.1.7 up to 24 exceptions are allowed for
spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel when measured
using a 1MHz step size.
Table 11.1.6: In-band blocking
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | Parameter | Level | Unit | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | | 0 | dB | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | | -102 | dBm/7.68 MHz | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+ | $I_ | -53 | -41 | dBm | | {\text{ouw}}$mean | | | | | power (modulated) | (for F~uw~ offset | (for F~uw~ offset | | | | ±20 MHz) | ±30 MHz) | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-----+
Table 11.1.7: Out of band blocking
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Band 1 | Band 2 | Band 3 | Unit | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | {width= | | | | | | "0.97222222 | | | | | | 22222222in" | | | | | | height=" | | | | | | 0.472222222 | | | | | | 2222222in"} | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | {width=" | | | | | | 0.208333333 | | | | | | 33333334in" | | | | | | height=" | | | | | | 0.277777777 | | | | | | 7777778in"} | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | {width= | | | | | | "0.29166666 | | | | | | 66666667in" | | | | | | heigh | | | | | | t="0.25in"} | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F~uw~ | 1840 \<f | 1815 \<f | 1\< f | MHz | | | \<1870 | \<1840 | \<1815 | | | For | | | | | | operation | 1950 \<f | 2085 \<f | 2110\< f | | | in | \<1980 | \<2110 | \<12750 | | | frequency | | | | | | bands as | 2055 \<f | | | | | definded in | \<2085 | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 5.2(a) of | | | | | | TS25.102 | | | | | | [10] | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F~uw~ | 1790 \< f | 1765 \< f | 1 \< f \< | MHz | | | \< 1820 | \< 1790 | 1765 | | | For | | | | | | operation | 2020 \< f | 2050 \< f | 2075 \< f | | | in | \< 2050 | \< 2075 | \< 12750 | | | frequency | | | | | | bands as | | | | | | definded in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 5.2(b) of | | | | | | TS25.102 | | | | | | [10] | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F~uw~ | 1850 \< f | 1825 \< f | 1 \< f \< | MHz | | | \< 1880 | \< 1850 | 1825 | | | For | | | | | | operation | 1960 \< f | 1990 \< f | 2015 \< f | | | in | \< 1990 | \< 2015 | \< 12750 | | | frequency | | | | | | bands as | | | | | | definded in | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | 5.2(c) of | | | | | | TS25.102 | | | | | | [10] | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1. For | | | | | | operation | | | | | | referenced | | | | | | in 5.2(a) | | | | | | of TS25.102 | | | | | | [10], | | | | | | from 1870 | | | | | | \<f\< 1900 | | | | | | MHz, 1920 | | | | | | \<f\< 1950 | | | | | | MHz, 1980 | | | | | | \<f\< 2010 | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | 2025\<f\< | | | | | | 2055 MHz , | | | | | | the | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | blocking in | | | | | | table | | | | | | 11.1.6 or | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel | | | | | | selectivity | | | | | | in section | | | | | | 11.1.4 | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | applied. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2. For | | | | | | operation | | | | | | referenced | | | | | | in 5.2(b) | | | | | | of TS25.102 | | | | | | [10], | | | | | | from 1820 | | | | | | \< f \< | | | | | | 1850 MHz | | | | | | and 1990\< | | | | | | f \< 2020 | | | | | | MHz, the | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | blocking in | | | | | | table | | | | | | 11.1.6 or | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel | | | | | | selectivity | | | | | | in section | | | | | | 11.1.4 | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | applied. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3. For | | | | | | operation | | | | | | referenced | | | | | | in 5.2(c) | | | | | | of TS25.102 | | | | | | [10], | | | | | | from 1880 | | | | | | \< f \< | | | | | | 1910 MHz | | | | | | and 1930\< | | | | | | f \< 1960 | | | | | | MHz, the | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | blocking in | | | | | | table | | | | | | 11.1.6 or | | | | | | adjacent | | | | | | channel | | | | | | selectivity | | | | | | in section | | | | | | 11.1.4 | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | applied. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.2.4 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained i.e. for which the blocking limit is
not met.
##### 11.1.2.4.1 Minimum Requirement
The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in Table 11.1.8.
Table 11.1.8: Spurious Response
* * *
Parameter Level Unit {width="0.9722222222222222in"
height="0.4722222222222222in"} 0 dB {width="0.20833333333333334in"
height="0.2777777777777778in"} --102 dBm/7.68 MHz
{width="0.2916666666666667in" height="0.25in"} (CW) -44 dBm F~uw~ Spurious
response frequencies MHz
* * *
#### 11.1.2.5 Spurious emissions
The Spurious Emissions Power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the UE antenna connector.
##### 11.1.2.5.1 Minimum Requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 11.1.9: Receiver spurious emission requirements
* * *
Band Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note
30 MHz -- 1 GHz -57 dBm 100 kHz
1 GHz -- 1.9 GHz and\ -47 dBm 1 MHz With the exception of frequencies between
25MHz below the first carrier frequency and 25MHz above the last carrier
frequency used by the UE. 1.92 GHz -- 2.01 GHz and\  
2.025 GHz -- 2.11 GHz
1.9 GHz -- 1.92 GHz and\ -57 dBm 7.68 MHz With the exception of frequencies
between 25MHz below the first carrier frequency and 25MHz above the last
carrier frequency used by the UE. 2.01 GHz -- 2.025 GHz and\  
2.11 GHz -- 2.170 GHz
2.170 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
## 11.2 Base station radio transmission and reception
### 11.2.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 11.2.1.1 Base station output power
Common with 3.84Mcps TDD option.
#### 11.2.1.2 Output RF spectrum emissions
##### 11.2.1.2.1 Occupied bandwidth
Occupied bandwidth is a measure of the bandwidth containing 99% of the total
integrated power for transmitted spectrum and is centered on the assigned
channel frequency. The occupied channel bandwidth is less than 10 MHz based on
a chip rate of 7.68 Mcps.
##### 11.2.1.2.2 Out of band emission
Out of band emissions are unwanted emissions immediately outside the channel
bandwidth resulting from the modulation process and non-linearity in the
transmitter but excluding spurious emissions. This out of band emission
requirement is specified both in terms of a spectrum emission mask and
adjacent channel power ratio for the transmitter.
###### 11.2.1.2.2.1 Spectrum emission mask
The mask defined in Table 11.2.1 to 11.2.4 below may be mandatory in certain
regions. In other regions this mask may not be applied.
For regions where this clause applies, the requirement shall be met by a base
station transmitting on a single RF carrier configured in accordance with the
manufacturer\'s specification. Emissions shall not exceed the maximum level
specified in tables 11.2.1 to 11.2.4 for the appropriate BS maximum output
power, in the frequency range from ∆f = 5 MHz to ∆f ~max~ from the carrier
frequency, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the carrier frequency and the nominal -3dB
point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the carrier frequency and the center
frequency of the measuring filter.- f_offset~max~ is either 25 MHz or the
offset to the UMTS Tx band edge as defined in TS25.105 [11], whichever is the
greater.
\- ∆f ~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measurement filter.
Figure 11.2.1: Spectrum emission mask
Table 11.2.1: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power P ≥ 43
dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter --3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5.2 MHz 5.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 5.215MHz -17 dBm 30 kHz
5.2 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 5.215MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.015MHz 30 kHz (see note)
6.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.5MHz -29 dBm 30 kHz 6 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~ 6.5MHz ≤
f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -16 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
Table 11.2.2: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power 39 ≤ P \<
43 dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter --3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5.2 MHz 5.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 5.215MHz -17 dBm 30 kHz
5.2 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 5.215MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.015MHz 30 kHz (see note)
6.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.5MHz -29 dBm 30 kHz 6 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 15 MHz 6.5MHz ≤
f_offset \< 15.5MHz -16 dBm 1 MHz 15 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~ 15.5MHz ≤ f_offset \<
f_offset~max~ P - 59 dB 1 MHz
* * *
Table 11.2.3: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power 31 ≤ P \<
39 dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter --3dB point,∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5.2 MHz 5.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 5.215MHz P - 56 dB 30
kHz 5.2 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 5.215MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.015MHz 30 kHz (see note)
6.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.5MHz P -- 68 dB 30 kHz 6 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 15 MHz 6.5MHz ≤
f_offset \< 15.5MHz P -- 55 dB 1 MHz 15 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~ 15.5MHz ≤ f_offset
\< f_offset~max~ P - 59 dB 1 MHz
* * *
Table 11.2.4: Spectrum emission mask values, BS maximum output power P \< 31
dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter --3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum level Measurement
bandwidth 5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5.2 MHz 5.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 5.215MHz -25 dBm 30 kHz
5.2 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 5.215MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.015MHz 30 kHz (see note)
6.015MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.5MHz -37 dBm 30 kHz 6 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 15 MHz 6.5MHz ≤
f_offset \< 15.5MHz -24 dBm 1 MHz 15 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~ 15.5MHz ≤ f_offset \<
f_offset~max~ -28 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
NOTE: This frequency range ensures that the range of values of f_offset is
continuous.
###### 11.2.1.2.2.2 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the RRC filtered
mean power centered on the assigned channel frequency to the RRC filtered mean
power centered on an adjacent channel frequency. The requirements shall apply
for all configurations of BS (single carrier or multi-carrier), and for all
operating modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s specification.
In some cases the requirement is expressed as adjacent channel leakage power,
which is the RRC filtered mean power for the given bandwidth of the victim
system at the defined adjacent channel offset.
The requirement depends on the deployment scenario. Different deployment
scenarios have been defined as given below.
###### # 11.2.1.2.2.2.1 Minimum requirement
The ACLR of a single carrier BS or a multi-carrier BS with contiguous carrier
frequencies shall be higher than the value specified in Table 11.2.5.
Table 11.2.5: BS ACLR
* * *
BS adjacent channel offset below the first or above the last carrier frequency
used Chip Rate for RRC Measurement Filter ACLR limit 7.5 MHz 3.84 Mcps 45 dB
12.5 MHz 3.84 Mcps 55 dB 10.0 MHz 7.68 Mcps 45 dB 20.0 MHz 7.68 Mcps 55 dB
* * *
If a BS provides multiple non-contiguous single carriers or multiple non-
contiguous groups of contiguous single carriers, the above requirements shall
be applied individually to the single carriers or group of single carriers.
###### 11.2.1.2.2.3 Spurious emissions
Spurious emissions are emissions which are caused by unwanted transmitter
effects such as harmonics emission, parasitic emission, intermodulation
products and frequency conversion products, but exclude out of band emissions.
This is measured at the base station RF output port.
The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter considered
(single carrier or multi carrier). It applies for all transmission modes
foreseen by the manufacturer.
The requirement applies at frequencies within the specified frequency ranges
which are more than 25 MHz under the first carrier frequency used or more than
25 MHz above the last carrier frequency used.
The mandatory requirements for Category A and Cateogry B shall be common with
3.84 Mcps TDD option.
### 11.2.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 11.2.2.1 Reference sensitivity level
The reference sensitivity level is the minimum mean power received at the
antenna connector at which the BER shall not exceed the specific value
indicated in section 11.2.2.1.1.
##### 11.2.2.1.1 Minimum requirement
The UL reference measurement channel used in the simulations of TR25.895 is
the 12.2 kbps channel specified in Annex A.2.1 of TS25.105 [11] with twice the
spreading factor (SF=16) and mid-amble (1024 chips). The reference sensitivity
level and performance of the BS shall be as specified in Table 11.2.6.
Table 11.2.6: BS reference sensitivity level
* * *
BS Class Reference measurement channel data rate BS reference sensitivity
level BER Wide Area BS 12.2 kbps -109 dBm BER shall not exceed 0.001 Local
Area BS 12.2 kbps -95 dBm BER shall not exceed 0.001
* * *
#### 11.2.2.2 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of a
single code CDMA modulated adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset
from the center frequency of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the
receiver filter attenuation on the assigned channel frequency to the receiver
filter attenuation on the adjacent channel(s).
##### 11.2.2.2.1 Minimum requirement
The BER shall not exceed 0.001 for the parameters specified in table 11.2.7.
Table 11.2.7: Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
Parameter Level Unit  
Reference measurement channel data rate 12.2 kbps  
Wanted signal mean power Wide Area BS -103 dBm Local Area BS -89 dBm
Interfering signal mean power Wide Area BS --49 dBm Local Area BS --35 dBm Fuw
offset (Modulated) 10 MHz
* * *
#### 11.2.2.3 Blocking characteristics
The blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an unwanted
interferer on frequencies other than those of the adjacent channels. The
blocking performance requirement applies to interfering signals with center
frequency within the ranges specified in the tables below, using a 1MHz step
size.
##### 11.2.2.3.1 Minimum requirement
The static reference performance as specified in clause 11.2.2.1.1 shall be
met with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS antenna input using
the parameters as specified in Table 11.2.8 to 11.2.10 for the Wide Area BS
and as specified in Table 11.2.11 to 11.2.13 for the Local Area BS.
Table 11.2.8: Blocking requirements for Wide Area BS for operating bands
defined in 5.2(a) of TS 25.105 [11]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | Frequency | Signal Mean | Signal Mean | Offset of | Interfering | | of | Power | Power | Interfering | Signal | | Interfering | | | Signal | | | Signal | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1900 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1920 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 2010 -- | | | | | | 2025 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1880 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1900 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 1990 -- | | | | | | 2010 MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 2025 -- | | | | | | 2045 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1920 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1980 MHz | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 -- 1880 | -15 dBm | -103 dBm |  | CW carrier | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 1980 -- | | | | | | 1990 MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 2045 -- | | | | | | 12750 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 11.2.9: Blocking requirements for Wide Area BS for operating bands
defined in 5.2(b) of TS 25.105 [11]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | Frequency | Signal Mean | Signal Mean | Offset of | Interfering | | of | Power | Power | Interfering | Signal | | Interfering | | | Signal | | | Signal | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1850 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1990 MHz | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1830 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1850 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 1990 -- | | | | | | 2010 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 -- 1830 | -15 dBm | -103 dBm |  | CW carrier | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 2010 -- | | | | | | 12750 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 11.2.10: Blocking requirements for Wide Area BS for operating bands
defined in 5.2(c) of TS 25.105 [11]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | Frequency | Signal Mean | Signal Mean | Offset of | Interfering | | of | Power | Power | Interfering | Signal | | Interfering | | | Signal | | | Signal | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1910 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1930 MHz | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1890 -- | -40 dBm | -103 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1910 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 1930 -- | | | | | | 1950 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 -- 1890 | -15 dBm | -103 dBm |  | CW carrier | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 1950 -- | | | | | | 12750 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 11.2.11: Blocking requirements for Local Area BS for operating bands
defined in 5.2(a) of TS25.105 [11]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Offset of | Interfering | | of | power | power | Interfering | Signal | | Interfering | | | Signal | | | Signal | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1900 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1920 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 2010 -- | | | | | | 2025 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1880 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1900 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 1990 -- | | | | | | 2010 MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 2025 -- | | | | | | 2045 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1920 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1980 MHz | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 -- 1880 | -15 dBm | --89 dBm |  | CW carrier | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 1980 -- | | | | | | 1990 MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 2045 -- | | | | | | 12750 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 11.2.12: Blocking requirements for Local Area BS for operating bands
defined in 5.2(b) of TS 25.105 [11]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Offset of | Interfering | | of | power | power | Interfering | Signal | | Interfering | | | Signal | | | Signal | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1850 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1990 MHz | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1830 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1850 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 1990 -- | | | | | | 2010 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 -- 1830 | -15 dBm | --89 dBm |  | CW carrier | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 2010 -- | | | | | | 12750 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 11.2.13: Blocking requirements for Local BS for operating bands defined
in 5.2(c) of TS25.105 [11]
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Minimum | Type of | | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Offset of | Interfering | | of | power | power | Interfering | Signal | | Interfering | | | Signal | | | Signal | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1910 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1930 MHz | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1890 -- | -30 dBm | --89 dBm | 20 MHz | WCDMA | | 1910 MHz, | | | | signal with | | | | | | one code | | 1930 -- | | | | | | 1950 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1 -- 1890 | -15 dBm | --89 dBm |  | CW carrier | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | | | | 1950 -- | | | | | | 12750 MHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 11.2.2.3.2 Collocation with GSM900 and/or DCS 1800
Common with 3.84 Mcps TDD option.
#### 11.2.2.4 Spurious emissions
The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the BS antenna connector. The requirements apply
to all BS with separate RX and TX antenna port. The test shall be performed
when both TX and RX are on with the TX port terminated.
##### 11.2.2.4.1 Minimum requirement
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed:
Table 11.2.14: Receiver spurious emission requirements
* * *
Band Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note
30 MHz -- 1 GHz -57 dBm 100 kHz
1 GHz -- 1.9 GHz and\ -47 dBm 1 MHz With the exception of frequencies between
25MHz below the first carrier frequency and 25MHz above the last carrier
frequency used by the BS. 1.98 GHz -- 2.01 GHz
1.9 GHz -- 1.98 GHz and\ -75 dBm 7.68 MHz With the exception of frequencies
between 25MHz below the first carrier frequency and 25MHz above the last
carrier frequency used by the BS. 2.01 GHz -- 2.025 GHz
2.025 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz With the exception of frequencies between
25MHz below the first carrier frequency and 25MHz above the last carrier
frequency used by the BS.
* * *
#