# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the UTRAN architecture for 3G Home Node B
(HNB).
It covers specification of the functions for UEs not supporting Closed
Subscriber Groups (CSG) and UEs supporting CSGs. It also covers HNB specific
requirements for O&M.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or nonâ€‘specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.468: \"UTRAN Iuh Interface RUA signalling\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.469: \"UTRAN Iuh Interface HNBAP signalling \".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN overall description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.410: \"UTRAN Iu Interface: general aspects and principles\".
[6] IETF RFC 4960 (September 2007): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[7] Broadband Forum TR-069 Amendment 2, _CPE WAN Management Protocol_ ,
Broadband Forum Technical Report, 2007.
[8] 3GPP TS 25.444: \"Iuh data transport and transport signalling\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu Interface RANAP Signalling\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
Description; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service requirements for Home Node Bs and Home eNode
Bs\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.419: \"UTRAN Iu Interface: Service Area Broadcast Protocol
SABP\".
[13] Void
[14] Void
[15] Void
[16] 3GPP TS 33.320: \"Security of Home Node B (HNB) / Home evolved Node B
(HeNB)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.415: \"UTRAN Iu Interface user plane protocols\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.423: \"UTRAN Iur interface Radio Network Subsystem Application
Part (RNSAP) Signalling\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.471: \"UTRAN Iurh Interface RNSAP User Adaption (RNA)
signalling\".
[20] Void
[21] 3GPP TS 25.425: \"UTRAN Iur interface user plane protocols for Common
Transport Channel data streams\".
[22] 3GPP TS 25.427: \"UTRAN Iub/Iur interface user plane protocol for DCH
data streams\".
[23] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 32.642: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); UTRAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[27] 3GPP TS 32.652: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); GERAN network resources Integration Reference Point (IRP); Network
Resource Model (NRM)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\".
[30] Void
[31] 3GPP TS 25.420: \"UTRAN Iur interface general aspects and principles\".
[32] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (1996-07): \"Functional description of the
signalling connection control part\".
[33] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712 (1996-07): \"Definition and function of
signalling connection control part messages\".
[34] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 (1996-07): \"Signalling connection control
part formats and codes\".
[35] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714 (1996-07): \"Signalling connection control
part procedures\".
[36] 3GPP TS 23.139: \"3GPP system -- fixed broadband access network
interworking\".
[37] 3GPP TS 25.450: \"UTRAN Iupc interface general aspects and principles\".
[38] 3GPP TS 25.453: \"UTRAN Iupc interface Positioning Calculation
Application Part (PCAP) signalling\".
[39] 3GPP TS 25.470: \"UTRAN Iuh Interface PCAP User Adaption (PUA)
signalling\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**HNB, Home Node B, 3G Home Node B:** as defined in TS 22.220 [11]. These
terms, their derivations and abbreviations are used synonymously throughout
this document.
**CSG HNB** : A HNB that serves a CSG Cell, broadcasting a CSG Indicator and a
specific CSG identity.
**Non CSG HNB** : A HNB that serves a cell which neither broadcasts a CSG
Indicator nor a CSG Identity.
**Hybrid HNB** : A HNB that serves a hybrid cell not broadcasting a CSG
Indicator but broadcasting a CSG identity.
**Membership Verification:** The process that checks whether a UE is a member
or non-member of a hybrid cell.
**Access Control:** The process that checks whether a UE is allowed to access
and to be granted services in a closed cell.
**CSG ID Validation:** The process that checks whether the CSG ID sent via
relocation messages is the same as the one supported by the target RAN.
**RNSAP Relocation** : denotes enhanced mobility for **inter-HNB Relocation
via RNSAP**. In this version of the specification, RNSAP Relocation is only
defined for intra-PLMN intra-HNB-GW intra-CSG scenarios.
**PLMN ID Check:** The process that checks whether a PLMN ID is the RPLMN
identity or an EPLMN identity of the UE.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CS Circuit Switched
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DSL Digital Subscriber Line
DSL-GW DSL GateWay
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
HMS Home Node B Management System
HNB 3G Home Node B
HNB-GW 3G HNB Gateway
HW Hard Ware
IP Internet Protocol
L-GW Local GateWay
LAC Local Area Code
LIPA Local IP Access
PCRF Policy and Charging Rules Function
RAC Routing Area Code
RGW Residential GateWay
SAC Service Area Code
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SeGW Security GateWay
SGW Serving GateWay
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
SIPTO\@LN Selected IP Traffic Offload at the Local Network
SW SoftWare
# 4 Overall architecture
## 4.1 General
The overall UMTS architecture and UTRAN architectures are described in TS
25.401 [4] and TS 25.410 [5]. For clarity and ease of understanding, at
appropriate places references to TR-069 [7] and associated methods are
described briefly although they are beyond the scope of this specification.
The reference model shown in Figure 4.1-1 below contains the network elements
that make up the HNB access network. There is a one-to-many relationship
between a HNB-GW and the HNB(s) it serves.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.9159722222222224in"}
Figure 4.1-1: HNB access network reference model.
The HNB-GW appears to the CN as an RNC and serves as a concentrator of HNB
connections. The Iu interface between the CN and the HNB-GW serves the same
purpose as the interface between the CN and a RNC. The HNB GW is uniquely
identified towards the CN on a particular Iu interface by the RNC ID. One HNB
serves only one cell.
The HNB-GW appears to other RNCs as an RNC and serves as a concentrator of HNB
connections. The HNB GW is uniquely identified towards the RNC on a particular
Iur interface by the RNC ID.
The Local Gateway (L-GW) may be present only when the HNB operates in LIPA
mode or when the HNB operates in SIPTO\@LN mode. When present, it is co-
located with the HNB, in which case the HNB has a Gn/S5 interface towards the
SGSN/SGW which does not use the HNB-GW, and a Gi interface towards the
residential/IP network.
If the L-GW is present within the HNB, the HNB shall use for Gn/S5
connectivity the same secure interface established by the HNB for Iuh
signalling as specified in TS 33.320 [16].
If the HNB-GW is supporting Fixed Broadband Access network interworking
function, the HNB-GW uses a S15 interface towards PCRF for CS sessions as
specified in TS 23.139 [36].
The HNB may be assigned the same inner IP address for the Gn/S5 interfaces as
for the Iuh interface, or a different IP address.
NOTE: If the HNB uses the same IP address for Gn/S5 and the Iuh interface,
they should be assigned distinct ranges of TEIDs in order to be able to
discriminate downlink GTP-U packets.
NOTE: The Security gateway is a logically separated entity and may be
implemented either as a separate physical element or integrated into, for
example, a HNB-GW.
The HNB access network includes the functional entities as shown in Figure
4.1-1 and detailed below.
The HNB access network supports Iurh connectivity between HNBs and
connectivity between HNBs and RNCs via the HNB-GW.
This version of specification supports three different Iurh connectivity
options:
\- Option1: Direct Iurh interface connectivity between the two involved HNBs.\
In this case the HNB-GW is not involved at all in Iurh RNL signalling.
\- Option 2: Iurh interface connectivity between HNBs with the HNB-GW serving
as an Iurh proxy.\ In this case the HNB-GW, acting as an Iurh-proxy, appears
to a HNB as the peer HNB.\ For this connectivity option the role of the HNB-GW
is transparent with regard to RNSAP signalling. Conveying respective
signalling messages via the HNB-GW is performed by routing based on
information provided by the RNSAP User Adaptation (RNA) layer, see TS 25.471
[19].
\- Option 3: Iurh interface connectivity between HNBs and the HNB-GW utilised
for transporting RNL signalling between those HNBs and RNCs via the HNB-GW.
NOTE: If Option 2 and Option 3 coexist, they share the same SCTP association.
Iurh connectivity between one pair of HNBs shall either support direct Iurh
connectivity or Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW, not both at the same time.
With respect to HNB-HNB mobility, there is no requirement for a HNB to support
direct Iurh connectivity and Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW at the same time
in the current release of the specification.
### 4.1.1 HNB Management System (HMS)
The HMS:
\- is based on the TR-069 family of standards [7].
\- facilitates HNB-GW discovery.
\- provides configuration data to the HNB.
\- performs location verification of HNB and assigns appropriate serving
elements (HMS, Security Gateway and HNB-GW).
### 4.1.2 Security Gateway (SeGW)
The SeGW:
\- terminates secure tunnelling for TR-069 [7] as well as Iuh.
\- terminates secure tunnelling for Iurh and Gn/S5 for certain deployment
options.
\- authenticates HNBs.
\- provides the HNB with access to the HMS and HNB-GW.
### 4.1.3 HNB Gateway (HNB-GW)
The HNB Gateway:
\- terminates Iuh from HNB and appears as an RNC to the Core network.
\- supports HNB registration and UE registration over Iuh.
\- may terminate TNL for the Iurh interface, in case Iurh connectivity via the
HNB-GW is deployed for at least one HNB or connectivity to an RNC via the HNB-
GW.
\- may support Fixed Broadband Access network interworking via S15 interface
towards PCRF for CS sessions as specified in TS23.139 [36].
### 4.1.4 HNB
The HNB:
\- offers the Uu Interface to the UE.
\- provides RAN connectivity using the Iuh and Iurh interfaces.
\- acts as RNS (details are captured in Table 4.2-1).
\- supports HNB registration and UE registration over Iuh.
\- In case of LIPA support or SIPTO at the Local Network with collocated L-GW
support, it supports the following additional functions:
\- transfer of the Gn/S5 IP address of the HNB over Iuh.
\- support of basic GGSN/P-GW functions in the collocated L-GW function by
support of the Gi/SGi interface corresponding to LIPA or SIPTO\@LN.
\- Support of use of the Correlation ID or SIPTO Correlation ID, respectively,
for correlation purposes between the collocated L-GW function and the HNB.
\- In case of Fixed Broadband Access network interworking support, it supports
transferring of Tunnel Information over Iu/Iuh as specified in TS 23.139 [36].
### 4.1.5 L-GW
The L-GW function within the HNB provides:
\- in Idle mode, support for sending the first packet to the SGSN/SGW and,
buffering of subsequent downlink packets.
\- support of internal direct user plane path towards the corresponding HNB
user plane functions.
\- deactivation of the Gn/S5 interface connection.
The mobility of the LIPA PDN connection is not supported in this Release of
the specification. The LIPA connection is always released with handover as
described in TS 23.060 [10].
The mobility of the SIPTO\@LN PDN connection is not supported in this Release
of the specification. The SIPTO\@LN PDN connection is always released after a
handover is performed, as described in TS 23.060 [10].
## 4.2 Functional split
The UTRAN functions in the HNB are supported by RANAP, whereas the HNB
specific functions are supported by the Home Node B Application Protocol
(HNBAP) between the HNB and the HNB-GW. The HNB-GW provides a concentration
function for the control plane and may provide a concentration function for
the user plane.
This sub-clause defines the functional split between the core network and the
UMTS radio access network. The functional split is shown in Table 4.2-1 and
4.2-2.
Table 4.2-1. Functional split for UTRAN function in the HNB access.
+------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Function | HNB | HNB-GW | CN | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | RAB management functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | RAB establishment, modification and | X | X ^Note\ 1^ | X | | release | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | RAB characteristics mapping I~u~ | X | X | | | transmission bearers | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | RAB characteristics mapping U~u~ bearers | X | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | RAB queuing, pre-emption and priority | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Radio Resource Management functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Radio Resource admission control | X | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Broadcast Information | X | X ^Note\ 2^ | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Iu link Management functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Iu signalling link management | X | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | ATM VC management | | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | AAL2 establish and release | | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | AAL5 management | | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | GTP-U Tunnels management | X | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | TCP Management | | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Buffer Management | X | X | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Iu U-plane (RNL) Management: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Iu U-plane frame protocol management | | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Iu U-plane frame protocol initialization | X | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Mobility management functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Location information reporting | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Handover and Relocation | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Inter RNC hard HO, Iur not used or not | X | X | X | | available | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Serving RNS Relocation (intra/inter MSC) | X | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Inter system hard HO (UMTS-GSM) | X | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Inter system Change (UMTS-GSM) | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Paging Triggering | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Paging Optimization | | X | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | GERAN System Information Retrieval | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Security Functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Data confidentiality | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Radio interface ciphering | X | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Ciphering key management | | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | User identity confidentiality | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Data integrity | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Integrity checking | X | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Integrity key management | | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Service and Network Access functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | CN Signalling data | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Data Volume Reporting | X | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | UE Tracing | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Location reporting | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Positioning | X | X | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Iu Co-ordination functions: | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Paging co-ordination | X | | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | NAS Node Selection Function | | X | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | MOCN Rerouting Function | | X | X | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | SIPTO at the Local Network with | X | | X | | Standalone GW | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+ | Note 1: This function could be needed | | | | | for TNL address translation in the | | | | | HNB-GW when there is no user plane | | | | | direct transport connection between HNB | | | | | and CN | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: HNB-GW is able to perform the | | | | | filtering of SABP messages i.e. | | | | | determines from the SAI list to which | | | | | HNB the SABP message needs to be sent | | | | | and then distributes the SABP messages | | | | | to the appropriate HNBs. This is an | | | | | optional function in HNB-GW. | | | | +------------------------------------------+-----+-------------+----+
Table 4.2-2. Functional split for HNB function in the HNB access.
+--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Function | HNB | HNB-GW | CN | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | HNB Registration ^Note\ 1^ | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | HNB Registration Function | X | X | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | HNB-GW Discovery Function | X | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | HNB de-registration Function | X | X | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | UE Registration for HNB ^Note\ 1^ | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | UE Registration Function for HNB | X | X | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | UE de-registration Function for HNB | X | X | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Iuh user-plane Management functions | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Iuh User plane transport bearer | X | X | | | handling | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Functions for multiplexing CS user | X | X | | | plane on the Uplink | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | **Traffic Offload Functions** | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | LIPA | X | | X | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | SIPTO at the Local Network with | X | | X | | Collocated L-GW | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | **Enhanced Interference Management** | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Mitigation of Interference from HNB | X | | | | to Macro | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | **UE Access Control / Membership | | | | | Verification** | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | IDLE mode | X^Note2^ | X | X | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Connected mode (inbound relocation | | X | X | | to HNB cells) | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | CSG ID validation | X | X | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | CSG Subscription Expiry | X | X | X | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | **Iurh Connectivity Functions** | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Iurh Establishment | X | X^Note\ 3^ | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Exchange of Iurh Connectivity data | X | X | | | for neighbour HNBs | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | **Fixed Broadband Access network | | | | | Interworking** | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | CS sessions | X | X | X | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | PS sessions | X | | X | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+ | Note 1: Protocol support for this | | | | | group of functions is provided by | | | | | the HNB Application Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: Access control or membership | | | | | verification at the HNB are | | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: If the HNB-GW is involved in | | | | | Iurh Establishment for Iurh | | | | | connectivity option 2, it acts only | | | | | as pure relay for this signalling. | | | | +--------------------------------------+----------+------------+----+
# 5 UTRAN functions for HNB access
## 5.1 UE Registration
### 5.1.1 General
**The UE Registration Function for HNB provides means for the HNB to convey UE
identification data to the HNB-GW in order to perform access control or
membership verification for the UE in the HNB-GW. The UE Registration also
informs the HNB-GW of the specific HNB where the UE is located.**
The following sections illustrate the case when the HNB registers a specific
UE with the HNB-GW. The registration is triggered when the UE attempts to
access the HNB via an initial NAS message (e.g.., Location Updating Request)
and there is no context in the HNB allocated for that UE.
### 5.1.2 UE Registration: case of non CSG UEs or non CSG HNBs
Figure 5.1.2-1: UE Registration for non CSG UEs or non CSG HNBs.
1\. Upon camping on the HNB, the UE initiates an initial NAS procedure (e.g.
LU Procedure) by establishing an RRC connection with the HNB. UE identity, UE
capabilities and Establishment Cause, are reported to the HNB as part of the
RRC Connection establishment procedure.
2\. The UE then transmits a RRC Initial Direct Transfer message carrying the
initial NAS message (e.g. Location Updating Request message) with some form of
UE identity.
3\. The HNB checks the UE capabilities provided in step 1, and if these
indicate that CSG is not supported, or the HNB itself does not support CSG,
and if the identity of the UE (provided during RRC Connection Establishment)
is unknown at the HNB being accessed, i.e. no Context id exists for the UE,
the HNB initiates UE registration towards the HNB-GW (step 5-7). Before
starting the UE Registration procedure, the HNB triggers the Identity request
procedure (step 3) asking the UE for its IMSI, unless that identity has been
provided during the RRC Connection Establishment or optionally if it is an
emergency call. If the HNB has a context id for the UE, the UE registration
procedure is not performed nor is the Identification procedure.
4\. The HNB may optionally perform access control or membership verification
based on the provided IMSI and the provided Allowed IMSI list. If the UE
requests emergency services it shall always be admitted to the cell.
5\. The HNB attempts to register the UE on the HNB-GW by transmitting the UE
REGISTER REQUEST. The message contains at a minimum:
**\- UE Identity** : a unique identity for the UE provided in step 1 or 3.
\- **UE Capabilities** : derived from that provided in step 1.
**\- Registration Cause** : the indication about a UE registration for an
emergency call.
NOTE: The UE Identity provided in the HNBAP UE REGISTER REQUEST message is
unauthenticated.
6\. The HNB-GW checks the UE capabilities and the Registration Cause. If the
UE capabilities indicate that CSG is not supported or if the HNB does not
support CSG, the HNB-GW shall perform access control or membership
verification for the particular UE attempting to utilize the specific HNB. If
the UE requests emergency services it shall always be admitted to the cell.
7\. If the HNB-GW accepts the UE registration attempt it shall allocate a
context-id for the UE and respond with an HNBAP UE REGISTER ACCEPT message,
including the context-id, to the HNB. For non-CSG UEs, the HNB-GW may also
include the CSG Membership Status in the HNBAP UE REGISTER ACCEPT message. If
the HNB-GW chooses not to accept the incoming UE registration request then the
HNB-GW shall respond with an HNBAP UE REGISTER REJECT message.
8\. The HNB then sends an RUA CONNECT message containing the RANAP Initial UE
message. If a L-GW function is deployed within the HNB the RANAP Initial UE
message includes the corresponding IP address for Gn/S5 signalling and user
data transport on the Gi interface.
9\. The reception of the RUA CONNECT message at the HNB-GW triggers the setup
of an SCCP connection by the HNB-GW towards the CN. The HNB-GW then forwards
the RANAP Initial UE Message to the CN.
10\. The CN responds with an SCCP Connection Confirm message.
10a. The HNB-GW shall additionally utilize a CN assisted method if available
(e.g. using IMSI provided in the COMMON ID message), to alleviate the security
risks associated with spoofing of IMSI and can subsequently trigger a UE
deregistration upon detection of such an event.
11\. The UE continues with the NAS procedure (e.g. Location Updating
procedure) towards the CN, via the HNB and the HNB-GW.
### 5.1.3 UE Registration: case of CSG UEs and CSG or Hybrid HNBs
This call flow assumes that the Core Network is able to perform access control
on the basis of Closed Subscriber Groups.
Figure 5.1.3-1: UE Registration for CSG UEs and CSG or Hybrid HNBs.
1\. Upon camping on the HNB, the UE initiates an initial NAS procedure (e.g.
LU Procedure) by establishing an RRC connection with the HNB. UE identity and
UE capabilities are reported to the HNB as part of the RRC Connection
establishment procedure.
2\. The UE then transmits a RRC Initial Direct Transfer message carrying the
initial NAS message (e.g. Location Updating Request message) with some form of
identity (e.g. IMSI or TMSI...).
3\. The HNB checks the UE capabilities provided in step 1, and if these
indicate that CSG is supported and if the identity of the UE (provided during
RRC Connection Establishment) is unknown at the HNB being accessed, i.e. no
Context id exist for the UE, the HNB initiates UE registration towards the
HNB-GW (steps 4-6). If the HNB has a context id for the UE, UE registration
procedure is not performed. No Identification procedure is triggered,
independent of the identity reported by the UE during the RRC Connection
Establishment.
4\. The HNB attempts to register the UE on the HNB-GW by transmitting the UE
REGISTER REQUEST. The message contains:
**\- UE Identity** : a unique identifier for the UE and provided in step 1.
\- **UE capabilities:** derived from that provided in step 1.
**\- Registration Cause** : the indication about a UE registration for an
emergency call.
NOTE: The UE Identity provided in the UE REGISTER message is unauthenticated.
5\. The HNB-GW checks UE capabilities and if these indicate that CSG is
supported and if the HNB supports CSG, the HNB-GW may accept the UE
registration and allocate a context-id for the UE.
6\. The HNB-GW responds with a UE REGISTER ACCEPT message back to the HNB
including a context-id allocated to the UE
7\. The HNB then sends a RUA CONNECT message containing the RANAP Initial UE
message. The RANAP Initial UE message may contain the Cell Access Mode. If a
L-GW function is deployed within the HNB, the RANAP Initial UE message
includes the corresponding IP address for Gn/S5 interface signalling and user
data transport on the Gi interface.
8\. The HNB-GW shall verify, for CSG HNBs, that the validity of the indicated
cell access mode and the CSG ID in the Initial UE message as specified in TS
33.320 [16]. The reception of the RUA CONNECT message at the HNB-GW triggers
the setup of an SCCP connection by the HNB-GW towards the CN. The HNB-GW then
forwards the Initial UE Message including the CSG id of the HNB.
9\. The CN responds with an SCCP Connection Confirm message.
10\. The CN may optionally perform Mobility Management procedures, e.g.
Authentication procedure.
11\. The CN performs access control (in case of CSG cells) or membership
verification (in case of Hybrid cells) of the UE.
12\. After being granted access the UE then continues with the NAS procedure
(e.g. Location Updating procedure) towards the CN, via the HNB and the HNB-GW.
During such procedures the CN may send to the HNB the UE membership status for
the accessed cell in the COMMON ID message.
### 5.1.4 HNB-GW triggered UE Registration
The following section describes the mechanism, which is used to manage UE
registration and associated context IDs for the scenarios based on HNB-GW
triggered setup of UE-associated Signalling Connection.
In this mechanism, the RUA Connect message is used for transporting the first
RANAP message resulting in network triggered setup of UE-associated Signalling
Connection (e.g. RANAP Relocation Request).
Figure 5.1.4-1: HNB-GW Triggered UE Registration.
The above call flow assumes that the HNB-GW receives a trigger for inbound
relocation for a UE (e.g. RANAP Relocation Request message from the CN) as
shown in step 0.
1\. The HNB-GW receives a RANAP message and determines the target HNB.
2\. The HNB-GW sends the RANAP message encapsulated in the RUA Connect message
to the target HNB. The RUA Connect Message may contain the _CSG Membership
Status_ IE.
3\. The HNB-GW and the target HNB perform an implicit registration (HNB-GW
establishes a UE specific Context Identifier to be used between the HNB and
the HNB-GW, i.e., either re-use the existing Context Identifier if already
present for the UE or otherwise allocate a new one) for the incoming UE
session. The HNB also allocates the appropriate resource for handling the
request in the RANAP message.
4\. The RANAP reply message from the HNB to the HNB-GW is encapsulated in the
RUA _Direct Transfer_ message.
In the case that the target HNB rejects the inbound relocation, the rejection
message (e.g., RANAP Relocation Failure) is carried by a RUA Disconnect
message, an implicit UE Deregistration takes place, and the resources
allocated for handing the request are released.
### 5.1.5 UE Registration: case of Open Access HNBs
Figure 5.1.5-1: UE Registration to open access HNBs.
1\. Upon camping on the HNB, the UE initiates an initial NAS procedure (e.g.
LU Procedure) by establishing an RRC connection with the HNB. UE identity and
UE capabilities are reported to the HNB as part of the RRC Connection
establishment procedure.
2\. The UE then transmits a RRC Initial Direct Transfer message carrying the
initial NAS message (e.g. Location Updating Request message) with some form of
identity (e.g. IMSI or TMSI).
3\. If the identity of the UE (provided during RRC Connection Establishment)
is unknown at the HNB being accessed, i.e. no Context id exist for the UE, the
HNB initiates UE registration towards the HNB-GW (steps 4-6). If the HNB has a
context id for the UE, UE registration procedure is not performed. No
Identification procedure is triggered, independent of the identity reported by
the UE during the RRC Connection Establishment.
4\. The HNB attempts to register the UE on the HNB-GW by transmitting the UE
REGISTER REQUEST. The message contains:
**\- UE Identity** : a unique identifier for the UE and provided in step 1.
\- **UE capabilities:** derived from that provided in step 1.
**\- Registration Cause** : the indication about a UE registration for an
emergency call.
NOTE: The UE Identity provided in the UE REGISTER message is unauthenticated.
5\. The HNB-GW may accept the UE registration and allocate a context-id for
the UE.
6\. The HNB-GW responds with a UE REGISTER ACCEPT message back to the HNB
including a context-id allocated to the UE.
7\. The HNB then sends a RUA CONNECT message containing the RANAP Initial UE
message.
8\. The reception of the RUA CONNECT message at the HNB-GW triggers the setup
of an SCCP connection by the HNB-GW towards the CN. The HNB-GW then forwards
the Initial UE Message to the Core Network.
9\. The CN responds with an SCCP Connection Confirm message.
10\. The CN may optionally perform Mobility Management procedures, e.g.
Authentication procedure.
11\. After being granted access the UE then continues with the NAS procedure
(e.g. Location Updating procedure) towards the CN, via the HNB and the HNB-GW.
## 5.2 HNB Registration
### 5.2.1 General
The following section illustrates the case when the HNB registers with the
HNB-GW. The HNB registration procedure serves the following purposes:
\- It informs the HNB-GW that a HNB is now available at a particular IP
address.
### 5.2.2 HNB Registration procedure
Figure 5.2.2-1: HNB Registration procedure.
1\. HNB initialization is performed to obtain HNB configuration from the HNB
Management System (HMS). Similarly, HNB-GW discovery is performed to obtain
the initial serving HNB-GW information.
**2\. The HNB establishes a secure tunnel to the SeGW of the serving HNB-GW.**
**NOTE:** This step may be omitted if the secure tunnel happens to be the same
tunnel that is already established to contact the HMS.
3\. The HNB sets up an SCTP transport session to the registered port on the
serving HNB-GW for Iuh.
4\. The HNB then attempts to register with the serving HNB-GW using an HNB
REGISTER REQUEST message. The message contains:
a. **HNB Location Information** : The HNB provides location information via
use of one or more of the following mechanisms:
i. Detected macro-cell coverage information (e.g. GERAN or UTRAN cell
information).
ii. Geographical co-ordinates (e.g. via use of GPS, etc).
iii. Internet connectivity information (e.g. IP address), provided, the
resulting location information is at least as accurate as location
determination based on macro-cell coverage information, whether or not there
is macro cell-coverage available at the location of the HNB (e.g. as
determined by point i above).
b. **HNB Identity** : the HNB has a globally unique and permanent identity.
c. **HNB Operating Parameters** : Such as the selected LAC, RAC, SAC, PLMN Id,
Cell Id, etc.
d. **HNB operating mode** (optional): HNB CSG-Id or access mode (open, closed
or hybrid).
e. **HNB\'s own IP address** for direct Iurh connectivity (if Iurh
connectivity is supported by the HNB).
f. **CELL_FACH mobility support** , if the HNB supports mobility for
CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH.
g. **Additional Neighbour Information** : The HNB may indicate additional
neighbour information necessary for CELL_FACH mobility. This additional
information may be used by HNB-GW to manage the assignment of S-RNTI prefixes.
5a. The HNB-GW may use the information from the HNB REGISTER REQUEST message
to check whether the HNB registration can be accepted (e.g. to check whether a
particular HNB is allowed to operate in a given location, etc). The HNB-GW
shall verify the HNB identity, the validity of the indicated cell access mode
and, for CSG cells, the CSG ID as specified in TS 33.320 [16]. If the HNB-GW
accepts the registration attempt it shall respond with a HNB REGISTER ACCEPT
message. If the HNB-GW has capability to de-multiplex, the HNB-GW may include
a mux port in the HNB REGISTER ACCEPT message. The HNB shall include the RNC-
ID provided by the HNB-GW within relevant RANAP messages in order to identify
the HNB-GW during mobility procedures and within RRC messages, where the RNC-
ID has to be contained within the most significant bits of the Cell
Identification and be part of the U-RNTI.
> In order to support CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH mobility, the S-RNTI Prefix
> value is sent to the HNB. The HNB that supports S-RNTI prefix assignment
> shall include the S-RNTI prefix in the most significant bits of S-RNTI part
> following the RNC ID bits in the U-RNTI.
>
> The HNB-GW may provide its IP address in order to allow the HNB to either
> establish Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW or to establish connectivity to
> an RNC via the HNB-GW.
>
> The HNB-GW ensures that the S-RNTI prefixes assigned to HNBs are unique
> within the URA Area/overlapping URA Areas. If supported, the HNB-GW may
> reuse the S-RNTI prefix across non overlapping areas.
5b. Alternatively, the HNB-GW may reject the registration request (e.g. due to
network congestion, blacklisted HNB, unauthorized HNB location, etc). In this
case, the HNB-GW shall respond with an HNB REGISTER REJECT indicating the
reject cause.
6\. If the HNB-GW had provided in the HNB REGISTER ACCEPT message the HNB-GW's
own IP address for Iurh connectivity via/to the HNB-GW, the HNB shall, if
supported, set up an SCTP transport session to the port registered for Iurh.
NOTE: The HNB shall start broadcasting only after successful registration with
the HNB-GW.
## 5.3 HNB-GW Discovery Function
### 5.3.1 General
The HNB-GW Discovery Function provides the means to determine the address of
the Serving HNB-GW for a particular HNB. The HNB uses the Serving HNB-GW
address to register with the Serving HNB-GW.
## 5.4 HNB de-registration Function
### 5.4.1 General
The HNB de-registration Function provides the means to terminate the HNB
operation. The HNB de-registration can be initiated by either the HNB or the
HNB-GW.
## 5.5 Iuh Disconnect
### 5.5.1 General
The following section illustrates the scenario where an UE-associated
signalling connection is released across the Iuh. In this scenario the HNB is
responsible for initiating the release of the UE-associated signalling
connection via the RUA disconnect message. The HNB-GW is then responsible for
co-ordinating the release of the UE-associated Iuh signalling connection with
the corresponding Iu connection, which is triggered by the CN.
### 5.5.2 Iuh Disconnect procedure
Figure 5.5.2-1: Iuh Disconnect procedure.
1\. Establish connection between UE and network. The related procedure is
described in subclause 5.1.
2\. CN sends a RANAP Release Iu connection command message to the HNB-GW.
3\. HNB-GW forwards this message to the relevant HNB.
4\. HNB triggers the release of the RRC connection to the UE. In this case a
single Iu connection had been established for the UE.
5\. HNB sends a Disconnect message to the HNB-GW to indicate that this is the
end of this particular UE-associated signalling connection and includes the
RANAP Release Iu Connection Complete message.
6\. HNB-GW forwards the RANAP message onto the CN.
7\. CN triggers the release of the associated SCCP connection.
8\. HNB-GW confirms that the SCCP connection is released.
9\. Optionally the HNB can de-register the UE context from the HNB-GW.
## 5.6 Paging Optimization Function
### 5.6.1 General
The paging optimization function provides the means to decrease the impact of
a paging load over Iuh (for example, via the use of knowledge about the UE
Registration or its CSG Id List in the PAGING message).
## 5.7 HNB to HNB Mobility
### 5.7.1 General
The following sub-sections describe the mechanism for handling the intra HNB-
GW mobility signalling via Iurh.
### 5.7.2 Connected mode mobility from one HNB to another HNB (Intra PLMN,
Intra HNB-GW, Intra CSG)
#### 5.7.2.1 C-Plane Handling
RNSAP Relocation utilises existing protocol functions specified for Enhanced
Relocation between non-CSG cells within TS 25.413 [9] and TS 25.423 [18].
Additional information from the Source HNB to the Target HNB is provided
within the RANAP Enhanced Relocation Information and the RANAP Relocation
Information procedures as specified in subclause 5.10.
Figure 5.7.2.1-1 below depicts the case where the UE is involved in the RNSAP
Relocation and the HNBs are directly Iurh-connected. In case of UE not being
involved, an Iurh signalling connection (i.e. RNA signalling resources)
already exists between the involved HNBs which can be utilised for RNSAP
signalling. In case of Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW, RNA signalling
terminates at the HNB-GW, whereas RNSAP signalling is still performed peer-to-
peer.
Figure 5.7.2.1-1: HNB to HNB Handover via Iurh interface -- UE involved.
1\. The Source HNB evaluates the UE's access rights against the available
neighbour information. If the UE has access rights for the Target HNB the
Source HNB may decide to send an RNA:CONNECT message (or an RNA:DIRECT
TRANSFER message if already in SHO) containing an RNSAP:ENHANCED RELOCATION
REQUEST message to the Target HNB to prepare the Target HNB for relocation.
2\. The Target HNB updates the transport network layer information for any
RABs that are to be relocated to it by sending an HNBAP:TNL UPDATE REQUEST
message to the HNB-GW, the HNB-GW responds with an HNBAP:TNL UPDATE RESPONSE.
3\. The Target HNB sends an RNA:DIRECT TRANSFER message containing an
RNSAP:ENHANCED RELOCATION RESPONSE message back to the Source HNB to indicate
that it has successfully prepared the relocation.
4\. The Source HNB sends an RNA:DIRECT TRANSFER message containing an
RNSAP:RELOCATION COMMIT message, to commit the relocation preparation on the
Target HNB. This message includes information to aid the relocation procedure,
these are described in subclause 5.10.
5\. The Source HNB reconfigures the UE to commence the relocation procedure.
6\. At some point later Layer 1 synchronisation is achieved between the UE and
the Target HNB. The UE then completes the RRC Reconfiguration procedure by
sending an RRC:RADIO BEARER RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE message to the Target
HNB.
7\. The Target HNB indicates to the HNB-GW that the UE has successfully
relocated via the HNBAP:UE RELOCATION COMPLETE message. The HNB-GW also
switches the U-plane to the Target HNB.
8\. The Target HNB initiates the RAB Release Request Procedure to the CN to
release unaccepted RABs, if any, with an appropriate cause value.
9\. The HNB-GW sends the HNBAP:UE-DEREGISTER to the Source HNB indicating
Successful RNSAP Relocation with an appropriate cause value.
10\. The Source HNB sends an RNA:DISCONNECT message containing an
RNSAP:ENHANCED RELOCATION SIGNALLING TRANSFER message to the Target HNB to
transfer any L3 information that the Source HNB may have received during the
relocation procedure and locally releases any resources it has for the UE.
NOTE: If the involved HNBs are Iurh connected via the HNB-GW, the RNA messages
are routed via the HNB-GW.
#### 5.7.2.2 User Plane Handling
In order to keep the CN unaware of any Intra-GW mobility for RABs operating in
support mode (see TS 25.415 [17]), which would normally need an Iu-UP
initialization procedure during relocation, the respective user plane
configuration (RFCIs, etc.) has to be transferred to the Target HNB without
actually carrying out the Iu-UP Initialisation procedure towards its peer
node. Special handling of related control and user data frame sequence numbers
has to be applied.
In order to avoid problems with Iu-UP version interworking, the Target HNB
shall support at least the same versions of Iu UP and rate parameters used by
the Source HNB.
In order to allow seamless Iu-UP operation from a CN perspective,
\- the Source HNB:
\- shall provide the Target HNB within RANAP ENHANCED RELOCATION INFORMATION
REQUEST message with
\- CS IuUP control information needed to allocate IuUP instances for those
RABs operated in support mode.
\- the latest CS Iu-UP user-data frame-numbers for UL and DL for all CS RABs
operated in support mode for which user data frame numbering is based on time
together with the time-difference between UL and DL packets as received/sent
on the source side.
\- shall provide the Target HNB within RANAP RELOCATION INFORMATION message
(encapsulated within the RNSAP message RELOCATION COMMIT) with
\- CS IuUP control information needed to allocate IuUP instances for those
RABs operated in support mode, if the IuUP configuration of the RABs has
changed.
\- the latest CS Iu-UP control-data frame-numbers for UL and DL for all CS
RABs operated in support mode.
\- the latest CS Iu-UP user-data frame-numbers for UL and DL for all CS RABs
operated in support mode for which user data frame numbering is based on time
together with the time-difference between UL and DL packets as received/sent
on the source side.
\- the last sent DL and last received and forwarded UL user-data frame number
for those CS RABs for which user-data frame-numbering is based on sent Iu UP
PDU.
\- the latest PS Iu-UP user-data frame-numbers for UL and DL for all
applicable PS RABs.
\- may start to forward user plane packets towards the Target-HNB for those
RABs for which it has decided to perform data forwarding, when triggering the
execution of the RNSAP Relocation (exact sequence of actions is implementation
specific).
\- not initiate any Iu-UP procedure and ignore incoming Iu-UP control frames,
after having sent the RNSAP message RELOCATION COMMIT.
\- the Target-HNB shall
\- after having received the RANAP ENHANCED RELOCATION INFORMATION REQUEST
message
\- use the information provided by the Source HNB to establish Iu-UP instances
for receiving user Iu-UP frames from the Source HNB and may use the
information of the last CS Iu-UP UL/DL user-data frame number as received from
the source together with received DL user-data frames to re-install the timing
and frame-numbering for UL/DL user-data frames once the first DL user data
packet is received from the Source HNB.
\- use the information provided by the Source HNB to establish Iu-UP
instances.
\- for each CS RAB operated in support mode, use the information of the last
CS Iu-UP UL/DL user-data frame number as received from the source together
with received DL user-data frames to re-install the timing and frame-numbering
for UL/DL user-data frames once the first DL user data packet is received
\- not initiate any Iu-UP procedure and ignore incoming Iu-UP control frames.
\- after having received the HNBAP: TNL UPDATE RESPONSE message from the HNB-
GW
\- use the information provided by the Source HNB to establish Iu-UP instances
for receiving user Iu-UP frames from the HNB-GW and use the information of the
last CS Iu-UP UL/DL user-data frame number as received from the source
together with received DL user-data frames to re-install the timing and frame-
numbering for UL/DL user-data frames once the first DL user data packet is
received from the HNB-GW.
\- not initiate any Iu-UP procedure and ignore incoming Iu-UP control frames.
\- after having received the RNSAP message RELOCATION COMMIT
\- use the information of the last CS Iu-UP UL control-data frame number as
received from the Source HNB for the next to be sent UL control-data frame.
\- ignore any loss of DL control frames and start respective error handling
after the first received DL control frame.
\- use the information of the last CS Iu-UP UL/DL user-data frame number as
received from the source together with received DL user-data frames to re-
adjust the timing and frame-numbering for UL/DL user-data frames, if
necessary.
\- start Iu-UP procedures as necessary (e.g. downlink rate control (due to
e.g. local congestion), Iu Time Alignment).
\- the HNB-GW shall
\- after receipt of the HNBAP:RELOCATION COMPLETE message
\- switch the TNL part of the UP completly towards the Target HNB.
### 5.7.3 Soft Handover Initiation
Figure 5.7.3-1 below depicts Soft Handover Initiation in case HNBs are
directly Iurh-connected. In case of Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW, RNA
signalling terminates at the HNB-GW, whereas RNSAP signalling is still
performed on a HNB-to-HNB basis.
Figure 5.7.3-1: Soft Handover Initiation HNB to HNB.
1\. The Serving HNB (SHNB) receives an RRC measurement report indicating that
Soft handover is possible and the SHNB decides to setup a RL to the Drift HNB
(DHNB).
2\. The SHNB evaluates the UE's access rights against neighbour information
available from the HNB Configuration Transfer function. If the UE has access
rights for the DHNB, the SHNB may decide to setup a new RL and send an
RNA:CONNECT message containing an RNSAP:RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message to
the DHNB to set up a radio link at the DHNB.
3\. The DHNB starts receiving from the UE and sends an RNSAP: RADIO LINK SETUP
RESPONSE message.
4\. When the radio link is established on the DHNB, the DHNB sends an RNSAP:
RADIO LINK RESTORE INDICATION message.
5\. The SHNB sends an RRC Active Set Update to the UE
6\. The SHNB receives an RRC Active Set Update Complete from the UE.
### 5.7.4 Mobility Access Control
#### 5.7.4.1 Limitations
The current version of the specification allows RNSAP relocation and SHO via
Iurh only for the following scenarios:
\- Intra-PLMN Intra-CSG Closed access cell to Closed access cell mobility
\- Intra-PLMN Intra-CSG Hybrid access cell to Hybrid access cell mobility
\- Open access cell to Open access cell mobility.
### 5.7.5 CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH Iurh based mobility (Intra-GW)
Figure 5.7.5-1 below reports the message flow in case of
CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH mobility across HNBs.
Figure 5.7.5-1: HNB to HNB CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH mobility
1\. At initial RRC Connection Setup, the Source HNB assigns to the UE a U-RNTI
value based on the S-RNTI-prefix previously assigned to the HNB by the HNB-GW.
2\. Subsequently, when the UE performs Cell or URA Reselection to the target
HNB, it sends an RRC: Cell Update message (in case of CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH)
or an RRC: URA Update message (in case of URA_PCH) containing the U-RNTI value
previously assigned by the Source HNB.
3\. Based on the received U-RNTI, the Target HNB detects the UE is reselecting
from one of its neighbour HNBs.
If, based on the received U-RNTI, the Target HNB cannot detect from which HNB
the UE is reselecting from,
3a. it may trigger a query towards the HNB-GW for the U-RNTI and subsequently,
if both HNBs support CELL_FACH mobility, establish an Iurh interface with the
source HNB;
3b. alternatively, it may terminate the mobility procedure, re-establish the
RRC connection for the UE and skip the subsequent steps.
4\. The target HNB forwards the received RRC Cell/URA update message via a
RNSAP Uplink Signalling Transfer Indication message encapsulated in a RNA
CONNECT message to the source HNB.
5\. The source HNB may now execute the SRNS Relocation/Enhanced SRNS
Relocation procedure towards the target HNB to transfer the UE context or
initialise the UE context in the target HNB via RNSAP Common Transport Channel
Resources Initialisation procedure.
6\. The Target HNB sends to the UE an RRC: Cell Update Confirm message (in
case of CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH) or an RRC: URA Update Confirm message (in case
of URA_PCH) to terminate the mobility procedure. Such message includes a new
U-RNTI value, this time assigned by the Target HNB. If the SRNS relocation
procedure is not used, the RRC: Cell Update Confirm message (in case of
CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH) or the RRC: URA Update Confirm message (in case of
URA_PCH) is sent by the serving HNB.
## 5.8 HNB Configuration Transfer
The HNB Configuration Transfer function provides the means to inform the HNB-
GW to provide HNBs with address information of neighbour HNBs in order to
enable the establishment of Iurh connection. The neighbour list is maintained
in the HNB via interaction with the HMS. The HNB uses the IP addresses
received from the HNB-GW to connect to neighbour HNBs over Iurh. If the
requested HNB supports S-RNTI prefix assignment, the HNB-GW shall, if
supported, also inform the HNB of the S-RNTI prefix values of the neighbour
HNBs supporting CELL_FACH mobility along with their IP address information. If
URAs are indicated at registration by the HNB, the HNB-GW may respond with the
list of HNBs belonging to those URAs along with their S-RNTI prefixes and IP
address information.
The procedure for HNB Configuration Transfer is shown in Figure 5.8-1.
Figure 5.8-1: HNB Configuration Transfer.
0\. HNB~1~ has already switched to operational mode, has registered at the
HNB-GW and is connected to HNBs within its reach.
1\. HNB~2~ switches to operational mode.
2\. HNB~2~ registers at the HNB-GW successfully and provides its IP address
for direct Iurh connectivity.
3\. HNB~1~ identifies a change in its neighbour list, from e.g. detecting
HNB~2~ or via HMS.
4\. HNB~1~ requests the IP addresses of the Target HNB(s) by sending HNBAP HNB
Configuration Transfer Request to the HNB-GW.
5\. The HNB-GW responds with a HNB Configuration Transfer Response message to
the source HNB providing for each neighbour HNB requested
\- either Iurh signalling TNL IP address information indicating the IP address
to which the HNB shall setup an Iurh signalling connection and other
information
\- or a reason why respective information cannot be provided.
6\. The HNB~1~ sets up an Iurh connection towards HNB~2~. If direct Iurh
connectivity is applied, HNB~1~ has to establish a reliable transport session
before issuing the RNA:Iurh Setup procedure.
If the HNB-GW includes a list of Iurh signalling TNL addresses in the HNBAP
HNB: CONFIGURATION TRANSFER RESPONSE message, the HNB establishes Iurh
connection using the addresses provided in an ordered manner starting with the
first entry of the list.
## 5.9 Iurh Setup
### 5.9.1 General
The purpose of this procedure is to setup an Iurh connection between two HNBs
or between a HNB and a HNB-GW for HNB-RNC connectivity, and ensure that they
have the necessary information for operation.
### 5.9.2 Iurh Setup for direct Iurh connectivity between HNBs
Figure 5.9.2-1: Procedure for Iurh Setup - direct Iurh connectivity.
The purpose of this procedure is to establish Iurh connectivity between two
HNBs and ensure that the application level information is available to the two
HNBs to interoperate correctly.
1\. The HNB sets up an SCTP transport session, if required.
2\. HNB~1~ sends an RNA:IURH SETUP REQUEST to HNB~2~.
3 If HNB~2~ does not have configuration information on HNB~1~, it triggers a
request for the configuration information on HNB~1~ from the HNB-GW.
4\. HNB~2~ responds to HNB~1~.
### 5.9.3 Iurh Setup for Iurh connectivity between HNBs via the HNB-GW
Figure 5.9.3-1: Procedure for Iurh Setup-Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW.
The purpose of this procedure is to establish Iurh connectivity between two
HNBs via the HNB-GW and ensure that the application level information is
available to the two HNBs to interoperate correctly.
1\. HNB~1~ and HNB~2~ have set up an SCTP transport session towards the HNB-GW
at HNB Registration if they both support Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW and
where triggered by the HNB-GW to establish a transport session to it during
HNB Registration.
2\. HNB~1~ provides within the RNA:IURH SETUP REQUEST message information
which enables the HNB-GW to route the message to the HNB~2~ and to enable the
HNB~2~ to reply via the HNB-GW.
3 If HNB~2~ does not have configuration information on HNB~1~, it triggers a
request for the configuration information on HNB~1~ from the HNB-GW.
4\. HNB~2~ responds with a RNA:IURH SETUP RESPONSE to HNB~2~ via the HNB-GW.
### 5.9.4 Iurh Setup between the HNB and the HNB-GW for HNB-RNC connectivity
Figure 5.9.4-1: Procedure for Iurh Setup - Iurh connectivity between the HNB
and the HNB-GW for HNB-RNC connectivity.
The purpose of this procedure is to establish Iurh connectivity between the
HNB and the HNB-GW for connectivity between the HNB and the RNC and ensure
that the peer RNC is available through the Iurh interface between the HNB and
the HNB-GW.
0\. An Iur interface instance is established between the RNC and the HNB-GW.
1\. At HNB Registration the HNB has set up an SCTP transport session towards
the HNB-GW.
2\. HNB sends an RNA:IURH SETUP REQUEST to the HNB-GW to establish the
connectivity towards the RNC via the HNB-GW. The RNC ID included in the RNA
message identifies the peer RNC.
3\. HNB-GW responds with an RNA:IURH SETUP RESPONSE to HNB if the Iur
interface between the HNB-GW and the peer RNC is available.
## 5.10 Handling of Source information transfer to Target
In order to maintain the continuity of UE support during RNSAP Relocation,
information must be transferred from the Source HNB to the Target HNB. RAB
related information to ensure that continuity of User Plane and RAB
establishment and other non-RAB related information is transferred in the
RELOCATION COMMIT message.
### 5.10.1 RAB Related Parameters
#### 5.10.1.1 User Plane
During RNSAP Relocation preparation phase, information is provided to the
Target HNB in order to allow forwarding of user data. For each CS RAB operated
in support mode (see TS 25.415 [17] for the definition of "support mode") IuUP
protocol data is provided to establish a respective IuUP instance at the
Target HNB in a way that the CN is unaware of the RNSAP Relocation.
During the RNSAP Relocation execution phase, for each CS RAB operated in
support mode, final counters of IuUP user data and control data frames are
provided.
The behaviour of all involved nodes (Source HNB, Target HNB, HNB-GW) is fully
specified in subclause 5.7.2.2.
#### 5.10.1.2 Other parameters
During Relocation Commit the following information is transferred from the
Source HNB to the Target HNB to maintain valid data volume reports.
RAB Data Volume Information, The unsuccessful data report transferred to the
target to be accumulated at the target for the final Data Volume report on RAB
release.
### 5.10.2 Non-RAB Related Parameters
During Relocation Commit the following information is transferred from the
Source HNB to the Target HNB to continue non-RAB related functionality
triggered at the Source HNB:
\- Location Reporting parameters are transferred to the Target HNB to ensure
continuity of Location Reporting.
\- Trace Information parameters are transferred to the Target HNB to ensure
continuity of Trace operations.
\- The Service Area ID of the source cell is transferred to the target to
enable the Target HNB to detect a change of service area and report this in
the Location Reporting procedures.
## 5.8a CS user plane multiplexing
If the HNB-GW had signalled on the HNB REGISTER ACCEPT a mux port and if the
HNB has capability to support CS user plane multiplexing, the HNB may send the
multiplexed packets to the mux port at the HNB-GW.
The HNB, for the same UE, shall not send multiplexed packets over multiple
ports. i.e., once the HNB chooses to multiplex CS user plane packets for a
given UE on the uplink, it shall send those multiplexed packets only to the
assigned mux port on the HNB-GW. For those UEs whose CS user plane packets are
not being multiplexed, the HNB shall send packets only to the port number
assigned via RAB assignment request.
When the HNB-GW receives multiplexed packet, it shall de-multiplex before
sending them to the CN.
## 5.9a Inbound Mobility to HNB
### 5.9.1a General
The following sub-sections describe the mechanism for handling the inbound
mobility to HNB via the Iu and Iuh interfaces. This mechanism is also
applicable to the handover between HNBs under the same HNB-GW.
### 5.9.2a Connected Mode Inbound Mobility for CSG UEs to CSG HNBs or to
Hybrid Cells
The following figure and accompanying steps describe the inbound mobility
procedure for CSG UEs from Rel-9 onwards when the Source RAN supplies to the
Core Network a CSG id associated with the target HNB. The following is
assumed:
\- UE is CSG capable from Rel-9 onwards and SIB-reading capable.
\- UE is able to provide in the RRC measurement report the cell identity and
the CSG-Id (if requested) of the target HNB.
\- The Source RAN is able to determine the Cell Access Mode of the target HNB.
NOTE: It is assumed that the network knows whether the target cell is a hybrid
cell, e.g. by PSC range for hybrid cells.
\- The Source RAN is able to determine the necessary information of the target
HNB for which mobility is possible.
NOTE: It is assumed that the network knows the PLMN ID, LAC, RAC and RNC ID of
such possible target cell, e.g. a possible implementation may be based on PSC
ranges or based on location information of the macro-cell.
\- The Core network is CSG capable from Rel-9 onwards and is able to perform
access control or membership verification for relocated CSG UE.
\- The HNB-GW is able to route the incoming relocation to the appropriate
target HNB using the target cell identity provided in RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST
(i.e. Target Cell Id is unique for a HNB in a given HNB-GW).
Figure 5.9.2a-1: Connected Mode inbound mobility for CSG UEs to CSG HNB or
Hybrid Cell.
1\. The UE is triggered to send an RRC Measurement Report by the rules set by
the UTRAN. The Measurement Report includes the Cell Identity, CSG id (if
requested) of the target HNB as in TS 25.331 [25]. If the target cell is a
shared CSG/hybrid cell, the measurement report also includes the subset of the
broadcast PLMN identities that pass PLMN ID check and for which the CSG
whitelist of the UE includes an entry comprising the cell\'s CSG ID and the
respective PLMN identity.
2\. The Source RAN node makes a decision to relocate the UE session.
3\. The source RAN triggers relocation of the UE session by sending the RANAP
RELOCATION REQUIRED message to the Core Network. The target RNC-Id, CSG id,
Target Cell Id and -- for relocation to a hybrid cell -- Cell Access Mode
information along with relocation information are included by the source RAN
in the RANAP RELOCATION REQUIRED message.
4\. If the target cell is a CSG HNB, the Core Network performs access control
on the basis of the CSG ID associated with the target cell and the selected
PLMN ID, as reported to the Core Network (TS 25.413 [9]). Otherwise (if the
target is a Hybrid Cell), the Core Network performs membership verification
and fills the _CSG Membership Status_ IE in step 5 to reflect the UE's
membership to the target cell. If the Core Network determines that this
relocation is for an emergency call then it will allow inbound mobility to CSG
cells even if the access control fails and, in case of access control failure,
the Core Network sets the _CSG Membership Status_ IE to the value "non-member"
in step 5.
5\. The HNB-GW receives a RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST message from the Core
Network, including the CSG id, Target Cell Id and -- for relocation to a
hybrid cell -- CSG Membership Status. For cases where the access control
failed for relocation of one or more RABs with a particular ARP value (see TS
23.060 [10]) to a hybrid or to a CSG cell the _CSG Membership Status_ IE shall
be included and set to "non-member".
6\. The steps for HNB-GW Triggered UE Registration are executed between the
HNB-GW and the HNB. The HNB-GW/HNB validates the CSG id received in the RANAP
RELOCATION REQUEST message. If the CSG HNB determines that this relocation is
for one or more RABs with a particular ARP value (see TS 23.060 [10]) and CSG
ID validation fails and/or UE is non member then it will accept only those
RABs with a particular ARP value (see TS 23.060 [10]) and fail the others.
7\. The remainder of the relocation procedure continues normally as documented
in TS 25.413 [9], TS 23.060 [10]
NOTE: Steps 2 to 7, as appropriate, are repeated for the second CN domain when
present with the following exceptions. The relocation of the 2^nd^ domain
shall not trigger an additional registration. The 2^nd^ RANAP Relocation
Request shall be carried as RUA Direct Transfer. There is only one Context Id
assigned to the UE regardless of the number of domains relocated from the
source RAN.
### 5.9.3a Connected Mode Inbound Mobility for non-CSG UEs to CSG HNBs or to
Hybrid Cells
The following figure and accompanying steps describe the inbound mobility
procedure for non-CSG UEs, when the Source RAN is able to identify the target
HNB. The following is assumed:
\- UE is non-CSG capable not able to read SIBs for CSG inbound mobility
purposes.
\- The HNB-GW is able to perform access control or membership verification for
the UE
\- The HNB-GW is able to route the incoming relocation to the appropriate
target HNB.
Figure 5.9.3a-1: Connected Mode inbound mobility for non-CSG UEs to CSG HNB or
Hybrid Cell.
1\. The UE is triggered to send an RRC Measurement Report by the rules set by
the UTRAN as in TS 25.331[25].
2\. The Source RAN node makes a decision to relocate the UE session.
3\. The source RAN triggers relocation of the UE session by sending the RANAP
RELOCATION REQUIRED message to the Core Network. The target RNC-Id and Target
Cell Id are included by the source RAN in the RANAP RELOCATION REQUIRED
message. The source RAN shall not include target CSG ID and the Cell Access
Mode in the RELOCATION REQUIRED message.
4\. The Core Network shall not perform any access control or membership
verification for the UE and it shall not include target CSG ID and CSG
Membership Status in the RELOCATION REQUEST message.
5\. The HNB-GW receives a RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST message not including the
target CSG ID and the CSG Membership Status. The HNB-GW shall perform access
control (in case of CSG cells) or membership verification (in case of Hybrid
cells) for the UE. If the relocation is towards a hybrid cell the HNB-GW may
include the CSG Membership Status in the RUA Connect message. If the HNB-GW
determines that this relocation is for one or more RABs with a particular ARP
value (see TS 23.060 [10]) then it will allow inbound mobility to CSG cells
even if the access control fails and, in case of access control failure, the
HNB-GW sets the _CSG Membership Status_ IE to the value "non-member" in the
RUA Connect message.
6\. The steps for HNB-GW Triggered UE Registration are executed between the
HNB-GW and the HNB. If the CSG HNB determines that this relocation is for one
or more RABs with a particular ARP value (see TS 23.060 [10]) and the UE is
non member then it will accept only those RABs with a particular ARP value
(see TS 23.060 [10]) and ensure that the others are not continued in the
target cell.
7\. The remainder of the relocation procedure continues normally as documented
in TS 25.413 [9], TS 23.060 [10].
NOTEÂ­: Steps 2 to 7, as appropriate, are repeated for the second CN domain
when present with the following exceptions. The relocation of the 2^nd^ domain
shall not trigger an additional registration. The 2^nd^ RANAP Relocation
Request shall be carried as RUA Direct Transfer. There is only one Context Id
assigned to the UE regardless of the number of domains relocated from the
source RAN.
### 5.9.4a Connected Mode Inbound Mobility to open access HNBs
The following figure and accompanying steps describe the inbound mobility
procedure when the Source RAN is able to identify the target HNB. The
following is assumed:
â— The HNB-GW is able to route the incoming relocation to the appropriate
target HNB.
Figure 5.9.4a-1: Connected Mode inbound mobility to open access HNBs.
1\. The UE is triggered to send an RRC Measurement Report by the rules set by
the UTRAN as in TS 25.331[25].
2\. The Source RAN node makes a decision to relocate the UE session.
3\. The source RAN triggers relocation of the UE session by sending the RANAP
RELOCATION REQUIRED message to the Core Network. The target RNC-Id and Target
Cell Id are included by the source RAN in the RANAP RELOCATION REQUIRED
message. The source RAN shall not include target CSG ID and the Cell Access
Mode in the RELOCATION REQUIRED message.
4\. The Core Network shall not perform any access control or membership
verification for the UE and it shall not include target CSG ID and CSG
Membership Status in the RELOCATION REQUEST message.
5\. The HNB-GW receives a RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST message not including the
target CSG ID and the CSG Membership Status.
6\. The steps for HNB-GW Triggered UE Registration are executed between the
HNB-GW and the HNB.
7\. The remainder of the relocation procedure continues normally as documented
in TS 25.413 [9], TS 23.060 [10]
NOTE: Steps 2 to 7, as appropriate, are repeated for the second CN domain when
present with the following exceptions. The relocation of the 2^nd^ domain
shall not trigger an additional registration. The 2^nd^ RANAP Relocation
Request shall be carried as RUA Direct Transfer. There is only one Context Id
assigned to the UE regardless of the number of domains relocated from the
source RAN.
## 5.10a CSG Subscription Expiry
Case of CSG UEs:
If the CN has signalled CSG membership update to the HNB:
\- If the UE is served by a CSG cell, and is no longer a member of the CSG
cell, the HNB may initiate a handover to another cell. If the UE is not handed
over, or handover is not initiated, the HNB should request the release of Iu
connection (s) with an appropriate cause. The CN initiates Iu release after a
configurable time, if the UE is not handed over or released by the CSG cell
(TS 23.060 [10]).
\- If the UE is served by a Hybrid cell, the HNB may use the new membership
information to perform differentiated treatment for member and non-member UEs.
Case of non-CSG UEs:
If the HNB-GW has signalled CSG membership update to the HNB:
\- If the UE is served by a CSG cell, and is no longer a member of the CSG
cell, the HNB may initiate a handover to another cell. If the UE is not handed
over, or handover is not initiated, the HNB should request the release of Iu
connection (s) with an appropriate cause. The HNB-GW shall initiate UE De-
Registration after a configurable time, if the UE is not handed over or
released by the serving HNB.
\- If the UE is served by a Hybrid cell, the HNB may use the new membership
information to perform differentiated treatment for member and non-member UEs.
## 5.11 Connectivity between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW for RNSAP signalling
### 5.11.1 General
The following sub-sections describe the mechanism for handling Enhanced
Relocation and Soft Handover between RNC and HNB via the HNB-GW.
### 5.11.2 Enhanced Relocation between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW
#### 5.11.2.1 Enhanced Relocation from Open Access and Hybrid HNBs to RNC
The mobility procedure described in Figure 5.11.2.1-1 requires the HNB-GW to
route the incoming Enhanced Relocation signalling from the Source HNB to the
appropriate Target RNC indicated by an RNC-ID provided within the RNA:CONNECT
message.
Figure 5.11.2.1-1: Enhanced Relocation from Open Access and Hybrid HNBs to
RNC.
0-9. The RNSAP signalling for preparing and executing the relocation between
the HNB and the RNC follows the standardised Enhanced SRNS Relocation
procedure as defined between two RNCs (see TS 23.060 [10]).
10-13. After the UE has completed RRC signalling for the relocation, the
RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST message is sent from the Target
RNC to the MSC/SGSN. The MSC/SGSN replies with a RANAP: ENHANCED RELCOATION
COMPLETE RESPONSE message. In case of CS domain, the target RNC sends RANAP
Enhanced Relocation Complete Confirm message to the MSC after completion of UP
initialization.
14-17. Subsequently the CN initiates Iu Release procedure to release the
source-side Iu(h) resources.
#### 5.11.2.2 Enhanced Relocation from RNC to Open Access HNBs for CSG UEs
The mobility procedure described in Figure 5.11.2.2-1 requires the following:
\- The Source RNC is able to determine the target HNB and its Cell Access Mode
based on UE measurements.
NOTE: It is assumed that the source RNC has a priori knowledge whether the
target cell is an open mode cell or not, e.g., via the PSC range configured
for open cells in this part of the network
\- The HNB-GW is able to route the incoming Enhanced Relocation signalling
from the Source RNC to the appropriate target HNB using the target cell
identity provided in RNSAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION REQUEST.
Figure 5.11.2.2-1: Enhanced Relocation from RNC to Open Access HNB for CSG
UEs.
0-9. The RNSAP signalling for preparing and executing the relocation between
the RNC and the HNB follows the standardised Enhanced SRNS Relocation
procedure as defined between two RNCs (see TS 23.060 [10]).
10-12. After the UE has completed RRC signalling for the relocation, the
RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST message is sent from target HNB to
HNB GW (via Iuh) and forwarded from HNB GW to MSC/SGSN (via Iu).
13-14. After the reception of RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST the
MSC/SGSN replies with RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE RESPONSE. The HNB-GW
forwards this message to the target HNB (via Iuh).
15-16. In case of CS domain, the target HNB sends RANAP Enhanced Relocation
Complete Confirm message to the MSC after completion of UP initialization.
17-18. The MSC/SGSN mandates the RNC to release the former Iu resources.
#### 5.11.2.3 Enhanced Relocation from RNC to Hybrid HNB for CSG UEs
The mobility procedure described in Figure 5.11.2.3-1 requires the following:
\- The UE is CSG capable from Rel-9 onwards and SIB-reading capable.
\- The Source RNC is able to determine the Cell Access Mode of the target HNB.
NOTE: It is assumed that the source RNC is able to initiate and interpret
respective UE measurements and may in addition have an a priori knowledge
whether the target cell is a hybrid cell, e.g., via the PSC range configured
for hybrid cells in this part of the network.
\- The HNB-GW is able to route the incoming Enhanced Relocation signalling
from the Source RNC to the appropriate target HNB using the target cell
identity provided in RNSAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION REQUEST.
Figure 5.11.2.3-1: Enhanced Relocation from RNC to Hybrid HNB for CSG UEs.
0-9. RNSAP Signalling for preparing and executing the relocation between the
RNC and the HNB follows the currently standardised Enhanced SRNS Relocation
procedure as defined between two RNCs (See TS 23.060 [10]).
10-11. Upon successful relocation preparation and RRC signalling completion,
the UE is temporarily admitted in the target hybrid cell according to the
access status declared by the UE and provided by the Source RNC to the Target
HNB within the _CSG Membership Status_ IE included in the RNSAP: ENHANCED
RELOCATION REQUEST message. The UE may be admitted as its reported CSG
membership status until the outcomes of membership verification are received
from CN.
12-13. The RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST message is sent from
target HNB to HNB GW (via Iuh) and forwarded from HNB GW to MSC/SGSN (via Iu).
The RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST includes _CSG ID_ IE and _Cell
Access Mode_ IE of the target cell.
14-16. After reception of RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST the
MSC/SGSN performs membership verification of the relocated UE according to
_CSG ID_ IE and _Cell Access Mode_ IE received. The MSC/SGSN replies to the
HNB GW with RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE RESPONSE containing the _CSG
Membership Status_ IE. The RANAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE RESPONSE
message is forwarded from HNB GW to target HNB (via Iuh). The target HNB may
apply the appropriate level of prioritisation to the UE according to the _CSG
Membership Status_ IE received.
17-18. In case of CS domain, the target HNB sends RANAP Enhanced Relocation
Complete Confirm message to the MSC after completion of UP initialization.
19-20. The MSC/SGSN requests the RNC to release the source-side Iu resources.
### 5.11.3 Soft Handover between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW
#### 5.11.3.1 Soft Handover from HNB to RNC
Mobility from HNB cells (hybrid or open access) to macro RNC using Soft
Handover (SHO) follows the same principles as mobility between macro cells and
uses an Iur interface established between HNB and macro RNC via the HNB-GW to
support RNSAP signalling.
The HNB-GW acts as a single RNC towards the macro RNC (as it does towards the
CN) and therefore acts as a concentrator for HNB-RNC connectivity via the HNB-
GW.
For this case there is no involvement of the CN in the SHO operations, as
there is no access control/membership verification needed for SHO to a macro
RNC.
The HNB acts as a SRNC and requests resources from the macro RNC, however this
may happen only in case of HNBs deployed in a secure and operator controlled
way (coordinated deployment) and, in this case, it is managed by the CAC of
the DRNC.
Figure 5.11.3.1-1 shows the sequence of messages involved.
Figure 5.11.3.1-1: Soft Handover HNB to RNC via HNB-GW.
1\. HNB determines that a RL can be established to a macro RNC cell.
2-7. Normal RL setup procedure between HNB and RNC via the HNB-GW.
#### 5.11.3.2 Soft Handover from RNC to Open or Hybrid Access HNB
Mobility from macro cells to Open or Hybrid Access HNB cells using Soft
Handover follows the same principles as mobility between macro cells and uses
an Iur interface established between the HNB and the macro RNC via the HNB-GW
to support RNSAP signalling.
The HNB-GW acts as a single RNC towards the macro RNC (as it does towards the
CN) and therefore acts as a concentrator for HNB-RNC connectivity via the HNB-
GW.
For this case of open or hybrid access HNB, there is no involvement of the CN
in the SHO operations. For the case of SHO to hybrid access HNB, if supported,
the Radio Link is established assuming the UE is non-member.
The macro RNC acting as SRNC requests resources from the HNB, it is managed by
the CAC of the HNB.
Figure 5.11.3.2-1 shows the sequence of messages involved.
Figure 5.11.3.2-1: Soft Handover from RNC to Open or Hybrid Access HNB via
HNB-GW.
1\. RNC determines that a RL can be established to a HNB cell.
2-7. Normal RL setup procedure between RNC and HNB via the HNB-GW. For Hybrid
cells, if supported, the Radio Link is established assuming the UE is a non-
member.
### 5.11.4 HNB to RNC CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH mobility
The CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH mobility message flow is described in
Figure 5.11.4-1 below.
Figure 5.11.4-1: HNB to RNC CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH and URA_PCH mobility
1\. At initial RRC Connection Setup, the HNB assigns to the UE a U-RNTI value
based on the S-RNTI-prefix previously assigned to the HNB by the HNB-GW.
2\. Subsequently, when the UE performs Cell or URA Reselection to the target
RNC, it sends an RRC: Cell Update message (in case of CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH)
or an RRC: URA Update message (in case of URA_PCH) containing the U-RNTI value
previously assigned by the HNB.
3\. Based on the RNC-ID part of such U-RNTI, the RNC detects that the UE is
reselecting from one of its neighbour HNB-GWs.
NOTE: The RNC may determine whether or not the source HNB supports
CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH mobility. If the source HNB does not support
CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH mobility, the RNC may release the RRC connection.
4\. The RNC forwards the received RRC Cell/URA update message via a RNSAP
Uplink Signalling Transfer Indication message to the selected HNB-GW.
5\. The HNB-GW, based on the S-RNTI-prefix included in the received U-RNTI
and, if applicable, on the macro cell ID received from the RNC, selects the
Source HNB.
6\. The HNB-GW forwards the Uplink Signalling Transfer Indication RNSAP
message to the source HNB.
7\. The source HNB now executes the SRNS Relocation/enhanced SRNS Relocation
towards the target RNC to transfer the UE context.
8\. The RNC sends to the UE an RRC: Cell Update Confirm message (in case of
CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH) or an RRC: URA Update Confirm message (in case of
URA_PCH) to terminate the mobility procedure. If the SRNS relocation procedure
is not used, the RRC: Cell Update Confirm message (in case of CELL_FACH or
CELL_PCH) or the RRC: URA Update Confirm message (in case of URA_PCH) is sent
by the serving HNB.
### 5.11.5 RNC to HNB CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH mobility
The CELL_FACH, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH mobility message flow is described in
Figure 5.11.5-1 below.
Figure 5.11.5-1: RNC to HNB CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH and URA_PCH mobility
1\. At initial RRC Connection Setup, the source HNB assigns to the UE a U-RNTI
based on its RNC-ID and a set of locally defined bits.
2\. Subsequently, the UE performs Cell or URA Reselection to a HNB supporting
CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH/URA_PCH.
3\. Based on the received U-RNTI, the target HNB detects the UE is reselecting
from a neighbour RNC.
If, based on the received U-RNTI, the Target HNB cannot detect from which node
the UE is coming from,
3a. it may establish an Iurh interface with the source RNC;
3b.alternatively, it may terminate the mobility procedure, re-establish the
RRC connection for the UE and skip the subsequent steps.
4\. The HNB forwards the received message Cell/URA update via Uplink
Signalling Transfer Indication RNSAP message to the selected HNB-GW.
5\. The HNB-GW finds the proper source RNC based on the RNC-ID.
6\. The HNB-GW forwards the RNSAP Uplink Signalling Transfer Indication
message to the source RNC.
7\. The source RNC may now execute the SRNS Relocation/Enhanced SRNS
Relocation towards the target HNB to transfer the UE context or initialise the
UE context in the target HNB via RNSAP Common Transport Channel Resources
Initialisation procedure.
8\. The HNB sends to the UE an RRC: Cell Update Confirm message (in case of
CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH) or an RRC: URA Update Confirm message (in case of
URA_PCH) to terminate the mobility procedure. If the SRNS relocation procedure
is not used, the RRC: Cell Update Confirm (in case of CELL_FACH or CELL_PCH)
or the RRC: URA Update Confirm message (in case of URA_PCH) is sent by the
serving HNB.
## 5.12 Fixed Broadband Access network Interworking
Case of CS sessions:
The HNB signals the Tunnel Information to the HNB GW via the HNB Registration
procedure. The Tunnel Information includes HNB IP address and the UDP port
number if NAT/NAPT is detected. The HNB-GW establishes and manages the S15
session by the tunnel information and RAB information as specified in TS
23.139 [36].
Case of PS sessions:
The HNB signals the Tunnel Information to the SGSN via INITIAL UE MESSAGE
message, RELOCATION COMPLETE message, and ENHANCED RELOCATION COMPLETE REQUEST
message. The Tunnel Information includes HNB IP address and the UDP port
number if NAT/NAPT is detected.
# 6 Requirements for O&M
## 6.1 O&M for HNB
### 6.1.1 Provisioning Procedure for HNB
Figure 6.1.1-1: Provisioning procedure for HNB.
1\. A secure tunnel is established from the HNB to the Security gateway.
2\. Location verification shall be performed by the HMS based on information
sent by the HNB (e.g. macro neighbour cell scans, global navigational
satellite system type of information etc.). HMS determines the serving
elements and provides the HNB-GW, HMS and Security Gateway to the HNB. The HMS
also provisions configuration parameters to the HNB only after successful
location verification in the HMS.
NOTE: Steps 3 & 4 are shown only for completeness. Security Gateway and HMS
are shown to highlight the general architecture.
NOTE: In the event information required for verifying location are not
available (for example, no macro neighbour cells, no GNSS, no DSL line ID etc.
available), HNB-GW discovery may be based on specific operator and/or
regulatory policies.
### 6.1.2 Location Verification
#### 6.1.2.1 General
During location verification, the HNB reports its location information to the
HMS. The HMS in turn examines the provided information and verifies the HNB's
location. There are 3 possible types of information for this purpose:
1\. Macro-cell Information
2\. GNSS location information
3\. Broadband connection information, provided that the resulting location
information is at least as accurate as location determination based on macro-
cell coverage information, whether or not there is macro-cell coverage
available at the location of the HNB (e.g. as determined by point 1. above).
NOTE: Not all of this information is mandatory. In fact, the type of reported
information is based on factors such as the physical environment in which the
HNB is installed and/or possible variations in the HNB's HW and SW
implementation.
#### 6.1.2.2 Macro-cell Information
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General
The HNB is expected to have a radio environment measurement capability. This
includes capturing the following type of information from the surrounding
environment.
a) UTRAN cell information
\- RF level information
\- Broadcast information
b) GSM cell information
\- RF level information
\- Broadcast information
##### 6.1.2.2.2 UTRAN Cell Information
The information in the following table is reported by the HNB to the HMS for
each UTRAN cell detected.
Table 6.1.2.2.2-1. UTRAN Cell Information.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information | Description | Presence | 3GPP | | | | / Note | | Reference | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RF | UARFCNDL | UARFCN (DL) | M | TS 25.104 | | information | | | | [23] | | | | | | sec.5.4,\ | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.11 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CPICHRSCP | RSCP of | M | | | | | CPICH | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | PSC | Primary | M | TS 32.642 | | | | Scrambling | | [24] sec. | | | | Code | | 6.3.11 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Broadcast | PLMN Type | Â« GSM-MAP Â» | M | TS 25.331 | | information | | or | | [25] | | | | Â« ANSI-41 Â» | | se | | | | | | c.10.3.1.12 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | MCC | Mobile | M | TS 24.008 | | | | Country | | [26],\ | | | | Code | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | MNC | Mobile | M | TS 24.008 | | | | Network | | [26],\ | | | | Code | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | LAC | Location | M | TS 24.008 | | | | Area Code | | [26] | | | | | | se | | | | | | c.10.5.1.3, | | | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | RAC | Routing | M | TS 24.008 | | | | Area Code | | [26], | | | | | | sec.1 | | | | | | 0.5.1.12.3, | | | | | | | | | | | | TS 25.413 | | | | | | [9], | | | | | | s | | | | | | ec.9.2.3.7, | | | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.10 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CellID | Cell ID | M | TS 25.331 | | | | | | [25] | | | | | | s | | | | | | ec.10.3.2.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSG Cell | \ | | compliant | | | | | | cell only. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 6.1.2.2.3 GSM Cell Information
The information in the following table is reported by the HNB to the HMS for
each GSM cell detected.
Table 6.1.2.2.3-1. GSM Cell Information.
* * *
Information Description / Note Presence 3GPP Reference  
RF information ARFCN Channel number M TS 32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 BCCHRSSI RSSI
of the BCCH carrier. M TS 32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 BSIC Base Station ID Code M
TS 32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 Broadcast Information MCC Mobile Country Code M TS
32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 MNC Mobile Network Code M TS 32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 LAC
Location Area Code M TS 32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 RAC Routing Area Code M TS
32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5 CellID Cell ID M TS 32.652 [27] sec. 6.3.5
* * *
#### 6.1.2.3 GNSS Location Information
This information consists of, at minimum, latitude and longitude detected by
the GNSS receiver (e.g. GPS receiver), if the HNB implementation includes this
functionality.
#### 6.1.2.4 Broadband Connection Information
This information consists of the information associated with the broadband
connection (e.g. DSL) the HNB is connected with: 1) public IP address assigned
to the RGW (e.g. DSL-GW/router), and 2) line identifier to which the RGW is
connected with (e.g. DSL line ID) as seen on the broadband service provider.
These are applicable only when this information is available to the HNB, and
only when the resulting location information is at least as accurate as
location determination based on macro-cell coverage information, whether or
not there is macro-cell coverage available at the location of the HNB (e.g. as
determined by clause 6.1.2.2 above).
### 6.1.3 HNB-GW Discovery
During the HNB-GW Discovery procedure, the HMS provides the HNB with 3
identities as shown in the following table. The information may be either IP
address or FQDN to be resolved by DNS.
Table 6.1.3-1. HNB-GW Discovery Information.
* * *
Parameter Description / Note Presence 3GPP Reference Serving HMS ID One or
more IDs may be provided M  
Serving SeGW ID One or more IDs may be provided M  
Serving HNB-GW ID One or more IDs may be provided M
* * *
### 6.1.4 HNB Provisioning
#### 6.1.4.1 General
During the HNB Provisioning procedure, the HMS transfers the HNB configuration
information to the HNB. This includes 3 types of parameters:
1\. CN level parameters
2\. RAN level parameters
3\. RF level parameters
NOTE: The HNB may have auto-configuration capabilities, such that the HMS
sends a list/range of values to the HNB, which selects (and returns to HMS) a
single value, also based on the information collected measuring the radio
environment. The HMS may also provide control parameters of the auto-
configuration process.
#### 6.1.4.2 CN Level Parameters
Table 6.1.4.2-1. CN Level Parameters.
+-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Parameter | Description / | Presence | 3GPP Reference | | | Note | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | PLMN Type | "GSM-MAP" or | M | TS 25.331 | | | "ANSI-41" | | [25] sec. | | | | | 10.3.1.12 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | MCC | Mobile Country | M | TS 24.008 | | | Code | | [26], | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | 6.3.8 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | MNC | Mobile Network | M | TS 24.008 | | | Code | | [26], | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | 6.3.8 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | LAC | Location Area | M (Note 1) | TS 24.008 | | | Code (one or | | [26] | | | more LACs may | | sec.10.5.1.3, | | | be provided) | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | SAC | Service Area | M | TS 25.413 [9] | | | Code | | sec.9.2.3.9, | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | T3212 | Periodic LAU | M | TS 24.008 | | | timer (CS | | [26] sec. | | | domain) | | 10.5.1.12.2 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | ATT | Attach-detach | M | TS 24.008 | | | allowed (CS | | [26] sec. | | | domain) | | 10.5.1.12.2 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | RAC | Routing area | M (Note 1) | TS 24.008 | | | code (PS | | [26] | | | domain) (one or | | se | | | more RACs may | | c.10.5.1.12.3,\ | | | be provided) | | TS 25.413 [9] | | | | | sec.9.2.3.7, | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | NMO | Network Mode of | M | TS 24.008 | | | Operation (Gs | | [26] sec. | | | i/f) | | 10.5.1.12.3 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Equivalent PLMN | List of one or | O (Note 2) | TS 24.008 | | ID | more equivalent | | [26] sec. | | | PLMN ID (MCC + | | 10.5.1.13 | | | MNC) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Allowed IMSI | For access | O (Note 3) | TS 24.008 | | list | control or | | [26] sec. | | | membership | | 10.5.1.4 | | | verification | | | | | purposes. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | CSG Cell Info | CSG Capability | M | Applicable to | | | Indication, | | Rel.8 compliant | | | | | cell only. | | | CSG Id, in case | | | | | the Cell is CSG | | | | | capable | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | HNB Location | Location | O | TS 25.413 [9] | | Information | information | | sec. 9.2.3.11 | | | (Geographical | | | | | coordinates, | | | | | Uncertainty | | | | | code) | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | SAI for | Service Area | M | TS 25.419 | | broadcast | for broadcast | | [12] sec. | | | | | 9.2.11 | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+ | Note 1: May be | | | | | a list/range of | | | | | values in case | | | | | the HNB has | | | | | aut | | | | | o-configuration | | | | | capabilities. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: This | | | | | information is | | | | | ope | | | | | rator-dependent | | | | | based on its | | | | | circumstance. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: ACL is | | | | | an optional | | | | | function at | | | | | HNB. This | | | | | information is | | | | | provided if | | | | | this function | | | | | is enabled in | | | | | the HNB. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+------------+-----------------+
#### 6.1.4.3 RAN Level Parameters
Table 6.1.4.3-1. RAN Level Parameters.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Parameter | Description | Presence | 3GPP | | | | | | Reference | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RNCID for | RNC ID used | M | TS 32.642 | | | HNB | by HNB | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.8 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cell ID | 28-bit | M | TS 25.331 | | | | "Cell ID" | | [25] sec. | | | | in SIB3 | | 10.3.2.2 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HSPA | HSflag | Whether | O | TS 32.642 | | related | | HSDPA/HSUPA | | [24] sec. | | | | is used or | | 6.3.9 | | | | not | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HCS related | UseOfHCS | | M | TS 25.331 | | | | | | [25] sec. | | | HCSPrio | | | 10.3.7.47 | | | | | | and | | | QHCS | | | 10.3.7.12, | | | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 | | | | | | [24] sec. | | | | | | 6.3.9 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cell | Quality | CPICH Ec/N0 | O (Note 1) | TS 25.331 | | selection / | measure | or RSCP | | [25] sec. | | reselection | | | | 10.3.2.3 | | related | QqualMin | if Ec/N0 is | | and | | | | used | | 10.3.2.4, | | | Qqua | | | | | | lMin-offset | if RSCP is | | TS 32.642 | | | | used | | [24] sec. | | | QrxlevMin | | | 6.3.9, | | | | | | | | | Qrxle | | | TS 25.304 | | | vMin-offset | | | [29] | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | intrasearch | | | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | intersearch | | | | | | | | | | | | SsearchRAT | | | | | | | | | | | | SsearchHCS | | | | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | eselections | | | | | | | | | | | | UET | | | | | | xPwrMaxRACH | | | | | | | | | | | | QHyst1 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Intra Freq | Filter | Filter | O (Note 1) | TS 25.331 | | Measurement | coefficient | coefficient | | [25] sec. | | Related | | | | 10.3.7.38 | | | Measurement | CPICH | | and | | | quantity | Ec/No, | | 10.3.7.39 | | | for freq | CPICH RSCP, | | | | | quality | or pathloss | | | | | estimate | | | | | | | "x" in 1x | | | | | Hysteresis | includes | | | | | for event | applicable | | | | | 1x | events from | | | | | | 1A to 1J | | | | | Threshold | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 1x | | | | | | | | | | | | Ti | | | | | | metoTrigger | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 1x | | | | | | | | | | | | Weighting | | | | | | factor for | | | | | | event 1x | | | | | | | | | | | | Reporting | | | | | | Range | | | | | | | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | Condition | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Inter-Freq | Filter | Filter | O (Note 1) | TS 25.331 | | Measurement | coefficient | coefficient | | [25] sec. | | Related | | | | 10.3.7.18 | | | Measurement | CPICH | | and | | | quantity | Ec/No, | | 10.3.7.19 | | | for freq | CPICH RSCP | | | | | quality | | | | | | estimate | "x" in 2x | | | | | | includes | | | | | Hysteresis | applicable | | | | | for event | events from | | | | | 2x | 2A to 2F | | | | | | | | | | | Threshold | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 2x | | | | | | | | | | | | Ti | | | | | | metoTrigger | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 2x | | | | | | | | | | | | Weighting | | | | | | factor for | | | | | | event 2x | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Inter-RAT | Filter | Filter | O (Note 1) | TS 25.331 | | Measurement | coefficient | coefficient | | [25] sec. | | Related | | | | 10.3.7.29 | | | BSIC | "required" | | and | | | v | / "not | | 10.3.7.30 | | | erification | required" | | | | | required | | | | | | | "x" in 3x | | | | | Hysteresis | includes | | | | | for event | applicable | | | | | 3x | events from | | | | | | 3A to 3D | | | | | Threshold | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 3x | | | | | | | | | | | | Ti | | | | | | metoTrigger | | | | | | for event | | | | | | 3x | | | | | | | | | | | | Weighting | | | | | | factor for | | | | | | event 3x | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RRC related | N30x, N31x | RRC | O (Note 1) | TS 25.331 | | | | constants | | [25] sec. | | | T30x, T31x, | | | 10.3.3.43 | | | T320 | RRC timers | | and | | | | | | 10.3.3.44 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Neighbour | RNCID | Defined for | O (Note 2) | TS 32.642 | | list (UTRA | | each | | [24] sec. | | Intra-Freq | C-Id | intra-freq | | 6.3.10, | | cell info | | cells | | | | list) | LAC | | | TS 25.401 | | | | C-Id is | | [4] sec. | | | RAC | either 12 | | 6.1, | | | | or 16 bits | | | | | PSC | depending | | TS 25.413 | | | | on RNCID | | [9] sec. | | | | length. | | 9.2.1.28 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Neighbour | RNCID | Defined for | O (Note 2) | TS 32.642 | | list (UTRA | | each | | [24] sec. | | Inter-Freq | C-Id | inter-freq | | 6.3.10, | | cell info | | cells | | | | list) | LAC | | | TS 25.401 | | | | C-Id is | | [4] sec. | | | RAC | either 12 | | 6.1, | | | | or 16 bits | | | | | UARFCN (DL) | depending | | TS 25.413 | | | | on RNCID | | [9] sec. | | | PSC | length | | 9.2.1.28 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Neighbour | CelID | Defined for | O (Note 2) | TS 32.652 | | list (GERAN | | each | | [27] sec. | | cell info | BSIC | inter-RAT | | 6.3.5 | | list) | | cells | | | | | Ba | (assume GSM | | | | | ndIndicator | cell only). | | | | | | | | | | | BCCHARFCN | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HNB | PCAP | Indicates | O | TS 25.470 | | Positioning | supported | if PCAP is | | [39] | | related | | supported. | | | | | SAS | | | | | | indication | Defined if | | | | | | HNB | | | | | | positioning | | | | | | is | | | | | | supported | | | | | | for | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | SASs. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | Marked as | | | | | | optional | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the | | | | | | operator | | | | | | preference | | | | | | on the | | | | | | extent of | | | | | | p | | | | | | rovisioning | | | | | | that the | | | | | | HMS | | | | | | performs to | | | | | | the HNB vs. | | | | | | the level | | | | | | of autonomy | | | | | | that HNB | | | | | | has for | | | | | | auto-con | | | | | | figuration. | | | | | | In case | | | | | | this IE is | | | | | | absent, | | | | | | default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | (additional | | | | | | implication | | | | | | is that HNB | | | | | | has a set | | | | | | of default | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | values). | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | Marked as | | | | | | optional | | | | | | due to | | | | | | several | | | | | | im | | | | | | plications: | | | | | | 1) there | | | | | | may be no | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cell | | | | | | available | | | | | | based on | | | | | | the RF | | | | | | scanning | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | described | | | | | | earlier, 2) | | | | | | based on | | | | | | operator | | | | | | deployment | | | | | | policy | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | RF channel | | | | | | for HNB | | | | | | layer vs. | | | | | | macro | | | | | | layer), and | | | | | | 3) operator | | | | | | preference | | | | | | on the | | | | | | extent of | | | | | | p | | | | | | rovisioning | | | | | | that the | | | | | | HMS | | | | | | performs to | | | | | | the HNB vs. | | | | | | the level | | | | | | of autonomy | | | | | | that HNB | | | | | | has for | | | | | | auto-con | | | | | | figuration. | | | | | | Regarding | | | | | | 3) above, | | | | | | this may | | | | | | include | | | | | | c | | | | | | apabilities | | | | | | such as the | | | | | | HMS to add | | | | | | or remove | | | | | | neighbour | | | | | | cells | | | | | | initially | | | | | | detected by | | | | | | the HNB | | | | | | during the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | environment | | | | | | scanning | | | | | | process, | | | | | | and the HNB | | | | | | to extend | | | | | | the | | | | | | received | | | | | | Neighbour | | | | | | list based | | | | | | on | | | | | | auto-co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | ca | | | | | | pabilities. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.4.4 RF Level Parameters
Table 6.1.4.4-1. RF Level Parameters.
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Parameter | Description / | Presence | 3GPP Reference | | | Note | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | UARFCN (DL) | Frequency | O\ | TS 25.101 [28] | | | channel number | (Note 1) | sec. 5.4, | | | (one or more | | | | | UARFCNs may be | | TS 25.104 [23] | | | provided) | | sec. 5.4, | | | | | | | | | | TS 32.642 [24] | | | | | sec. 6.3.11 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PSC | Primary | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | scrambling code | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.11 | | | (one or more | | | | | PSCs may be | | | | | provided) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | MaxHNBTxPower | Maximum allowed | O\ | TS 25.104 [23] | | | Tx power of the | (Note 1) | sec. 6.2, | | | HNB. | | | | | | | TS 32.642 [24] | | | | | sec. 6.3.9 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | MaxULTxPower | The parameter | O\ | TS 25.101 [28] | | | defines the | (Note 1) | sec. 6.2, | | | maximum | | | | | transmission | | TS 32.642 [24] | | | power level a UE | | sec. 6.3.9 | | | can use on | | | | | PRACH. | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | P-CPICHPower | Transmission | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | power of Primary | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.11 | | | CPICH (DL | | | | | config). This | | | | | may be either a | | | | | specific value | | | | | or a range (min | | | | | / max) of | | | | | values. | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | P-SCHPower | Primary SCH | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | power offset (DL | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.11 | | | config) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | S-SCHPower | Secondary SCH | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | power offset (DL | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.11 | | | config) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | BCHPower | BCH power offset | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | (DL config) | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.11 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | AICHPower | AICH power | O\ | TS 25.331 [25] | | | offset (DL | (Note 1) | sec. 10.3.6.3, | | | config, BCCH | | | | | info) | | TS 32.642 [24] | | | | | sec. 6.3.11 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PICHPower | PICH power | O\ | TS 25.331 [25] | | | offset (DL | (Note 1) | sec. 10.3.6.50, | | | config, BCCH | | | | | info) | | TS 32.642 [24] | | | | | sec. 6.3.9 | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | PCHPower | PCH power offset | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | (DL config, BCCH | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.9 | | | info) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | FACHPower | FACH power | O\ | TS 32.642 [24] | | | offset (DL | (Note 1) | sec. 6.3.9 | | | config, BCCH | | | | | info) | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Note 1: Marked | | | | | as optional | | | | | based on the | | | | | operator | | | | | preference on | | | | | the extent of | | | | | provisioning | | | | | that the HMS | | | | | performs to the | | | | | HNB vs. the | | | | | level of | | | | | autonomy that | | | | | HNB has for | | | | | aut | | | | | o-configuration. | | | | | In case this IE | | | | | is absent, it is | | | | | assumed that the | | | | | HNB will derive | | | | | the suitable | | | | | value based on | | | | | its | | | | | au | | | | | to-configuration | | | | | capability. In | | | | | case this IE is | | | | | a list/range of | | | | | values, the HNB | | | | | will choose a | | | | | single value | | | | | based on its | | | | | au | | | | | to-configuration | | | | | capability. | | | | | UARFCN UL may be | | | | | automatically | | | | | determined by | | | | | the HNB upon | | | | | UARFCN DL | | | | | (basing on | | | | | standard duplex | | | | | configuration | | | | | and | | | | | country-specific | | | | | spectrum | | | | | allocation). | | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
## 6.2 O&M for HNB-GW
No requirements have been identified.
# 7 Iuh interface protocol structure
## 7.1 General
Figure 7.2-1 shows the Control Plane and the User Plane protocol structures
over the Iuh interface. For the control plane, the HNBAP protocol provides the
signalling service between the HNB and the HNB-GW required to fulfil the
functions described in TS 25.469 [3].
RUA provides the signalling service between the HNB and the HNB-GW that is
required to fulfil the functions described in TS 25.468 [2].
PUA provides the signalling service between the HNB and HNB-GW that is
required to fulfil the functions described in TS 25.470 [39].
The payload protocol identifier (PPI) field in SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [6]) is set
to the value 19 assigned by IANA for use with the RUA protocol. In addition,
the value 20 is assigned for the PPI for HNBAP. The value 31 is assigned for
the PPI for SABP. The value 55 is assigned for the PPI for PUA. The
multiplexing protocol as specified in TS 25.444 [8] provides the means to
multiplex CS user plane on the uplink.
The destination port number field in SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [6]) is set to the
value 29169 assigned by IANA for setup of the common SCTP association in
HNBAP, RUA, PUA and SABP.
For Iurh there shall be an SCTP association for each direct Iurh interface
between HNBs. For operation via the HNB-GW there shall be a single SCTP
association common to all Iurh interface instances. This association shall be
separate from the Iuh SCTP association established between the HNB and the
HNB-GW.
The payload protocol identifier (PPI) field in IETF RFC 4960 [6] is set to the
value 42 registered by IANA for the use with the RNA protocol.
The destination port number field in IETF RFC 4960 [6] is set to the value
25471 assigned by IANA for setup of the SCTP association in RNA.
## 7.2 Iuh
Figure 7.2-1 shows the protocol structure for Iuh, following the structure
described in TS 25.401 [4].
Figure 7.2-1: I~uh~--Interface Protocol Stack.
### 7.2.1 Iupc-Iuh Interface Control Plane Protocol Stack
Figure 7.2.1-1 shows the control plane protocol stack for connectivity between
a HNB and a SAS via the HNB-GW.
Figure 7.2.1-1: Iupc-Iuh Interfaces Protocol Stack for connectivity between a
HNB and a SAS via the HNB-GW.
### 7.2.2 Interworking between the PCAP User Adaptation Layer (PUA) and the
Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)
#### 7.2.2.1 General
This section describes the usage of PUA and SCCP for connectivity between a
HNB and a SAS via HNB-GW.
RNL signalling between a SAS and a HNB-GW utilises services provided by the
SCCP (ITU-T Rec. Q.711 [32] / ITU-T Rec. Q.712 [33]/ ITU-T Rec. Q.713 [34]/
ITU-T Rec. Q.714 [35]) as defined for Iupc interface signalling transport
between an RNC and a SAS (see 3GPP TS 25.450 [37]), since the HNB-GW is seen
as an RNC for connection via Iupc interface to the SAS.
The Interworking functions at the HNB-GW deal with:
\- extracting or inserting the PCAP transaction ID information on the Iuh
connection or on the Iupc connection of the SAS-HNB signalling connectivity,
\- Iupc mapping of PCAP transaction IDs to provide the SAS with a consistent
view aligned with the HNB-GW acting as one RNC,
\- Iuh mapping of PCAP transaction ID on messages from the SAS to a local PCAP
transaction ID for the HNB and mapping of local PCAP transaction ID on
messages from the HNB to the corresponding PCAP transaction ID for the SAS.
\- Iuh mapping of PCAP transaction ID received from the SAS to direct
connectionless messages to the correct HNB.
\- for connection oriented signalling, performing appropriate mapping between
PUA level and SCCP level using the PUA context id and the SCCP connection
information.
\- For connectionless signalling, ensuring uniqueness of the PCAP Transaction
ID for connectionless PCAP messages mapped to the same SCCP connection.
\- respective routing of PCAP messages (see 3GPP TS 25.453[38]) based on
available address information.
In general, (i) Iupc connectivity between the HNB-GW and the SAS is
established by configuration, while (ii) the Iuh connectivity for support of
PCAP between the HNB and the HNB-GW is performed via the HNB registration
procedure.
The following subclauses describe the interworking between PUA and SCCP at the
HNB-GW.
#### 7.2.2.2 Establishment of signalling connection over Iuh and Iupc
connections between HNB and SAS via HNB-GW
Figure 7.2.2.2-1: Establishment of signalling connection over Iupc and Iuh
connections between HNB and SAS via HNB-GW -- HNB Initiated.
1\. If the Source HNB is configured for Iupc-connectivity via the HNB-GW, and
wants to send a PCAP message to the SAS for which a signalling connection over
the Iuh and Iupc connections has to be established, it issues a PUA:CONNECT
message containing the PUA Context Id and the PCAP PDU~1~.
2\. The HNB-GW identifies the signalling interface to which the PCAP message
shall be routed to and maintains a mapping between the PUA-based signalling
connection and the SCCP-based signalling connection for the HNB-SAS end-to-
end. If the SAS indicator is included in the PUA: Connect message the HNB-GW
may use this to route the PCAP message to the selected SAS.
3\. The HNB-GW sends PCAP PDU~1~ to the SAS and the SAS sends back PCAP PDU~2~
(see TS 25.450 [37]).
4\. The HNB-GW routes the PCAP PDU~2~ towards the Source HNB.
5\. The HNB-GW sends a PUA:Direct Transfer message, including PCAP PDU~2~ if
any, received from the SAS to the source HNB.
#### 7.2.2.3 Establishment of signalling connection over Iuh -- Refusal from
SAS
Figure 7.2.2.3-1: Establishment of signalling connection over Iuh and Iupc
connections between HNB and SAS via HNB-GW -- HNB Initiated with refusal from
SAS.
1\. If the Source HNB is configured for Iupc-connectivity via the HNB-GW, and
wants to send a PCAP message to the SAS for which a signalling connection over
the Iuh and Iupc connections has to be established, it issues a PUA:CONNECT
message containing the PUA Context Id and the PCAP PDU~1~.
2\. The HNB-GW identifies the signalling interface to which the PCAP message
shall be routed to and maintains a mapping between the PUA-based signalling
connection and the SCCP-based signalling connection for the HNB-SAS end-to-
end. If the SAS indicator is included in the PUA: Connect message the HNB-GW
may use this to route the PCAP message to the selected SAS.
3\. The HNB-GW sends PCAP PDU~1~ to the SAS as received from the HNB via SCCP
Connection Request and the SAS refuses the connection request (see TS 25.450
[37]).
4\. The HNB-GW maps the SCCP:CREF message into a PUA:DISCONNECT.
5\. The HNB-GW sends a PUA:DISCONNECT message to the source HNB, including the
optional PCAP PDU~2~ if received from the SAS.
#### 7.2.2.4 Transport of PCAP signalling messages via signalling connection
established over Iupc and Iuh connections
##### 7.2.2.4.1 HNB initiated
Figure 7.2.2.4.1-1: Transport of PCAP messages via signalling connection over
Iuh and Iupc connections -- HNB initiated.
If the Source HNB wants to send a PCAP message to the SAS for which a
connection oriented data transfer service is already established for a
location session, it issues a PUA:DIRECT TRANSFER message towards the HNB-GW
which contains the PUA Context Id and the PCAP PDU.
The HNB-GW will forward the PCAP PDU to the SAS within an SCCP message.
##### 7.2.2.4.2 SAS initiated
Figure 7.2.2.4.2-1: Transport of PCAP messages via signalling connection over
Iupc and Iuh connections -- SAS initiated.
If the SAS wants to send a PCAP message to the Receiving HNB for which a
connection oriented data transfer service is already established for a
location session, it will send to the HNB-GW the PCAP PDU within an SCCP
message.
The HNB-GW will then generate a PUA:DIRECT TRANSFER message and will route the
PCAP PDU to the correct HNB.
#### 7.2.2.5 Release of signalling connection over Iupc and Iuh Connections
Figure 7.2.2.5-1: Release of established signalling connection over Iupc and
Iuh connections -- HNB initiated.
If an HNB wants to release a signalling connection previously established over
Iupc and Iuh connections towards a SAS, it sends a PUA:DISCONNECT message,
which includes the PUA Context Id and may include a PCAP PDU. The HNB-GW maps
the PUA:DISCONNECT message to an SCCP:Release message and triggers the SCCP
connection release procedure defined in TS 25.450 [37] for the coresponding
SCPP connection.
#### 7.2.2.6 Transport of PCAP signalling messages via the connectionless data
transfer service
##### 7.2.2.6.1 HNB initiated
Figure 7.2.2.6.1-1: Connectionless data transfer over Iuh and Iupc connections
-- HNB initiated.
If the HNB wants to send in a connectionless manner a PCAP PDU to the HNB-GW
for the SAS, it issues a PUA:CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER message containing the
PCAP PDU. The HNB-GW then generates and routes the PCAP PDU within a
connectionless SCCP message towards the SAS. If the SAS indicator is included
in the PUA: Connectionless Transfer message the HNB-GW may use this to route
the PCAP message to the selected SAS.
##### 7.2.2.6.2 SAS initiated
Figure 7.2.2.6.2-1: Connectionless data transfer over Iupc and Iuh connections
-- SAS initiated.
If the SAS sends a PCAP PDU to the HNB-GW for the Receiving HNB, the HNB-GW
has to be able to route the message to the correct HNB. The HNB-GW uses the
PCAP transaction ID to determine the correct destination HNB. Then the HNB-GW
issues a PUA:CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER message containing the PCAP PDU.
## 7.3 Iurh
Figure 7.3-1 shows the protocol structure for Iurh, following the structure
described in TS 25.401 [4].
Figure 7.3-1: Iurh--Interface Protocol Stack.
NOTE 1: RTCP is optional
NOTE 2: as specified in TS 25.425 [21] and TS 25.427 [22]
NOTE 3: as specified in TS 25.415 [17]
### 7.3.1 Iurh-Interface Control Plane Protocol Stack
The figures below show the control plane protocol stack for Iurh both for
direct connectivity between HNBs and for connectivity between a HNB and a
macro RNC via the HNB-GW.
Figure 7.3.1-1 shows the control plane protocol stack for the direct Iurh-
connectivity option between HNBs.
NOTE: The option that Iurh signalling traffic may be routed on IP level via
the HNB-GW is depicted by the optional protocol entity boxes within the
routing function.
Figure 7.3.1-1: Iurh--Interface Protocol Stack for direct Iurh-connectivity
between HNBs.
Figure 7.3.1-2 shows the control plane protocol stack for the Iurh
connectivity between HNBs via the HNB-GW.
Figure 7.3.1-2: Iurh--Interface Protocol Stack for Iurh-connectivity between
HNBs via the HNB-GW.
Figure 7.3.1-3 shows the control plane protocol stack for connectivity between
a HNB and a macro RNC via the HNB-GW.
Figure 7.3.1-3: Iurh-Iur Interfaces Protocol Stack for connectivity between a
HNB and a macro RNC via the HNB-GW.
### 7.3.2 Usage of the services provided by RNSAP User Adaptation Layer (RNA)
#### 7.3.2.1 General
This section describes usage of RNA for Iurh connectivity between HNBs.
RNA supports the transport of any RNSAP signalling messages between HNBs.
RNA provides a connection-oriented data transfer service and a connectionless
data transfer service.
A signalling connection established by means of RNA is denoted by a single
Context Id, which is unique within both involved nodes (see TS 25.471 [19] for
further details).
RNA supports direct Iurh-connectivity and Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW.
#### 7.3.2.2 Iurh Signalling Connection Establishment
##### 7.3.2.2.1 Direct Iurh connectivity
Figure 7.3.2.2.1-1: Signalling Connection Establishment -- Direct Iurh-
connectivity.
If the Sending HNB wants to send an RNSAP message to the Receiving HNB for
which a dedicated Iurh signalling connection has to be established, it issues
an RNA:CONNECT message containing the Iurh Context Id, the RNSAP PDU, the
Senders HNB RNL Identity and the Receivers HNB RNL Identity. The Reception of
the RNA:CONNECT message at the Receiving HNB completes the signalling
connection establishment.
##### 7.3.2.2.2 Iurh signalling connection establishment via the HNB-GW
Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1: Signalling Connection Establishment -- Iurh connection via
HNB-GW.
1\. If the Sending HNB is configured for Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW, and
wants to send an RNSAP message to the Receiving HNB for which a signalling
connection has to be established, it issues an RNA:CONNECT message containing
the Iurh Context Id, the RNSAP PDU, the Senders HNB RNL Identity and the
Receivers HNB RNL Identity.
2\. The HNB-GW identifies the signalling interface to which the RNA message
shall be routed by Receivers HNB RNL Identity as received from the Sending
HNB.
3\. The HNB-GW issues an RNA:CONNECT message with identical content as
received from the Sending HNB to the Receiving HNB.
4\. Reception of the RNA:CONNECT message by the Receiving HNB completes the
signalling connection establishment for the Receiving HNB.
#### 7.3.2.3 Transport of RNSAP signalling messages via an established Iurh
signalling connection
##### 7.3.2.3.1 Direct Iurh connectivity
Figure 7.3.2.3.1-1: Transport of RNSAP messages via an established Iurh
signalling connection -- Direct Iurh connectivity.
If Sending HNB, directly Iurh connected to the Receiving HNB, wants to send an
RNSAP message to Receiving HNB for which a connection oriented data transfer
service is already established, it issues an RNA:DIRECT TRANSFER message to
the Receiving HNB which contains the Iurh Context Id, the RNSAP PDU and the
Receivers HNB RNL Identity.
##### 7.3.2.3.2 Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW
Figure 7.3.2.3.2-1: Transport of RNSAP messages via an established Iurh
signalling connection -- Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW.
If the Sending HNB, Iurh connected to the Receiving HNB via the HNB-GW, wants
to send an RNSAP messages via the established signalling connection, it issues
an RNA:DIRECT TRANSFER message to the HNB-GW, providing the Receivers HNB RNL
Identity which enables the HNB-GW to route the RNSAP message to the Receiving
HNB.
#### 7.3.2.4 Release of a Signalling Connection
##### 7.3.2.4.1 Direct Iurh connectivity
Figure 7.3.2.4.1-1: Release of an Iurh signalling connection -- Direct Iurh-
connectivity.
If the Sending HNB, directly Iurh-connected to the Receiving HNB, wants to
release an established signalling connection towards the Receiving HNB, it
sends an RNA:DISCONNECT message, which includes the Iurh Context Id and the
Receivers HNB RNL Identity and may include an RNSAP PDU. Reception of the
DISCONNECT message by the Receiving HNB completes the release of the Iurh
signalling connection.
##### 7.3.2.4.2 Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW
Figure 7.3.2.4.2-1: Release of an Iurh signalling connection -- Iurh
connectivity via the HNB-GW.
If the Sending HNB, Iurh connected to the Receiving HNB via the HNB-GW, wants
to release the signalling connection towards Receiving HNB, it sends an
RNA:DISCONNECT message, which includes the Iurh Context Id and the Receivers
HNB RNL Identity and may include an RNSAP PDU. The HNB-GW routes the
DISCONNECT message based on the Receivers HNB RNL Identity. Reception of the
DISCONNECT message by Receiving HNB completes the release of the signalling
connection.
#### 7.3.2.5 Transport of RNSAP signalling messages via the connectionless
data transfer service
##### 7.3.2.5.1 Direct Iurh connectivity
Figure 7.3.2.5.1-1: Connectionless data transfer -- Direct Iurh-connectivity.
If the Sending HNB wants to send an RNSAP PDU to the Receiving HNB, for which
no Iurh signalling connection is necessary, it issues an RNA:CONNECTIONLESS
TRANSFER message containing the RNSAP PDU, the Senders HNB RNL Identity and
the Receivers HNB RNL Identity.
##### 7.3.2.5.2 Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW
Figure 7.3.2.5.2-1: Connectionless data transfer -- Iurh connectivity via the
HNB-GW.
If the Sending HNB wants to send an RNSAP PDU to the Receiving HNB, for which
an Iurh signalling connection is not necessary, it issues an
RNA:CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER message containing the RNSAP PDU, the Senders and
the Receivers HNB RNL Identities to the HNB-GW, which routes the RNA message
based on the Receivers HNB RNL Identity. The Receiving HNB is able to identify
the sending HNB by the Senders HNB RNL Identity.
### 7.3.3 Interworking between the RNSAP User Adaptation Layer (RNA) and the
Signalling Connection Control Part (SCCP)
#### 7.3.3.1 General
This section describes usage of RNA and SCCP for connectivity between a HNB
and a macro RNC via HNB-GW.
RNL signalling between an RNC and a HNB-GW utilises services provided by the
SCCP (ITU-T Rec. Q.711 [32] / ITU-T Rec. Q.712 [33]/ ITU-T Rec. Q.713 [34]/
ITU-T Rec. Q.714 [35]) as defined for Iur interface signalling transport
between two RNCs (see 3GPP TS 25.420 [31]), since the HNB-GW is seen as an RNC
from RNCs being connected via the Iur interface to it.
The Interworking functions at the HNB-GW deal with:
\- extracting or inserting respective RNL related addressing information on
the Iurh connection or on the Iur connection of the RNC-HNB signalling
connectivity,
\- on Iurh, RNL related addressing information carried on RNA within the
_Receivers HNB RNL Identity_ IE and the _Senders HNB RNL Identity_ IE,
\- on Iur, RNL related addressing information is carried within RNSAP;
\- for connection oriented signalling, performing appropriate mapping between
RNA level and SCCP level;
\- respective routing of RNSAP messages based on available address
information.
In general, (i) Iur connectivity between the HNB-GW and the RNC is established
by configuration, while (ii) the Iurh connectivity between the HNB and the
HNB-GW is performed via the Iurh setup procedure.
The following subclauses describe the interworking between RNA and SCCP at the
HNB-GW.
#### 7.3.3.2 Establishment of signalling connection over Iurh and Iur
connections between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW
##### 7.3.3.2.1 HNB initiated
Figure 7.3.3.2.1-1: Establishment of signalling connection over Iurh and Iur
connections between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW -- HNB Initiated.
1\. If the Source HNB is configured for Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW, and
wants to send an RNSAP message to the Target RNC for which signalling
connection over Iurh and Iur connections has to be established, it issues an
RNA:CONNECT message containing the Iurh Context Id, the RNSAP PDU~1~, the
Source HNB RNL Identity and the Target RNC RNL Identity.
2\. The HNB-GW identifies the signalling interface to which the RNA message
shall be routed by the Target RNC's RNL Identity as received from the Source
HNB and maintains a mapping between the RNA-based signalling connection and
the SCCP-based signalling connection for the HNB-RNC end-to-end.
3\. The HNB-GW sends RNSAP PDU~1~ to the Target RNC and the Target RNC sends
back RNSAP PDU~2~ (see TS 25.420 [31] subclause 4.5.1.3).
4\. The HNB-GW routes the RNSAP PDU~2~ towards the Source HNB.
5\. The HNB-GW sends an RNA:Direct Transfer message, including RNSAP PDU~2~
received from the Target RNC.
##### 7.3.3.2.2 HNB initiated -- Refusal from RNC
Figure 7.3.3.2.2-1: Establishment of signalling connection over Iurh and Iur
connections between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW -- HNB Initiated with refusal from
RNC.
1\. If the Source HNB is configured for Iurh-connectivity via the HNB-GW, and
wants to send an RNSAP message to the Target RNC, it issues an RNA:CONNECT
message containing the Iurh Context Id, the RNSAP PDU~1~, the Source HNB RNL
Identity and the Target RNC RNL Identity.
2\. The HNB-GW identifies the signalling interface to which the RNA message
shall be routed by the Target RNC's RNL Identity as received from the Source
HNB and maintains a mapping between the RNA-based signalling connection and
the SCCP-based signalling connection for the HNB-RNC end-to-end communication.
3\. The HNB-GW sends RNSAP PDU~1~ to the Target RNC as received from the HNB
via SCCP:Connection Request and the Target RNC refuses the connection request
(see TS 25.420 [31] subclause 4.5.1.3).
4\. The HNB-GW maps the SCCP:CREF message into an RNA:DISCONNECT.
5\. The HNB-GW sends an RNA:DISCONNECT message, including the optional RNSAP
PDU~2~ if received from the Target RNC.
##### 7.3.3.2.3 RNC initiated
Figure 7.3.3.2.3-1: Establishment of signalling connection over Iurh and Iur
connections between HNB and RNC via HNB-GW -- RNC Initiated.
1\. The HNB-GW is seen by Source RNC as a (configured) neighbour RNC. Any
signalling towards a target cell with a respective RNC-Id-prefix is sent to
the HNB-GW. In this case the RNC triggers the SCCP connection establishment as
described in TS 25.420 [31] subclause 4.5.1.3.
2\. The HNB-GW has to be able (i) to extract the Target HNB RNL Id from the
(Global) Cell-Id indicated in the initiating RNSAP PDU and (ii) to maintain a
mapping between the SCCP-based signalling connection and the RNA-based
signalling connection for the HNB-RNC end-to-end communication.
3\. The HNB-GW sends an RNA:CONNECT message towards the appropriate HNB
including the Iurh Context Id generated at Step 2, RNSAP PDU~1~ received from
the RNC and the Global Ids of RNC and HNB.
> 4-7. At the reception of the RNA:CONNECT message, the Target HNB processes
> RNSAP PDU~1~, generates the response RNSAP PDU~2~. The HNB replies then with
> an RNA:Direct Transfer message including the new RNSAP PDU~2~ and the RNC
> and HNB Ids. The HNB-GW will forward such pieces of information to the RNC
> (TS 25.420 [31] subclause 4.5.1.3).
#### 7.3.3.3 Transport of RNSAP signalling messages via signalling connection
established over Iurh and Iur connections
##### 7.3.3.3.1 HNB initiated
Figure 7.3.3.3.1-1: Transport of RNSAP messages via signalling connection over
Iurh and Iur connections -- HNB initiated.
If the Sending HNB wants to send an RNSAP message to the Receiving RNC for
which a connection oriented data transfer service is already established, it
issues an RNA:DIRECT TRANSFER message towards the HNB-GW which contains the
Iurh Context Id, the RNSAP PDU and the Receivers HNB RNL Identity.
The HNB-GW will forward the RNSAP PDU to the Receiving RNC within an SCCP
message.
##### 7.3.3.3.2 RNC initiated
Figure 7.3.3.3.1-1: Transport of RNSAP messages via signalling connection over
Iurh and Iur connections -- RNC initiated.
If the Sending RNC wants to send an RNSAP message to the Receiving RNC for
which a connection oriented data transfer service is already established, it
will send to the HNB-GW the RNSAP PDU within an SCCP message.
The HNB-GW will then generate an RNA:DIRECT TRANSFER message and will route
the RNSAP PDU to the correct HNB.
#### 7.3.3.4 Release of signalling connection over Iurh and Iur Connections
##### 7.3.3.4.1 HNB initiated
Figure 7.3.3.4.1-1: Release of established signalling connection over Iurh and
Iur connections -- HNB initiated.
If an HNB wants to release a signalling connection previously established over
Iurh and Iur connections previously established towards an RNC, it sends an
RNA:DISCONNECT message, which includes the Iurh Context Id and the Receivers
HNB RNL Identity (i.e., the Global RNC Id) and may include an RNSAP PDU. The
HNB-GW maps the RNA:DISCONNECT message to an SCCP:Released message and
triggers the SCCP connection release procedure defined in TS 25.420 [31]
subclause 4.5.1.4.
##### 7.3.3.4.2 RNC initiated
Figure 7.3.3.4.2-1: Release of established signalling connection over Iurh and
Iur connections -- RNC initiated.
If an RNC wants to release a signalling connection previously established over
Iurh and Iur signalling connections previously established towards an HNB, it
behaves as described in TS 25.420 [31] subclause 4.5.1.4.
The HNB-GW maps the SCCP:RLSD to an RNA:DISCONNECT message and forwards it to
the HNB. This last message includes the proper Iurh Context Id. the Receivers
HNB RNL Identity (i.e., the HNB Global Id) and an RNSAP PDU, if previously
received from the RNC.
#### 7.3.3.5 Transport of RNSAP signalling messages via the connectionless
data transfer service
##### 7.3.3.5.1 HNB initiated
Figure 7.3.3.5.1-1: Connectionless data transfer over Iurh and Iur connections
-- HNB initiated.
If the Sending HNB wants to send in a connectionless manner an RNSAP PDU to
the HNB-GW for the Receiving RNC, it issues an RNA:CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER
message containing the RNSAP PDU, the Senders and the Receivers HNB RNL
Identities.
The HNB-GW then generates and routes the RNSAP PDU within an SCCP message
towards the Receiving RNC.
##### 7.3.3.5.2 RNC initiated
Figure 7.3.3.5.2-1: Connectionless data transfer over Iurh and Iur connections
-- RNC initiated.
If the Sending RNC sends an RNSAP PDU to the HNB-GW for the Receiving HNB, the
HNB-GW has to be able to extract the receiving HNB's RNL address from received
RNSAP PDU. Then the HNB-GW issues an RNA:CONNECTIONLESS TRANSFER message
containing the RNSAP PDU, the Senders and the Receivers HNB RNL Identities to
the receiving HNB. The Receiving HNB is able to identify the sending RNC by
the Senders HNB RNL Identity.
# 8 Enhanced Interference Management
## 8.1 General
There is a type of interference which may be considered: 1) Interference from
HNB to Macro.
Scenarios are listed in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1-1. Interference scenarios.
+----------+-------------+----------+-------------------------------+ | Scenario | Aggressor | Victim | Type of interference | +----------+-------------+----------+-------------------------------+ | 1 | HNB UE (UL) | Macro NB | Interference from HNB to | | | | | Macro | | | | | | | | | | *applicable to co-channel | | | | | deployment scenario | +----------+-------------+----------+-------------------------------+ | 2 | HNB (DL) | Macro UE | | +----------+-------------+----------+-------------------------------+
## 8.2 Mitigation of interference from HNB to Macro
### 8.2.1 Interference from HNB UE (UL) to Macro NB
The scenario involves:-
1\. Adaptively limiting the HNB UE's maximum UL Tx Power in connected mode
possibly using HNB UE measurement and calculating the path loss between HNB UE
and Macro NB.
### 8.2.2 Interference from HNB (DL) to Macro UE
The scenario involves:-
1\. Redirecting unauthorized UE to another carrier possibly based on uplink
access attempts by unauthorised UE.
2\. Adjusting HNB's DL CPICH Tx Power adaptively either temporarily or over
long term possibly based on uplink access attempts by unauthorised UE.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Implementation of CN functions within the
HNB-GW for support of inter-HNB intra-HNB-GW SRNS Relocation
# A.1 Scope
The implementation option described in this Annex will not be evolved or
maintained/corrected by 3GPP in the current Release or future Releases of the
3GPP specifications. The mechanism in subclause 5.7 is the mechanism that
shall be maintained, and for which evolution within 3GPP is applicable.
# A.2 General
This Section describes an implementation variant where CN functions of SRNS
Relocation are implemented within the HNB-GW in order to hide intra-HNB-GW
inter-HNB active mode mobility from the CN.
From a HNB perspective the HNB-GW appears as a CN node (one node per CN
domain) providing all necessary protocol functions for SRNS Relocation (Hard
Handover), from a CN node perspective, the HNB-GW appears as an RNC serving
the inter-HNB relocations as intra-RNC mobility.
The following sub-sections describe the respective mechanisms. The RANAP
messages are exchanged over the Iuh interface from the Source-HNB to the HNB-
GW and from the HNB-GW to the Target-HNB using appropriate RUA encapsulation.
In this implementation the Iu UP protocol is still terminated in the CN and
HNB (Figure 7.2-1), but there is an Iu UP Interworking function (A.10)
residing in the HNB-GW. This implementation variant supports SRNS Relocation
between HNBs supporting the same RFC combinations if the HNB supports only Iu
UP v1 and SRNS Relocation between all HNBs supporting Iu UP v2.
# A.3 Mobility procedure
Figure A.3-1: Inter-HNB Inter-HNB-GW SRNS Relocation -- Implementation of CN
functions for SRNS Relocation within the HNB-GW.
1\. The UE has established an active CS/PS session to the CN via the source
HNB and HNB-GW.
2\. At some point, the source HNB makes a decision to relocate the UE session.
3\. The source HNB triggers relocation of the UE session by sending the RANAP
_Relocation Required_ message encapsulated in the RUA _Direct Transfer_
message to the HNB-GW. The target RNC-Id and target Cell-Identity information
along with relocation information are included by the source HNB in the RANAP
_Relocation Required_ message.
4\. The HNB-GW constructs the RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST using the stored RAB
Parameters and parameters received from source HNB. The RANAP message also
includes the HNB-GW UL TNL information for each RAB to be setup at the target
HNB.
5\. Steps for HNB-GW Triggered UE Registration are executed between the HNB-GW
and the HNB. The IuhUPIF function handles the CS user plane establishment in
the HNB-GW. The RANAP message from the target HNB includes the target HNB DL
TNL information for each RAB to be setup. In case the target HNB decides to
use the alternative RAB parameters and indicates the same in the RANAP
RELOCATION ACKNOWLEDGE message, the HNB-GW rejects the relocation towards the
target HNB and redirects original relocation request towards the CN node as in
subclause 5.9.\ In this phase, HNB-GW may begin bi-casting DL traffic to the
source and target HNB.
6\. The HNB-GW constructs the appropriate RANAP _Relocation Command_ message
and routes the RANAP message encapsulated in the RUA _Direct Transfer_ message
to the source HNB.
7-11. The rest of the relocation procedure continues as shown in the
corresponding steps in the above figure. When the relocation is detected in
HNB-GW, the HNB-GW switches the user plane from the source HNB to the target
HNB.
12\. The HNB-GW upon getting an indication that the UE has been successfully
relocated to the target HNB triggers the Iu release procedure towards the
source HNB by sending a RUA encapsulated RANAP _Iu Release Command_ message.
13\. The source HNB acknowledges the Iu release procedure to the HNB-GW by
sending a RUA encapsulated RANAP _Iu Release Complete_ message.
NOTE: Steps 2 to 13, as appropriate, are repeated for the second CN domain
when present with the following exception. There is only one Context Id
allocated to the UE regardless of the number of signalling domains relocated.
14\. The HNB-GW deregisters the UE from the source HNB. The source HNB
releases the resources assigned to the UE and deletes all stored context
information associated with the UE.
# A.4 Iuh Control Plane Aspects
The HNB-GW processes and forwards some of the connection-oriented RANAP
messages, related to RAB Management, Data Volume Reporting, UE Tracing,
Location Reporting, Security and Iu UP Initialisation.
# A.5 Iuh user plane aspects
The HNB-GW processes and forwards all the user plane packets between the HNB
and the CN and performs the switching of the user plane between the source and
the target HNB.
# A.6 RAB management Functions
The establishment, modification or release of a RAB is performed between the
HNB and the CN as specified in TS 25.413 [9]. However, the HNB-GW stores the
RAB parameters of each established RAB as signalled via respective on the
RANAP messages during RAB establishment, modification and SRNS Relocation.
# A.7 Data Volume Reporting
The data volume reporting function is used to report the volume of
unsuccessfully transmitted DL data of PS RABs to the CN. If the CN has
initiated the data volume report then in order to continue data volume
reporting after the finalisation of the SRNS Relocation, the HNB-GW includes
the Data Volume Reporting Indication in the RANAP RELOCATION REQUEST message
towards the target HNB. The HNB-GW accumulates data volume reports from the
different HNBs involved in subsequent inter-HNB intra-HNB-GW SRNS Relocations
and reports the final value to the SGSN at RAB release.
# A.8 UE Tracing
This feature allows tracing of various events related to the UE and its
activities. The HNB-GW stores the Trace related RANAP parameters exchanged in
the RANAP signalling messages. In order to continue UE tracing in the target
HNB during and after SRNS Relocation, the HNB-GW sends the stored RANAP CN
INVOKE TRACE encapsulated in the RUA DIRECT TRNSFER message towards the target
HNB after step 5 (see subclause 5.11.2).
# A.9 Location reporting function
The positioning function performs the determination of the geographical
position for an UE. The location reporting function transfers the positioning
information between the UTRAN and the CN triggered by the RANAP Location
Reporting Control from the CN. If the RANAP Location Reporting Control
procedure is initiated with "_Request Type"_ indicated as "to report upon
change of Service area", the HNB-GW sends the Location Report if there is a
change in SA due to SRNS Relocation. Also, the HNB GW sends the stored RANAP
LOCATION REPORTING CONTROL encapsulated in the RUA DIRECT TRANSFER message
towards the target HNB after step 5 (see subclause 5.11.2) if Location
Reporting Control procedure continues after relocation.
# A.10 Security Functions
The radio interface is ciphered/integrity protected upon request of the Core
Network. The ciphering/ integrity protection is done within UTRAN at the HNB.
However, the HNB-GW stores the ciphering and integrity protection related
RANAP parameters exchanged in the UE dedicated RANAP signalling messages. The
HNB-GW includes the stored ciphering/integrity protection information in the
Relocation Request message to the target HNB.
# A.11 Iuh Framing Protocol Interworking Function (IuhUPIF)
## A.11.1 Introduction
The CS user plane traffic on the Iuh interface (between HNB and HNB-GW)
carried using the Iu UP framing protocol as defined in the TS 25.415 [17]
UTRAN Iu interface user plane protocols. The HNB Iu UP entity follows the
procedures and principles defined in the Iu UP framing protocol specification
(TS25.415 [17] UTRAN Iu interface user plane protocols). Most of the Iu UP
PDUs will be transferred by the HNB-GW without any processing. However, the
HNB-GW will perform certain functionalities that could be implemented by an
IuhUPIF (Iuh user plane interworking function) in the HNB-GW as described
below.
The IuhUPIF is the functional entity responsible for aligning or mapping
control procedures (including RFCIs, frame numbers etc) on the separate UP
interfaces. The IuhUPIF determines if the two UP configurations (at the HNB
and CN) are identical and thus the UP PDUs may be passed transparently. If the
IuhUPIF determines that the two UP configurations are not identical it applies
the necessary mapping.
Figure A.11.1-1: The Iuh Framing Protocol Interworking Function.
## A.11.2 CS User Plane handling during the Initial CS RAB setup
During the CS RAB setup, the HNB allocates the RAB Subflows combination
indicator for the SDU formats (SDU formats are sent to the HNB in the RANAP
RAB ASSIGNMENT message). The allocation is then sent in the Iu Framing
Initialisation PDU by the HNB in the user plane. For further details see TS
25.413 [9] and TS 25.415 [17].
Upon reception of the RFCI values in the Iu UP Initialisaiton Frame (Iu UP PDU
type 14 from the HNB ) during the call establishment, the HNB-GW stores "UL
RFCI vector". The first subflow of the initialisation corresponds to the
Initial Rate control i.e. indicate the highest rate for the first speech mode
to be used in the direction of the Initialisation acknowledgement frame. The
HNB-GW forwards the Iu UP Initialisation frame towards the CN according to TS
25.415 [17] without any change to the received Iu UP PDU from the HNB. Upon
reception of the Iu UP ACK/NACK PDU, the HNB-GW forwards it towards the HNB.
Figure A.11.2-1: IU UP Handling during the Initial call setup.
## A.11.3 CS User Plane handling after the finalisation of SRNS Relocation
During the SRNS Relocation, as part of the RANAP Relocation Resource
Allocation procedure, the target HNB performs the user plane initialisation.
The (Target) HNB allocates the RAB Subflows combination indicator(s) for the
each SDU formats (SDU formats are sent to the HNB in the RANAP RELOCATION
REQUEST message). The allocation is then sent in the Iu Framing Initialisation
PDU by the HNB in the user plane. For further details see TS 25.413 [9] and TS
25.415 [17].
Figure A.11.3-1. IU UP Handling after SRNS Relocation.
At reception of an IU UP Initialisation Frame (Iu UP PDU type 14) from the
Target HNB, the HNB-GW stores received RFCI indexes (per data rate) in the
form of ordered sequence (received in the initialisation PDU) as "UL RFCI
Vector" and send the Initialisation acknowledgment to the target HNB. The HNB-
GW does not perform the forwarding of the IuUP initialisation on the Iu
interface. The HNB-GW checks whether the received RFCI allocations match the
stored RFCI allocation for the same bearer established with the source HNB.
The HNB-GW performs the following functions:
\- RFCI Mapping function: If the allocated RFCI index (s) does not match with
the existing RFCI index(s) for the corresponding data rates, then the HNB-GW
performs the RFCI Mapping function. That is, for every subsequent Iu UP frame
upon the relocation, the HNB-GW maps the RFCI indices of the incoming side
(from the HNB) to the corresponding RFCI indicates to the outgoing side
(towards the MSC that is already stored in the HNB-GW) and vice versa.
\- In case Iu UP version 1, if the maximum rate indicated by the target HNB in
the Iu UP INIT is different from the current used maximum rate then the HNB-GW
initiates a Rate Control PDU indicating the new maximum rate to the MSC.
## A.11.4 FQC
The HNB-GW (IuhUP IF) does not handle the FQC included in the UP frames. The
value included in the Iu UP frame is passed to the peer not without any
modification.
## A.11.5 Frame number
The frame number indicated by the peer node (i.e. Iu or Iuh) on the receiving
side is forwarded unmodified to lower layer on the sending side.
## A.11.6 Time alignment Procedure:
When a HNB-GW (IuhUP IF) entity receives a time Alignment Command over the Iu
or Iuh interface, it is relayed unmodified to the other peer node.
## A.11.7 Rate Control Procedure
When an HNB-GW (IuhUP IF) entity receives a Rate Control over the Iu or Iuh
interface, it forwards to the other peer node) with 'RFCI Mapping' where
appropriate.
## A.11.8 Payload
When a HNB-GW (IuhUP IF) entity receives the payload SDUs, the received SDUs
is forwarded unmodified to the either side (HNB or HNB-GW) with 'RFCI Mapping'
where appropriate.
## A.11.9 Iu UP Re-Initialisation
When an HNB-GW (IuhUP IF) entity receives a Iu UP Initialisation from the CN,
it stores the "DL RFCI Vector" and then forward it to the HNB without any
modification in the RFCIs. Upon reception of the Iu UP ACK/NACK PDU, the HNB-
GW forwards it towards the CN.
Figure A.11.9-1: IU UP Re- Initialisation.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Deployment Architecture
# B.1 Direct Iurh connectivity between HNBs
The reference model shown in Figure B.1-1 below illustrates an HNB access
network with direct Iurh connectivity.
Figure B.1-1: HNB access network deploying direct Iurh connectivity.
An alternative HNB access network configuration deploying the Iurh interface
transported via the Security Gateway is shown in Figure B.1-2.
NOTE: If the Security Gateway and the HNB-GW are co-located then the co-
located node should support IP routing.
Figure B.1-2: HNB access network deploying Iurh connectivity via a Security
Gateway.
An alternative arrangement with the Iurhr interface transported via the
Security Gateway and the HNB-GW is shown in Figure B.1-3. The HNB-GW provides
transport routing functionality.
Figure B.1-3: HNB access network deploying Iurh connectivity via the HNB-GW.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Implementation of PSC Disambiguation for
Support of Legacy UE Mobility from RNC to HNB
# C.1 Scope
In some HNB deployments the limited number of PSCs available to be allocated
to HNBs may cause PSC ambiguity. This may result in the inability of
identifying, at the source macro RNC, a unique target HNB corresponding to a
PSC reported by a Legacy UE (i.e., UEs not capable of SI acquisition).
In this informative annex two solutions for PSC disambiguation are described.
The implementation options described in this Annex are not intended to be
evolved in the 3GPP specifications.
# C.2 Disambiguation at the RNC
This implementation option can be split in two different steps:
Step 1: At first, during previous HNB to RNC mobility, the RNC builds a local
database of necessary information concerning neighbouring cells with PSC
confusion (e.g., neighbouring cells PSCs, Cell IDs, Observed Time Difference
(OTD)). This local database is built/maintained via handover preparation
signalling. The HNB shall include the full Measurement Report and the source
cell ID in the handover preparation signalling, and the target RNC collects
incoming data and adds/updates OTD information to its database.
Step 2: In a second phase, during RNC to HNB mobility (hand-in), the RNC uses
the information previously gathered in order to disambiguate the target HNB in
case of a certain PSC is reused in a given (target) area.
## C.2.1 Step 1: Construction of HNB database in the RNC
Figure C.2.1-1 depicts the first step of this implementation option. It
consists in the RNC building the database of HNBs during HNB to RNC mobility.
Such database includes PSCs, Cell IDs and Assistance data (e.g., OTD).
Figure C.2.1-1: Step 1 -- Example of RNC constructing database of HNBs during
HNB to RNC mobility.
This first step can be split in the following sub-steps:
A. The UE under control of the HNB is configured to provide measurement
reports, including OTD data.
> Such measurement report, e.g., can be carried within an RRC:Measurement
> Report to the HNB and, subsequently, to the target RNC via handover
> preparation procedures.
B. The HNB initiates relocation towards macro cells, by including the source
cell identity and full Measurement Report in the _Source RNC to Target RNC
Transparent Container_ ;
C. The Macro RNC collects incoming data and adds/updates OTD information to
its database.
At this stage, the Macro RNC has built a database with all necessary
information for future RNC to HNB relocation (hand-in).
## C.2.2 Step 2: PSC disambiguation executed by the RNC during RNC to HNB
hand-in
Figure C.2.2-1 depicts the second step of implementation option. The RNC,
during RNC to HNB mobility (hand-in), can disambiguate the target HNB on the
basis of the information collected in the target cells database.
Figure C.2.2-1: Step 2 -- Example of PSC disambiguation at RNC during RNC to
HNB relocation.
As shown in the figure above, the second step of this implementation option
consists of the following sub-steps:
A. The RNC enables the normal measurement reporting to a "shared" PSC in the
area;
B. In case of shared target PSC and if the UE is not SI reading capable, the
RNC checks the cells reported in the measurement report, calculates the âˆ†OTD
information based on the measurement report and finds the best match in the
database created in Step 1;
C. The RNC initiates relocation towards the selected target HNB as per normal
mobility procedures.
# C.3 Disambiguation at the HNB-GW
This solution allows the HNB-GW to identify the target HNB based on the source
Cell ID and the measurements including OTD which are reported by the UE during
the handover as shown in Figure C.3-1. The procedure includes two parts:
\- Construction and Update of HNB Timing Information (âˆ†OTD) Database at the
HNB-GW.
\- Target Cell Disambiguation at the HNB-GW during handover to a HNB connected
to this HNB-GW.
Figure C.3-1: âˆ†OTD based disambiguation at the HNB-GW.
## C.3.1 Construction and Update of âˆ†OTD Database at the HNB-GW
âˆ†OTD = (OTD~HNB~ - OTD ~MNB~) represents a HNB's timing with respect to a
macro cell (MNB) as measured by the UE where âˆ†OTD~cell~ is the timing of a UE
with respect to a given cell [25]. The HNB-GW keeps a database of the âˆ†OTD
values for HNBs under its control and their neighbour MNB cells. The HNB-GW
also keeps the mapping of a MNB's Cell ID and its PSC.
The HNB-GW updates the âˆ†OTD database by using the information provided by the
UEs during handovers to MNB cells. During these hand-outs, a HNB includes the
MEASUREMENT REPORT message (MRM) in the RRC transparent container which is
sent in the RANAP _Relocation Required_ message and set the _Target Cell Id_
IE to the ID of the macro cell with respect to which the OTD is computed.
## C.3.2 Target Cell Disambiguation for Handover to the HNB
The procedure can be implemented as follows:
1\. UE is triggered to send an RRC Measurement Report (including OTD for both
source and target cells) to the SRNC by the rules set by the UTRAN.
2\. The source RAN triggers relocation of the UE session by sending the RANAP
RELOCATION REQUIRED message to the Core Network:
\- The time difference information of the target HNB cell and the source Macro
cell is contained in the _RRC Container_ IE as defined in TS 25.331 [25].
\- Source Cell ID is transmitted in the _Source RNC to Target RNC Transparent
Container_.
_\- Target Cell ID_ IE may be set to a special value since the actual Cell ID
is not known.
3\. HNB-GW determines that PSC disambiguation is needed when target cell ID
does not identify a HNB under its control. The HNB GW selects the target HNB
using the received information (including the source Cell ID and MRM) and the
âˆ†OTD database.
4\. The remainder of the relocation procedure continues normally as documented
in 3GPP TS 25.413 [9] and 3GPP TS 23.060 [10].
Additionally, after the successful inbound handover, the HNB GW can update the
âˆ†OTD information between the target HNB cell and the source MNB cell using the
received information.
# C.4 Notes
For both solutions described above, the following notes apply:
NOTE 1: It is assumed that the HNB GW/RNC has the mapping of neighbouring
cells PSCs and Cell IDs.
NOTE 2: If OTD signatures are not maintained up to date, handover failures may
occur.
NOTE 3: The range of âˆ†OTDs will be different for intra and inter-frequency
cell measurements (e.g., when the HNB cell is measured on another frequency
than the source cell). Consequently the disambiguation performance in the two
scenarios may differ.
#