# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the essential EMC requirements for \"3^rd^
generation\" digital cellular mobile terminal equipment and ancillary
accessories in combination with a 3GPP NR user equipment (UE).
The equipment conforming to the requirements laid out in the present document
and used in its intended electromagnetic environment in accordance with the
manufacturer\'s instructions
\- shall not generate electromagnetic disturbances at a level which may
interfere with the intended operation of other equipment;
\- has an adequate level of intrinsic immunity to electromagnetic disturbances
to operate as intended;
The present document specifies the applicable EMC tests, methods of
measurement, frequency ranges, applicable limits and minimum performance
criteria for all types of NR UE(s) and their accessories. NR base station
equipment operating within network infrastructure is outside the scope of the
present document. However, the present document does cover mobile and portable
equipment that is intended to be operated in a fixed location while connected
to the AC mains. NR base station equipment operating within network
infrastructure is covered by the technical specification TS 38.113 [2].
Requirements for the radiated emission from the enclosure port of integral
antenna equipment and ancillaries are included in the present document.
Technical specifications for conducted emissions from the antenna connector
are found in the 3GPP specifications for the radio interface of NR UE, e.g. TS
38.101-1 [3], for the effective use of the radio spectrum.
Requirements for the radiated emissions from the enclosure port and
ancillaries cover the following case:
\- UE equipment supporting operations in a frequency range for which antenna
connectors are available (i.e. for operations in FR1 as defined in e.g. TS
38.101-1 [3] for the radio interface).
The immunity requirements are selected to ensure an adequate level of
compatibility for apparatus in residential, commercial, light industrial and
vehicular environments. The levels however, do not cover extreme cases, which
may occur in any location but with low probability of occurrence.
Compliance of radio equipment to the requirements of the present document does
not signify compliance to any requirement related to the use of the equipment
(i.e. licensing requirements).
Compliance to the requirements of the present document does not signify
compliance to any safety requirement. However, any temporary or permanent
unsafe condition caused by EMC is considered as non-compliance.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.113: \"NR; Base Station (BS) ElectroMagnetic Compatibility
(EMC)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \" NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[5] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[6] Void
[7] Void.
[8] IEC 61000-3-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-2: Limits -
Limits for harmonic current emissions (equipment input current ≤ 16 A per
phase)\".
[9] IEC 61000-3-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 3-3: Limits -
Limitation of voltage changes, voltage fluctuations and flicker in low-voltage
supply systems, for equipment with rated current ≤ 16 A per phase and not
subject to conditional connection\".
[10] IEC 61000-4-3: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-3: Testing
and measurement techniques - Radiated, radio-frequency electromagnetic field
immunity test\".
[11] IEC 61000-4-2: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-2: Testing
and measurement techniques - Electrostatic discharge immunity test\".
[12] IEC 61000-4-4: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-4: Testing
and measurement techniques - Electrical fast transient/burst immunity test -
Basic EMC publication\".
[13] IEC 61000-4-6: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-6: Testing
and measurement techniques - Immunity to conducted disturbances induced by
radio frequency fields\".
[14] Void
[15] ISO 7637‑2: \"Road vehicles -- Electrical disturbances from conduction
and coupling -- Part 2: Electrical transient conduction along supply lines
only\".
[16] IEC 61000-4-11: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-11:
Testing and measurement techniques - Voltage dips, short interruptions, and
voltage variations immunity test\".
[17] IEC 61000-4-5: \"Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Part 4-5: Testing
and measurement techniques - Surge immunity test\".
[18] ITU-R Recommendation SM.1539 (2001): \"Variation of the boundary between
the out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".
[19] IEC 60050-161: \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary - Chapter 161:
Electromagnetic compatibility\".
[20] IEC CISPR 32: \"Electromagnetic compatibility of multimedia equipment -
Emission requirements\".
[21] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
1: Common test environment\".
[22] 3GPP 38.509: \"Special conformance testing functions for User Equipment
(UE)\".
[23] CISPR 16-4-2: \" Specification for radio disturbance and immunity
measuring apparatus and methods - Part 4-2: Uncertainties, statistics and
limit modelling - Measurement instrumentation uncertainty, Amendment 2\"
[24] ETSI TR 100 028-1: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum
Matters (ERM); Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment
characteristics, part 1\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
_**Ancillary equipment:** Equipment (apparatus), used in connection with a
user equipment (UE) is considered as an ancillary equipment (apparatus) if:_
_\- the equipment is intended for use in conjunction with a UE to provide
additional operational and/or control features to the UE, (e.g. to extend
control to another position or location); and_
_\- the equipment cannot be used on a stand-alone basis to provide user
functions independently of a UE; and_
_\- the UE to which it is connected, is capable of providing some intended
operation such as transmitting and/or receiving without the ancillary
equipment (i.e. it is not a sub‑unit of the main equipment essential to the
main equipment basic functions)._
_**Channel bandwidth:** The RF bandwidth supporting a single NR RF carrier
with the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a
cell. The channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements._
_**Enclosure port:** Physical boundary of the apparatus through which
electromagnetic fields may radiate or impinge. In the case of integral antenna
equipment, this port is inseparable from the antenna port._
**Idle mode:** state of User Equipment (UE) when switched ON but with no Radio
Resource Control (RRC) connection.
_**Integral antenna:** Antenna designed to be connected directly to the
equipment with or without the use of an external connector and considered to
be part of the equipment. An integral antenna may be fitted internally or
externally to the equipment._
_**Necessary bandwidth:** For a given class of emission, the width of the
frequency band which is just sufficient to ensure the transmission of
information at the rate and with the quality required under specified
conditions._
_**Out of band emissions:** Emission on a frequency or frequencies immediately
outside the necessary bandwidth, which results from, the modulation process,
but excluding spurious emissions._
_**Spurious emission:** Emission on a frequency, or frequencies, which are
outside the necessary bandwidth and the level of which may be reduced without
affecting the corresponding transmission of information. Spurious emissions
include harmonic emissions, parasitic emissions, intermodulation products and
frequency conversion products but exclude out‑of‑band emissions._
**Traffic mode:** state of User Equipment (UE) when switched ON and with Radio
Resource Control (RRC) connection established.
_**Transient phenomena:** Pertaining to or designating a phenomenon or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a time
interval short compared with the time-scale of interest (IEC 60050-161 [19])_
_**User equipment:** is a \"Mobile Station\" (MS) which is an entity capable
of accessing a set of NR services via one or more radio interfaces. This
entity may be stationary or in motion within the NR service area while
accessing the NR services, and may simultaneously serve one or more users._
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
F~OOB~ The boundary between the NR out of band emission and spurious emission
domains
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AC Alternating Current
CA Carrier Aggregation
DC Direct Current
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
ESD Electrostatic Discharge
EUT Equipment Under Test
FAC Fully Anechoic Chamber
FR Frequency Range
HCP Horizontal Coupling Plane
LISN Line Impedance Stabilising Networks
LR Location Registration
NR New Radio
RF Radio Frequency
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RRC _Radio Resource Control_
UE User Equipment
# 4 Test conditions
## 4.1 General
The equipment shall be tested under normal test conditions according to the
relevant product and basic standards. If these conditions are not specified
then the manufacturers declared range of humidity, temperature and supply
voltage shall be used. The test conditions shall be recorded in the test
report.
Whenever the Equipment under test (EUT) is provided with a detachable antenna,
the EUT shall be tested with the antenna fitted in a manner typical of normal
intended use, unless specified otherwise.
Where the equipment incorporates an external 50 Ω RF antenna connector that is
normally connected via a coaxial cable, then the wanted signal to establish a
communication link also uses a coaxial cable.
Where the equipment has an external 50 Ω RF antenna connector that is not
normally connected via a coaxial cable or where the equipment has no external
50 Ω RF connector (i.e., integral antenna equipment), then the wanted signal,
to establish a communication link, shall be delivered from the equipment to an
antenna located within the test environment.
Requirements throughout the RF specifications are in many cases defined
separately for different frequency ranges (FR). The frequency ranges in which
a UE equipment (NR) can operate according to this version of the specification
are identified as described in table 4.1-1. The test conditions may be
different for operations in FR1 and FR2.
Table 4.1-1: Definition of frequency ranges
Frequency range designation Corresponding frequency range
* * *
FR1 410 MHz -- 7125 MHz FR2 24250 MHz -- 52600 MHz
## 4.2 Arrangements for establishing a communication link
For transmitters with an integral antenna, the wanted RF output signal to
establish a communication link shall be delivered from the EUT to an antenna
located within the test environment. This antenna shall be connected to the
external measuring equipment by a coaxial cable.
For transmitters with an antenna connector, the wanted RF output signal to
establish a communication link shall be delivered from the antenna connector
to the external measuring equipment by a shielded transmission line, such as a
coaxial cable. Adequate measures shall be taken to minimize the effect of
unwanted common mode currents on the external conductor of the transmission
line at the point of entry to the transmitter.
The wanted RF input signal nominal frequency shall be selected by setting the
NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number to an appropriate number.
For UE equipment only support operations in FR1 a communication link shall be
set up with a suitable base station simulator (hereafter called \"the test
system\"). The test system shall be located outside of the test environment.
When the EUT is required to be in the traffic mode, a call is set up according
to the generic call set-up procedure and the following conditions shall be
met:
\- Set and send continuously positive TPC commands to the UE;
\- The DTX shall be disabled;
\- Uplink power control shall be enabled;
\- transmitting and/or receiving (UL/DL) bit rate for reference test channel
shall be the reference measurement channel as specified in annex A in TS
38.101-1 [3] with parameters specified in table 7.3.2-1 and table 7.3.2-2 in
TS 38.101-1 [3];
\- Adequate measures shall be taken to avoid the effect of the unwanted signal
on the measuring equipment;
\- For immunity testing, the wanted input signal level shall be set to 40 dB
above the reference sensitivity level to provide a stable communication link.
The reference sensitivity level is defined in TS 38.101-1 [3];
\- For emission testing, the wanted input signal level shall be no more than
15 dB above the reference sensitivity level, such that the performance of the
measuring receiver is not limited by strong signal effects.
See TS 38.508-1 [21] and TS 38.509 [22] for details regarding generic call
set-up procedure and throughput test loop scenarios.
\- UE shall be camped on a cell
\- UE shall perform Location Registration (LR) before the test, but not during
the test;
\- UE´s neighbour cell list shall be empty;
\- Paging repetition period and DRX cycle shall be set to minimum (shortest
possible time interval).
For immunity tests, clause 4.3 applies.
## 4.3 Narrow band responses on receivers
Responses on receivers or duplex transceivers occurring during the test at
discrete frequencies, which are narrow band responses (spurious responses),
are identified by the following method:
\- If during an immunity test the quantity being monitored goes outside the
specified tolerances, it is necessary to establish whether the deviation is
due to an unwanted effect on the receiver of the UE or on the test system
(narrow band response) or to a wide band (EMC) phenomenon. Therefore, the test
shall be repeated with the unwanted signal frequency increased or decreased by
BW~Channel~ MHz, where BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined in TS
38.101-1 [3];
\- If the deviation does not disappear, the procedure is repeated the unwanted
signal frequency increased or decreased by 2 x BW~Channel~ MHz, where
BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth as defined in TS 38.101-1 [3];
\- If the deviation does not disappear with the increased and/or decreased
frequency, the phenomenon is considered wide band and therefore an EMC problem
and the equipment fails the test.
Narrow band responses are disregarded.
The procedure above does not apply to conducted immunity tests in the
frequency range 150 kHz to 80 MHz.
## 4.4 Receiver exclusion band
The receiver exclusion band for terminals extends from the lower frequency of
the allocated receiver band minus 85 MHz to the upper frequency of the
allocated receiver band plus 85 MHz. The _receiver exclusion band_ for UE is
the frequency range over which no tests of radiated immunity of a receiver are
made. The exclusions bands are as set out below:
F~DL,low~ -- 85 \ NOTE: The EUT shall be fully discharged between each ESD exposure by
> connecting its ground point (where applicable) to the HCP by a resistive
> wire with a 470 kΩ resistor in either end.
### 9.3.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.
## 9.4 Fast transients common mode
### 9.4.0 General
The test shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
This test shall be performed on signal ports, control ports and DC power
input/output ports if the cables may be longer than 3 m.
Where this test is not carried out on a port or any other ports because the
manufacturer declares that it is not intended to be used with cables longer
than 3 m, a list of ports which were not tested for this reason shall be
included in the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.
### 9.4.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of fast transients present on one of the input/output
ports.
### 9.4.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑4 [12]
\- the test level for signal and control ports shall be 0,5 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [12];
\- the test level for DC power input/output ports shall be 0,5 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [12];
\- the test level for AC mains power input ports shall be 1 kV open circuit
voltage as given in IEC 61000‑4‑4 [12].
### 9.4.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.
## 9.5 RF common mode (0.15 MHz to 80 MHz)
### 9.5.0 General
This test is applicable for UE for fixed, mobile, and portable use and for
ancillary equipment.
This test shall be performed on signal, control and DC power input/output
ports, which may have cables longer than 3 m.
This test shall be performed on AC mains power input/output ports of UE for
fixed use and for fixed ancillary equipment. Where this test is not carried
out on a port or any other ports because the manufacturer declares that it is
not intended to be used with cables longer than stated above, a list of ports
which were not tested shall be included in the test report.
This test shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE or a
representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary equipment.
### 9.5.1 Definition
This test assesses the ability of equipment and ancillary equipment to operate
as intended in the presence of a radio frequency electromagnetic disturbance.
### 9.5.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑6 [13]:
\- the test signal shall be amplitude modulated to a depth of 80 % by a
sinusoidal audio signal of 1 kHz;
\- the stepped frequency increments shall be either 50 kHz or 1 % frequency
increment of the momentary frequency in the frequency range 150 kHz - 5 MHz
and 1 % frequency increment of the momentary frequency in the frequency range
5 MHz - 80 MHz;
\- the test level shall be severity level 2 as given in IEC 61000‑4‑6 [13]
corresponding to 3 V RMS, at a transfer impedance of 150 W;
\- the test shall be performed over the frequency range 150 kHz - 80 MHz;
\- responses of stand alone receivers or receivers which are part of
transceivers occurring at discrete frequencies which are narrow band
responses, shall be disregarded, see clause 4.3;
\- the frequencies selected during the test and the test method used shall be
recorded in the test report.
### 9.5.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of clause 6.1 shall apply.
## 9.6 Transients and surges, vehicular environment
### 9.6.1 Definition
The tests are applicable to UE intended for use in a vehicular environment.
These tests shall be performed on 12 V and 24 V DC power input.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the
equipment or a representative configuration of the combination of UE and
ancillary equipment.
These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of transients and surges present on the DC power input
ports in a vehicular environment.
### 9.6.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 [15] for nominal 12 V
DC powered equipment and nominal 24 V DC powered equipment. The requirements
are detailed as follows:
#### 9.6.2.1 12 V DC powered equipment
The test pulse severity levels I/II shall apply for nominal 12 V system as
specified in table A.1 in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 [15].
Where the manufacturer declares that the EUT requires a direct connection to
the vehicle battery, and the corresponding tests are not carried out, this
shall be stated in the test report.
#### 9.6.2.2 24 V DC powered equipment
The test pulse severity level I/II shall apply for nominal 24 V system as
specified in table A.2 in accordance with ISO 7637‑2 [15].
Where the manufacturer declares that the EUT requires a direct connection to
the vehicle battery, and the corresponding tests are not carried out, this
shall be stated in the test report.
For UE designed to operate at 12 V DC power supply, but operating from a 24 V
DC power adapter ancillary, then the UE shall comply with the requirements in
9.6.2.1 and the configuration of the UE and the power adapter shall comply
with the requirements of 9.6.2.2.
### 9.6.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply. However, where the
equipment is powered without the use of a parallel battery back-up, for pulses
1, 2a, 2b the communications link need not be maintained and may have to be
re-established and volatile user data may have been lost.
## 9.7 Voltage dips and interruptions
### 9.7.0 General
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE or
a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.
### 9.7.1 Definition
These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of voltage dips and interruptions present on the AC
mains power input ports.
### 9.7.2 Test method and level
The following requirements shall apply.
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑11 [16].
The test levels shall be:
\- a voltage dip corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage of 60 %
for 5 periods;
\- a voltage interruption corresponding to a reduction of the supply voltage
of > 95 % for 250 periods.
### 9.7.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply. However, in the case where
the equipment is powered solely from the AC mains supply (without the use of a
parallel battery back-up) the communications link need not be maintained and
may have to be re-established and volatile user data may have been lost. In
the event of loss of the communications link or in the event of loss of user
data, this fact shall be recorded in the test report, the product description
and the user documentation.
## 9.8 Surges, common and differential mode
### 9.8.1 Definition
The tests shall be performed on AC mains power input ports.
These tests shall be performed on a representative configuration of the UE or
a representative configuration of the combination of UE and ancillary
equipment.
These tests assess the ability of UE and ancillary equipment to operate as
intended in the event of surges being present at the AC mains power input
ports.
### 9.8.2 Test method and level
The test method shall be in accordance with IEC 61000‑4‑5 [17].
The following requirements and evaluation of test results shall apply:
\- the test level for ac mains power input ports shall be 1 kV line to ground
and 0,5 kV line to line with the output impedance of the surge generator as
given in the IEC 61000‑4‑5 [17];
\- the test generator shall provide the 1,2/50 µsec pulse as defined in IEC
61000‑4‑5 [17].
### 9.8.3 Performance criteria
The performance criteria of clause 6.2 shall apply.
#