# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Access Stratum (AS) part of the UE
procedures in RRC_IDLE state (also called Idle mode) and RRC_INACTIVE state.
The non-access stratum (NAS) part of Idle mode procedures and processes is
specified in TS 23.122 [9].
The present document specifies the model for the functional division between
the NAS and AS in a UE.
The present document applies to all UEs that support at least NR Radio Access,
including multi-RAT UEs as described in 3GPP specifications, in the following
cases:
\- When the UE is camped on a NR cell;
\- When the UE is searching for a cell to camp on;
NOTE: When the UE is camped on or searching for a cell to camp on belonging to
other RATs, the UE behaviour is described in the specifications of the other
RATs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control \".
[5] Void
[6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"E-UTRA; User Equipment (UE) procedures in RRC_IDLE state
\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"NAS functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in RRC_IDLE
state\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical layer measurements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.890: \"5G System -- Phase 1; CT WG1 Aspects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[15] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
[18] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as specified in
4.5.
**Allowed CAG list: A per-PLMN list of CAG Identifiers the UE is allowed to
access (see TS 23.501 [10]).**
**Available PLMN(s):** One or more PLMN(s) for which the UE has found at least
one cell and read its PLMN identity(ies).
**Available SNPN(s):** One or more SNPN(s) for which the UE has found at least
one cell and read its SNPN identity(ies).
**Barred Cell** : A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.
**CAG cell** : A cell broadcasting at least one Closed Access Group
Identifier.
**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection process
and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and (in most cases)
paging information.
**Camped on any cell** : UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.
**Closed Access Group Identifier** : Identifier of a CAG within a PLMN.
**Commercial Mobile Alert System:** Public Warning System that delivers
_Warning Notifications_ provided by _Warning Notification Providers_ to CMAS
capable UEs.
**eCall Only Mode:** A UE configuration option that allows the UE to register
at 5GC and register in IMS to perform only eCall Over IMS, and a non-emergency
IMS call for test and/or terminal reconfiguration services.
**EHPLMN: Any of the PLMN entries contained in the Equivalent HPLMN list TS
23.122 [9].**
**Equivalent PLMN list: List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE for
cell selection, cell reselection, and handover according to the information
provided by the NAS.**
**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network
Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC of the IMSI.
**Network Identifier** : Identifier of an SNPN in combination with a PLMN ID
(TS 23.501 [10]).
**Non-Public Network:** A network deployed for non-public use, as defined in
TS 22.261 [12]**.**
**NR sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling at least V2X
Communication as defined in TS 23.287 [16], between two or more nearby UEs,
using NR technology but not traversing any network node.
**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by an RRC procedure or an
RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE state procedure.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance NR or E-UTRA.
**Registration Area** : (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE may
roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred, as specified in TS 23.122 [9].
**Registered SNPN** : This is the SNPN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred, as specified in TS 23.122 [9].
**Reserved Cell** : A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Selected SNPN** : This is the SNPN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.
**Sidelink:** UE to UE interface for V2X sidelink communication defined in TS
23.287[16].
**SNPN Access Mode: Mode of operation wherein UE only selects SNPNs (as
defined in** TS 23.501 [10])**.**
**SNPN identity: An identifier of an SNPN comprising of** a PLMN ID and an NID
combination.
**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular frequency that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure (TS 38.213 [4], TS
38.215 [11]).
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which a UE may camp. For NR cell, the
criteria are defined in clause 4.5, for E-UTRA cell in TS 36.304 [7].
**V2X sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling V2X Communication
as defined in TS 23.285 [17], between nearby UEs, using E-UTRA technology but
not traversing any network node.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AS Access Stratum
CAG Closed Access Group
CAG-ID Closed Access Group Identifier
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
CN Core Network
DCI Downlink Control Information
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
HRNN Human-Readable Network Name
IAB Integrated Access and Backhaul
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MCC Mobile Country Code
MICO Mobile Initiated Connection Only
NAS Non-Access Stratum
NID Network Identifier
NPN Non-Public Network
NR NR Radio Access
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
RNA RAN-based Notification Area
RNAU RAN-based Notification Area Update
RRC Radio Resource Control
SNPN Stand-alone Non-Public Network
UAC Unified Access Control
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
> V2X Vehicle to Everything
# 4 General description of RRC_IDLE state and RRC_INACTIVE state
## 4.1 Overview
The RRC_IDLE state and RRC_INACTIVE state tasks can be subdivided into three
processes:
\- PLMN selection (for UE not operating in SNPN access mode) or SNPN selection
(for UE operating in SNPN access mode);
\- Cell selection and reselection;
\- Location registration and RNA update.
PLMN selection, SNPN selection, cell reselection procedures, and location
registration are common for both RRC_IDLE state and RRC_INACTIVE state. RNA
update is only applicable for RRC_INACTIVE state. When UE selects a new PLMN
or SNPN, UE transitions from RRC_INACTIVE to RRC_IDLE, as specified in TS
24.501 [14].
When a UE is switched on, a public land mobile network (PLMN) or a SNPN is
selected by NAS. For the selected PLMN/SNPN, associated RAT(s) may be set, as
specified in TS 23.122 [9]. The NAS shall provide a list of equivalent PLMNs,
if available, that the AS shall use for cell selection and cell reselection.
With cell selection, the UE searches for a suitable cell of the selected PLMN
or selected SNPN, chooses that cell to provide available services, and
monitors its control channel. This procedure is defined as \"camping on the
cell\".
The UE shall, if necessary, then register its presence, by means of a NAS
registration procedure, in the tracking area of the chosen cell. As an outcome
of a successful Location Registration, the selected PLMN/SNPN then becomes the
registered PLMN/SNPN, as specified in TS 23.122 [9].
If the UE finds a more suitable cell, according to the cell reselection
criteria, it reselects onto that cell and camps on it. If the new cell does
not belong to at least one tracking area to which the UE is registered,
location registration is performed. In RRC_INACTIVE state, if the new cell
does not belong to the configured RNA, an RNA update procedure is performed.
If necessary, the UE shall search for higher priority PLMNs at regular time
intervals as described in TS 23.122 [9] and search for a suitable cell if
another PLMN has been selected by NAS.
For UE not operating in SNPN access mode, search of available CAGs may be
triggered by NAS to support manual CAG selection. The AS shall report
available CAG-ID(s) together with their HRNN (if broadcast) and PLMN(s) to the
NAS.
If the UE loses coverage of the registered PLMN/SNPN, either a new PLMN/SNPN
is selected automatically (automatic mode), or an indication of available
PLMNs/SNPNs is given to the user so that a manual selection can be performed
(manual mode). As part of manual SNPN selection, the AS shall report available
SNPN identifiers together with their HRNN (if broadcast) to the NAS.
Registration is not performed by UEs only capable of services that need no
registration.
The UE may perform NR sidelink communication and/or V2X sidelink communication
while in-coverage or out-of-coverage for sidelink, as specified in clause 8.
The purpose of camping on a cell in RRC_IDLE state and RRC_INACTIVE state is
fourfold:
a) It enables the UE to receive system information from the PLMN or the SNPN.
b) When registered and if the UE wishes to establish an RRC connection or
resume a suspended RRC connection, it can do this by initially accessing the
network on the control channel of the cell on which it is camped.
c) If the network needs to send a message or deliver data to the registered
UE, it knows (in most cases) the set of tracking areas (in RRC_IDLE state) or
RNA (in RRC_INACTIVE state) in which the UE is camped. It can then send a
\"paging\" message for the UE on the control channels of all the cells in the
corresponding set of areas. The UE will then receive the paging message and
can respond.
d) It enables the UE to receive ETWS and CMAS notifications.
When the UE is in RRC_IDLE state, upper layers may deactivate AS layer when
MICO mode is activated as specified in TS 24.501 [14]. When MICO mode is
activated, the AS configuration (e.g. priorities provided by dedicated
signalling) is kept and all running timers continue to run but the UE need not
perform any idle mode tasks. If a timer expires while MICO mode is activated
it is up to the UE implementation whether it performs the corresponding action
immediately or the latest when MICO mode is deactivated. When MICO mode is
deactivated, the UE shall perform all idle mode tasks.
## 4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in RRC_IDLE state and
RRC_INACTIVE state
Table 4.2-1 presents the functional division between UE non-access stratum
(NAS) and UE access stratum (AS) in RRC_IDLE state and RRC_INACTIVE states.
The NAS part is specified in TS 23.122 [9] and the AS part in the present
document.
Table 4.2-1: Functional division between AS and NAS in RRC_IDLE state and
RRC_INACTIVE state
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RRC_IDLE and | UE Non-Access | UE Access Stratum | | RRC_INACTIVE state | Stratum | | | Process | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PLMN Selection | **For a UE not | For a UE not | | | operating in SNPN | operating in SNPN | | | access mode, perform | access mode, search | | | the following:** | for available PLMNs. | | | | | | | > Maintain a list of | If associated RAT(s) | | | > PLMNs in priority | is (are) set for the | | | > order according to | PLMN, search in this | | | > TS 23.122 [9]. | (these) RAT(s) and | | | > Select a PLMN | other RAT(s) for | | | > using automatic or | that PLMN as | | | > manual mode as | specified in TS | | | > specified in TS | 23.122 [9]. | | | > 23.122 [9] and | | | | > request AS to | For a UE operating | | | > select a cell | in SNPN access mode, | | | > belonging to this | search for available | | | > PLMN. For each | SNPNs only consider | | | > PLMN, associated | NR cells. | | | > RAT(s) may be set. | | | | > | Perform measurements | | | > Evaluate reports | to support PLMN/SNPN | | | > of available PLMNs | selection. | | | > and any associated | | | | > CAG-IDs from AS | Synchronise to a | | | > for PLMN | broadcast channel to | | | > selection. | identify found | | | > | PLMNs/SNPNs. | | | > Maintain a list of | | | | > equivalent PLMN | Report available | | | > identities. | PLMNs and any | | | > | associated CAG-IDs | | | > To support manual | with associated | | | > CAG selection, | RAT(s) to NAS on | | | > provide request to | request from NAS or | | | > search for | autonomously. | | | > available CAGs and | | | | > evaluate reports | For a UE operating | | | > of available CAGs | in SNPN access mode, | | | > from AS for CAG | report available | | | > selection. | SNPNs to NAS | | | | autonomously. | | | **For a UE operating | | | | in SNPN access mode, |** To support manual | | | perform the | CAG selection, | | | following:**| perform the | | | | following:** | | | > Maintain a list of | | | | > SNPNs according to | > Search for cells | | | > TS 23.122 [9]. | > broadcasting a | | | > Select a SNPN | > CAG-ID. | | | > using automatic or | > | | | > manual mode as | > Read the HRNN (if | | | > specified in TS | > broadcast) for | | | > 23.122 [9] and | > each CAG-ID if a | | | > request AS to | > cell broadcasting | | | > select a cell | > a CAG-ID is found. | | | > belonging to this | > | | | > SNPN. | > Report CAG-ID(s) | | | | > of found cell(s) | | | Evaluate reports of | > broadcasting a | | | available SNPNs from | > CAG-ID together | | | AS for SNPN | > with the | | | selection. | > associated manual | | | | > CAG selection | | | | > allowed indicator, | | | | > HRNN and PLMNto | | | | > NAS. | | | | > | | | | > On selection of a | | | | > CAG by NAS, select | | | | > any acceptable or | | | | > suitable cell | | | | > belonging to the | | | | > selected CAG and | | | | > give an indication | | | | > to NAS that access | | | | > is possible (for | | | | > the registration | | | | > procedure) | | | | | | | | To support manual | | | | SNPN selection, | | | | report available | | | | SNPNs together with | | | | associated HRNNs (if | | | | available) to NAS on | | | | request from NAS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Selection | selection for | needed to support | | | example by | cell selection. | | | indicating RAT(s) | | | | associated with the | Detect and | | | selected PLMN to be | synchronise to a | | | used initially in | broadcast channel. | | | the search of a cell | Receive and handle | | | in the cell | broadcast | | | selection. | information. Forward | | | | NAS system | | | Maintain a list of | information to NAS. | | | \"Forbidden Tracking | | | | Areas\" and provide | Search for a | | | the list to AS. | suitable cell. The | | | | cells broadcast one | | | For a UE not | or more \'PLMN | | | operating in SNPN | identity\' or \'SNPN | | | access mode: | identity\' (for a UE | | | Maintain Allowed CAG | operating in SNPN | | | list and optional | access mode) in the | | | CAG-only indication | system information. | | | along with | Respond to NAS | | | associated PLMN | whether such cell is | | | ID(s) on which the | found or not. | | | UE is allowed access | | | | and provide these | If associated RATs | | | lists to AS. To | is (are) set for the | | | support manual CAG | PLMN, perform the | | | selection, select a | search in this | | | CAG and request AS | (these) RAT(s) and | | | to select a cell | other RATs for that | | | belonging to this | PLMN as specified in | | | CAG. | TS 23.122 [9]. | | | | | | | | If a cell is found | | | | which satisfies cell | | | | selection criteria, | | | | camp on that cell. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | For a UE not | Perform measurements | | Reselection | operating in SNPN | needed to support | | | access mode, | cell reselection. | | | | | | | maintain a list of | Detect and | | | equivalent PLMN | synchronise to a | | | identities and | broadcast channel. | | | provide the list to | Receive and handle | | | AS. | broadcast | | | | information. Forward | | | Maintain a list of | NAS system | | | \"Forbidden Tracking | information to NAS. | | | Areas\" and provide | | | | the list to AS. | Change cell if a | | | | more suitable cell | | | For a UE not | is found. | | | operating in SNPN | | | | access mode, | | | | maintain Allowed CAG | | | | list and optional | | | | CAG-only indication | | | | along with | | | | associated PLMN | | | | ID(s) on which the | | | | UE is allowed access | | | | and provide these | | | | lists to AS. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Location | Register the UE as | Report registration | | registration | active after power | area information to | | | on. | NAS. | | | | | | | Register the UE\'s | | | | presence in a | | | | registration area, | | | | for instance | | | | regularly or when | | | | entering a new | | | | tracking area. | | | | | | | | Deregister UE when | | | | shutting down. | | | | | | | | Maintain a list of | | | | \"Forbidden Tracking | | | | Areas\". | | | | | | | | Control and restrict | | | | location | | | | registration for a | | | | UE in eCall Only | | | | Mode. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAN Notification | Not applicable. | Register the UE\'s | | Area Update | | presence in a | | | | RAN-based | | | | notification area | | | | (RNA), periodically | | | | or when entering a | | | | new RNA. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.3 Service types in RRC_IDLE state
This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the network
to a UE in RRC_IDLE state. The following three levels of services are provided
while a UE is in RRC_IDLE state:
\- Limited service (emergency calls, ETWS and CMAS on an acceptable cell);
\- Normal service (for public use or non-public use on a suitable cell);
\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell).
## 4.4 Service types in RRC_INACTIVE state
This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the network
to a UE in RRC_INACTIVE state. The following two levels of services are
provided while a UE is in RRC_INACTIVE state:
\- Normal service (for public use or non-public use on a suitable cell);
\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell).
## 4.5 Cell Categories
The cells are categorised according to which services they offer:
**acceptable cell:**
An \"acceptable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp to obtain limited
service (originate emergency calls and receive ETWS and CMAS notifications).
Such a cell shall fulfil the following requirements, which is the minimum set
of requirements to initiate an emergency call and to receive ETWS and CMAS
notification in an NR network:
\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2.
**suitable cell:**
For UE not operating in SNPN Access Mode, a cell is considered as suitable if
the following conditions are fulfilled:
\- The cell is part of either the selected PLMN or the registered PLMN or PLMN
of the Equivalent PLMN list, and for that PLMN either:
\- The PLMN-ID of that PLMN is broadcast by the cell with no associated CAG-
IDs and CAG-only indication in the UE for that PLMN (TS 23.501 [10]) is absent
or false;
\- Allowed CAG list in the UE for that PLMN (TS 23.501 [10]) includes a CAG-ID
broadcast by the cell for that PLMN;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2.
According to the latest information provided by NAS:
\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;
\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"Forbidden Tracking Areas for Roaming\" (TS 22.011 [18]), which belongs to a
PLMN that fulfils the first bullet above.
For UE operating in SNPN Access Mode, a cell is considered as suitable if the
following conditions are fulfilled:
\- The cell is part of either the selected SNPN or the registered SNPN of the
UE;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2;
According to the latest information provided by NAS:
\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;
\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"Forbidden Tracking Areas for Roaming\" which belongs to either the selected
SNPN or the registered SNPN of the UE.
**barred cell:**
A cell is barred if it is so indicated in the system information, as specified
in TS 38.331 [3].
**reserved cell:**
A cell is reserved if it is so indicated in system information, as specified
in TS 38.331 [3].
Following exception to these definitions are applicable for UEs:
\- if a UE has an ongoing emergency call, all acceptable cells of that PLMN
are treated as suitable for the duration of the emergency call.
\- camped on a cell that belongs to a tracking area that is forbidden for
regional provision of service; a cell that belongs to a tracking area that is
forbidden for regional provision service (TS 23.122 [9], TS 24.501 [14]) is
suitable but provides only limited service.
\- if the UE in RRC_IDLE fulfils the conditions to support NR sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication in limited service state as
specified in TS23.287 [16] clause 5.7, the UE may perform NR sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication.
> NOTE: UE is not required to support manual search and selection of PLMN or
> CAG or SNPN while in RRC CONNECTED state. The UE may use local release of
> RRC connection to perform manual search if it is not possible to perform the
> search while RRC connected.
# 5 Process and procedure descriptions
## 5.1 PLMN selection and SNPN selection
In the UE not operating in SNPN access mode, the AS shall report available
PLMNs and any associated CAG-IDs to the NAS on request from the NAS or
autonomously. In the UE operating in SNPN access mode, the AS shall report
available SNPNs to the NAS on request from the NAS or autonomously.
During PLMN selection, based on the list of PLMN identities in priority order,
the particular PLMN may be selected either automatically or manually. Each
PLMN in the list of PLMN identities is identified by a \'PLMN identity\'. In
the system information on the broadcast channel, the UE can receive one or
multiple \'PLMN identity\' in a given cell. The result of the PLMN selection
performed by NAS (see TS 23.122 [9]) is an identifier of the selected PLMN.
During SNPN selection, based on the list of SNPN identities, the particular
SNPN may be selected either automatically or manually. Each SNPN in the list
of SNPN identities is identified by a \'SNPN identity\'. In the system
information on the broadcast channel, the UE can receive one or multiple
\'SNPN identity\' in a given cell and optionally may receive associated HRNNs.
The result of the SNPN selection performed by NAS (see TS 23.122 [9]) is an
identifier of the selected SNPN.
### 5.1.1 Support for PLMN selection
#### 5.1.1.1 General
On request of the NAS, the AS shall perform a search for available PLMNs and
report them to NAS.
#### 5.1.1.2 NR case
The UE shall scan all RF channels in the NR bands according to its
capabilities to find available PLMNs and available CAGs. On each carrier, the
UE shall search for the strongest cell and read its system information, in
order to find out which PLMN(s) the cell belongs to and any associated CAG(s).
For operation with shared spectrum channel access, the UE may also read the
system information of multiple strongest cell(s). If the UE can read one or
several PLMN identities in the strongest cell or the multiple strongest
cell(s) in case of operation with shared spectrum channel access, each found
PLMN (see the PLMN reading in TS 38.331 [3]) shall be reported to the NAS as a
high quality PLMN (but without the RSRP value) and any associated CAG-ID,
provided that the following high-quality criterion is fulfilled:
1\. For an NR cell, the measured RSRP value shall be greater than or equal to
-110 dBm.
Found PLMNs that do not satisfy the high-quality criterion but for which the
UE has been able to read the PLMN identities are reported to the NAS together
with their corresponding RSRP values and any associated CAG-ID. The quality
measure reported by the UE to NAS shall be the same for each PLMN found in one
cell.
The search for PLMNs may be stopped on request from the NAS. The UE may
optimise PLMN search by using stored information e.g. frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements.
Once the UE has selected a PLMN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that PLMN to camp on.
To support manual CAG selection, the UE shall upon request by NAS report
available CAG-ID(s) together with their manual CAG selection allowed indicator
(if broadcast), HRNN (if broadcast) and PLMN(s) to the NAS. If NAS has
selected a CAG and provided this selection to AS, the UE shall search for an
acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the selected CAG to camp on.
#### 5.1.1.3 E-UTRA case
Support for PLMN selection in E-UTRA is described in TS 36.304 [7].
### 5.1.2 Support for SNPN selection
#### 5.1.2.1 General
On request of the NAS, the AS shall perform a search for available SNPNs on
only NR cells and report them to NAS.
#### 5.1.2.2 NR case
The UE shall scan all RF channels in the NR bands according to its
capabilities to find available SNPNs. On each carrier, the UE shall search for
the strongest cell and read its system information, in order to find out which
SNPN(s) the cell belongs to. For operation with shared spectrum channel
access, the UE may also read the system information of multiple strongest
cell(s). If the UE can read one or several SNPN identities in the strongest
cell, each found SNPN (see the SNPN reading in TS 38.331 [3]) shall be
reported to the NAS. For manual selection, UE shall upon request by NAS report
available SNPN identifiers together with their HRNN (if broadcast) to the NAS
and the search for available SNPNs may be stopped on request of the NAS.
The search for SNPNs may be stopped on request from the NAS. The UE may
optimise SNPN search by using stored information e.g. frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements.
Once the UE has selected a SNPN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that SNPN to camp on.
## 5.2 Cell selection and reselection
### 5.2.1 Introduction
UE shall perform measurements for cell selection and reselection purposes as
specified in TS 38.133 [8].
When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
evaluation purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving cell
and for the final check on cell selection criterion, the UE shall use
parameters provided by the target cell for cell reselection.
The NAS can control the RAT(s) in which the cell selection should be
performed, for instance by indicating RAT(s) associated with the selected
PLMN, and by maintaining a list of forbidden registration area(s) and a list
of equivalent PLMNs. The UE shall select a suitable cell based on RRC_IDLE or
RRC_INACTIVE state measurements and cell selection criteria.
In order to expedite the cell selection process, stored information for
several RATs, if available, may be used by the UE.
When camped on a cell, the UE shall regularly search for a better cell
according to the cell reselection criteria. If a better cell is found, that
cell is selected. The change of cell may imply a change of RAT. Details on
performance requirements for cell reselection can be found in TS 38.133 [8].
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection result in changes in
the received system information relevant for NAS.
For normal service, the UE shall camp on a suitable cell, monitor control
channel(s) of that cell so that the UE can:
\- receive system information from the PLMN or SNPN; and
\- receive registration area information from the PLMN or SNPN, e.g., tracking
area information; and
\- receive other AS and NAS Information; and
\- if registered:
\- receive paging and notification messages from the PLMN or SNPN; and
\- initiate transfer to Connected mode.
For cell selection in multi-beam operations, measurement quantity of a cell is
up to UE implementation.
For cell reselection in multi-beam operations, including inter-RAT reselection
from E-UTRA to NR, the measurement quantity of this cell is derived amongst
the beams corresponding to the same cell based on SS/PBCH block as follows:
> \- if _nrofSS-BlocksToAverage_ (_maxRS-IndexCellQual_ in E-UTRA) is not
> configured in _SIB2/SIB4_ (_SIB24_ in E-UTRA); or
>
> \- if _absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation_ (_threshRS-Index_ in E-UTRA) is not
> configured in _SIB2/SIB4_ (_SIB24_ in E-UTRA); or
\- if the highest beam measurement quantity value is below or equal to
_absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation_ (_threshRS-Index_ in E-UTRA):
\- derive a cell measurement quantity as the highest beam measurement quantity
value, where each beam measurement quantity is described in TS 38.215 [11].
> \- else:
\- derive a cell measurement quantity as the linear average of the power
values of up to _nrofSS-BlocksToAverage_ (_maxRS-IndexCellQual_ in E-UTRA) of
highest beam measurement quantity values above _absThreshSS-
BlocksConsolidation_ (_threshRS-Index_ in E-UTRA).
### 5.2.2 States and state transitions in RRC_IDLE state and RRC_INACTIVE
state
Figure 5.2.2-1 shows the states and state transitions and procedures in
RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE. Whenever a new PLMN selection or new SNPN selection
is performed, it causes an exit to number 1.
Figure 5.2.2-1: RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE Cell Selection and Reselection
### 5.2.3 Cell Selection process
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
Cell selection is performed by one of the following two procedures:
a) Initial cell selection (no prior knowledge of which RF channels are NR
frequencies):
1\. The UE shall scan all RF channels in the NR bands according to its
capabilities to find a suitable cell.
2\. On each frequency, the UE need only search for the strongest cell, except
for operation with shared spectrum channel access where the UE may search for
the next strongest cell(s).
3\. Once a suitable cell is found, this cell shall be selected.
b) Cell selection by leveraging stored information:
1\. This procedure requires stored information of frequencies and optionally
also information on cell parameters from previously received measurement
control information elements or from previously detected cells.
2\. Once the UE has found a suitable cell, the UE shall select it.
3\. If no suitable cell is found, the initial cell selection procedure in a)
shall be started.
NOTE: Priorities between different frequencies or RATs provided to the UE by
system information or dedicated signalling are not used in the cell selection
process.
#### 5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion
The cell selection criterion S is fulfilled when:
* * *
Srxlev > 0 AND Squal > 0
* * *
where:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- (Q~rxlevmin~ + Q~rxlevminoffset~ )-- | | P~compensation~ - **Qoffset~temp~** | | | | Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- (Q~qualmin~ + Q~qualminoffset~) - | | **Qoffset~temp~** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
where:
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev | Cell selection RX level value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Squal | Cell selection quality value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Qoffset~temp~** | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as | | | specified in TS 38.331 [3] (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmeas~ | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmeas~ | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmin~ | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm). | | | If the UE supports SUL frequency for this | | | cell, Q~rxlevmin~ is obtained from | | | _q-__RxLevMinSUL_** _*, if present,__in | | |_ SIB1 _,_ SIB2 _and_ SIB4 _, additionally, if | | | Q~rxlevminoffsetcellSUL~ is present in_ SIB3 _| | | and_ SIB4* for the concerned cell, this cell | | | specific offset is added to the corresponding | | | Qrxlevmin to achieve the required minimum RX | | | level in the concerned cell; | | | | | | else Q~rxlevmin~ is obtained from | | | **_q-RxLevMin_ __in_ SIB1, SIB2_ and _SIB4_ , | | | additionally, if Q~rxlevminoffsetcell~ is | | | present in _SIB3_ and _SIB4_ for the concerned | | | cell, this cell specific offset is added to | | | the corresponding Qrxlevmin to achieve the | | | required minimum RX level in the concerned | | | cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmin~ | Minimum required quality level in the cell | | | (dB). Additionally, if Q~qualminoffsetcell~ is | | | signalled for the concerned cell, this cell | | | specific offset is added to achieve the | | | required minimum quality level in the | | | concerned cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevminoffset~ | Offset to the signalled Q~rxlevmin~ taken into | | | account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result | | | of a periodic search for a higher priority | | | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN, as | | | specified in TS 23.122 [9]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualminoffset~ | Offset to the signalled Q~qualmin~ taken into | | | account in the Squal evaluation as a result of | | | a periodic search for a higher priority PLMN | | | while camped normally in a VPLMN, as specified | | | in TS 23.122 [9]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~compensation~ | For FR1, if the UE supports the | | | _additionalPmax_ in the _NR-NS-PmaxList_ , if | | | present, in _SIB1, SIB2_ and _SIB4:_ | | | | | | _max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) -- | | | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, | | | P~PowerClass~)) (dB);_ | | | | | | _else:_ | | | | | | _max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB)_ | | | | | | For FR2, P~compensation~ is set to 0. | | | | | | For IAB-MT, P~compensation~ is set to 0. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~EMAX1~, P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level of a UE may use when | | | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm) | | | defined as P~EMAX~ in TS 38.101 [15]. If UE | | | supports SUL frequency for this cell, P~EMAX1~ | | | and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the _p-Max_ for | | | SUL in _SIB1_ and _NR-NS-PmaxList_ for SUL | | | respectively in _SIB1, SIB2_ and _SIB4_ as | | | specified in TS 38.331 [3], else P~EMAX1~ | | | and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the _p-Max_ and | | | _NR-NS-PmaxList_ respectively in _SIB1_ , | | | _SIB2_ and _SIB4_ for normal UL as specified | | | in TS 38.331 [3]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~PowerClass~ | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm) | | | according to the UE power class as defined in | | | TS 38.101-1 [15]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
The signalled values Q~rxlevminoffset~ and Q~qualminoffset~ are only applied
when a cell is evaluated for cell selection as a result of a periodic search
for a higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN (TS 23.122 [9]).
During this periodic search for higher priority PLMN, the UE may check the S
criteria of a cell using parameter values stored from a different cell of this
higher priority PLMN.
#### 5.2.3.3 E-UTRAN case in Cell Selection
The cell selection criteria and procedures in E-UTRAN are specified in TS
36.304 [7].
### 5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process
#### 5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling
Absolute priorities of different NR frequencies or inter-RAT frequencies may
be provided to the UE in the system information, in the _RRCRelease_ message,
or by inheriting from another RAT at inter-RAT cell (re)selection. In the case
of system information, an NR frequency or inter-RAT frequency may be listed
without providing a priority (i.e. the field _cellReselectionPriority_ is
absent for that frequency). If priorities are provided in dedicated
signalling, the UE shall ignore all the priorities provided in system
information. If UE is in _camped on any cell_ state, UE shall only apply the
priorities provided by system information from current cell, and the UE
preserves priorities provided by dedicated signalling and
_deprioritisationReq_ received in _RRCRelease_ unless specified otherwise.
When the UE in camped normally state, has only dedicated priorities other than
for the current frequency, the UE shall consider the current frequency to be
the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower than any of the network configured
values). If the UE is configured to perform both NR sidelink communication and
V2X sidelink communication, the UE may consider the frequency providing both
NR sidelink communication configuration and V2X sidelink communication
configuration to be the highest priority. If the UE is configured to perform
NR sidelink communication and not perform V2X communication, the UE may
consider the frequency providing NR sidelink communication configuration to be
the highest priority. If the UE is configured to perform V2X sidelink
communication and not perform NR sidelink communication, the UE may consider
the frequency providing V2X sidelink communication configuration to be the
highest priority.
NOTE 0a: The frequency only providing the anchor frequency configuration
should not be prioritized for V2X service during cell reselection, as
specified in TS 38.331[3].
NOTE 0b: When UE is configured to perform NR sidelink communication or V2X
sidelink communication performs cell reselection, it may consider the
frequencies providing the intra-carrier and inter-carrier configuration have
equal priority in cell reselection.
NOTE 0c: The prioritization among the frequencies which UE considers to be the
highest priority frequency is left to UE implementation.
NOTE 0d: The UE is configured to perform V2X sidelink communication or NR
sidelink communication, if it has the capability and is authorized for the
corresponding sidelink operation.
NOTE 0e: When UE is configured to perform both NR sidelink communication and
V2X sidelink communication, but cannot find a frequency which can provide both
NR sidelink communication configuration and V2X sidelink communication
configuration, UE may consider the frequency providing either NR sidelink
communication configuration or V2X sidelink communication configuration to be
the highest priority.
The UE shall only perform cell reselection evaluation for NR frequencies and
inter-RAT frequencies that are given in system information and for which the
UE has a priority provided.
In case UE receives _RRCRelease_ with _deprioritisationReq_ , UE shall
consider current frequency and stored frequencies due to the previously
received _RRCRelease_ with _deprioritisationReq_ or all the frequencies of NR
to be the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower than any of the network
configured values) while T325 is running irrespective of camped RAT. The UE
shall delete the stored deprioritisation request(s) when a PLMN selection or
SNPN selection is performed on request by NAS (TS 23.122 [9]).
NOTE 1: UE should search for a higher priority layer for cell reselection as
soon as possible after the change of priority. The minimum related performance
requirements specified in TS 38.133 [8] are still applicable.
NOTE 1a: The UE does not consider NR sidelink communication or V2X sidelink
communication functionality to replace cell reselection priorities caused by
_deprioritisationReq_ functionality.
The UE shall delete priorities provided by dedicated signalling when:
\- the UE enters a different RRC state; or
\- the optional validity time of dedicated priorities (T320) expires; or
\- the UE receives an _RRCRelease_ message with the field
_cellReselectionPriorities_ absent; or
\- a PLMN selection or SNPN selection is performed on request by NAS (TS
23.122 [9]).
NOTE 2: Equal priorities between RATs are not supported.
The UE shall not consider any black listed cells as candidate for cell
reselection.
The UE shall consider only the white listed cells, if configured, as
candidates for cell reselection.
The UE in RRC_IDLE state shall inherit the priorities provided by dedicated
signalling and the remaining validity time (i.e. T320 in NR and E-UTRA), if
configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection.
NOTE 3: The network may assign dedicated cell reselection priorities for
frequencies not configured by system information.
#### 5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection
Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~IntraSearchP~ and Squal >
S~IntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency
measurements.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.
\- The UE shall apply the following rules for NR inter-frequencies and inter-
RAT frequencies which are indicated in system information and for which the UE
has priority provided as defined in 5.2.4.1:
\- For a NR inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequency with a reselection priority
higher than the reselection priority of the current NR frequency, the UE shall
perform measurements of higher priority NR inter-frequency or inter-RAT
frequencies according to TS 38.133 [8].
\- For a NR inter-frequency with an equal or lower reselection priority than
the reselection priority of the current NR frequency and for inter-RAT
frequency with lower reselection priority than the reselection priority of the
current NR frequency:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal >
S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform measurements of NR inter-
frequency cells of equal or lower priority, or inter-RAT frequency cells of
lower priority;
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform measurements of NR inter-frequency cells of
equal or lower priority, or inter-RAT frequency cells of lower priority
according to TS 38.133 [8].
\- If the UE supports relaxed measurement and _relaxedMeasurement_ is present
in _SIB2_ , the UE may further relax the needed measurements, as specified in
clause 5.2.4.9.
#### 5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE
##### 5.2.4.3.0 Introduction
The UE mobility state is determined if the parameters (T~CRmax~, N~CR_H~,
N~CR_M~ and T~CRmaxHyst~) are broadcasted in system information for the
serving cell.
**State detection criteria:**
Normal-mobility state criteria:
\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ is less than
N~CR_M~.
Medium-mobility state criteria:
\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ is greater than
or equal to N~CR_M~ but less than or equal to N~CR_H~.
High-mobility state criteria:
\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ is greater than
N~CR_H~.
The UE shall not consider consecutive reselections where a cell is reselected
again right after one reselection for mobility state detection criteria.
**State transitions:**
The UE shall:
\- if the criteria for High-mobility state is detected:
\- enter High-mobility state.
\- else if the criteria for Medium-mobility state is detected:
\- enter Medium-mobility state.
\- else if criteria for either Medium- or High-mobility state is not detected
during time period T~CRmaxHys**t** ~:
\- enter Normal-mobility state.
If the UE is in High- or Medium-mobility state, the UE shall apply the speed
dependent scaling rules as defined in clause 5.2.4.3.1.
##### 5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules
UE shall apply the following scaling rules:
\- If neither Medium- nor High-mobility state is detected:
\- no scaling is applied.
\- If High-mobility state is detected:
\- Add the _sf-High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\" to
Q~hyst~ if broadcasted in system information;
\- For NR cells, multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the _sf-High_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if broadcasted in system
information;
\- For EUTRA cells, multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the _sf-High_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if broadcasted in
system information.
\- If Medium-mobility state is detected:
\- Add the _sf-Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\" to
Q~hyst~ if broadcasted in system information;
\- For NR cells, multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the _sf-Medium_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if broadcasted in system
information;
\- For EUTRA cells, multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if broadcasted in
system information.
In case scaling is applied to any **Treselection~RAT~** parameter, the UE
shall round up the result after all scalings to the nearest second.
#### 5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable
for normal camping
For the highest ranked cell (including serving cell) according to cell
reselection criteria specified in clause 5.2.4.6, for the best cell according
to absolute priority reselection criteria specified in clause 5.2.4.5, the UE
shall check if the access is restricted according to the rules in clause
5.3.1.
If that cell and other cells have to be excluded from the candidate list, as
stated in clause 5.3.1, the UE shall not consider these as candidates for cell
reselection. This limitation shall be removed when the highest ranked cell
changes.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is not
suitable due to one or more of the following reasons:
\- this cell belongs to a PLMN which is not indicated as being equivalent to
the registered PLMN, or
\- this cell is a CAG cell that belongs to a PLMN which is equivalent to the
registered PLMN but with no CAG-ID that is present in the UE\'s allowed CAG
list being broadcasted, or
\- this cell is not a CAG cell and the CAG-only indication in the UE is set,
or
\- this cell does not belong to a SNPN that is equal to the registered or
selected SNPN of the UE in SNPN access mode,
the UE shall not consider this cell and, for operation in licensed spectrum,
other cells on the same frequency as candidates for reselection for a maximum
of 300 seconds.
For operation with shared spectrum channel access, when the highest ranked
cell or best cell is not a candidate for reselection per the previous
paragraph, the UE should continue to consider other cells on the same
frequency for cell reselection, however if the second highest ranked cell on
this frequency is also not suitable due to one or more of the above reasons,
the UE may consider this frequency to be the lowest priority for a maximum of
300 seconds.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is not
suitable due to being part of the \"list of 5GS forbidden TAs for roaming\",
the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on the same frequency as
candidates for reselection for a maximum of 300 seconds.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an inter-RAT cell which is not suitable due to being part
of the \"list of forbidden TAs for roaming\" or belonging to a PLMN which is
not indicated as being equivalent to the registered PLMN, the UE shall not
consider this cell and other cells on the same frequency, as candidates for
reselection for a maximum of 300 seconds.
If the UE enters into state _any cell selection_ , any limitation shall be
removed. If the UE is redirected under NR control to a frequency for which the
timer is running, the limitation(s) on that frequency shall be removed.
#### 5.2.4.5 NR Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria
If **_threshServingLowQ_** is broadcast in system information and more than 1
second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving cell, cell
reselection to a cell on a higher priority NR frequency or inter-RAT frequency
than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- A cell of a higher priority NR or EUTRAN RAT/frequency fulfils Squal >
Thresh~X,\ HighQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~
Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority NR frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- A cell of a higher priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev > Thresh~X,\
HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and
\- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
Cell reselection to a cell on an equal priority NR frequency shall be based on
ranking for intra-frequency cell reselection as defined in clause 5.2.4.6.
If **_threshServingLowQ_** is broadcast in system information and more than 1
second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving cell, cell
reselection to a cell on a lower priority NR frequency or inter-RAT frequency
than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \ Thresh~X,\ LowQ~
during a time interval Treselection~RAT~.
Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority NR frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- The serving cell fulfils Srxlev \ Thresh~X,\ LowP~ during a time
interval Treselection~RAT~; and
> \- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
> cell.
Cell reselection to a higher priority RAT/frequency shall take precedence over
a lower priority RAT/frequency if multiple cells of different priorities
fulfil the cell reselection criteria.
If more than one cell meets the above criteria, the UE shall reselect a cell
as follows:
\- If the highest-priority frequency is an NR frequency, the highest ranked
cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting the
criteria according to clause 5.2.4.6;
\- If the highest-priority frequency is from another RAT, the strongest cell
among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting the criteria of
that RAT.
#### 5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell
Reselection criteria
The cell-ranking criterion R~s~ for serving cell and R~n~ for neighbouring
cells is defined by:
+-------------------------------------------+ | R~s~ = Q~meas,s~ +Q~hyst~ - Qoffset~temp~ | | | | R~n~ = Q~meas,n~ -Qoffset - Qoffset~temp~ | +-------------------------------------------+
where:
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Q~meas~ | RSRP measurement quantity used in cell | | | reselections. | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Qoffset | For intra-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~, if | | | Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, otherwise this equals to | | | zero. | | | | | | For inter-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~ plus | | | Qoffset~frequency~, if Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, | | | otherwise this equals to Qoffset~frequency~. | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+ | Qoffset~temp~ | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as specified | | | in TS 38.331 [3]. | +---------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
The UE shall perform ranking of all cells that fulfil the cell selection
criterion S, which is defined in 5.2.3.2.
The cells shall be ranked according to the R criteria specified above by
deriving Q~meas,n~ and Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values using averaged
RSRP results.
If _rangeToBestCell_ is not configured, the UE shall perform cell reselection
to the highest ranked cell. If this cell is found to be not-suitable, the UE
shall behave according to clause 5.2.4.4.
If _rangeToBestCell_ is configured _,_ then the UE shall perform cell
reselection to the cell with the highest number of beams above the threshold
(i.e. _absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation_) among the cells whose R value is
within _rangeToBestCell_ of the R value of the highest ranked cell. If there
are multiple such cells, the UE shall perform cell reselection to the highest
ranked cell among them. If this cell is found to be not-suitable, the UE shall
behave according to clause 5.2.4.4.
In all cases, the UE shall reselect the new cell, only if the following
conditions are met:
\- the new cell is better than the serving cell according to the cell
reselection criteria specified above during a time interval Treselection~RAT~;
\- more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
NOTE: If _rangeToBestCell_ is configured but _absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation_
is not configured on an NR frequency, the UE considers that there is one beam
above the threshold for each cell on that frequency.
#### 5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts
##### 5.2.4.7.0 General reselection parameters
Cell reselection parameters are broadcast in system information and are read
from the serving cell as follows:
**absThreshSS-BlocksConsolidation**
This specifies the minimum threshold for beams which can be used for selection
of the highest ranked cells, if _rangeToBestCell_ is configured, and for beams
used for derivation of **_cell measurement quantity._** The parameter in
_SIB2_ applies to the current serving frequency and the parameter in _SIB4_
applies to the corresponding inter-frequency.
**cellReselectionPriority**
This specifies the absolute priority for NR frequency or E-UTRAN frequency.
**cellReselectionSubPriority**
This specifies the fractional priority value added to cellReselectionPriority
for NR frequency or E-UTRAN frequency.
**combineRelaxedMeasCondition**
This indicates when the UE needs to fulfil both low mobility criterion and
not-at-cell-edge criterion to determine whether **to relax measurement**
requirement**s.**
**nrofSS-BlocksToAverage**
This specifies the number of beams which can be used for selection of the
highest ranked cell, if _rangeToBestCell_ is configured, and the number of
beams used for derivation of cell measurement quantity. The parameter in
_SIB2_ applies to the current serving frequency and the parameter in _SIB4_
applies to the corresponding inter-frequency.
**Qoffset~s,n~**
This specifies the offset between the two cells.
**Qoffset~frequency~**
Frequency specific offset for equal priority NR frequencies.
**Q~hyst~**
This specifies the hysteresis value for ranking criteria.
**Qoffset~temp~**
This specifies the additional offset to be used for cell selection and re-
selection. It is temporarily used in case the RRC Connection Establishment
fails on the cell as specified in TS 38.331 [3].
**Q~qualmin~**
This specifies the minimum required quality level in the cell in dB.
**Q~rxlevmin~**
This specifies the minimum required Rx level in the cell in dBm.
**Q~rxlevminoffsetcell~**
This specifies the cell specific Rx level offset in dB to Qrxlevmin.
**Q~qualminoffsetcell~**
This specifies the cell specific quality level offset in dB to Qqualmin.
**rangeToBestCell**
This specifies the R value range which the cells whose R value is within the
range can be a candidate for the highest ranked cell. It is configured in SIB2
and used for intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency cell
reselection and among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) for
inter-frequency cell reselection within NR.
**S~IntraSearchP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency measurements.
**S~IntraSearchQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency measurements.
**S~nonIntraSearchP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for NR inter-frequency and inter-
RAT measurements.
**S~nonIntraSearchQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for NR inter-frequency and inter-
RAT measurements.
**S~SearchDeltaP~**
This specifies the threshold (in dB) on Srxlev variation for relaxed
measurement.
**S~SearchThresholdP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for relaxed measurement.
**S~SearchThresholdQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for relaxed measurement.
**Treselection~RAT~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value. For each target NR frequency
and for each RAT other than NR, a specific value for the cell reselection
timer is defined, which is applicable when evaluating reselection within NR or
towards other RAT (i.e. Treselection~RAT~ for NR is Treselection~NR~, for
E-UTRAN Treselection~EUTRA~).
NOTE: Treselection~RAT~ is not broadcast in system information but used in
reselection rules by the UE for each RAT.
**Treselection~NR~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for NR. The
parameter can be set per NR frequency as specified in TS 38.331 [3].
**Treselection~EUTRA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~X,\ HighP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ HighQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ LowP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of NR and E-UTRAN might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving cell
when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.
**Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving cell
when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.
**T~SearchDeltaP~**
This specifies the time period over which the Srxlev variation is evaluated
for relaxed measurement.
##### 5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependent reselection parameters
Speed dependent reselection parameters are broadcast in system information and
are read from the serving cell as follows:
**T~CRmax~**
This specifies the duration for evaluating allowed amount of cell
reselection(s).
**N~CR_M~**
This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter Medium-
mobility state.
**N~CR_H~**
This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter High-mobility
state.
**T~CRmaxHyst~**
This specifies the additional time period before the UE can enter Normal-
mobility state.
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Qhyst**
This specifies scaling factor for Qhyst in _sf-High_ for High-mobility state
and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state.
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~NR~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state.
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~EUTRA~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state.
#### 5.2.4.8 Inter-RAT Cell reselection in RRC_INACTIVE state
For UE in the RRC_INACTIVE state, upon cell reselection to another RAT, UE
transitions from RRC_INACTIVE to RRC_IDLE and performs­ actions as specified
in TS 38.331 [3].
#### 5.2.4.9 Relaxed measurement
##### 5.2.4.9.0 Relaxed measurement rules
When the UE is required to perform measurements of intra-frequency cells or NR
inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according to the
measurement rules in clause 5.2.4.2:
\- if _lowMobilityEvaluation_ is configured and _cellEdgeEvaluation_ is not
configured; and
> \- if the UE has performed normal intra-frequency, NR inter-frequency, or
> inter-RAT frequency measurements for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after
> (re-)selecting a new cell; and
>
> \- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.1 is fulfilled for
> a period of T~SearchDeltaP~:
\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for intra-frequency
cells, NR inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according to
relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133
[8];
\- if _cellEdgeEvaluation_ is configured and _lowMobilityEvaluation_ is not
configured; and
> \- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.2 is fulfilled:
\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for intra-frequency cells
according to relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.9 in TS 38.133 [8];
\- if the serving cell fulfils Srxlev **≤** S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal **≤**
S~nonIntraSearchQ~:
\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for NR inter-frequency
cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according to relaxation methods in clauses
4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133 [8];
\- if both _lowMobilityEvaluation_ and _cellEdgeEvaluation_ are configured:
\- if the UE has performed normal intra-frequency, NR inter-frequency, or
inter-RAT frequency measurements for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after
(re-)selecting a new cell; and
\- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.1 is fulfilled for a
period of T~SearchDeltaP~; and
\- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.2 is fulfilled:
\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for NR intra-frequency
cells, inter-frequency cells or inter-RAT frequency cells according to
relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133
[8];
\- else:
\- if the UE has performed normal intra-frequency, NR inter-frequency, or
inter-RAT frequency measurements for at least T~SearchDeltaP~ after
(re-)selecting a new cell, and the relaxed measurement criterion in clause
5.2.4.9.1 is fulfilled for a period of T~SearchDeltaP~; or,
\- if the relaxed measurement criterion in clause 5.2.4.9.2 is fulfilled:
\- if _combineRelaxedMeasCondition_ is not configured:
\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurements for intra-frequency
cells, NR inter-frequency cells of equal or lower priority, or inter-RAT
frequency cells of lower priority according to relaxation methods in clauses
4.2.2.9, 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133 [8];
\- if the serving cell fulfils Srxlev ≤ S~nonIntraSearchP~ or Squal ≤
S~nonIntraSearchQ~:
\- the UE may choose to perform relaxed measurement for NR inter-frequency
cells of higher priority, or inter-RAT frequency cells of higher priority
according to relaxation methods in clauses 4.2.2.10, and 4.2.2.11 in TS 38.133
[8];
The above relaxed measurements and no measurement are not applicable for
frequencies that are included in _VarMeasIdleConfig_ , if configured and for
which the UE supports dual connectivity or carrier aggregation between those
frequencies and the frequency of the current serving cell.
##### 5.2.4.9.1 Relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility
The relaxed measurement criterion for UE with low mobility is fulfilled when:
\- (Srxlev~Ref~ -- Srxlev) \ 0, or
\- If the relaxed measurement criterion has not been met for T~SearchDeltaP~:
\- The UE shall set the value of Srxlev~Ref~ to the current Srxlev value of
the serving cell.
##### 5.2.4.9.2 Relaxed measurement criterion for UE not at cell edge
The relaxed measurement criterion for UE not at cell edge is fulfilled when:
\- Srxlev > S~SearchThresholdP~, and,
\- Squal > S~SearchThresholdQ~, if S~SearchThresholdQ~ is configured,
Where:
\- Srxlev = current Srxlev value of the serving cell (dB).
\- Squal = current Squal value of the serving cell (dB).
#### 5.2.4.10 Cell reselection with CAG cells
In addition to normal cell reselection, a UE may optionally use an autonomous
search function to detect CAG cells on serving and non-serving frequencies.
However UE shall follow the cell reselection criteria based on dedicated
frequency priorities and only follow the autonomous cell search result if the
result fulfils also the existing cell reselection criteria based on dedicated
frequency priorities.
### 5.2.5 Camped Normally state
This state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE state.
When camped normally, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- monitor the paging channel of the cell as specified in clause 7 according
to information broadcast in _SIB1_ ;
\- monitor Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI as specified in
clause 6.5 in TS 38.331 [3];
\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 38.331 [3];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS 38.133
[8];
2) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure has been modified.
### 5.2.6 Selection of cell at transition to RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE state
At reception of _RRCRelease_ message to transition the UE to RRC_IDLE or
RRC_INACTIVE, UE shall attempt to camp on a suitable cell according to
_redirectedCarrierInfo_ if included in the _RRCRelease_ message. If the UE
cannot find a suitable cell, the UE is allowed to camp on any suitable cell of
the indicated RAT. If the _RRCRelease_ message does not contain the
_redirectedCarrierInfo,_ UE shall attempt to select a suitable cell on an NR
carrier. If no suitable cell is found according to the above, the UE shall
perform cell selection using stored information in order to find a suitable
cell to camp on.
When returning to RRC_IDLE state after UE moved to RRC_CONNECTED state from
_camped on any cell_ state, UE shall attempt to camp on an acceptable cell
according to _redirectedCarrierInfo_ , if included in the _RRCRelease_
message. If the UE cannot find an acceptable cell, the UE is allowed to camp
on any acceptable cell of the indicated RAT. If the _RRCRelease_ message does
not contain _redirectedCarrierInfo_ UE shall attempt to select an acceptable
cell on an NR frequency. If no acceptable cell is found according to the
above, the UE not in SNPN Access Mode shall continue to search for an
acceptable cell of any PLMN in state _any cell selection_.
### 5.2.7 Any Cell Selection state
This state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE state. In this state,
the UE shall perform cell selection process to find a suitable cell. If the
cell selection process fails to find a suitable cell after a complete scan of
all RATs and all frequency bands supported by the UE, the UE not in SNPN
Access Mode shall attempt to find an acceptable cell of any PLMN to camp on,
trying all RATs that are supported by the UE and searching first for a high-
quality cell, as defined in clause 5.1.1.2.
The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state.
### 5.2.8 Camped on Any Cell state
This state is only applicable for RRC_IDLE state. In this state, the UE shall
perform the following tasks:
\- monitor Short Messages transmitted with P-RNTI over DCI as specified in
clause 6.5 in TS 38.331 [3];
\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 38.331 [3];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS 38.133
[8];
2) When information on the BCCH used for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure has been modified.
\- regularly attempt to find a suitable cell trying all frequencies of all
RATs that are supported by the UE. If a suitable cell is found, UE shall move
to _camped normally_ state.
\- if the UE supports voice services and the current cell does not support IMS
emergency calls as indicated by the field _ims-EmergencySupport_ in SIB1 as
specified in TS 38.331 [3], the UE shall perform cell selection/reselection to
an acceptable cell that supports emergency calls in any supported RAT
regardless of priorities provided in system information from current cell, if
no suitable cell is found.
## 5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions
### 5.3.0 Introduction
There are two mechanisms which allow an operator to impose cell reservations
or access restrictions. The first mechanism uses indication of cell status and
special reservations for control of cell selection and reselection procedures.
The second mechanism, referred to as Unified Access Control as specified in TS
38.331 [3], shall allow preventing selected access categories or access
identities from sending initial access messages for load control reasons.
Unified Access Control does not apply to IAB-MTs.
### 5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations
Cell status and cell reservations are indicated in the _MIB or SIB1_ message
as specified in TS 38.331 [3] by means of following fields:
\- **_cellBarred_** (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\ Indicated in
_MIB_ message. In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs indicated in _SIB1_ , this
field is common for all PLMNs and NPNs
\- **_cellReservedForOperatorUse_** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\ Indicated in _SIB1_ message _._ In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs
indicated in _SIB1_ , this field is specified per PLMN or per SNPN.
\- **_cellReservedForOtherUse_** (IE type: \"true\")\ Indicated in _SIB1_
message. In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in _SIB1_ , this field is common
for all PLMNs.
**_\- cellReservedForFutureUse_** (IE type: \"true\")\ Indicated in _SIB1_
message. In case of multiple PLMNs or NPNs indicated in _SIB1_ , this field is
common for all PLMNs and NPNs.
NOTE 0: IAB-MT ignores the **_cellBarred_ , _cellReservedForOperatorUse,
cellReservedForFutureUse_ and** _intraFreqReselection_ **(i.e. treats
_intraFreqReselection_ as if it was set to _allowed_) as defined in** TS
38.331 [3]. IAB-MT also **ignores _cellReservedForOtherUse_ for cell barring
determination (i.e. NPN capable IAB-MT considers _cellReservedForOtherUse_ for
determination of an NPN-only cell) as defined in** TS 38.331 [3].
\- **_iab-Support_** (IE type: \"true\")\ Indicated in _SIB1_ message. In case
of multiple PLMNs or NPNs indicated in _SIB1_ , this field is specified per
PLMN or per SNPN.
When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for
operator use and not \"true\" for other use and not \"true\" for future use,
\- All UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection and
cell reselection procedures.
When cell broadcasts any CAG-IDs or NIDs and the cell status is indicated as
\"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for operator use and \"true\" for other
use, and not \"true\" for future use:
\- All NPN-capable UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell
selection and cell reselection procedures, other UEs shall treat this cell as
if cell status is \"barred\".
When cell status is indicated as \"true\" for other use, and either cell does
not broadcast any CAG-IDs or NIDs or does not broadcast any CAG-IDs and the UE
is not operating in SNPN Access Mode,
\- The UE **_shall treat this cell as if cell status is \"barred\"_**.
When cell status is indicated as \"true\" for future use,
\- The UE shall treat this cell as if cell status is \"barred\".
When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"reserved\" for operator
use for any PLMN/SNPN and not \"true\" for other use and not \"true\" for
future use,
\- UEs assigned to Access Identity 11 or 15 operating in their HPLMN/EHPLMN
shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection and reselection
procedures if the field **_cellReservedForOperatorUse for that PLMN set to
\"reserved\"._**
\- UEs assigned to Access Identity 11 or 15 shall treat this cell as candidate
during the cell selection and reselection procedures if the field
**_cellReservedForOperatorUse for_** selected/registered SNPN **_is set to
\"reserved\"._**
**_\- UEs assigned to an_** Access Identity **_0, 1, 2 and 12 to 14 shall
behave as if the cell status is \"barred\" in case the cell is \"reserved for
operator use\" for the registered PLMN/SNPN or the selected PLMN/SNPN._**
NOTE 1: Access Identities 11, 15 are only valid for use in the HPLMN/ EHPLMN
and registered/selected SNPN; Access Identities 12, 13, 14 are only valid for
use in the home country and registered/selected SNPN as specified in TS 22.261
[12].
When cell status \"barred\" is indicated or to be treated as if the cell
status is \"barred\",
\- The UE is not permitted to select/reselect this cell, not even for
emergency calls.
\- The UE shall select another cell according to the following rule:
\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due to
being unable to acquire the _MIB_ :
\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds.
\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the selection
criteria are fulfilled.
\- else:
\- If the field _intraFreqReselection_ in _MIB_ message is set to \"allowed\":
\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if re-selection
criteria are fulfilled;
\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due to
being unable to acquire the _SIB1_ :
\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds;
\- else:
\- the UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.
\- If the field _intraFreqReselection_ in _MIB_ message is set to \"not
allowed\":
\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due to
being unable to acquire the _SIB1_ :
\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds;
\- If the cell operates in licensed spectrum:
\- the UE shall not re-select to another cell on the same frequency as the
barred cell and exclude such cell(s) as candidate(s) for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds;
\- else:
\- the UE may select to another cell on the same frequency if the reselection
criteria are fulfilled.
\- else:
\- If the cell operates in licensed spectrum, or if this cell belongs to a
PLMN which is indicated as being equivalent to the registered PLMN or the
selected PLMN of the UE, or if this cell belongs to the registered SNPN or the
selected SNPN of the UE:
\- the UE shall not re-select to another cell on the same frequency as the
barred cell and exclude such cell(s) as candidate(s) for cell
selection/reselection for 300 second**s** ;
\- else:
\- the UE may select to another cell on the same frequency if the reselection
criteria are fulfilled.
\- the UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.
The cell selection of another cell may also include a change of RAT.
NOTE 2: If barring of a cell is triggered by the condition of
_trackingAreaCode_ not being provided, as specified in TS 38.331 [3], the
barring only applies to this PLMN and the UE can re-evaluate the barring
condition again due to selection of another PLMN _._
### 5.3.2 Unified access control
The information on cell access restrictions associated with Access Categories
and Identities is broadcast in _SIB1_ as part of Unified Access Control as
specified in TS 38.331 [3].
The UE shall ignore Access Category and Identity related cell access
restrictions for cell reselection. A change of the indicated access
restriction shall not trigger cell reselection by the UE.
The UE shall consider Access Category and Identity related cell access
restrictions for NAS initiated access attempts and RNAU as specified in TS
38.331 [3].
## 5.4 Tracking Area registration
In the UE, the AS shall report tracking area information to the NAS.
If the UE reads more than one PLMN identity in the current cell, the UE shall
report the found PLMN identities that make the cell suitable in the tracking
area information to NAS.
If the UE operating in SNPN access mode reads more than one SNPN identity in
the current cell, the UE shall report the found SNPN identities that make the
cell suitable in the tracking area information to NAS.
The NAS part of the location registration process is specified in TS 23.122
[9].
## 5.5 RAN Area registration
The UE performs a RAN-based notification area update (RNAU) periodically or
when the UE selects a cell that does not belong to the configured RNA.
# 6 Reception of broadcast information
## 6.1 Reception of system information
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in changes
in the received NAS system information.
The UE shall monitor the Paging Occasions (POs) as described in clause 7.1 to
receive System Information change notifications in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE.
The changes in the system information are notified by the network using a
Short Message as specified in TS 38.331 [3]. When the Short Message notifies
system information changes, then the UE shall acquire or re-acquire the
concerned system information as specified in TS 38.331 [3].
# 7 Paging
## 7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging
The UE may use Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE
state in order to reduce power consumption. The UE monitors one paging
occasion (PO) per DRX cycle. A PO is a set of PDCCH monitoring occasions and
can consist of multiple time slots (e.g. subframe or OFDM symbol) where paging
DCI can be sent (TS 38.213 [4]). One Paging Frame (PF) is one Radio Frame and
may contain one or multiple PO(s) or starting point of a PO.
In multi-beam operations, the UE assumes that the same paging message and the
same Short Message are repeated in all transmitted beams and thus the
selection of the beam(s) for the reception of the paging message and Short
Message is up to UE implementation. The paging message is same for both RAN
initiated paging and CN initiated paging.
The UE initiates RRC Connection Resume procedure upon receiving RAN initiated
paging. If the UE receives a CN initiated paging in RRC_INACTIVE state, the UE
moves to RRC_IDLE and informs NAS.
The PF and PO for paging are determined by the following formulae:
SFN for the PF is determined by:
(SFN + PF_offset) mod T = (T div N)*(UE_ID mod N)
Index (i_s), indicating the index of the PO is determined by:
i_s = floor (UE_ID/N) mod Ns
The PDCCH monitoring occasions for paging are determined according to
_pagingSearchSpace_ as specified in TS 38.213 [4] and _firstPDCCH-
MonitoringOccasionOfPO_ and _nrofPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO_ if
configured as specified in TS 38.331 [3]. When _SearchSpaceId_ = 0 is
configured for _pagingSearchSpace_ , the PDCCH monitoring occasions for paging
are same as for RMSI as defined in clause 13 in TS 38.213 [4].
When _SearchSpaceId_ = 0 is configured for _pagingSearchSpace_**, Ns is either
1 or 2. For Ns = 1, there is only one PO which starts from the first PDCCH
monitoring occasion for paging in the PF. For Ns = 2, PO is either in the
first half frame (i_s = 0) or the second half frame (i_s = 1) of the PF.**
When _SearchSpaceId_ other than 0 is configured for _pagingSearchSpace,_ the
UE monitors the (i_s + 1)^th^ PO. A PO is a set of \'S*X \' consecutive PDCCH
monitoring occasions where \'S\' is the number of actual transmitted SSBs
determined according to _ssb-PositionsInBurst_ in _SIB1_ and X is the
_nrofPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO_ if configured or is equal to 1
otherwise. The [x*S+K]^th^ PDCCH monitoring occasion for paging in the PO
corresponds to the K^th^ transmitted SSB, where x=0,1,...,X-1, K=1,2,...,S.
The PDCCH monitoring occasions for paging which do not overlap with UL symbols
(determined according to _tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon_) are sequentially
numbered from zero starting from the first PDCCH monitoring occasion for
paging in the PF. When _firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO_ is present, the
starting PDCCH monitoring occasion number of (i_s + 1)^th^ PO is the (i_s +
1)^th^ value of the _firstPDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO_ parameter; otherwise,
it is equal to i_s * S*X. If X > 1, when the UE detects a PDCCH transmission
addressed to P-RNTI within its PO, the UE is not required to monitor the
subsequent PDCCH monitoring occasions for this PO.
NOTE 1: A PO associated with a PF may start in the PF or after the PF.
NOTE 2: The PDCCH monitoring occasions for a PO can span multiple radio
frames. When _SearchSpaceId_ other than 0 is configured for _paging-
SearchSpace_ the PDCCH monitoring occasions for a PO can span multiple periods
of the paging search space.
The following parameters are used for the calculation of PF and i_s above:
**T: DRX cycle of the UE (** T is determined by the shortest of the UE
specific DRX value(s), if configured by RRC and/or upper layers, and a default
DRX value broadcast in system information. In RRC_IDLE state, if UE specific
DRX is not configured by upper layers, the default value is applied).
**N: number of total paging frames in T**
Ns: number of paging **occasions** for a PF
PF_offset: offset used for PF determination
**UE_ID: 5G-S-TMSI mod 1024**
Parameters _Ns_ , _nAndPagingFrameOffset_ , _nrofPDCCH-
MonitoringOccasionPerSSB-InPO_ , and the length of default DRX Cycle are
signaled in _SIB1_. The values of N and PF_offset are derived from the
parameter _nAndPagingFrameOffset_ as defined in TS 38.331 [3]. The parameter
_first-PDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO_ is signalled in _SIB1_ for paging in
initial DL BWP. For paging in a DL BWP other than the initial DL BWP, the
parameter _first-PDCCH-MonitoringOccasionOfPO_ is signaled in the
corresponding BWP configuration.
If the UE has no 5G-S-TMSI, for instance when the UE has not yet registered
onto the network, the UE shall use as default identity UE_ID = 0 in the PF and
i_s formulas above.
5G-S-TMSI is a 48 bit long bit string as defined in TS 23.501 [10]. 5G-S-TMSI
shall in the formulae above be interpreted as a binary number where the left
most bit represents the most significant bit.
# 8 Sidelink Operation
## 8.1 NR sidelink communication and V2X sidelink communication
The UE may transmit or receive NR sidelink communication if it fulfils the
condition(s) defined in TS 38.331 [3], clause 5.8.2. When UE is in-coverage
for sidelink operation as defined in clause 8.2, the UE may perform NR
sidelink communication according to _SIB12,_ and when out-of-coverage for
sidelink, the UE may perform NR sidelink communication according to _SL-
PreconfigurationNR_ or according to _SIB12_ of the cell on the frequency which
provides inter-carrier NR sidelink configuration, as specified in TS 38.331
[3]. The UE shall not perform NR sidelink communication according to _SL-
PreconfigurationNR_ if the UE detects a cell providing NR sidelink
configuration or inter-carrier NR sidelink configuration for the frequency UE
is interested to perform NR sidelink communication on.
The UE may transmit or receive V2X sidelink communication if it fulfills the
condition(s) defined in TS 36.331[6], clause 5.10.1d. When UE is in-coverage
for sidelink operation as defined in clause 8.2, the UE may perform V2X
sidelink communication according to _SIB13/SIB14_ of the cell on an NR
frequency.
## 8.2 Cell selection and reselection for Sidelink
The requirements defined in this clause for sidelink operation apply for UEs
in RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE and in RRC_CONNECTED.
When UE is interested to perform NR sidelink communication on non-serving
frequency, it may perform measurements on that frequency or the frequencies
which can provide inter carrier NR sidelink configuration for that frequency
for cell selection and reselection purpose in accordance with TS 38.133[8].
When UE is interested to perform V2X sidelink communication on non-serving
frequency, it may perform measurements on that frequency or the frequencies
which can provide inter carrier V2X sidelink configuration for that frequency
for cell selection and intra-frequency reselection purpose in accordance with
TS 38.133[8].
If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is configured to
perform NR sidelink communication on fulfilling the S criterion in accordance
with clause 8.2.1, it shall consider itself to be in-coverage for NR sidelink
communication on that frequency. If the UE cannot detect any cell on that
frequency meeting the S criterion, it shall consider itself to be out-of-
coverage for NR sidelink communication on that frequency.
If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is configured to
perform V2X sidelink communication on fulfilling the S criterion in accordance
with clause 8.2.1, it shall consider itself to be in-coverage for V2X sidelink
communication on that frequency. If the UE cannot detect any cell on that
frequency meeting the S criterion, it shall consider itself to be out-of-
coverage for V2X sidelink communication on that frequency.
If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for V2X sidelink
communication, it shall perform additional intra-frequency reselection process
to select a better cell for sidelink operation on that frequency in accordance
with clause 8.2.1.
If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for NR sidelink
communication, it shall perform additional reselection process to select a
better cell for sidelink operation in accordance with clause 8.2.1.
### 8.2.1 Parameters used for cell selection and reselection triggered for
sidelink
When evaluating S criterion, R criterion (ranking) or inter-frequency cell
reselection criterion, as defined in clause 5.2.3.2, clause 5.2.4.6 and clause
5.2.4.5 respectively, for cell selection/reselection triggered for NR sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication on a non-serving frequency, UE
shall perform the evaluation as follows:
\- The UE shall use cell selection/reselection parameters broadcast by the
concerned cell (i.e. selected cell for the sidelink operation) for the
evaluation.
#