# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
> Version x.y.z
>
> where:
>
> x the first digit:
>
> 1 presented to TSG for information;
>
> 2 presented to TSG for approval;
>
> 3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
>
> y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
> technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to be
used across NG interface. NG interface is a logical interface between the NG-
RAN and the 5GC. The present document describes how the NGAP signalling
messages are transported over NG.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
[5] IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
> [8] IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): \"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for
> Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)\".
>
> [9] IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): \"Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
> Procedures for the Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol
> Port Number Registry\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**NG:** interface between a NG-RAN node and a 5GC, providing an
interconnection point between the NG-RAN and the 5GC.
**NG-C** : Reference point for the control plane protocol between NG-RAN and
AMF.
**SCTP endpoint:** as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [5]
**SCTP association:** as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [5]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core Network
IP Internet Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
DiffServ Differentiated Service
PPP Point to Point Protocol
IANA Internet Assigned Number Authority
AMF Access and Mobility management Function
# 4 NG signalling bearer
## 4.1 Functions and protocol stack
NG-C signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of NGAP message over NG-C interface.
\- Provision of networking and routeing function.
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network.
\- Support for flow control and congestion control.
The protocol stack for NG-C Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following clauses.
Figure 4.1-1: NG-C signalling bearer protocol stack
The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 5 Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet,
etc., shall not be prevented.
# 6 IP layer
The 5GC and NG-RAN shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [5]) and/or IPv4 (IETF
RFC 791 [6]).
The IP layer of NG-C only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
NG AP message.
The 5GC and NG-RAN shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described
in IETF RFC 2474 [7].
# 7 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [2]) shall be supported as the transport layer of NG-C
signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier (ppid) assigned by IANA to
be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol NGAP is 60, and 66 for DTLS
over SCTP (IETF RFC 6083 [8]). The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
NG-RAN node and AMF shall support a configuration with a single SCTP
association per NG-RAN node/AMF pair. Configurations with multiple SCTP
endpoints per NG-RAN node/AMF pair should be supported. When configurations
with multiple SCTP associations are supported, the AMF may request to
dynamically add/remove SCTP associations between the NG-RAN node/AMF pair.
Within the set of SCTP associations established between one AMF and NG-RAN
node pair, the AMF may request the NG-RAN node to restrict the usage of SCTP
association for certain types of NG-C signalling. If no restriction
information is provided for an SCTP association, any type of NG-C signalling
is allowed via the SCTP association. Selection of the SCTP association by the
NG-RAN node and the AMF is specified in TS 23.501 [3] and TS 23.502 [4]. The
NG-RAN node shall establish the SCTP association. The SCTP Destination Port
number value assigned by IANA to be used for NGAP is 38412. When the AMF
requests to dynamically add additional SCTP associations between the NG-RAN
node/AMF pair, the SCTP Destination Port number value may be 38412, or any
_dynamic port value_ (IETF RFC 6335 [9]). When the configuration with multiple
SCTP endpoints per NG-RAN node is supported and the NG-RAN node wants to add
additional SCTP endpoints, the RAN configuration update procedure shall be the
first NGAP procedure triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup NG-C
interface instance after the TNL association has become operational, and the
AMF shall associate the TNLA to the NG-C interface instance using the included
Global RAN node ID.
Between one AMF and NG-RAN node pair:
\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over at least one
SCTP association for the sole use of NGAP elementary procedures that utilize
non UE-associated signalling.
\- At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP
associations shall be reserved for the sole use of NGAP elementary procedures
that utilize UE-associated signallings. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than
one) should be reserved.
\- For a single UE-associated signalling, the NG-RAN node shall use one SCTP
association and one SCTP stream, and the SCTP association/stream should not be
changed during the communication of the UE-associated signalling until after
current SCTP association is failed or removed, or TNL binding update is
performed as described in TS 23.502 [3].
Transport network redundancy can be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. For SCTP
endpoint redundancy, an SCTP endpoint (in the NG-RAN node or AMF) may send an
INIT, at any time for an already established SCTP association, which the other
SCTP endpoint shall handle as defined in IETF RFC 4960 [2] in subclause 5.2.
The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism,
initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source
and prioritise certain messages.
#