# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for signalling transport to be
used across Xn interface. The Xn interface provides means for interconnecting
two NG-RAN nodes. The Xn interface is a logical interface between two nodes of
the NG-RAN. The present document describes how the XnAP signalling messages
are transported over Xn.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[4] IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[5] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[6] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[7] IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): \"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)\".
[8] IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): \"Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
Procedures for the Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port
Number Registry\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**NG-RAN node:** as defined in TS 38.300 [3]
**Xn:** interface between two NG-RAN nodes, providing an interconnection point
between the NG-RAN nodes.
**Xn-C** : Reference point for the control plane protocol between NG-RAN
nodes.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
IP Internet Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
DiffServ Differentiated Service
PPP Point to Point Protocol
IANA Internet Assigned Number Authority
# 4 Xn signalling bearer
## 4.1 Functions and protocol stack
Xn-C signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of XnAP message over Xn-C interface.
\- Provision of networking and routeing function.
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network.
\- Support for flow control and congestion control.
The protocol stack for Xn-C Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following clauses.
Figure 4.1-1: Xn-C signalling bearer protocol stack
The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 5 Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet,
etc., shall not be prevented.
# 6 IP layer
The NG-RAN node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [4]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC
791 [5]).
The IP layer of Xn-C only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
XnAP message.
The NG-RAN node shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in
IETF RFC 2474 [6].
# 7 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [2]) shall be supported as the transport layer of Xn-C
signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier (ppid) assigned by IANA to
be used by SCTP for the application layer protocol XnAP is 61, and 67 for DTLS
over SCTP (IETF RFC 6083 [7]). The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
An NG RAN node shall support a configuration with a single SCTP association
per NG RAN node pair. Configurations with multiple SCTP endpoints per the NG
RAN node pair should be supported. When configurations with multiple SCTP
associations are supported, the NG RAN node may request to dynamically
add/remove SCTP associations between the NG RAN node pair. Within the set of
SCTP associations established between one NG RAN node pair, a single SCTP
association shall be employed for XnAP elementary procedures that utilize non-
UE-associated signalling with the possibility of fail-over to a new
association to enable robustness. The SCTP Destination Port number value
assigned by IANA to be used for XnAP is 38422. When a NG-RAN node requests to
dynamically add additional SCTP associations between the NG RAN node pair, the
SCTP Destination Port number value may be 38422, or any _dynamic port value_
(IETF RFC 6335 [8]). The NG RAN node configuration update procedure shall be
the first XnAP procedure triggered on an additional TNLA of an already setup
Xn-C interface instance after the TNL association has become operational, and
the peer NG RAN node shall associate the TNLA to the Xn-C interface instance
using the included **Global NG-RAN Node ID**.
Between one pair of two NG-RAN nodes:
\- a single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP
association for the sole use of XnAP elementary procedures that utilize non
UE-associated signalling.
\- At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP
associations shall be reserved for the sole use of XnAP elementary procedures
that utilize UE-associated signallings. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than
one) should be reserved.
\- For a single UE-associated signalling, the NG RAN nodes shall use one SCTP
association and one SCTP stream and the SCTP association/stream should not be
changed during the communication of the UE-associated signalling unless
current SCTP association is failed or removed, or TNL binding update is
performed.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. **For SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from one NG-RAN node, at any time for
an already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined in
IETF RFC 4960 [2] in sub clause 5.2.**
The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism,
initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source
and prioritise certain messages.
#