# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 38.46x series of
technical specifications that define the E1 interface. The E1 interface
provides means for interconnecting a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP of a gNB-CU
within an NG-RAN, or for interconnecting a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP of an en-
gNB within an E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.461: \"NG-RAN; E1 layer 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.462: \"NG-RAN; E1 signalling transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.463: \"NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**en-gNB** : as defined in TS 37.340 [7]
**gNB-CU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
**gNB-CU-CP** : as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
**gNB-CU-UP** : as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
**gNB-DU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
**gNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [6]
**IAB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [6].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DL Downlink
DRB Data Radio Bearer
E1AP E1 Application Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
TNL Transport Network Layer
# 4 General aspects
This clause captures the E1 interface principles and characteristics.
## 4.1 E1 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the E1 interface are as
follows:
\- the E1 interface is open;
\- the E1 interface supports the exchange of signalling information between
the endpoints;
\- from a logical standpoint, the E1 is a point-to-point interface between a
gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP.
NOTE 1: A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in the
absence of a physical direct connection between the endpoints.
\- the E1 interface separates Radio Network Layer and Transport Network Layer;
\- the E1 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and non-UE
associated information;
\- the E1 interface is future proof to fulfil different new requirements,
support of new services and new functions.
NOTE 2: The E1 interface is a control interface and is not used for user data
forwarding.
## 4.2 E1 interface specification objectives
The E1 interface specifications facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP supplied by different
manufacturers.
# 5 Functions of the E1 interface
## 5.1 General
The following clauses describe the functions supported over E1.
### 5.1.1 E1 interface management function
The error indication function is used by the gNB-CU-UP or gNB-CU-CP to
indicate to the gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP that an error has occurred.
The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup and
after a failure event occurred. This procedure can be used by both the gNB-CU-
UP and the gNB-CU-CP.
The E1 setup function allows to exchange application level data needed for the
gNB-CU-UP and gNB-CU-CP to interoperate correctly on the E1 interface. The E1
setup is initiated by both the gNB-CU-UP and gNB-CU-CP.
The gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update and gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update
functions allow to update application level configuration data needed between
the gNB-CU-CP and the gNB-CU-UP to interoperate correctly over the E1
interface.
The E1 setup and gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update functions allow to inform NR
CGI(s), S-NSSAI(s), PLMN-ID(s), QoS information and NID(s) supported by the
gNB-CU-UP.
The E1 setup and gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update functions allow the gNB-CU-UP
to signal its capacity information to the gNB-CU-CP.
The E1 gNB-CU-UP Status Indication function allows to inform the overloaded or
non-overloaded status over the E1 interface.
### 5.1.2 E1 bearer context management function
The establishment of the E1 bearer context is initiated by the gNB-CU-CP and
accepted or rejected by the gNB-CU-UP based on admission control criteria
(e.g., resource not available).
The modification of the E1 bearer context can be initiated by either gNB-CU-CP
or gNB-CU-UP. The receiving node can accept or reject the modification. The E1
bearer context management function also supports the release of the bearer
context previously established in the gNB-CU-UP. The release of the bearer
context is triggered by the gNB-CU-CP either directly or following a request
received from the gNB-CU-UP.
This function is used to setup and modify the QoS-flow to DRB mapping
configuration. The gNB-CU-CP decides flow-to-DRB mapping and provides the
generated SDAP and PDCP configuration to the gNB-CU-UP. The gNB-CU-CP also
decides the Reflective QoS flow to DRB mapping. The function is also used to
send to the gNB-CU-UP the alternative QoS Parameters Sets when available for a
QoS flow. For each PDU Session Resource to be setup or modified, the S-NSSAI,
shall be provided in the E1 bearer context setup procedure and may be provided
in the E1 bearer context modification procedure by gNB-CU-CP to the gNB-CU-UP.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send the security information to
the gNB-CU-UP.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send to the gNB-CU-UP transport
layer information to be used for data forwarding e.g. during handovers.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to send the parameters for header
compression for certain traffic types e.g. IP, Ethernet to the gNB-CU-UP.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the event of DL data arrival
detection to the gNB-CU-CP. With this function, the gNB-CU-UP requests gNB-CU-
CP to trigger paging procedure over F1 or Xn to support RRC Inactive state.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the gNB-CU-CP that a DL
packet including a QFI value not configured by the gNB-CU-CP or an UL packet
including a QFI value in the SDAP header of the default DRB not configured by
the gNB-CU-CP is received for the first time. The gNB-CU-CP can take further
action if needed.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to notify the event of user inactivity
to the gNB-CU-CP. With this function, the gNB-CU-UP indicates that the
inactivity timer associated with a bearer, a PDU session or a UE expires, or
that user data is received for the bearer, the PDU session or the UE whose
inactivity timer has expired. The gNB-CU-CP consolidates all the serving gNB-
CU-UPs for the UE and takes further action.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-UP to report data volume to the gNB-CU-
CP.
This function is used for the gNB-CU-CP to notify the suspension and
resumption of bearer contexts to the gNB-CU-UP.
This function also allows to support CA based packet duplication as described
in TS 38.300 [6], i.e. one data radio bearer should be configured with at
least two GTP-U tunnels between gNB-CU-UP and a gNB-DU.
This function is used to support the enhanced mobility operations as described
in TS 38.300 [6] in the gNB-CU-UP.
### 5.1.3 Trace function
The Trace function provides means to control trace sessions for a UE over E1
interface.
### 5.1.4 Load management function
The load management function allows an gNB-CU-CP to request the reporting of
load measurements to gNB-DU and is used by gNB-CU-UP to report the result of
measurements admitted by gNB-CU-UP.
### 5.1.5 Measurement results transfer function
The measurement results transfer is used by the gNB-CU-CP to transfer UE
associated measurement results to the gNB-CU-UP.
### 5.1.6 Support for IAB
This function is used to update the DL/UL F1-U GTP-U tunnels for an IAB
network, and allow the gNB-CU-CP to send the security key info to the gNB-CU-
UP for the protection of the F1-U interface with IAB-DU.
## 5.2 TEIDs allocation
The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the F1-U UL GTP TEID for
each data radio bearer.
The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the S1-U DL GTP TEID for
each E-RAB and the NG-U DL GTP TEID for each PDU Session.
The gNB-CU-UP is responsible for the allocation of the X2-U DL/UL GTP TEID or
the Xn-U DL/UL GTP TEID for each data radio bearer.
# 6 Procedures of the E1 interface
## 6.1 Interface Management procedures
The E1 interface management procedures are listed below:
\- Reset procedure
\- Error Indication procedure
\- gNB-CU-UP E1 Setup procedure
\- gNB-CU-CP E1 Setup procedure
\- gNB-CU-UP Configuration Update procedure
\- gNB-CU-CP Configuration Update procedure
\- E1 Release procedure
\- gNB-CU-UP Status Indication procedure
## 6.2 Bearer Context Management procedures
The E1 bearer management procedures are listed below:
\- Bearer Context Setup procedure
\- Bearer Context Release Request (gNB-CU-UP initiated) procedure
\- Bearer Context Release (gNB-CU-CP initiated) procedure
\- Bearer Context Modification (gNB-CU-CP initiated) procedure
\- Bearer Context Modification Required (gNB-CU-UP initiated) procedure
\- DL Data Notification procedure
\- Bearer Context Inactivity Notification procedure
\- Data Usage Report procedure
\- MR-DC Data Usage Report procedure
## 6.3 UE Tracing procedures
The following procedures are used to trace the UE:
\- Trace Start procedure
\- Deactivate Trace procedure
\- Cell Traffic Trace procedure
## 6.4 Load management procedures
The load management procedures are listed as below:
\- Resource Status Reporting Initiation procedure
\- Resource Status Reporting procedure
## 6.5 Measurement results transfer procedures
The measurement results transfer procedures are listed as below:
\- GNB-CU-CP Measurement Results Information
## 6.6 IAB procedures
The IAB procedures are listed as below:
\- IAB UP TNL Address Update procedure
\- IAB PSK Notification procedure
# 7 E1 interface protocol structure
Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure for E1. The TNL is based on IP
transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. The application layer signalling
protocol is referred to as E1AP (E1 Application Protocol).
Figure 7.1-1: Interface protocol structure for E1
# 8 Other E1 interface specifications
This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP specifications.
## 8.1 NG-RAN E1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.461)
3GPP TS 38.461 [3] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used
to support the E1 interface.
## 8.2 NG-RAN E1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 38.462)
3GPP TS 38.462 [4] specifies the signalling bearers for the E1AP for the E1
interface.
## 8.3 NG-RAN E1 interface: E1AP specification (3GPP TS 38.463)
3GPP TS 38.463 [5] specifies the E1AP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the E1 interface.
#