# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
> Version x.y.z
>
> where:
>
> x the first digit:
>
> 1 presented to TSG for information;
>
> 2 presented to TSG for approval;
>
> 3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
>
> y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e.
> technical enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement Layer 1 on
the F1 interface. The F1 interface provides means for interconnecting a gNB-CU
and a gNB-DU of a gNB within an NG-RAN, or for interconnecting a gNB-CU and a
gNB-DU of an en-gNB within an E-UTRAN.
The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M requirements are
not in the scope of the present document.
In the following \'Layer 1\' and 'Physical Layer' are assumed to be
synonymous.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
> \- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
> edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
>
> \- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
>
> \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of
> a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
>
> [1] 3GPP TS 38.411: \"NG-RAN; NG layer 1\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture Description\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description;
> Stage-2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
gNB-CU: as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
gNB-DU: as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
gNB: as defined in TS 38.300 [3]
en-gNB: as defined in TS 37.340 [4]
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS 38.411
[1] apply.
# 4 Introduction
The F1 Layer 1 shall comply with the requirements of clauses 4 through 6 in TS
38.411 [1].
#