# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 5G
System (5GS) User Equipment (UE) protocol conformance specification, as
identified below:
\- 3GPP TS 38.523-1 [2]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol\".
**\- 3GPP TS 38.523-2: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Applicability of protocol test cases\" (the present document).**
\- 3GPP TS 38.523-3 [3]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Protocol Test Suites\".
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the applicability of protocol test cases
proforma for 5G New Radio (NR) User Equipment (UE), in compliance with the
relevant requirements.
The present document specifies the recommended applicability statement for the
test cases included in 3GPP TS 38.523-1 [2] and 3GPP TS 38.523-3 [3]. These
applicability statements are based on the features implemented in the UE.
Special conformance testing functions can be found in 3GPP TS 38.509 [5] and
3GPP TS 36.509 [7] and the common test environments are included in 3GPP TS
38.508-1 [4] and 3GPP TS 36.508 [6].
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP Releases
starting from Release 15 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [11] (void)
[12] 3GPP TS 38.523-2 Release 17: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 2: Applicability of protocol test cases\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended Test Case Applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 38.523-2
Release 17 [12].
#