# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 5G
System (5GS) User Equipment (UE) protocol conformance specification, as
identified below:
\- **3GPP TS 38.523-1: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol\"** (the present document).
\- 3GPP TS 38.523-2 [2]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Applicability of protocol test cases\".
\- 3GPP TS 38.523-3 [3]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Protocol Test Suites\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for the 3GPP
UE connecting to the 5G System (5GS) via its radio interface(s).
The following information can be found in the present document (first part of
a multi-part test specification):
\- the overall test structure;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and references to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure, the specific test requirements
and short message exchange table.
The applicability of the individual test cases is specified in the ICS
proforma specification (3GPP TS 38.523‑2 [2]). The Test Suites are specified
in part 3 (3GPP TS 38.523‑3 [3]).
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP Releases
starting from Release 15 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] to [43] (void)
[44] 3GPP TS 38.523-1 Release 17: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 1: Protocol\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Test methodology
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 38.523-1
Release 17 [44].
# 5 to 13 Void
#