# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 3 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 5G
System (5GS) User Equipment (UE) protocol conformance specification, as
identified below:
\- 3GPP TS 38.523-1 [8]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol\".
\- 3GPP TS 38.523-2 [9]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Applicability of protocol test cases\".
\- **3GPP TS 38.523-3: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Protocol Test Suites\" (the present document).**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol and signalling conformance testing
in TTCN-3 for the 3GPP UE connecting to the 5G System (5GS) via its radio
interface(s).
The following TTCN test specification and design considerations can be found
in the present document:
\- the test system architecture;
\- the overall test suite structure;
\- the test models and ASP definitions;
\- the test methods and usage of communication ports definitions;
\- the test configurations;
\- the design principles and assumptions;
\- TTCN styles and conventions;
\- the partial PIXIT proforma;
\- the test suites.
The Test Suites designed in the document are based on the test cases specified
in prose in 3GPP TS 38.523‑1 [8]. The applicability of the individual test
cases is specified in 3GPP TS 38.523‑2 [9].
The present document is valid for TTCN development for 5GS UE conformance test
according to 3GPP Releases starting from Release 15 up to the Release
indicated on the cover page of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
  * [1] to [27] (void)
[28] 3GPP TS 38.523-3 Release 17: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 3: Protocol Test Suites\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
# 4 Test system architecture
## 4.1 General system architecture
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 38.523-3
Release 17 [28].
# 5 to 11 Void
###### ## Annex A to D: Void
#