# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 3 of a multi-part Technical Specification (TS)
covering the New Radio (NR) User Equipment (UE) conformance specification,
which is divided in the following parts:
\- TS 38.521-1 [8]: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\" (the present
document).
\- TS 38.521-2 [9]: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
\- TS 38.521-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation
with other radios\".
\- TS 38.521-4 [22]: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 4: Performance\".
\- TS 38.522 [14]: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Applicability of RF and RRM test cases\".
\- TS 38.533 [23]: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
resource management (RRM)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the measurement procedures for the conformance
test of the user equipment (UE) that contain RF characteristics for carrier
aggregation between Range 1 and Range 2 and additional requirements due to NR
non-standalone (NSA) operation mode with E-UTRA.
The requirements are listed in different clauses only if the corresponding
parameters deviate. More generally, tests are only applicable to those mobiles
that are intended to support the appropriate functionality. To indicate the
circumstances in which tests apply, this is noted in the \"_definition and
applicability_ \" part of the test.
For example only Release 15 and later UE declared to support 5G-NR shall be
tested for this functionality. In the event that for some tests different
conditions apply for different releases, this is indicated within the text of
the test itself.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] to [24] (void)
[25] 3GPP TS 38.521-3 Release 17: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2
Interworking operation with other radios \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 38.521-3
Release 17 [25].
# 5 to 7 Void
###### ## Annex A to N: Void
#