# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for NR 3DL/1UL Inter-band Carrier
Aggregation. The purpose is to gather the relevant background information and
studies in order to address 3DL/1UL Inter-band Carrier Aggregation
requirements for the Rel-16 band combinations in Table 1-1. UL carrier shall
be supported in each of the 3 bands being aggregated unless otherwise
specified.
Table 1-1: Release 16 3DL/1UL inter-band carrier aggregation combinations
CA combination REL independent from
* * *
CA_x1A-yA-zA
**The present document contains a general part and band specific combination
part. The actual requirements are added to the corresponding technical
specifications.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-190692: \"New WID: Rel-16 NR inter-band CA for 3 bands DL with 1 band
UL\", RAN#83.
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[6] 3GPP TR 37.865-01-01
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Carrier aggregation: Aggregation of two or more component carriers in order
to support wider transmission bandwidths.**
**Inter-band carrier aggregation: Carrier aggregation of component carriers in
different operating bands**.
NOTE: Carriers aggregated in each band can be contiguous or non-contiguous.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,c~ Allowed reference sensitivity relaxation due to support for inter-
band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
ΔT~IB,c~ Allowed maximum configured output power relaxation due to support for
inter-band CA operation, for serving cell _c_.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
BCS Bandwidth Combination Set
CA Carrier Aggregation
CA_X Intra-band contiguous CA of component carriers in one sub-block within
Band X where X is the applicable NR operating band
CA_X-X Intra-band non-contiguous CA of component carriers in two sub-blocks
within Band X where X is the applicable NR operating band
> CA_X-Y Inter-band CA of component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band X
> and component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band Y where X and Y are
> the applicable NR operating band
CA_X-X-Y CA of component carriers in two sub-blocks within Band X and
component carrier(s) in one sub-block within Band Y where X and Y are the
applicable NR operating bands
CC Component Carriers
DL Downlink
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
IMD Inter-modulation
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
SCS Subcarrier Spacing
TDD Time Division Duplex
PA Power Amplifier
PCC Primary Component Carrier
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity power level
SCC Secondary Component Carrier
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for 3DL/1UL Inter-band Carrier
Aggregation under Rel-16 time frame. It covers both the UE and BS side. The
document is divided in two different parts:
\- General part: this part covers BS and UE specific which is band combination
independent.
\- Specific band combination part: this part covers each band combination and
its specific issues independently from each other (i.e. one subclause is
defined per band combination).
The specific band combination parts are independent and therefore, the working
speed also differs.
## 4.1 The present document maintenance
A single company is responsible for introducing all approved TPs in the
present document, i.e. editor of the present document. However, it is the
responsibility of the contact person of each band combination to ensure that
the TPs related to the band combination have been implemented.
# 5 3 Band Carrier Aggregation with Single UL: General Part
_\ _
# 6 3 Band Carrier Aggregation with Single UL: Specific Band Combination Part
## 6.1 CA_n3A-n41A-n79A
### 6.1.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.1.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
CA_n3-n41-n79 n3 1710MHz -- 1780MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n41 2496MHz --
2690MHz 2496MHz -- 2690MHz TDD n79 4400MHz -- 5000MHz 4400MHz -- 5000MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.1.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **100** **Bandwidth
combination set** CA_n3A-n41A-n79A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes
Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n3A-n41A-n79A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 1 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 [3] and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.1.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.1.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 3^rd^ order harmonic of Band n3
will fall into a small portion of Band n79.
Table 6.1.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
Table 6.1.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n3, n41 and n79. It
is seen that a small part of Band n79 Tx frequency coincides with Band n41x3.
Table 6.1.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.1.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n41 and n79, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.1.4-1 and table 6.1.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.1.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
+----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+ | **Inter-band CA Configuration** | **NR Band** | **ΔTIB,c [dB]** | +----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+ | **CA_n3A-n41A-n79A** | **n3** | **0.3** | +----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+ | | **n41** | **0.3^1^** | +----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+ | | | **0.8^2^** | +----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+ | | **n79** | **0.8** | +----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is | | | | applied for UE transmitting on | | | | the frequency range of 2515-2690 | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is | | | | applied for UE transmitting on | | | | the frequency range of 2496-2515 | | | | MHz. | | | +----------------------------------+-------------+-------------------+
Table 6.1.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔRIB,c [dB]**
**CA_n3A-n41A-n79A** **n3** **0** **n41** **0.5** **n79** **0.5**
* * *
### 6.1.5 REFSENS requirements
For this combination, sensitivity degradation is allowed for Band n3 when
uplink transmission occur in Band n41 due to cross band isolation issues. The
reference sensitivity exceptions are specified in Table 6.1.5-1 with the
uplink configuration specified in Table 6.1.5-2.
Table 6.1.5-1: MSD due to cross band isolation for CA CA_n3A-n41A-n79A
* * *
NR CA Configuration NR UL band NR DL band Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                  5\                  10\         15\         20\         25\         30\         40\         50\         60\         80\         90 MHz (dBm)   100\
                                                  MHz (dBm)           MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)   MHz (dBm)                  MHz (dBm)
CA_n3A-n41A-n79A n3 n41 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7
                        n41          n3           0.6                 0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         0.6         \-          \-          \-          \-          \-             \-
* * *
Table 6.1.5-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions due
to cross band isolation
* * *
Channel bandwidth of the affected DL band
* * *
NR UL band NR DL band SCS of UL band (kHz) 5\ 10\ 15\ 20\ 25\ 30\ 40\ 50\ 60\
80\ 90 MHz 100\ MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
n3 n41 15kHz 50^1^ 50^1^ 50^1^ 50^1^ 50^1^ 50^1^ 50^1^ 50^1^
n41 n3 30 160 160 160 160 160 160
NOTE: The UL resource blocks shall be located as close as possible to the
downlink operating band but confined within the transmission bandwidth
configuration for the channel bandwidth.
* * *
## 6.2 CA_n8A-n41A-n79A
### 6.2.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.2.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
CA_n8-n41-n79 n8 880MHz -- 915MHz 925MHz -- 960MHz FDD n41 2496MHz -- 2690MHz
2496MHz -- 2690MHz TDD n79 4400MHz -- 5000MHz 4400MHz -- 5000MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.2.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **100** **Bandwidth
combination set** CA_n8A-n41A-n79A - n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n3A-n41A-n79A - n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 1 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 [3] and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.2.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.2.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 3^rd^ order harmonic of Band n8
will fall into Band n41 and the 5^th^ order harmonic of Band 8 will fall into
band n79.
Table 6.2.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**   **5^th^ harmonic**   **6^th^ harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band
Edge UL High Band Edge n8 880 915 925 960 1760 1830 2640 2745 3520 3660 4400
4575 5280 5490 n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
Table 6.2.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n8, n41 and n79. It
is seen that part of Band n79 Tx frequency coincides with Band 8x5.
Table 6.2.3-2: Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**   **5^th^ harmonic**   **6^th^ harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band
Edge DL High Band Edge n8 880 915 925 960 1850 1920 2775 2880 3700 3840 4625
4800 5550 5760 n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.2.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n8, n41 and n79, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.2.4-1 and table 6.2.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.2.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n8-n41-n79 n8
0.6 n41 0.3 n79 0.8
* * *
Table 6.2.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n8-n41-n79 n8
0 n41 0.5 n79 0.5
* * *
### 6.2.5 REFSENS requirements
For this combination, sensitivity degradation is allowed for Band n41 and n79
when there is uplink transmission in Band n8. The reference sensitivity
exceptions are specified in Table 6.2.5-1 with the uplink configuration
specified in Table 6.2.5-2.
Table 6.2.5-1: MSD due to harmonic issue for CA_n8-n41-n79
| MSD due to harmonic exception for the DL band |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UL band | DL band | **5 MHz** | **10 MHz** | **15 MHz** | **20 MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40 MHz** | **50 MHz** | **60 MHz** | **80 MHz** | **100 MHz**  
|  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
n8 | n411,2 | N/A | 13 | 11.3 | 10.1 |  |  | 7.0 | 6.1 | 5.5 | 4.3 | 3.5  
| n793,4 |  |  |  |  |  |  | [6.8] | 6.2 | [5.6] | 4.9 | 4.4  
NOTE 1: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 3rd transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 2 The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of a low band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with the carrier frequency of a high band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the low band. NOTE 3: These requirements apply when there is at least one individual RE within the uplink transmission bandwidth of the aggressor (lower) band for which the 5th transmitter harmonic is within the downlink transmission bandwidth of a victim (higher) band. NOTE 4: The requirements should be verified for UL EARFCN of the aggressor (lower) band (superscript LB) such that in MHz and with carrier frequency in the victim (higher) band in MHz and the channel bandwidth configured in the lower band. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.2.5-2 Uplink configuration for the low band (exceptions)
UL band DL band 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 25 MHz 30 MHz 40 MHz 50 MHz 60 MHz
80 MHz 100 MHz
* * *
n8 n41 - 16 25 25 - - 25 25 25 25 25 n79 - - - - - - 25 25 25 25 25
## 6.3 CA_n40A-n41A-n79A
### 6.3.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.3.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **D | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | B | and** | (UL) | (DL) | M | | | | | | and**| | oper | oper | ode** | | | | | | | | ating | ating | | | | | | | | | b | b | | | | | | | | | and**| and** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA_n | n40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | 40-n4 | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | 1-n79 | | | | | | | | | | ^1,2^ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n41 | 2496 | -- | 2690 | 2496 | -- | 2690 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n79 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | 4400 | -- | 5000 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | | 2506 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n41 | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | | 4800 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.3.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.3.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Configuration** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5**
**10** **15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n40A-n41A-n79A - n40 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n3A-n41A-n79A - n40 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 1 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 [3] and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.3.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.3.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n40
and n41 will fall into Band n79. However, this harmonic issue has already
addressed in CA_n40-n79 and CA_n41-n79.
Table 6.3.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
Table 6.3.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n40, n41 and n79.
It is seen that there may be 2nd harmonic mixing issue for the band
combination of n40, n49 and n79. However, this harmonic mixing issue has
already addressed in CA_n40-n79 and CA_n41-n79.
Table 6.3.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.3.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band X, Y and Z, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.3.4-1 and table 6.3.4-2, respectively.
Table 6.3.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n40-n41-n79
n40 0.5^1^ n41 0.5^1^ n79 0.8 NOTE: Only applicable for UE supporting inter-
band carrier aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx among band 40 and 41.
* * *
Table 6.3.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
**CA_n40-n41-n79** **n40** **0** ^1^ **n41** 0.5^1^ **n79** **0.5** NOTE: Only
applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier aggregation without
simultaneous Rx/Tx among band 40 and 41.
* * *
### 6.3.5 REFSENS requirements
Compared to its fall back modes, there are no additional MSD requirements for
this band combination.
## 6.4 CA_n1A-n3A-n78A
### 6.4.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.4.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n3-n78 n1 1920MHz -- 1980MHz 2110MHz -- 2170MHz FDD n3 1710MHz --
1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD
### 6.4.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.4.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n3A-n78A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes  
NOTE: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the
specification.
### 6.4.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.4.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n3
will fall into Band n78.
Table 6.4.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355 6840 7140 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.4.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
can be seen that Band n78 Tx frequency coincides with Band n3x2.
Table 6.4.3-2: Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640 7220 7520 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.4.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n3 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.4.4-1 and table 6.4.4-2, respectively.
Table 6.4.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n78 n1 0.6 n3 0.6 n78 0.8
Table 6.4.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n78 n1 0.2 n3 0.2 n78 0.5
### 6.4.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.5 CA_n39A-n41A-n79A
### 6.5.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.5.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
CA_n39-n41-n79 n39 1880MHz -- 1920MHz 1880MHz -- 1920MHz TDD n41 2496MHz --
2690MHz 2496MHz -- 2690MHz TDD n79 4400MHz -- 5000MHz 4400MHz -- 5000MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.5.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.5.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **100** **Bandwidth
combination set** CA_n39A-n41A-n79A - n39 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n3A-n41A-n79A - n39 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 1 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 [3] and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.5.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.5.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n41
will fall into a small portion of Band n79. However it is not a problem for
this combination since the lower part of Band n41 will not be used in the
region for this combination.
Table 6.5.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n39 1880 1920 1880 1920 3760 3840 5640 5760  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
Table 6.5.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n39, n41 and n79.
It is seen that a small part of Band n79 Tx frequency coincides with Band
n41x2.
Table 6.5.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n39 1880 1920 1880 1920 3760 3840 5640 5760  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070  
n79 4400 5000 4400 5000 8800 10000 1320 15000
* * *
For single uplink, the UE coexistence requirement is already considered for
these bands in TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.5.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n39, n41 and n79, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.5.4-1 and table 6.5.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.5.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_39-41-79 n39
0.3 n41 0.3 n79 0.8 NOTE: Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier
aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx between n39 and n41.
* * *
Table 6.5.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_39-41-79 n39
0.2 n41 0.5 n79 0.5 NOTE: Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier
aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx between n39 and n41.
* * *
### 6.5.5 REFSENS requirements
Compared to its fall back modes, there are no additional MSD requirements for
this band combination.
## 6.6 CA_n8A-n39A-n41A
### 6.6.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.6.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
CA_n8-n39-n41 n8 880MHz -- 915MHz 925MHz -- 960MHz FDD n39 1880MHz -- 1920MHz
1880MHz -- 1920MHz TDD n41 2496MHz -- 2690MHz 2496MHz -- 2690MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.6.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.6.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **100** **Bandwidth
combination set** CA_n8-n39A-n41A - n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n39 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n3A-n41A-n79A - n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 1 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n39 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 [3] and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.6.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.6.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 3^nd^ order harmonic of Band n8
will fall into a small portion of Band n41.
Table 6.6.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n8 880 915 925 960 1760 1830 2640 2745  
n39 1880 1920 1880 1920 3760 3840 5640 5760  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070
* * *
Table 6.6.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n8, n39 and n41. It
is seen that Band n39 Tx frequency coincides with Band n8x3.
Table 6.6.3-2: Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n8 880 915 925 960 1850 1920 2775 2880  
n39 1880 1920 1880 1920 3760 3840 5640 5760  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070
* * *
For single uplink, the UE coexistence requirement is already considered for
these bands in TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.6.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n8, n39, n41, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.6.4-1 and table 6.6.4-2, respectively.
Table 6.6.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_8-39-41 n8
0.6 n39 0.5 n41 0.5 NOTE: Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier
aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx between n39 and n41.
* * *
Table 6.6.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_8-39-41 n8
**0** n39 0.2 n41 0.2 NOTE: Applicable for UE supporting inter-band carrier
aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx between n39 and n41.
* * *
### 6.6.5 REFSENS requirements
Compared to its fall back modes, there are no additional MSD requirements for
this band combination.
## 6.7 CA_n3A-n8A-n78A
### 6.7.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.7.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
CA_n3-n8-n78 n3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n8 880 MHz --
915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD n78 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.7.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.7.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Configuration** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5**
**10** **15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n3A-n8A-n78A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 [3] and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.7.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.7.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n3
and n8 will fall into Band n78 and n3 respectively. 4^th^ harmonic of band n8
will fall into Band n78, However, these harmonic issues have already been
addressed in CA_n3-n8, CA_n3-n78 and CA_n8-n78 respectively.
Table 6.7.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355
6840 7140 n8 880 915 925 960 1760 1830 2640 2745 3520 3660 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
* * *
Table 6.7.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n3, n8 and n78.
According to fall back mode, there are no harmonic mixing for these band
combination.
Table 6.7.3-2: Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640
7220 7520 n8 880 915 925 960 1850 1920 2775 2880 3700 3840 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
* * *
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.7.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band X, Y and Z, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.7.4-1 and table 6.7.4-2, respectively.
Table 6.7.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n3-n8-n78 n3
0.6 n8 0.6 n78 0.8
* * *
Table 6.7.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]** **CA_n3-n8-n78**
**n3** **0.2** **n8** **0.2** **n78** **0.5**
* * *
### 6.7.5 REFSENS requirements
Compared to its fall back modes, there are no additional MSD requirements for
this band combination
## 6.8 CA_n66-n70-n71
### 6.8.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.8.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~** **F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~**  
CA_n66-n70-n71 n66 1710 MHz -- 1780 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2200 MHz FDD n70 1695 MHz
-- 1710 MHz 1995 MHz -- 2020 MHz FDD n71 663 MHz -- 698 MHz 617 MHz -- 652 MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.8.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.8.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA combination for 3DL Inter-
band CA
* * *
**CA operating / channel bandwidth [MHz]**  
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n66A-n70A-n71A - n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
n71 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
CA_n66B-n70A-n71A - n66 See CA_n66B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.5A.1-1 in TS38.101-1 0  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
n71 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
CA_n66(2A)-n70A-n71A - n66 See CA_n66(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table
5.5A.2-1 in TS38.101-1 0  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
n71 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
NOTE: This UE channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink.
* * *
### 6.8.3 UE co-existence studies
Tables 6.8.3-1 and 2 summarize frequency ranges where harmonics and/or
harmonics mixing occur for CA_n66-n70-n71.
Table 6.8.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic
* * *
                                                                                                   **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **nth Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge **DL Low Band Edge** DL High
Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n66 1710 1780 2110 2200 3420 3560 5130
5340  
n70 1695 1710 1995 2020 3390 3420 5085 5130  
n71 663 698 617 652 1326 1396 1989 2094
* * *
Based on the table above, there is 3^rd^ harmonic relation between n71 UL and
n70 DL. However, this relation is already specified in CA_n70A-n71A so no
additional requirements are needed for higher order CA.
Table 6.8.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing
* * *
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **mth Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n66 1710 1780 2110 2200 4220 4400 6330 6600  
n70 1695 1710 1995 2020 3990 4040 5985 6060  
n71 663 698 617 652 1234 1304 1851 1956
* * *
Based on the table above, the is no harmonic mixing relation.
### 6.8.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n66-n70-n71, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.8.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n66-n70-n71 n66 0.5 n70
0.5 n71 0.6
* * *
Table 6.8.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n66-n70-n71 n66 0 n70 0
n71 0
* * *
### 6.8.5 REFSENS requirements
Specific REFSENS requirement due to 3^rd^ harmonic for CA_n70-n71 has already
been accounted in two band CA combination CA_n70A-n71A.
## 6.9 CA_n28-n78-n257
### 6.9.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.9.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n28-n78-n257 n28 703MHz -- 748MHz 758MHz -- 803MHz FDD n78 3300MHz --
3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.9.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.9.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
CA config | UL config | NR Band | SCS (kHz) | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 90 | 100 | 200 | 400 | BW combination set  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n28A-n78A-n257A | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **0**  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n28A-n78A-n257D | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **0**  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n78A-n257G | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **0**  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n78A-n257H | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **0**  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n78A-n257I | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | **0**  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.9.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fallback modes in TR 38.716-02-00.
### 6.9.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n28, n78 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.9.4-1 and table 6.9.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.9.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n28-n78-n257 n28 0.5 n78
0.8 n257 0
* * *
Table 6.9.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~,c [dB] CA_n28-n78-n257 n28 0.2 n78
0.5 n257 0
* * *
### 6.9.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fallback modes in TR
38.716-02-00. There is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.10 CA_n3-n77-n257
### 6.10.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.10.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n3-n77-n257 n3 1710MHz -- 1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n77 3300MHz --
4200MHz 3300MHz -- 4200MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.10.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.10.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA config** | **UL config** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n3A-n77A-n257A | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n3A-n77A-n257D | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77A-n257G | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77A-n257H | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77A-n257I | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77(2A)-n257A | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 (TBD) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n3A-n77(2A)-n257D | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77(2A)-n257G | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77(2A)-n257H | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n77(2A)-n257I | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.10.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fallback modes in TR 38.716-02-00.
### 6.10.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n77 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.10.4-1 and table 6.10.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.10.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n3-n77-n257 n3 0.6 n77
0.8 n257 0
* * *
Table 6.10.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n3-n77-n257 n3 0.2 n77
0.5 n257 0
* * *
### 6.10.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fallback modes in TR
38.716-02-00. There is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.11 CA_n3-n78-n257
### 6.11.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.11.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n3-n78-n257 n3 1710MHz -- 1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n78 3300MHz --
3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.11.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.11.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA config** | **UL config** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n3A-n78A-n257A | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n3A-n78A-n257D | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n78A-n257G | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n78A-n257H | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n78A-n257I | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.11.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fallback modes in TR 38.716-02-00.
### 6.11.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n78 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.11.4-1 and table 6.11.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.11.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n3-n78-n257
n3 0.6 n78 0.8 n257 0
* * *
Table 6.11.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]** CA_n3-n78-n257
n3 0.2 n78 0.5 n257 0
* * *
### 6.11.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fallback modes in TR
38.716-02-00. There is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.12 CA_n28-n77-n257
### 6.12.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.12.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n28-n77-n257 n28 703MHz -- 748MHz 758MHz -- 803MHz FDD n77 3300MHz --
4200MHz 3300MHz -- 4200MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.12.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.12.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA config** | **UL config** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **200** | **400** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n28A-n77A-n257A | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n28A-n77A-n257D | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77A-n257G | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77A-n257H | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77A-n257I | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77(2A)-n257A | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n28A-n77(2A)-n257D | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77(2A)-n257G | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77(2A)-n257H | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n28A-n77(2A)-n257I | - | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n77 | See CA_n77(2A) in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I in Table 5.5A.1-2 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
> NOTE: For the UE that signals support of any bandwidth combination set for
> carrier aggregation, the UE shall support all single carrier bandwidths for
> the constituent bands as defined in Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-1 and in
> Table 5.3.5-1 of TS 38.101-2 when operating in single carrier mode.
### 6.12.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fallback modes in TR 38.716-02-00.
### 6.12.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n28, n77 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.12.4-1 and table 6.12.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.12.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔTIB,c [dB]** CA_n28-n77-n257
n28 0.5 n77 0.8 n257 0
* * *
Table 6.12.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔRIB,c [dB]** CA_n28-n77-n257
n28 0.2 n77 0.5 n257 0
* * *
### 6.12.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fallback modes in TR
38.716-02-00. There is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.13 CA_n3-n28-n77
### 6.13.1 Operating band for CA
Table 6.13.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                 **FUL\_low -- FUL\_high**        **FDL\_low -- FDL\_high**
CA_n3-n28-n77 n3 1710MHz -- 1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n28 703MHz --
748MHz 758MHz -- 803MHz FDD n77 3300MHz -- 4200MHz 3300MHz -- 4200MHz TDD
### 6.13.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.13.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
* * *
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **100** **Maximum
aggregated bandwidth (MHz)** **Bandwidth combination set** CA_n3A-n28A-n77A -
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 210 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n79 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
* * *
### 6.13.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.13.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that there is 5th harmonic issue but it has
already captured in the fallback CA in TR 38.716-02-00.
Table 6.13.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                                           **2nd Harmonic**       **3rd Harmonic**        **4th Harmonic**       **5th Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL
Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130
5355 6840 7140 8550 8925 n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992
3515 3740 n77 3300 4200 3300 4200 6600 8400 9900 12600 13200 16800 16500 21000
Table 6.13.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n3, n28 and n77.
It can be seen that there is 2th harmonic mixing issue but it is considered in
the fallback CA.
Table 6.13.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                                           **2nd Harmonic**       **3rd Harmonic**        **4th Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n3
1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640 7220 7520 n28 703 748 758 803 1516
1606 2274 2409 3032 3212 n77 3300 4200 3300 4200 6600 8400 9900 12600 13200
16800
* * *
### 6.13.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n3-n28-n77, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.13.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔTIB,c [dB]
* * *
CA_n3-n28-n77 n3 0.6 n28 0.5 n77 0.8
Table 6.13.4: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔRIB [dB]
* * *
CA_n3-n28-n77 n3 0.2 n28 0.2 n77 0.5
### 6.13.5 REFSENS requirements
Based on 6.13.3, there are no additional MSD requirements for this band
combination.
## 6.14 CA_n3-n28-n257
### 6.14.1 Operating band for CA
Table 6.14.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                  **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                  **FUL\_low -- FUL\_high**        **FDL\_low -- FDL\_high**
CA_n3-n28-n257 n3 1710MHz -- 1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n28 703MHz --
748MHz 758MHz -- 803MHz FDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz TDD
### 6.14.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.14.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**NR CA configuration** | **NR Uplink CA configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz** | **200 MHz** | **400 MHz** | **Maximum Aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
CA_n3A-n28A-n257A | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 450 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
CA_n3A-n28A-n257D | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 450 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257D BCS0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n28A-n257G | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 250 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G BCS0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n28A-n257H | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 350 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257H BCS0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n3A-n28A-n257I | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 450 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257I BCS0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.14.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.14.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that there is no harmonic issues.
Table 6.14.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                                           **2nd Harmonic**       **3rd Harmonic**        **4th Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n3
1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355 6840 7140 n28 703 748 758 803 1406
1496 2109 2244 2812 2992 n257 26500 29500 26500 29500 53000 59000 79500 88500
106000 118000
Table 6.14.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n3, n28 and n257.
It can be seen that there is no harmonic mixing issue.
Table 6.14.3-2: Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
* * *
                                                                                                           **2nd Harmonic**       **3rd Harmonic**        **4th Harmonic**       **5th harmonic**        **6th harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL
Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band
Edge** n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640 7220 7520 9025 9400 10830
11280 n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212 3790 4015 4548 4818
n257 26500 29500 26500 29500 53000 59000 79500 88500 106000 118000 132500
147500 159000 177000
* * *
### 6.14.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n3-n28-n257, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.14.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n3-n28-n257 n3 0.3 n28 0.3 n257 0
Table 6.14.4-2: ΔR~IB~
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~ [dB]
* * *
CA_n3-n28-n257 n3 0 n28 0 n257 0
### 6.14.5 REFSENS requirements
Based on 6.14.3, there are no additional MSD requirements for this band
combination.
## 6.15 CA_n3A_n40A-n41A
### 6.15.1 Operating bands for CA
**Table 6.15.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | **NR |** NR | **U |** Dow | **Dup | | | | | | CA | B | plink | nlink | lex** | | | | | | B | and**| (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | and** | | b | b | **m | | | | | | | | and** | and**| ode** | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | **BS |** BS | | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | trans | rece | | | | | | | | | mit**| ive** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | | ** | ** | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~U | F~D | | | | | | | | | L_hi | L_hi | | | | | | | | | gh~**| gh~** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | CA\ | n3 | 1710 | -- | 1785 | 1805 | -- | 1880 | FDD | | _n3A\ | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | | _n40A | | | | | | | | | | -n41A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | n41 | 2496 | -- | 2690 | 2496 | -- | 2690 | TDD | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
### 6.15.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.15.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** | **Uplink config** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **[kHz]** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Maximum aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n3A_n40A-n41A | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 210  
|  | n40 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
### 6.15.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.15.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL.
**Table 6.15.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL**
* * *
                                                                                                           **2^nd^ Harmonic**     **3^rd^ Harmonic**      **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n3
1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355  
n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070
* * *
Table 6.15.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for CA with Band n3, n40 and n41.
**Table 6.15.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL**
* * *
                                                                                                           **2^nd^ Harmonic**     **3^rd^ Harmonic**      **4^th^ Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n3
1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640  
n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070
* * *
It can been that there are no hormonic interference and harmonic mixing
problem for CA_n3A_n40A-n41A
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.15.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n3A_n40A-n41A, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.15.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | NR Band | ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | CA_n3A_n40A-n41A | n3 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n40 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n41 | 0.5^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 0.8^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for the frequency | | | | range of 2515-2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for the frequency | | | | range of 2496-2515 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Only applicable for UE | | | | supporting inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx | | | | among band 40 and 41. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
**Table 6.15.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~**
+------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | NR Band | ΔR~IB~ [dB] | +------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+ | CA_n3A_n40A-n41A | n3 | 0 | +------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+ | | n40 | 0 | +------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+ | | n41 | 0^1^ | +------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+ | | | 0.5^2^ | +------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for the frequency | | | | range of 2515-2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for the frequency | | | | range of 2496-2515 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Only applicable for UE | | | | supporting inter-band carrier | | | | aggregation without simultaneous Rx/Tx | | | | among band 40 and 41. | | | +------------------------------------------+---------+---------------+
### 6.15.5 MSD
According the co-existing studies, there is no need to specify additional MSD
requirement for this UL CA configuration.
## 6.16 CA_n77-n79-n257
### 6.16.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.16.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                   **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                   **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n77-n79-n257 n77 3300MHz -- 4200MHz 3300MHz -- 4200MHz TDD n79 4400MHz --
5000MHz 4400MHz -- 5000MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
### 6.16.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.16.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**CA configuration** | **Uplink CA config** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz** | **200 MHz** | **400 MHz** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n77-n79A-n257A | - | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n77-n79A-n257G | CA_n257G | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77-n79A-n257H | CA_n257G CA_n257H | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G and n257H in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n77-n79A-n257I | CA_n257G CA_n257H CA_n257I | n77 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G, n257H, and n257I in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.16.3 Co-existence studies
Co-existence studies can be omitted because harmonic interference from n77 to
n79 and from n79 to n77 have been already studied for NR CA n77-n79 as
described in [6], and interference between FR1 bands and FR2 band are
negligible.
### 6.16.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n77, n79 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.16.4-1 and table 6.16.4-2,
respectively. The ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are derived from [6].
Table 6.16.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n77-n79-n257 n77 0 n79 0 n257 0
Table 6.16.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n78-n79-n257 n77 0 n79 0 n257 0
### 6.16.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD studies can be omitted because harmonic interference from n77 to n79 and
from n79 to n77 have been already studied for NR CA n77-n79 as described in TR
37.865-01-01, and interference between FR1 bands and FR2 band are negligible.
## 6.17 CA_n78-n79-n257
### 6.17.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.17.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                   **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                   **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n78-n79-n257 n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD n79 4400MHz --
5000MHz 4400MHz -- 5000MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
### 6.17.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
###
Table 6.17.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA configuration** | **NR Uplink CA configuration** | **NR Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25 MHz** | **30 MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100 MHz** | **200 MHz** | **400 MHz** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n78-n79A-n257A | - | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 120 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |   
CA_n78-n79A-n257G | CA_n257G | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78-n79A-n257H | CA_n257G CA_n257H | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G and n257H in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n78-n79A-n257I | CA_n257G CA_n257H CA_n257I | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes |  |  |   
|  | n257 | See CA_n257G, n257H, and n257I in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS 38.101-2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.17.3 Co-existence studies
Co-existence studies can be omitted because harmonic interference from n78 to
n79 and from n79 to n78 have been already studied for NR CA n78-n79 as
described in TR 37.865-01-01, and interference between FR1 bands and FR2 band
are negligible.
### 6.17.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n78, n79 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.17.4-1 and table 6.17.4-2,
respectively. The ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are derived from TR
37.865-01-01.
Table 6.17.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n78-n79-n257 n78 0.5 n79 0.5 n257 0
Table 6.17.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n78-n79-n257 n78 0 n79 0 n257 0
### 6.17.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD studies can be omitted because harmonic interference from n78 to n79 and
from n79 to n78 have been already studied for NR CA n78-n79 as described in TR
37.865-01-01, and interference between FR1 bands and FR2 band are negligible.
## 6.18 CA_n1A-n3A-n8A
### 6.18.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.18.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n3-n8 n1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD n3 1710 MHz --
1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n8 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD
### 6.18.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.18.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n3A-n8A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60
### 6.18.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.18.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n8
will fall into Band n3.
Table 6.18.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355 6840 7140 n8 880 915 925
960 1760 1830 2640 2745 3520 3660
Table 6.18.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
can be seen that Band n1 Tx frequency coincides with Band n8x2.
Table 6.18.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640 7220 7520 n8 880 915 925
960 1850 1920 2775 2880 3700 3840
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.18.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n3 and n8, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.18.4-1 and table 6.18.4-2, respectively.
Values are derived from LTE CA_1-3-8.
Table 6.18.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n8 n1 0.3 n3 0.3 n8 0.3
Table 6.18.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n8 n1 **0** n3 **0** n8 **0**
### 6.18.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD requirements are captured in lower order combinations.
## 6.19 CA_n1A-n8A-n78A
### 6.19.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.19.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n8-n78 n1 1920MHz -- 1980MHz 2110MHz -- 2170MHz FDD n8 880 MHz -- 915
MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD
### 6.19.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.19.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n8A-n78A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n8 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes  
NOTE: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the
specification.
### 6.19.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.19.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.19.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n8 880 915 925 960 1760 1830 2640 2745 3520 3660 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.18.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
can be seen that Band n1 Tx frequency coincides with Band n8x2 and that Band
n78 Tx frequency coincides with Band n8x4.
Table 6.19.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n8 880 915 925 960 1850 1920 2775 2880 3700 3840 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.19.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n8 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.19.4-1 and table 6.19.4-2, respectively.
Values are derived from DC_1-8_n78.
Table 6.19.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n8-n78 n1 0.3 n8 0.6 n78 0.8
Table 6.19.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n8-n78 n1 0 n8 0.2 n78 0.5
### 6.19.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD requirements are captured in lower order combinations.
## 6.20 CA_n1A-n3A-n28A
### 6.20.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.20.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n3-n28 n1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD n3 1710 MHz --
1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz
FDD
### 6.20.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.20.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n3A-n28A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^  
60  
NOTE: For the 20 MHz bandwidth, the minimum requirements are specified for NR
UL carrier frequencies confined to either 713-723 MHz or 728-738 MHz.
### 6.20.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.20.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 3^rd^ order harmonic of Band n28
will fall into Band n1.
Table 6.20.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355 6840 7140 n28 703 748 758
803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992
Table 6.20.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. No
issues can be seen.
Table 6.20.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640 7220 7520 n28 703 748 758
803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.20.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n3 and n28, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.20.4-1 and table 6.20.4-2, respectively.
Values are derived from LTE CA_1-3-28.
Table 6.20.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n28 n1 0.3 n3 0.3 n28 0.6
Table 6.20.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n28 n1 0 n3 0 n28 0.2
### 6.20.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD requirements are captured in lower order combinations.
## 6.21 CA_n1A-n28A-n78A
### 6.21.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.21.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n28-n78 n1 1920MHz -- 1980MHz 2110MHz -- 2170MHz FDD n28 880 MHz -- 915
MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz FDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD
### 6.21.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.21.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Config** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n1A-n28A-n78A | - | n1 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes |   
NOTE 1: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the specification. NOTE 2: For the 20 MHz bandwidth, the minimum requirements are specified for NR UL carrier frequencies confined to either 713-723 MHz or 728-738 MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.21.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.21.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.21.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.21.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. No
issues are found.
Table 6.21.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.21.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n28 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.21.4-1 and table 6.21.4-2,
respectively. Values are derived from DC_1-28_n78.
Table 6.21.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n28-n78 n1 0.3 n28 0.6 n78 0.8
Table 6.21.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n28-n78 n1 0 n28 0.2 n78 0.5
### 6.21.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.22 CA_n3A-n28A-n78A
### 6.22.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.22.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n3-n28-n78 n3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n28 703 MHz --
748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz FDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD
### 6.22.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.22.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Config** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n3A-n28A-n78A | - | n3 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes |   
NOTE 1: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the specification. NOTE 2: For the 20 MHz bandwidth, the minimum requirements are specified for NR UL carrier frequencies confined to either 713-723 MHz or 728-738 MHz. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.22.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.22.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n3
will fall into Band n78.
Table 6.22.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355
6840 7140 n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.22.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
can be seen that Band n78 Tx frequency coincides with Band n3x2.
Table 6.22.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640
7220 7520 n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.22.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n28 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.22.4-1 and table 6.22.4-2,
respectively. Values are derived from DC_3-28_n78.
Table 6.22.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n3-n28-n78 n3 0.5 n28 0.3 n78 0.8
Table 6.22.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n3-n28-n78 n3 0 n28 0.2 n78 0.5
### 6.22.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.23 CA_n1A-n3A-n41A
### 6.23.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.23.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n3-n41 n1 1920MHz -- 1980MHz 2110MHz -- 2170MHz FDD n3 1710MHz --
1785MHz 1805MHz -- 1880MHz FDD n41 2496MHz -- 2690MHz 2496MHz -- 2690MHz TDD
### 6.23.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.23.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n3A-n41A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.23.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.23.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL.
Table 6.23.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940  
n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070
Table 6.23.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL.
Table 6.23.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510  
n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640  
n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070
For this band combination, there is no harmonic and harmonic mixing issue.
### 6.23.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n3 and n41, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.23.4-1 and table 6.23.4-2, respectively.
Table 6.23.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
+--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | **Inter-band CA |** NR Band**|** ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**| | Configuration** | | | +================================+=============+=====================+ | CA_n1-n3-n41 | n1 | 0.5 | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | | n3 | 0.5 | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | | n41 | 0.3^1^ | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | | | 0.8^2^ | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is | | | | applied for UE transmitting on | | | | the frequency range of 2545 - | | | | 2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is | | | | applied for UE transmitting on | | | | the frequency range of 2496 - | | | | 2545 MHz. | | | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+
Table 6.23.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
+--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | **Inter-band CA |** NR Band**|** ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**| | Configuration** | | | +================================+=============+=====================+ | CA_n1-n3-n41 | n1 | 0 | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | | n3 | 0 | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | | n41 | 0^1^ | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | | | 0.5^2^ | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is | | | | applied for UE transmitting on | | | | the frequency range of 2545 -- | | | | 2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is | | | | applied for UE transmitting on | | | | the frequency range of 2496 -- | | | | 2545 MHz. | | | +--------------------------------+-------------+---------------------+
### 6.23.5 REFSENS requirements
There is no additional MSD requirements for CA_n1-n3-n41.
## 6.24 CA_n29-n66-n70
### 6.24.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.24.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | NR CA | NR | Uplink | Do | Duplex | | | | | | Band | Band | (UL) | wnlink | | | | | | | | | band | (DL) | mode | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | r | tr | | | | | | | | | eceive | ansmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tr | r | | | | | | | | | ansmit | eceive | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | | F~UL | F~DL | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | CA\ | n29 | N/A | 717 | -- | 728 | SDL | | | | _n29-n | | | | | | | | | | 66-n70 | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | n66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | FDD | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | n70 | 1695 | -- | 1710 | 1995 | -- | 2020 | FDD | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+
#### 6.24.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.24.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA combination for 3DL Inter-
band CA
* * *
**CA operating / channel bandwidth [MHz]**  
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Configuration** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5**
**10** **15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n29A-n66A-n70A - n29 15 Yes Yes 0 30 Yes  
60  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
CA_n29A-n66B-n70A - n29 15 Yes Yes 0 30 Yes  
60  
n66 See CA_n66B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS38.101-1  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
CA_n29A-n66(2A)-n70A - n29 15 Yes Yes 0 30 Yes  
60  
n66 See CA_n66(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS38.101-1  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
NOTE: This UE channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink
* * *
#### 6.24.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.24.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n29-n66-n70.
Table 6.24.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic
* * *
                                                                                                   **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **nth Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge **DL Low Band Edge** DL High
Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n29 N/A N/A 717 728 N/A N/A N/A N/A
N/A N/A n66 1710 1780 2110 2200 3420 3560 5130 5340  
n70 1695 1710 1995 2020 3390 3420 5085 5130
* * *
Based on the table above, there is no harmonic relation
Table 6.24.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing
* * *
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **mth Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n29 N/A N/A 717 728 1434 1456 2151 2184 N/A
N/A 1710 1780 2110 2200 4220 4400 6330 6600 1710  
n70 1695 1710 1995 2020 3990 4040 5985 6060
* * *
Based on the table above, the is no harmonic mixing relation.
#### 6.24.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n29-n66-n70, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.24.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n29-n66-n70 n29 0 n66 0.5
n70 0.5
* * *
Table 6.24.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n29-n66-n70 n29 0 n66 0
n70 0
* * *
#### 6.24.5 REFSENS requirements
REFSENS is defined in TS38.101-1 Table 7.3A.2.4-1, because n29A is an SDL
band.
Table 6.24.5-1: Reference sensitivity for SDL bands
NR Band/Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
NR CA Configuration | NR band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz  
|  |  | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB  
CA_n29A-n66A-n70A | n29 | 15 | -97.0 | -93.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -94.1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| n66 | 15 | -99.5 | -96.3 | -94.5 | -93.3 |  |  | -90.1 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -96.6 | -94.6 | -93.5 |  |  | -90.2 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | -97.0 | -94.9 | -93.7 |  |  | -90.4 |  |  |  |  |   
| n70 | 15 | -100 | -96.8 | -95.0 | -93.8 | -92.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -97.1 | -95.1 | -94.0 | -92.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | -97.5 | -95.4 | -94.2 | -93.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n29A-n66B-n70A | n29 | 15 | -97.0 | -93.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -94.1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| n66 | 15 | -99.5 | -96.3 | -94.5 | -93.3 |  |  | -90.1 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -96.6 | -94.6 | -93.5 |  |  | -90.2 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | -97.0 | -94.9 | -93.7 |  |  | -90.4 |  |  |  |  |   
| n70 | 15 | -100 | -96.8 | -95.0 | -93.8 | -92.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -97.1 | -95.1 | -94.0 | -92.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | -97.5 | -95.4 | -94.2 | -93.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n29A-n66(2A)-n70A | n29 | 15 | -97.0 | -93.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -94.1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| n66 | 15 | -99.5 | -96.3 | -94.5 | -93.3 |  |  | -90.1 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -96.6 | -94.6 | -93.5 |  |  | -90.2 |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | -97.0 | -94.9 | -93.7 |  |  | -90.4 |  |  |  |  |   
| n70 | 15 | -100 | -96.8 | -95.0 | -93.8 | -92.7 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 30 |  | -97.1 | -95.1 | -94.0 | -92.8 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 60 |  | -97.5 | -95.4 | -94.2 | -93.0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set to PUMAX, as defined in subclause 6.2.4. NOTE 2: Four Rx antenna ports shall be the baseline for this operating band, except for two Rx vehicular UE. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.25 CA_n29-n66-n70
#### 6.25.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.25.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | NR CA | NR | Uplink | Do | Duplex | | | | | | Band | Band | (UL) | wnlink | | | | | | | | | band | (DL) | mode | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | | r | tr | | | | | | | | | eceive | ansmit | | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | | tr | r | | | | | | | | | ansmit | eceive | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | | F~UL | F~DL | | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | CA\ | n29 | N/A | 717 | -- | 728 | SDL | | | | _n29-n | | | | | | | | | | 66-n70 | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | n66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | FDD | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+ | | n70 | 1695 | -- | 1710 | 1995 | -- | 2020 | FDD | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+------+-----+
#### 6.25.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.25.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA combination for 3DL Inter-
band CA
* * *
**CA operating / channel bandwidth [MHz]**  
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Configuration** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5**
**10** **15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set** CA_n29A-n66A-n70A - n29 15 Yes Yes 0 30 Yes  
60  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
CA_n29A-n66B-n70A - n29 15 Yes Yes 0 30 Yes  
60  
n66 See CA_n66B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1 in TS38.101-1  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
CA_n29A-n66(2A)-n70A - n29 15 Yes Yes 0 30 Yes  
60  
n66 See CA_n66(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS38.101-1  
n70 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
30 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
60 Yes Yes Yes^1^ Yes^1^  
NOTE: This UE channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink
* * *
#### 6.25.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.25.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n29-n66-n70.
Table 6.25.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic
* * *
                                                                                                   **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **nth Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge **DL Low Band Edge** DL High
Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n29 N/A N/A 717 728 N/A N/A N/A N/A
N/A N/A n66 1710 1780 2110 2200 3420 3560 5130 5340  
n70 1695 1710 1995 2020 3390 3420 5085 5130
* * *
Based on the table above, there is no harmonic relation
Table 6.25.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing
* * *
                                                                                               **2nd Harmonic**   **3rd Harmonic**    **mth Harmonic**
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n29 N/A N/A 717 728 1434 1456 2151 2184 N/A
N/A 1710 1780 2110 2200 4220 4400 6330 6600 1710  
n70 1695 1710 1995 2020 3990 4040 5985 6060
* * *
Based on the table above, the is no harmonic mixing relation.
#### 6.25.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n29-n66-n70, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are given in the tables
below.
Table 6.25.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n29-n66-n70 n66 0.5 n70
0.5
* * *
Table 6.25.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n29-n66-n70 n66 0 n70 0
* * *
#### 6.25.5 REFSENS requirements
REFSENS is defined in TS38.101-1 Table 7.3A.2.4-1, because n29A is an SDL
band.
Table 6.25.5-1: Reference sensitivity for SDL bands
NR Band/Channel bandwidth
* * *
NR CA Configuration NR band SCS (kHz) 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 25 MHz 30 MHz
40 MHz 50 MHz 60 MHz 80 MHz 90 MHz 100 MHz dB dB dB dB dB dB dB dB dB dB dB dB
CA_n29A-n66A-n70A n29 15 -97.0 -93.8  
30 -94.1  
60  
n66 15 -99.5 -96.3 -94.5 -93.3 -90.1  
30 -96.6 -94.6 -93.5 -90.2  
60 -97.0 -94.9 -93.7 -90.4  
n70 15 -100 -96.8 -95.0 -93.8 -92.7  
30 -97.1 -95.1 -94.0 -92.8  
60 -97.5 -95.4 -94.2 -93.0  
CA_n29A-n66B-n70A n29 15 -97.0 -93.8  
30 -94.1  
60  
n66 15 -99.5 -96.3 -94.5 -93.3 -90.1  
30 -96.6 -94.6 -93.5 -90.2  
60 -97.0 -94.9 -93.7 -90.4  
n70 15 -100 -96.8 -95.0 -93.8 -92.7  
30 -97.1 -95.1 -94.0 -92.8  
60 -97.5 -95.4 -94.2 -93.0  
CA_n29A-n66(2A)-n70A n29 15 -97.0 -93.8  
30 -94.1  
60  
n66 15 -99.5 -96.3 -94.5 -93.3 -90.1  
30 -96.6 -94.6 -93.5 -90.2  
60 -97.0 -94.9 -93.7 -90.4  
n70 15 -100 -96.8 -95.0 -93.8 -92.7  
30 -97.1 -95.1 -94.0 -92.8  
60 -97.5 -95.4 -94.2 -93.0  
NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set to P~UMAX~, as defined in subclause
6.2.4.
## 6.26 CA_ n41-n66-n71
#### 6.26.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.26.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n41 | 2469 | -- | 2690 | 2469 | -- | 2690 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n71 | 663 | -- | 698 | 617 | -- | 652 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.26.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.26.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
NR CA configuration | NR Uplink CA configuration | NR Band | SCS (kHz) | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 25 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 90 MHz | 100 MHz | **Maximum Aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n25A-n41A-n71A | - | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 140 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n25A-n41(2A)-n71A | - | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 230 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n41 | See CA_n41(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in 38.101-1 Table 5.5A.2-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n25A-n41C-n71A | - | n25 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 220 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n41 | See CA_n41C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in 38.101-1 Table 5.5A.1-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.26.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.26.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n25-n41-n71.
**Table 6.26.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
* * *
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic**  
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge**
**n25** 1850 1915 1930 1995 3700 3830 5550 5985 7400 7660 **n41** 2496 2690
2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 **n71** 663 698 617 652 1326 1396
1989 2094 2652 2792
* * *
Band n71 uplink 4^th^ harmonic hits band n41 downlink.
**Table 6.26.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
* * *
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic**  
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge**
**n25** 1850 1915 1930 1995 3860 3990 5790 5985 7720 7980 **n41** 2496 2690
2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 **n71** 663 698 617 652 1234 1304
1851 1956 2468 2608
* * *
Band n41 is at 4^th^ receiver harmonic of band n71 no MSD is necessary.
#### 6.26.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n25-n41-n71, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are derived from fallback
CAs using max operation as given in the tables below.
Table 6.26.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n25-n41-n71 n25 0.5 n41
0.5 n71 0.6
* * *
Table 6.26.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n25-n41-n71 n25 0 n41 0
n71 0.2
* * *
#### 6.26.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD requirements are captured in lower order combinations.
## 6.27 CA_ n41-n66-n71
#### 6.27.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.27.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n41 | 2469 | -- | 2690 | 2469 | -- | 2690 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n71 | 663 | -- | 698 | 617 | -- | 652 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.27.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.27.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA configuration** | **NR Uplink CA configuration** | **NR** **Band** | **SCS** **(kHz)** | **5** **MHz** | **10** **MHz** | **15** **MHz** | **20** **MHz** | **25** **MHz** | **30** **MHz** | **40** **MHz** | **50** **MHz** | **60** **MHz** | **80** **MHz** | **90** **MHz** | **100** **MHz** | **Maximum Aggregated bandwidth** **[MHz]** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n41A-n66A-n71A | - | n41 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  | 160 | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |   
|  | n66 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n41(2A)-n66A-n71A | - | n41 | See CA_n41(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in 38.101-1 Table 5.5A.2-1 | 250 | 0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n66 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CA_n41C-n66A-n71A | - | n41 | See CA_n41C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in 38.101-1 Table 5.5A.1-1 | 240 | 0 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n66 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n71 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.27.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.27.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_41X-71Y.
**Table 6.27.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
* * *
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic**  
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge**
**n41** 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 **n66** 1710 1780
2110 2200 3420 3560 5130 5340 6840 7120 **n71** 663 698 617 652 1326 1396 1989
2094 2652 2792
* * *
Band n71 uplink 4^th^ harmonic hits band n41 downlink.
**Table 6.27.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
* * *
** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **2^nd^ Harmonic** **3^rd^ Harmonic** **4^th^
Harmonic**  
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge**
**n41** 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 **n66** 1710 1780
2110 2200 4220 4400 6330 6600 8440 8800 **n71** 663 698 617 652 1234 1304 1851
1956 2468 2608
* * *
Band n41 is at 4^th^ receiver harmonic of band n71 no MSD is necessary.
#### 6.27.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n41-n66-n71, the ΔT~IB,c~ and ΔR~IB,c~ values are derived from fallback
CAs using max operation given in the tables below.
Table 6.27.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | NR Band | ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | CA_n41-n66-n71 | n41 | 0.8^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 1.3^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n66 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n71 | 0.3 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2545-2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2545 MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
Table 6.27.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | NR Band | ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | CA_n41-n66-n71 | n41 | 0.5^1^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 1^2^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n66 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n71 | 0 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2545-2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2545 MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
#### 6.27.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD requirements are captured in lower order combinations.
## 6.28 CA_n25-n66-n78
### 6.28.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.28.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n25-n66-n78 n25 1850 MHz -- 1915 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1995 MHz FDD n66 1710 MHz
-- 1780 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2200 MHz TDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.28.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.28.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n25A-n66A-n78A - n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.28.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fall-back modes.
### 6.28.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n25, n66 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.28.4-1 and table 6.28.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.28.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n25-n66-n78 n25 0.6 n66
0.6 n78 0.8
* * *
Table 6.28.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~,c [dB] CA_n25-n66-n78 n25 0.3 n66
0.3 n78 0.5
* * *
### 6.28.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fall-back modes. There
is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.29 CA_n7-n66-n78
### 6.29.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.29.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n7-n66-n78 n7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n66 1710 MHz --
1780 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2200 MHz TDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.29.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.29.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
n7A-n66A-n78A - n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.29.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fall-back modes.
### 6.29.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n7, n66 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.29.4-1 and table 6.29.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.29.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n7-n66-n78 n7 0.5 n66 0.6
n78 0.8
* * *
Table 6.29.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~,c [dB] CA_n7-n66-n78 n7 0.5 n66 0.5
n78 0.5
* * *
### 6.29.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fall-back modes. There
is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.30 CA_n5-n66-n78
### 6.30.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.30.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n5-n66-n78 n5 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 896 MHz FDD n66 1710 MHz --
1780 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2200 MHz TDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz
TDD
* * *
### 6.30.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.30.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
n5A-n66A-n78A - n5 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.30.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fall-back modes.
### 6.30.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n7, n66 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.30.4-1 and table 6.30.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.30.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n5-n66-n78 n5 0.6 n66 0.6
n78 0.8
* * *
Table 6.30.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~,c [dB] CA_n5-n66-n78 n5 0.5 n66 0.2
n78 0.5
* * *
### 6.30.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fall-back modes. There
is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.31 CA_n7-n25-n66
### 6.31.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.31.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
* * *
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**  
**BS receive / UE transmit** **BS transmit / UE receive**  
**FUL_low -- FUL_high** **FDL_low -- FDL_high**  
CA_n7-n25-n66 n7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n25 1850 MHz --
1915 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1995 MHz FDD n66 1710 MHz -- 1780 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2200
MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.31.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.x.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n7A-n25A-n66A - n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.31.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fall-back modes.
### 6.31.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n28, n78 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.31.4-1 and table 6.31.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.31.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n7-n25-n66 n7 0.5 n25 0.5
n66 0.5
* * *
Table 6.31.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~ for 3DL aggregation
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB~,c [dB] CA_n7-n25-n66 n7 0.5 n25 0.3
n66 0.5
* * *
### 6.31.5 REFSENS requirements
Sensitivity degradation is covered by the constituent fall-back modes. There
is no additional REFSENS requirement for this combination.
## 6.32 CA_n20A-n28A-n78A
### 6.32.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.32.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                                                                                                                                        **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                                                                                                                                        **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n20-n28-n78^y^ n20 832MHz -- 862MHz 791MHz -- 821MHz FDD n28 703MHz --
748MHz 758MHz -- 803MHz FDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD NOTE
y: The frequency range in band n28 is restricted for this band combination to
703-733 MHz for the UL and 758-788 MHz for the DL.
### 6.32.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.32.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n20A-n28A-n78A - n20 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.32.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.32.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL.
Table 6.32.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                                           **2nd Harmonic**       **3rd Harmonic**        **4th Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band
Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** n20
832 862 791 821 1664 1724 2496 2586 3328 3448 n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496
2109 2244 2812 2992 n78 3300 3800 3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400
Table 6.32.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL.
Table 6.32.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                                           **2^nd^ Harmonic**     **3^rd^ Harmonic**      **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** **UL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL
High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band
Edge** **DL High Band Edge** **DL Low Band Edge** **DL High Band Edge** n20
832 862 791 821 1582 1642 2373 2463 3164 3284 n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606
2274 2409 3032 3212 n78 3300 3800 3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400
There is a 4^th^ harmonic interference for band n78 Rx with band n20 Tx.
For this band combination, there is no harmonic mixing issue.
### 6.32.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n20, n28 and n78, the T~IB,c~
and R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.32.4-1 and table 6.32.4-2,
respectively.
Table 6.32.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔTIB,c [dB]
* * *
CA_n20-n28-n78 n20 0.6 n28 0.5 n78 0.8
Table 6.32.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔRIB,c [dB]
* * *
CA_n20-n28-n78 n20 0 n28 0.2 n78 0.5
### 6.32.5 REFSENS requirements
The MSD requirements due to UL harmonic interference for band n78 Rx with band
n20 Tx has been specified in TS 38.101-1.
## 6.33 CA_n1A-n7A-n28A
### 6.33.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.33.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n7-n28 n1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD n7 2500 MHz --
2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n28 880 MHz -- 915 MHz 925 MHz -- 960 MHz
FDD
### 6.33.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.33.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Config** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n1A-n7A-n28A | - | n1 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n7 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n28 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes2 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the specification. NOTE 2: For the 20 MHz bandwidth, the minimum requirements are specified for NR UL carrier frequencies confined to either 713-723 MHz or 728-738 MHz |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.33.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.33.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.33.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500 7710 10000 10280 n28 703 748
758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992
Table 6.33.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
is noted that 3^rd^ harmonics from n28 UL affects band n1 DL.
Table 6.33.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070 10480 10760 n28 703 748
758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.33.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n7 and n28, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.33.4-1 and table 6.33.4-2, respectively.
Values are derived from DC_1-7_n28.
Table 6.33.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n7-n28 n1 0.5 n7 0.6 n28 0.6
Table 6.33.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n7-n28 n1 0 n7 0 n28 0.2
### 6.33.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements for band n28 UL affecting band n1 DL are
already defined in Table 7.3A.4-2 of TS 38.101-1. No additional requirements
are needed.
## 6.34 CA_n1A-n7A-n78A
### 6.34.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.34.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n7-n78 n1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD n7 2500 MHz --
2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n78 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3300 MHz -- 3800
MHz TDD
### 6.34.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.34.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** | **UL Config** | **NR Band** | **SCS [kHz]** | **5** | **10** | **15** | **20** | **25** | **30** | **40** | **50** | **60** | **80** | **90** | **100** | **Bandwidth combination set**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n1A-n7A-n78A | - | n1 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n7 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | 15 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes1 | Yes |   
CA_n1A-n7A-n78(2A) | - | n1 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0  
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n7 | 15 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 30 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 60 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |  |  |  |  |   
|  | n78 | See CA_n78(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.2-1 in TS 38.101-1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: This UE channel bandwidth is optional in this release of the specification. NOTE 2: For the 20 MHz bandwidth, the minimum requirements are specified for NR UL carrier frequencies confined to either 713-723 MHz or 728-738 MHz |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 6.34.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.34.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.34.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500 7710 10000 10280 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.34.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. No
issues are found.
Table 6.34.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070 10480 10760 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1 [3].
### 6.34.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n7 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.34.4-1 and table 6.34.4-2, respectively.
Values are derived from DC_1-7_n78.
Table 6.34.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n7-n78 n1 0.6 n7 0.6 n78 0.8
Table 6.34.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n7-n78 n1 0.2 n7 0.2 n78 0.5
### 6.34.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.35 CA_n28A-n41A-n78A
6.35.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.35.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                  **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                  
                                  **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n28-n41-n78 n28 703MHz -- 748MHz 758MHz -- 803MHz FDD n41 2496MHz --
2690MHz 2496MHz -- 2690MHz TDD n78 3300MHz -- 3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD
6.35.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.35.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **70** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n28A-n41A-n78A - n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n41 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
6.35.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.35.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL.
Table 6.35.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812
2992 n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.35.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL.
Table 6.35.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032
3212 n41 2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For this band combination, the harmonic and harmonic mixing issue have been
solved by fallback combos.
6.35.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of CA_n28-n41-n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.35.4-1 and table 6.35.4-2, respectively.
Table 6.35.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n28-n41-n78 n28 0.5 n41 0.3 n78 0.8
Table 6.35.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n28-n41-n78 n28 0.2 n41 0 n78 0.5
6.35.5 REFSENS requirements
There is no additional MSD requirements for CA_n28-n41-n78.
## 6.36 CA_n1A-n40A-n78A
6.36.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.36.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n40-n78 n1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD n40 2300 MHz --
2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz TDD n78 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3300 MHz -- 3800
MHz TDD
6.36.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.36.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1-n40-n78 - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n40 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
6.36.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.36.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.36.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200 9600 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.36.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. No
issues are found.
Table 6.36.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200 9600 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1.
6.36.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n40 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.36.4-1 and table 6.36.4-2,
respectively. Values are same as for DC_1_n40-n78.
Table 6.36.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n40-n78 n1 0.3 n40 0.5 n78 0.8
Table 6.36.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n40-n78 n1 0 n40 0 n78 0.5
6.36.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.37 CA_n28A-n40A-n78A
6.37.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.37.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                  **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                  **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n28-n40-n78 n28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz FDD n40 2300 MHz --
2400 MHz 2300 MHz -- 2400 MHz TDD n78 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3300 MHz -- 3800
MHz TDD
6.37.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.37.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n28-n40-n78 - n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n40 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
6.37.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.37.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.37.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812
2992 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200 9600 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.37.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL.
3^rd^ harmonic DL mixing from band n28 UL will affect band n40 DL.
Table 6.37.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n28 703 748 2110 2170 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032
3212 n40 2300 2400 2300 2400 4600 4800 6900 7200 9200 9600 n78 3300 3800 3300
3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1.
6.37.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n28, n40 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.37.4-1 and table 6.37.4-2,
respectively. Values are derived from DC_28-41_n78.
Table 6.37.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n28-n40-n78 n28 0.5 n40 0.3 n78 0.8
Table 6.37.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n28-n40-n78 n28 0 n40 0 n78 0.5
6.37.5 REFSENS requirements
Harmonic mixing is already defined for CA_n28-n40. No additional REFSENS
requirements are needed to be defined.
## 6.38 CA_n25-n66-n71
#### 6.38.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.38.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n71 | 663 | -- | 698 | 617 | -- | 652 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.38.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.38.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
NR CA Configuration UL Config NR Band SCS [kHz] 5 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 60 80
90 100 Bandwidth combination set
* * *
CA_n25A-n66A-n71A - n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n71 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60
#### 6.38.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.38.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n25-n41-n71.
Table 6.38.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic
2^nd^ Harmonic 3^rd^ Harmonic 4^th^ Harmonic
* * *
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band
Edge UL High Band Edge 25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3700 3830 5550 5745 7400 7660 66
1710 1780 2110 2200 3420 3560 5130 5340 6840 7120 71 663 698 617 652 1326 1396
1989 2094 2652 2792
3^rd^ harmonic of n71 UL will interfere n25 DL.
Table 6.38.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing
2^nd^ Harmonic 3^rd^ Harmonic 4^th^ Harmonic
* * *
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band
Edge DL High Band Edge 25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3860 3990 5790 5985 7720 7980 66
1710 1780 2110 2200 4220 4400 6330 6600 8440 8800 71 663 698 617 652 1234 1304
1851 1956 2468 2608
3^rd^ DL harmonic of n71 will co-inside n25 UL.
#### 6.38.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n25-n66-n71, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are derived from fallback
CAs using max operation as given in the tables below.
Table 6.38.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n25-n66-n71 n25 0.5 n66
0.5 n71 0.6
* * *
Table 6.38.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration NR Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] CA_n25-n66-n71 n25 0.3 n66
0.3 n71 0.3
* * *
#### 6.38.5 REFSENS requirements
MSDs due to harmonic interference and harmonic mixing for band pair of n25 and
n71 are already captured into specification.
## 6.39 CA_ n25-n41-n66
#### 6.39.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.39.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | NR | U | Dow | D | | | | | | Band | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | | (UL) | (DL) | | | | | | | | band | band | mode | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | re | tra | | | | | | | | ceive | nsmit | | | | | | | | / UE | / UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n41 | 2469 | -- | 2690 | 2469 | -- | 2690 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+ | n66 | 1710 | -- | 1780 | 2110 | -- | 2200 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-----+
#### 6.39.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.39.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n25A-n41A-n66A - n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n41 15 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes**  
30 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes**
**Yes**  
60 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes**
**Yes**  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n25A-n41C-n66A - n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n41 See CA_n41C Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in 38.101-1 Table 5.5A.1-1  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n25A-n41(2A)-n66A - n25 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n41 See CA_n41(2A) Bandwidth Combination Set 1 in 38.101-1 Table 5.5A.2-1  
n66 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes
#### 6.39.3 UE co-existence studies
Table 6.39.3-1/2 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics and/or harmonics
mixing occur for CA_n25-n41-n71.
**Table 6.39.3-1: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic**
2^nd^ Harmonic 3^rd^ Harmonic 4^th^ Harmonic
* * *
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band
Edge UL High Band Edge 25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3700 3830 5550 5745 7400 7660 41
2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 66 1710 1780 2110 2200 3420
3560 5130 5340 6840 7120
No harmonic interference.
**Table 6.39.3-2: Impact of UL/DL Harmonic mixing**
2^nd^ Harmonic 3^rd^ Harmonic 4^th^ Harmonic
* * *
Band UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band
Edge DL High Band Edge 25 1850 1915 1930 1995 3860 3990 5790 5985 7720 7980 41
2496 2690 2496 2690 4992 5380 7488 8070 9984 10760 66 1710 1780 2110 2200 4220
4400 6330 6600 8440 8800
No harmonic mixing.
#### 6.39.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For CA_n25-n41-n66, the ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values are derived from fallback
CAs using max operation as given in the tables below.
Table 6.39.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | NR Band | ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | CA_n25-n41-n66 | n25 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n41 | 0.8^6^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 1.3^7^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n66 | 0.5 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 6: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2545-2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2545 MHz. | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
Table 6.39.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
+----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | Inter-band CA Configuration | NR Band | ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | CA_n25-n41-n66 | n25 | 0.3 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n41 | 0.5^6^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | | 1^7^ | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | | n66 | 0.3 | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+ | NOTE 6: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2545-2690 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: The requirement is applied for | | | | UE transmitting on the frequency range | | | | of 2496-2545 MHz | | | +----------------------------------------+---------+-----------------+
#### 6.39.5 REFSENS requirements
MSD is not required.
## 6.40 CA_n1-n78-n257
### 6.40.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.40.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                  **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                  **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n78-n257 n1 1920MHz -- 1980MHz 2110MHz -- 2170MHz FDD n78 3300MHz --
3800MHz 3300MHz -- 3800MHz TDD n257 26500MHz -- 29500MHz 26500MHz -- 29500MHz
TDD
### 6.40.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.40.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100** **200**
**400** **Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n78A-n257A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n257 60 Yes Yes Yes  
120 Yes Yes Yes Yes
### 6.40.3 Co-existence studies
The coexistence studies of harmonic interference have been captured in the
constituent fallback modes in TR 38.716-02-00.
### 6.40.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n78 and n257, the ∆T~IB,c~
and ∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in tables below
Table 6.40.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n78-n257 n1 0.3 n78 0.8 n257 0
Table 6.40.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n78-n257 n1 0 n78 0.5 n257 0
### 6.40.5 REFSENS requirements
No additional MSD requirement is needed.
## 6.41 CA_n1A-n3A-n7A
6.41.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.41.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n1-n3-n7 n1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD n3 1710 MHz --
1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz
FDD
6.41.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.41.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n1A-n3A-n7A - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n1A-n3A-n7B - n1 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes  
n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n7 See CA_n7B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1
6.41.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.41.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.41.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 3840 3960 5760 5940
7680 7920 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355 6840 7140 n7 2500 2570
2620 2690 5000 5140 7500 7710 10000 10280
Table 6.41.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. No
issues are found.
Table 6.41.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n1 1920 1980 2110 2170 4220 4340 6330 6510
8440 8680 n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640 7220 7520 n7 2500 2570
2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070 10480 10760
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1.
6.41.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n1, n3 and n7, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.41.4-1 and table 6.41.4-2, respectively.
Values are same as for DC_1-3_n7.
Table 6.41.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n7 n1 0.6 n3 0.6 n7 0.6
Table 6.41.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n1-n3-n7 n1 0 n3 0 n7 0
6.41.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.42 CA_n3A-n7A-n28A
6.42.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.42.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n3-n7-n28 n3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n7 2500 MHz --
2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n28 703 MHz -- 748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz
FDD
6.42.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.42.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n3A-n7A-n28A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
CA_n3A-n7B-n28A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n7 See CA_n7B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1  
n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60
6.42.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.42.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. No issues are found.
Table 6.42.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355
6840 7140 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500 7710 10000 10280 n28 703 748
758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992
Table 6.42.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. No
issues are found.
Table 6.42.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640
7220 7520 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070 10480 10760 n28 703 748
758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1.
6.42.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n7 and n28, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.42.4-1 and table 6.42.4-2, respectively.
Values are same as for DC_3-7_n28.
Table 6.42.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n3-n7-n28 n3 0.5 n7 0.5 n28 0.3
Table 6.42.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n3-n7-n28 n3 0 n7 0 n28 0
6.42.5 REFSENS requirements
Additional REFSENS requirements are not needed to be defined.
## 6.43 CA_n3A-n7A-n78A
6.43.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.43.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n3-n7-n78 n3 1710 MHz -- 1785 MHz 1805 MHz -- 1880 MHz FDD n7 2500 MHz --
2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n78 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3300 MHz -- 3800
MHz TDD
6.43.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.43.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n3A-n7A-n78A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n3A-n7B-n78A - n3 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n7 See CA_n7B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
6.43.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.43.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic of Band n3
will fall into a portion of Band n78.
Table 6.43.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3420 3570 5130 5355
6840 7140 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500 7710 10000 10280 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.43.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
can be seen that the 2^nd^ order harmonic mixing of Band n78 Tx coincides with
Band n3x2.
Table 6.43.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n3 1710 1785 1805 1880 3610 3760 5415 5640
7220 7520 n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070 10480 10760 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1.
6.43.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n7 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.43.4-1 and table 6.43.4-2, respectively.
Values are same as for DC_3-7_n78.
Table 6.43.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n3-n7-n78 n3 0.6 n7 0.6 n78 0.8
Table 6.43.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n3-n7-n78 n3 0.2 n7 0.2 n78 0.5
6.43.5 REFSENS requirements
Compared to its fallback modes, there are no additional MSD requirements for
this band combination.
## 6.44 CA_n3A-n28A-n78A
6.44.1 Operating bands for CA
Table 6.44.1-1: 3DL Inter-band CA operating bands
**NR CA Band** **NR Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band** **Downlink (DL)
operating band** **Duplex Mode**
* * *
                                 **BS receive / UE transmit**     **BS transmit / UE receive**                                                    
                                 **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**    **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
CA_n3-n28-n78 n7 2500 MHz -- 2570 MHz 2620 MHz -- 2690 MHz FDD n28 703 MHz --
748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz FDD n78 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz
TDD
6.44.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for CA
Table 6.44.2-1: Supported channel bandwidths per CA configuration for 3DL
inter-band CA
**NR CA Configuration** **UL Config** **NR Band** **SCS [kHz]** **5** **10**
**15** **20** **25** **30** **40** **50** **60** **80** **90** **100**
**Bandwidth combination set**
* * *
CA_n7A-n28A-n78A - n7 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 30 Yes Yes Yes Yes
Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
CA_n7B-n28A-n78A - n7 See CA_n7B Bandwidth Combination Set 0 in Table 5.5A.1-1
0  
n28 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes  
60  
n78 15 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
30 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes  
60 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
6.44.3 Co-existence studies
Table 6.44.3-1 summarizes frequency ranges where harmonics occur due to 3DL
bands CA with 1 UL. It can be seen that there are no issues.
Table 6.44.3-1: Harmonic Interference for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge UL
Low Band Edge UL High Band Edge n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5000 5140 7500 7710
10000 10280 n28 703 748 758 803 1406 1496 2109 2244 2812 2992 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
Table 6.44.3-2 gives harmonic mixing issue for the 3DL bands CA with 1 UL. It
can be seen that there are no issues.
Table 6.44.3-2 Harmonic mixing for 3DLs/1UL
                                                                                               **2^nd^ Harmonic**   **3^rd^ Harmonic**   **4^th^ Harmonic**
* * *
**Band** **UL Low Band Edge** UL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band
Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge DL
Low Band Edge DL High Band Edge n7 2500 2570 2620 2690 5240 5380 7860 8070
10480 10760 n28 703 748 758 803 1516 1606 2274 2409 3032 3212 n78 3300 3800
3300 3800 6600 7600 9900 11400 13200 15200
For single uplink, the UE coexistence is already considered for these bands in
TS 38.101-1.
6.44.4 ∆T~IB,c~ and ∆R~IB,c~ values
For three simultaneous DLs and one UL of Band n3, n7 and n78, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.x.4-1 and table 6.x.4-2, respectively.
Values are same as for DC_7-28_n78.
Table 6.44.4-1: ΔTIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n7-n28-n78 n7 0.3 n28 0.3 n78 0.8
Table 6.44.4-2: ΔRIB,c for 3DL aggregation
**Inter-band CA Configuration** **NR Band** **ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]**
* * *
CA_n7-n28-n78 n7 0 n28 0 n78 0.5
6.44.5 REFSENS requirements
Compared to its fallback modes, there are no additional MSD requirements for
this band combination.
#