# Foreword {#foreword .TT}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for the Work Item on Integrated
Access and Backhaul for NR. The present document captures the background and
the decisions on IAB requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\"
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception: Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\"
[6] 3GPP TS 38.141-2: \"NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing; Part 2:
Radiated conformance testing\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.817-02: \"General aspects for Base Station (BS) Radio Frequency
(RF) for NR\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.174: \"NR; Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) radio
transmission and reception\"
[9] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[10] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1539-1: \"Variation of the boundary between the
out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329\".
[11] CISPR 32: \"Electromagnetic compatibility of multimedia equipment \--
Emission requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.113: \"NR; Base Station (BS) and repeater ElectroMagnetic
Compatibility (EMC)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 38.176-1: \" NR; Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) conformance
testing; Part 1: Conducted conformance testing\".
[14] 3GPP TS 38.176-2: \" NR; Integrated Access and Backhaul (IAB) conformance
testing; Part 2: Radiated conformance testing\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**IAB type 1-H:** IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR1 with a requirement set
holding requirements defined at the respective TAB and OTA requirements
defined at the respective RIB
**IAB type 1-O:** IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR1 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the respective RIB.
**IAB type 2-O:** IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR2 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the respective RIB
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
{width="0.22916666666666666in" height="0.24305555555555555in"} The composite
_antenna array_ pattern in dB
{width="0.22916666666666666in" height="0.24305555555555555in"} The _array
element_ pattern in dB
BeW~Θ~ The Beam width in Θ
BeW~ϕ~ The Beam width in ϕ
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EMC Electromagnetic Compatibility
ESD Electrostatic discharge
IAB Integrated Access and backhaul
IAB-DU Integrated Access and Backhaul Distributed Unit
IAB-MT Integrated Access and Backhaul Mobile Termination
LA Local Area
MR Medium Range
OTA Over The Air
RB Resource Block
RDN Radio Distribution Network
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RIB Radiated Interface Boundary
RX Receiver
**RXU Receiver Unit**
TRP Total Radiated Power
**TRXU Transceiver Unit**
**TRXUA Transceiver Unit Array**
**TXU Transmitter Unit**
WA Wide Area
# 4 General aspect
## 4.1 Relation with other core specification
IAB (Integrated Access and backhaul) node is a RAN node that supports wireless
access to Ues and wirelessly backhauls the access traffic. Direct application
of only Base station RF requirements is not appropriate enabler for both the
wireless backhaul and wireless access and thus a new TS spec 38.174[8] will be
specified.
In R16 IAB WI, the wireless backhaul technology is based on NR Uu so the 3GPP
terminology will be reused to define the wireless backhaul RF specification.
In Figure 6.3.1-1 reference diagram of architecture in 38.874, IAB node is
functional splitted with IAB-DU and IAB-MT. IAB-DU has interface with UE and
IAB-MT so it is representing the Base Station functionality. IAB-MT has
interface with IAB-DU only and thus is representing the UE functionality.
3GPP TS 38.174[8] is a Single RAT NR IAB specification. The single RAT IAB
means the same RAT will apply to both IAB-DU and IAB-MT. It is expected to
capture IAB-DU and IAB-MT requirements for the following aspects:
> Tx, Rx and demodulation core requirements for NR IAB-DU and NR IAB-MT
\- Conducted and radiated sets of core requirements for the above listed
categories (i.e. Tx, Rx and IAB demodulation),
\- Requirements for FR1 and FR2 frequency ranges
\- FR1: Both conducted and OTA requirements will be required for Range 1\. The
applicability may depend on the requirements.
\- Requirement set 1-H: Conducted requirements and OTA requirements for FR1
hybrid IAB-DU and IAB-MT (which includes antenna functionality).
\- Requirement set 1-O: OTA requirements for FR1 OTA IAB-DU and OTA IAB-MT
(which includes antenna functionality).
\- FR2: Only OTA requirements are defined for FR2.
> \- Requirement set 2-O: OTA requirements for FR2 OTA IAB-DU and OTA IAB-MT.
3GPP TS 38.104 [2] is a Single RAT NR BS specification. IAB-DU shall reuse the
relevant requirements from spec in TS 38.104 [2]. Where applicable, the IAB-MT
may also re-use requirements from 38.104 [2].
3GPP TS 38.101-1/2 [3] [4] is a Single RAT NR UE specification. Where
applicable, IAB-MT may reuse requirements from the spec in TS 38.101-1/2 [3]
[4].
## 4.2 RF Requirements reference points
The requirement reference points for BS is defined as below:
Table 4.2-1: BS requirement sets
BS type / Requirement set BS Description Additional information
* * *
1-H A BS operating at FR1 with a requirement set holding requirements defined
at the TAB and OTA requirements defined at RIB. The requirement set is like
the one defined for Hybrid AAS BS. Following the approach used in 3GPP TS
37.105 1-O A BS operating at FR1 with a requirement set consisting only OTA
requirements defined at the RIB. Following the approach developed in Eaas and
documented in 3GPP TR 37.843. 2-O A BS operating at FR2 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the RIB. This requirement set
is relevant for AAS BS and does not require access to RF connectors.
The test and reference point of RF requirement for BS should be reused and
thus the test spec will not be impacted.
The IAB-Du and IAB_MT may share the same hardware implementation, of so the
reference points for the IAB-DU and the IAB-MT may be different.
Table 4.2-2: IAB requirement sets
IAB type / Requirement set IAB Description Additional information
* * *
1-H IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR1 with a requirement set holding
requirements defined at the respective TAB and OTA requirements defined at the
respective RIB The requirement set for both IAB-DU and IAB-MT. 1-O IAB-MT and
IAB-DU operating at FR1 with a requirement set consisting only of OTA
requirements defined at the respective RIB. The requirement set for both IAB-
DU and IAB-MT. 2-O IAB-MT and IAB-DU operating at FR2 with a requirement set
consisting only of OTA requirements defined at the respective RIB. The
requirement set for both IAB-DU and IAB-MT.
## 4.3 IAB classification
IAB-MT classification and IAB-DU classification will be defined separately.
For IAB-DU the classification will be the same as NR BS classification in TS
38.104 [2] to support Wide Area IAB-DU, Medium Range IAB-DU and Local Area
IAB-DU with the same deployment scenarios for each class as for BS. The same
criteria and exactly the same parameter of NR BS classification, e,g, BS to UE
minimum distance on the ground for BS without connector, IAB-DU to UE minimum
coupling loss for BS with connector, will be applied for IAB-DU with
modification as IAB-DU to UE minimum distance on the ground for IAB-DU type
2-O/1-O and IAB-DU minimum coupling loss depends on IAB-DU type 1-H.
For IAB-MT multiple classes will be defined based on deployment scenario as
well.
## 4.4 Void
## 4.5 IAB architecture
The logical architecture (considering the RF interfaces) of the IAB is as
follows:
{width="6.701388888888889in" height="2.0972222222222223in"}
Figure 4.5-1: Logical IAB functions showing RF interfaces
In the RF specification these logical functions have been separated into the
HW entities the IAB-DU and the IAB-MT IAB-DU. The HW entities may be
implemented in the same radio hardware as shown in Figure 4.5-2 or separate
radio hardware as shown in Figure 4.5-3, the diagrams show the OTA
architecture but the same applies for the hybrid architecture.
{width="4.701388888888889in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 4.5-2: Shared IAB hardware
{width="4.375in" height="5.256944444444445in"}
Figure 4.5-3: Separate IAB hardware
The figures show the hardware as either completely shared or completely
separate, there are of course many levels of possible integration in between
these 2 extremes.
When considering the OTA architecture and specifications the nature of HW is
not relevant as the node can be treated as a black box, however in deriving
the requirements for the IAB nodes it is important to consider both
implementations so that both can be implemented if required.
## 4.6 IAB test efficiency optimization
In case the same RF implementation is used for both IAB-MT and IAB-DU, it
would be inefficient to test separately both IAB-MT and IAB-DU. Therefore,
test efficiency optimization rules were defined.
For test efficiency optimization to apply, manufacturer needs to declare usage
of same RF hardware, and in addition to that a set of declarations need to be
the same for IAB-MT and IAB-DU. The declarations were selected in a manner
that test configurations and other key test parameters will be the same for
IAB-MT and IAB-DU. These parameters cover for example output power and
supported bandwidth.
When these preconditions are fulfilled, a set of rules defines conditions when
IAB-DU or IAB-MT should be used as DUT and whether IAB-DU or IAB-MT test
requirement can be applied. The rules were defined so that both IAB-DU and
IAB-MT functionality will be verified. Test efficiency optimization is
generally applicable for requirements for which IAB-MT and IAB-DU requirements
are the same. However, some additional requirements are also included but in
those cases more stringent test requirement must be applied.
## 4.7 Void
# 5 Operating band and channel arrangement
## 5.1 General
The Frequency range definitions for IAB will be the same as for the NR BS in
TS 38.104 [2].
## 5.2 Operating bands
Operating bands will be added to the IAB specification as they are approved,
no bands are precluded at this stage and can be added based on consensus.
Currently the FR1 bands shown in table 5.2-1 and all Rel-15 FR2 bands shown in
table 5.2-2 are to be included in the IAB specification.
Table 5.2-1: NR _operating bands_ in FR1
+---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | NR _operating band_ | Uplink (UL) and Downlink (DL) | Duplex mode | | | _operating band_ \ | | | | BS transmit/receive\ | | | | UE transmit/receive | | | | | | | | F~UL,low~ -- F~UL,high~ | | | | | | | | F~DL,low~ -- F~DL,high~ | | +=====================+================================+=============+ | n41 | 2496 MHz -- 2690 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | n77 | 3300 MHz -- 4200 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | n78 | 3300 MHz -- 3800 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | n79 | 4400 MHz -- 5000 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+
Table 5.2-2: NR _operating bands_ in FR2
+---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | NR _operating band_ | Uplink (UL) and Downlink (DL) | Duplex mode | | | _operating band_ \ | | | | BS transmit/receive\ | | | | UE transmit/receive | | | | | | | | F~UL,low~ -- F~UL,high~ | | | | | | | | F~DL,low~ -- F~DL,high~ | | +=====================+================================+=============+ | n257 | 26500 MHz -- 29500 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | n258 | 24250 MHz -- 27500 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | n260 | 37000 MHz -- 40000 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+ | n261 | 27500 MHz -- 28350 MHz | TDD | +---------------------+--------------------------------+-------------+
## 5.3 Channel bandwidth
Channel bandwidth covers definitions on the transmission bandwidth
configuration, minimum guard band, RB alignment and channel bandwidth per
operating band. For the transmission bandwidth configuration and minimum guard
band, existing NR definition for BS and UE for each frequency range is the
same. And they should be applied for IAB as it is. For RB alignment the IAB-DU
should follow NR BS definition, And IAB-MT should follow NR UE definition.
Regarding Channel bandwidth per operating band, it is agreed to incorporate
only the bands and associated channel bandwidth to be supported for IAB in IAB
specification.
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
Channel arrangement includes channel spacing, channel raster and sync raster.
The introduction of IAB node should be transparent to UE from IAB-DU
perspective. And it is not expected to impact on existing fundamental NR
design on global channel raster and sync raster as well. Hence the channel
raster, channel raster and sync raster definition in existing NR
specification, which is identical in BS and UE, will be applied for IAB.
# 6 Co-existence study
## 6.1 System layout and scenario
### 6.1.1 Layout for co-existence study
For Layout 1 considered in IAB co-existence study the details are provided in
Table 6.1.1-1 and figure 6.1.1-1 as below.
{width="4.090277777777778in" height="2.0208333333333335in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: Layout 1
Table 6.1.1-1: Parameters for Layout 1
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values and remarks | +==================================+==================================+ | **Layout for nodes** | IAB network: Two layer | | | | | | Macro layer: Hex. Grid (3 | | | sector) (all macro BSs are | | | IAB-donors) | | | | | | 19 sites | | | | | | Micro layer: 1 micro BSs per | | | macro BS | | | | | | 1. Random drop (All micro BSs | | | are all outdoor and are | | | IAB-nodes) | | | | | | 2. Drop micro nodes in a circle | | | with center at 40m and radius of | | | 20m | | | | | | Victim network | | | | | | 1. Macro layer: Hex grid 3 | | | sector coordinated layout (0% | | | grid shift) -- Rel.15 legacy | | | network | | | | | | 2. Same as aggressor | | | | | | Orientation: Highest gain | | | towards donor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Inter-BS distance** | Macro layer: 200m FR2, 500m FR1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Minimum distance between Micro | 40m,50m, 60m | | BS** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Minimum distance between Macro | 10m | | BS and UE** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Minimum distance between Micro | 10m | | BS and UE** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
For Layout 2 considered in IAB co-existence study the details are provided in
Table 6.1.1-2 and figure 6.1.1-2 as below.
{width="3.5833333333333335in" height="3.138888888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.1-2: Layout 2
Table 6.1.1-2: Parameters for Layout 2
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values and remarks | +=======================+=============================================+ | **Layout for nodes** | IAB network: | | | | | | Micro layer: Hex tri-sectorial | | | | | | Number of IAB-donors (Ndonor): 1 | | | | | | Number of IAB-nodes is 19 -- Ndonor | | | | | | Victim network | | | | | | 1. Micro layer: Hex tri-sectorial -- grid | | | shift derived from minimum distance | | | (20meters and 40 meters) | | | | | | 2. same as aggressor | | | | | | IAB-node and Micro BS are assumed to have | | | 3 panels with 120 degree shift relative to | | | each other. | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | **Inter-BS distance** | Micro layer: 200m | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
Layout 1: All micro IAB nodes are IAB-MTs and study will investigate at least
interference on UL to the macro gNB receivers.
Layout 2: IAB nodes transmitting BH in UL slots or DL slots
_For Victim system_
Legacy Rel.15 NR (no IAB nodes) : All micro IAB nodes are IAB-MTs and study
will investigate at least interference on UL to the macro gNB receivers
Same layout as aggressor with IAB nodes deployed: study will investigate at
least IAB-MTs DL reception
### 6.1.2 Scenarios for co-existence study
There are two scenarios considered in co-existence study as shown in table
6.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2-1: IAB co-existence scenarios
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenario | Details | +==================================+==================================+ | **Scenario 1** | In case of TDM operation the | | | following mapping of IAB node | | | transmission/reception to a TDD | | | pattern (DL/UL/F resources) is | | | assumed: | | | | | | IAB DU transmission / IAB MT | | | reception: DL time slots | | | | | | IAB MT transmission / IAB DU | | | reception: UL time slots | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Scenario 2 for Layout 2 Only** | In case of TDM operation the | | | following mapping of IAB node | | | transmission/reception to a TDD | | | pattern (DL/UL/F resources) is | | | assumed: | | | | | | IAB DU transmission / IAB MT | | | reception: DL time slots | | | | | | IAB MT transmission / IAB DU | | | reception: DL time slots | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The following half duplex constraints will apply to all the IAB nodes of the
network:
1\. MT and DU operations (resource usage) are TDM-ed at each site
2\. Each site is only Tx-ing or Rx-ing on different interfaces -- Layout 2 and
Scenario 2
3\. DU is able to support multiple cells (and therefore multiple sectors) only
if the cells are synchronized, i.e. different sectors of the same site cannot
be simultaneously transmitting and receiving.
For IAB operation mode it is agreed as table 6.1.2-2, 6.1.2-3 and 6.1.2-4,
with the same TDD pattern is assumed between two adjacent channel operators.
Table 6.1.2-2: Aggressor: IAB Network, Victim: NR Network
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Layout | Scenario | Aggressor | Victim system | | | | system | | +================+================+================+================+ | **1** | **1** | UL: (IAB-MT) | UL: UE -> gNB | | | | -> | | | | | (IAB-Donor) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **2** | **1** | UL: (IAB-MT) & | UL: UE -> gNB | | | | UE | | | | | ->(IAB | | | | | -DU/IAB-Donor) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DL: | DL: gNB->UE | | | | ( | | | | | IAB-DU/IAB-Don | | | | | or)->(IAB-MT) | | | | | & UE | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **2** | DL: (IAB-MT) | DL: gNB->UE | | | | ->(IAB- | | | | | DU/IAB-Donor)& | | | | | | | | | | DL: | | | | | (IAB-DU/IAB-Do | | | | | nor)->(IAB-MT | | | | | & UE) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Assumption | 1 MT and 3 Dus | | | | for all | per site (1 DU | | | | scenarios** | per sector) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.1.2-3: Aggressor: NR Network, Victim: IAB Network
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Layout | Scenario | Aggressor | Victim system | | | | system | | +================+================+================+================+ | 1 | 1 | UL: UE -> gNB | UL: (IAB-MT) | | | | | -> | | | | | (IAB-Donor) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DL: gNB->UE | DL: | | | | | (IAB-Don | | | | | or)->(IAB-MT) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | 1 | UL: UE -> gNB | UL: (IAB-MT) & | | | | | UE | | | | | ->(IAB | | | | | -DU/IAB-Donor) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DL: gNB->UE | DL: | | | | | ( | | | | | IAB-DU/IAB-Don | | | | | or)->(IAB-MT) | | | | | & UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 2 | DL: gNB->UE | DL: (IAB-MT) | | | | | ->(IAB | | | | | -DU/IAB-Donor) | | | | | & | | | | | | | | | | DL: | | | | | (IAB-DU/IAB-Do | | | | | nor)->(IAB-MT | | | | | & UE) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Assumption | 1 MT and 3 Dus | | | | for all | per site (1 DU | | | | scenarios** | per sector) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.1.2-4: Aggressor: NR Network, Victim: IAB Network
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Layout | Scenario | Aggressor | Victim system | | | | system | | +================+================+================+================+ | 1 | 1 | UL: (IAB-MT) | UL: (IAB-MT) | | | | -> | -> | | | | (IAB-Donor) | (IAB-Donor) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | 1 | UL: (IAB-MT) & | UL: (IAB-MT) & | | | | UE | UE | | | | ->(IAB | ->(IAB | | | | -DU/IAB-Donor) | -DU/IAB-Donor) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | DL: | DL: | | | | ( | ( | | | | IAB-DU/IAB-Don | IAB-DU/IAB-Don | | | | or)->(IAB-MT) | or)->(IAB-MT) | | | | & UE | & UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 2 | DL: (IAB-MT) | DL: (IAB-MT) | | | | ->(IAB- | ->(IAB- | | | | DU/IAB-Donor)& | DU/IAB-Donor)& | | | | | | | | | DL: | DL: | | | | (IAB-DU/IAB-Do | (IAB-DU/IAB-Do | | | | nor)->(IAB-MT | nor)->(IAB-MT | | | | & UE) | & UE) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Assumption | 1 MT and 3 Dus | | | | for all | per site (1 DU | | | | scenarios:** | per sector) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 6.1.3 Co-location
An IAB node is capable of transmitting in the DL (IAB-DU) or the UL (IAB-MT).
When acting as an IAB-MT there are 2 possible co-location interference
scenarios between the IAB-MT and a BS.
\- Aggressor IAB-MT transmitting in UL, victim BS receiving in UL
\- Aggressor BS transmitting in DL, victim IAB-MT receiving in DL
For co-location, the interference is given by:
$P_{\text{interference}\ } = 10*\log_{10}\left(
10^{\frac{P_{\text{ACLR}}}{10}} + 10^{\frac{P_{\text{ACS}}}{10}} \right)$
Where:
P~ACLR~ = Ptx_aggressor -- ACLR~aggressor~ -- coupling
P~ACS~ = Ptx_aggressor -- ACS~victim~ -- coupling
A conservative estimate for the coupling between two co-located systems is;
30Db for FR1 and 45Db for FR2.
NOTE: this figure is used only for this analysis. It is not an agreed FR2
isolation figure.
For a micro BS scenario:
Table 6.1.3-1: Co-location interference between BS and IAB-MT for FR1 and FR2
+----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Pa | | IAB | BS | | | | rameters | | | | | | +==========+======+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | unit | FR1 | FR2 | FR1 | FR2 | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | dBm | 30 | 30 | 33 | 33 | | _P~tx~__| | | | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |__ACLR_ _| dB | 45 | 28 | 45 | 28 | | | | (Note1) | (Note1) | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |__Sen | dBm | -96.5 | approx. | -96.5 | approx. | | sitivity | | (4.5MHz) | -85 | (4.5MHz) | -85 | | (FR2 | | | (50MHz) | | (50MHz) | | approx. | | (Note2) | | | | | eq | | | (Note2) | | | | uivalent | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onducted | | | | | | | sensit | | | | | | | ivity)__| | | | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |__ACS_ _| dB | 45 | 24 | 45 | 24 | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |__Co | dB | 30 | 45 | 30 | 45 | | upling_ _| | | (Note3) | | (Note3) | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |__IAB to | dBm | - | - | -42.0 | -37.5 | | BS | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | rference | | | | | | | (UL)__| | | | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |__BS to | dBm | -41.9 | -34.5 | - | - | | IAB | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | rference | | | | | | | (DL)_ * | | | | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note1: | | | | | | | the ACLR | | | | | | | figures | | | | | | | used are | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | values, | | | | | | | it has | | | | | | | not been | | | | | | | agreed | | | | | | | to use | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | figure | | | | | | | for IAB, | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | however | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | figures | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | result | | | | | | | in worse | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | ference. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | sen | | | | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | based on | | | | | | | NF | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | sumption | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | co- | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | mulation | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | 8.2 and | | | | | | | 10.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | figures | | | | | | | for FR2 | | | | | | | are not | | | | | | | formally | | | | | | | agreed, | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | sumption | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | only for | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | example | | | | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | | | +----------+------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Note for FR2 there are no conducted requirements so the coupling and the
sensitivity are estimated to a virtual conducted point for the purposes of
comparison.
It can be seen that for both FR1 and FR2 significant additional isolation (50
to 60Db) is required if the systems are to be co-located.
The issue exists for both scenario 1 and scenario 2 (see clause 6.1.2) as it
occurs in both the UL and the DL.
## 6.2 Simulation assumption
### 6.2.1 Propagation model
RAN4 study on IAB co-existence reuse the pathloss model between parent/donor
IAB node DU and child IAB node MT agreed in RAN1 in TR 38.874.
The path loss for links between the IAB-node and candidate serving IAB-
nodes/donors is determined based on N independent large-scale channel
realizations (taking into account LOS/NLOS probability and shadow fading). The
realization that results in the minimum pathloss between the IAB-node and the
associated serving IAB-node/donor is selected.
\- N=3 intra-operator serving cell
\- N=1 for all others
### 6.2.2 Antenna configuration
#### 6.2.2.1 General
Since some parameters required by the array antenna model are not independent,
arbitrary parameter values are not supported. If parameters are selected
arbitrary the model will produce incorrect gain characteristics.
We define arrays using the number of columns, rows, the separation between
them as well as the definition of the element radiation pattern and its gain.
Clearly the element cannot be physically larger than the space between the
elements. The element beam width parameters are directly related to the
available unit area for the element. Also, the element gain is directly
related to the element directivity via the selected beam widths. Therefore,
parameters for _G~Emax~_ , _ϕ~3Db~_ and _θ~3Db~_ cannot be selected arbitrary.
The array spacing, the element gain and the element beam width must therefore
all be aligned.
The element peak gain will be determined by the available physical area as:
$G_{E,\max} \leq 10\log_{10}\left( \frac{4\text{πA}}{\lambda^{2}} \right) -
L_{E}$
, where _A_ is the area available for a single element. The area can be
expressed as:
$A = d_{h}d_{v}$
Also, the maximum achieved peak element gain for given wide symmetrical beam
with can be expressed as [3]:
$G_{E,\max} \approx 10\log_{10}\left(
\frac{52525}{\varphi_{3\text{dB}}\theta_{3\text{dB}}} \right) - L_{E}$
#### 6.2.2.2 FR1
The FR1 antenna is defined as:
Table 6.2.2.2-1 FR1 IAB antenna model for macro scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Composite Array radiation | $$A_{A}\lef | | pattern in Db | t( \theta,\varphi \right) = A_{E | | +
The element spacing is and hence the maximum element size is 0.8λ, 0.5λ, this
corresponds to an element gain or approx.:
$$G_{\text{ANT}_\text{element}} \approx 10 _\log_{10}\left( \frac{4\pi_
d_{v},_d_{h}}{\lambda^{2}} \right) - \text{Loss} \approx 10_ \log_{10}\left(
\frac{4\pi _0.8\lambda,_ 0.5\lambda}{\lambda^{2}} \right) - 1.8 \approx
5\text{dBi}$$
The radiation pattern for the 0.8λ, 0.5λ element has a beam width of approx.
65° in elevation and 130° in azimuth.
#### 6.2.2.3 FR2
The FR2 BS antenna is defined as:
Table 6.2.2.3-1. FR2 IAB antenna model for macro scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Composite Array radiation | $$A_{A}\lef | | pattern in Db | t( \theta,\varphi \right) = A_{E | | +
In this case the element spacing is and hence the maximum element size is
0.5λ, 0.5λ, this corresponds to an element gain or approx.:
$$G_{\text{ANT}_\text{element}} \approx 10 _\log_{10}\left( \frac{4\pi_
d_{v},_d_{h}}{\lambda^{2}} \right) - \text{Loss} \approx 10_ \log_{10}\left(
\frac{4\pi _0.5\lambda,_ 0.5\lambda}{\lambda^{2}} \right) - 1.8 \approx
3\text{dBi}$$
The radiation pattern for the 0.5λ, 0.5λ element has a beam width of approx.
130° in elevation and 130° in azimuth.
The UE antenna is defined as:
Table 6.2.2.3-2. FR2 UE antenna model
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Composite Array radiation | $$A_{A}\lef | | pattern in Db | t( \theta,\varphi \right) = A_{E | | +
The element definition is the same as that of the BS but the array is smaller.
By combining the element and array patterns this gives a composite gain of:
$G_{ANT_ composite} \approx 10 _\log_{10}\left( \frac{4\pi_
d_{v},_d_{h}}{\lambda^{2}} \right) - Loss \approx 10_ \log_{10}\left( M*N
\right) + G_{\text{AN}T_{\text{element}}}6 + 3 \approx 9dBi$
### 6.2.3 Other simulation assumption
The remaining simulation assumptions such as link level assumption, system
level assumption, and simulation methodology are captured in this clause.
Table 6.2.3-1: Link level assumptions
+--------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Details | +====================+===================================================+ | Target SNR | IAB node-MT: | | | | | | SNR target: 22dB [upper limit of approx curve] | | | | | | γ = 1 | | | | | | Legacy NR UE: | | | | | | SNR target: 15 dB | | | | | | γ = 1 | +--------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Power control | MT for UL transmissions: Yes | | | | | | DU for DL transmission: No | +--------------------+---------------------------------------------------+ | Throughput mapping | Map SINR into throughput with the approx equation | +--------------------+---------------------------------------------------+
Table 6.2.3-2: System level assumptions
+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Details | +================================+====================================+ | Duplex mode | TDD | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Frequency range | FR1: 4.9GHz -- FR2: 30GHz | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Beamforming | FR1: Yes -- FR2: Yes | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Simulation bandwidth | 100MHz for FR1 | | | | | | 200MHz for FR2 | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | Number of Ues in the network | FR2: 1 active UE/sector | | | | | | FR1: 3 active Ues/sector | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | gNB Tx power | 33 dBm for FR2 macro and micro | | | | | | 46 dBm for FR1 | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | IAB node Tx power | 33 dBm for FR2, PC is TBD for | | | Scenario 2 for MT link | | | | | | 38dBm for FR1 (medium range power | | | limit) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | IAB MT min TX power | -10dBm, 0dBm, 10dBm, 20dBm TRP | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | gNB antenna height | 25m for macro cells and 10m for | | | micro cells | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | IAB node antenna height | 25m for macro cells and 10m for | | | micro cells | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | gNB receiver noise figure | 10dB for FR2 | | | | | | 5dB for FR1 | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | IAB node receiver noise figure | 10dB for FR2 | | | | | | 5dB for FR1 | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE Tx power (dBm) | FR2: 22.4dBm EIRP (13.4dBm | | | conducted) | | | | | | FR1: 23dBm (conducted) | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE noise figure (dB) | 10 | +--------------------------------+------------------------------------+
Table 6.2.3-3: Simulation methodology
Parameter Details
* * *
Layout 1 Optimum orientation between parent and child Layout 2 Antenna
orientation based on planned macro layout Topology based on RSRP (based on
pathloss and element antenna gain) Activity factor Up to company
## 6.3 Simulation result
Simulation result provided for IAB co-existence study is summarized in Annex
A.
## 6.4 Void
# 7 Conducted transmitter characteristics
## 7.1 General
Conducted transmitter characteristics were defined for IAB-MT type 1-H and
IAB-DU type 1-H. Requirements were agreed not to be defined for type 1-C, as
type 1-H can also support only one TAB connector. Another reason is that, the
IAB expects directional antennas, therefore, only AAS types were considered.
The general principles of type 1-H requirements are the same as defined for NR
base stations, i.e. full set of transceiver units are used in evaluating the
conducted transmitter characteristics, unless stated otherwise _, and when
calculating conducted TX emission limits, the requirements defined as basic
limits can be scaled up to 8x depending on the number of active transmitter
units and number of cells._
From existing RAN4 RF requirements aspect, there is no RAN4 RF requirements
covering the scenario single PRB with high PSD transmission (certain level PSD
power boosting compared to the full PRB allocation PSD).
## 7.2 IAB output power
IAB output power limits are defined for each IAB-DU and IAB-MT class. For each
class the rated power per carrier at TAB connector and sum of rated power per
carrier over all TAB connectors need to be aligned with specified limits.
For IAB-DU the limits are exactly the same as defined for NR BS type 1-H.
For IAB-MT only two classes, local area and wide area IAB-MT, were agreed to
be specified. The IAB-MT output power limits for local area IAB-MT are the
same as defined for local area IAB-DU and limits for wide area IAB-MT are the
same as defined for wide area IAB-DU. Therefore, no upper power limit is
specified for wide area IAB-MT.
## 7.3 Output power dynamics
### 7.3.1 Power control
The power control requirements are not defined to the wide area IAB-MT, as the
tolerances for power control are large compared to the minimum requirement for
dynamic range.
For the local area IAB-MT, the absolute power tolerance was not defined as the
dynamic range defined for the local area IAB-MT is not large enough compared
to the tolerance value from UE requirement.
For local area IAB-MT, the relative and aggregate power tolerance requirements
are taken into use with the requirement values to be modified compared to the
UE specification.
## 7.4 Transmit ON/OFF power
Transmit ON/OFF power requirements include two parts: transmitter off power
and transmitter transient period. For IAB-DU, it\'s straightforward to reuse
BS\'s both requirements because IAB-DU behaviour is the same as BS.
For IAB-MT, reusing BS or UE requirements for both OFF power and transient
period are the candidates. Comparing BS OFF power and UE OFF power
requirements, BS FR1 requirements are more stringent than UE but FR2 visa
verse. It is unlikely there will be many IAB nodes in close proximity so a
relaxed requirement compared to Ues should not cause a rise in overall
interference in the system. Therefore, IAB-MT can reuse BS off power.
Regarding transient period requirements, the general profiles for BS and UE
are similar but FR2 BS transient period length is shorter than UE. UE has many
specific profiles requirements to explicitly define the transient period
location for different physical layers and different test cases. As IAB-MT
implementation has less restriction than commercial UE, it is expected that
IAB-MT can meet BS more stringent transient period length requirements. Thus
IAB-MT general profile requirements can reuse BS requirements. For the UE
specific profiles, they are not needed for IAB-MT because IAB-MT should know
UE behaviour when different physical channels are transmitted.
Based the above analysis, both IAB-DU and IAB-MT reuse BS ON/OFF power
requirements including the OFF power and transient period.
## 7.5 Transmitted signal quality
### 7.5.1 IAB-DU transmitted signal quality
As the IAB-DU behavior is very similar with BS, all of the transmitted signal
quality requirements can be imported from BS. Therefore, the frequency error,
modulation quality and time alignment error requirements in clause 6.5.1,
6.5.2, 6.5.3 for BS type 1-H in TS 38.104 [2] apply to IAB-DU type 1-H.
### 7.5.2 IAB-MT transmitted signal quality
#### 7.5.2.1 Frequency error
As IAB-MT function is more like a UE, UE frequency error correction can be a
reference. When BS transmits DL signal to UE, UE does frequency error
correction algorithm to make sure UE follows BS with a relative low residual
frequency error.The residual frequency error after compensation should be less
than one percent of the subcarrier interval.
If 15KHz SCS is used, one percent is 150 Hz which is 0.1 ppm for 1.5 GHz and
less than 0.1 ppm of the higher carrier frequency. For higher modulation such
as 256 QAM, the residual frequency error should be much smaller. Therefore, in
order to support high modulation, UE frequency offset correction algorithm
should make the residual frequency error less than +/- 0.1ppm. The UE
frequency offset correction algorithm follows BS carrier frequency through DL
signals that\'s why the UE frequency error should be defined as relative
frequency error not absolute frequency error.
When IAB-MT receives IAB-DU DL signal, the similar frequency error correction
algorithm may be used to make high modulation support possible. Therefore,
IAB-MT frequency error requirement is defined to reuse UE requirements as ±
0.1 PPM compared to the carrier frequency received from the parent node
#### 7.5.2.2 Error Vector Magnitude
EVM performance is the SNR performance of the transmitted signal. In order to
have the same link performance, IAB-MT output signal quality should have the
same performance as UE then guarantee the link quality. UE requirements are
reused by IAB-MT EVM requirements. The difference is that BPSK EVM requirement
is removed considering BPSK modulation is not likely to be used by the
backhaul link. As IAB-MT is part of IAB node which is a network node, the
principle of EVM frame structure for IAB-MT measurement can reuse BS EVM frame
structure. It is agreed that only CP-OFDM signal is tested for IAB-MT and only
PUSCH channel is measured for EVM requirement. Both BS and UE EVM measurement
procecure can be used by IAB-MT for the Tx uplink signal EVM requirement.
## 7.6 Unwanted emissions
Unwanted emissions cover the definitions and requirements for OOB boundary,
occupied bandwidth, ACLR including also absolute ACLR, OBUE, and spurious
emissions.
For IAB-DU type 1-H all unwanted emissions requirements, except for the
protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS, are the same as
specified for NR BS type 1-H. The background for these requirements can be
found from TR 38.817-02 [7]. The requirement for the own or other receiver is
not specified, as for NR BS the requirement applies only for FDD operation and
no FDD band is defined for IAB.
All the requirements are the same for IAB-MT and IAB-DU based on class so that
wide area IAB-MT requirements were agreed to be the same as defined for wide
area IAB-DU and requirements for local area IAB-MT were agreed to be the same
as defined for local area IAB-DU.
## 7.7 Transmitter intermodulation
For conducted transmitter intermodulation, it is agreed to reuse the base
station framework for both IAB-DU and IAB-MT.
# 8 Conducted receiver characteristics
## 8.1 Void
## 8.2 Reference sensitivity level
### 8.2.1 IAB-DU Reference sensitivity
The IAB-DU conducted reference sensitivity requirement is the same as the BS
conducted sensitivity requirement.
### 8.2.2 IAB-MT Reference sensitivity
The IAB-MT uses similar assumptions for antenna architecture and gain as the
IAB-DU, it is also assumed that the front end HW is similar and has the same
NF.
As such the IAB-MT reference sensitivity will be derived using the same
assumptions as the BS. The IAB-MT sensitivity is given by:
{width="4.009722222222222in" height="0.28125in"}
Where:
\- BW is the maximum transmission bandwidth for the FRC
\- N~F~ is the noise figure
\- I~M~ is the implementation margin.
\- SNR is the SNR value for which we reach 95% throughput. Each company
provided simulation results, and average will be done for each BW.
The NF and the IM margin are hardware dependent and taken from the BS:
NF = 5dB for wide area IAB-MT and 13dB for local area IAB-MT
IM is 2dB
As the IAB-MT operated on the DL the FRC\'s and the associated SNR
requirements could be based on the UE FRCs. There are many more FRC\'s for the
UE for each of the channel BW\'s however it is sufficient to specify a limited
number of FRC\'s in the same way as the BS. For each BS FRC there is a UE FRC
of the same transmission BW and hence these can be used for the IAB-MT as
shown in table 8.2.2-1.
The UE FRC definition is more complex than the BS and includes some parameters
which require communication between eth UE and the BS test emulator. The
method for conformance for the IAB-MT has not yet been agreed and hence the
definition of the FRC is simplified in order to avoid any test implications.
As such we keep the MCS, PRB allocation, SCS and CHBW information in FRC for
core requirements; further discuss other detailed parameters in conformance
phase
In addition for the current IAB FR1 bands only TDD are specified so there is
no need for 15 kHz SCS at this release.
Table 8.2.2-1: FRC\'s for the FR1 IAB-MT
BS Reference channel equivalent UE reference channel (TS 38.101-1 [3], Annex
A3.3)
* * *
G-FR1-A1-2 Table A.3.3.2-2, 5MHz CBW G-FR1-A1-3 Table A.3.3.2-3, 10MHz CBW
G-FR1-A1-5 Table A.3.3.2-2, 20MHz CBW G-FR1-A1-6 Table A.3.3.2-3, 20MHz CBW
The SNR for the BS varies between -0.8dB to -1.2dB for each of the BS FRC\'s,
however the UE uses a figure of -1dB for all FRC\'s. As the SNR is dependent
on the modulation the UE figure is used.
Applying these number to the equation gives:
Table 8.2.2-2: NR Wide Area IAB-MT reference sensitivity levels
+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | IAB-MT | Sub-c | Ref | signal | IM | SNR | NF | IAB-MT | | c | arrier | erence | BW | | | | ref | | hannel | s | measu | | | | | erence | | ban | pacing | rement | | | | | sensi | | dwidth | (kHz) | c | | | | | tivity | | (MHz) | | hannel | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | level | | | | Ref TS | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .101-1 | | | | | | | | | [3] | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+====+=====+====+========+ | | | | MHz | dB | dB | dB | dBm | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 10, 15 | 30 | Table | 3.96 | 2 | -1 | 5 | -102.0 | | | | A.3. | | | | | | | | | 3.2-2, | | | | | | | | | 5MHz | | | | | | | | | CBW | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | Table | 7.92 | 2 | -1 | 5 | -99.0 | | | | A.3. | | | | | | | | | 3.2-3, | | | | | | | | | 10MHz | | | | | | | | | CBW | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 20, | 30 | Table | 18.36 | 2 | -1 | 5 | -95.4 | | 25, | | A.3. | | | | | | | 30, | | 3.2-2, | | | | | | | 40, | | 20MHz | | | | | | | 50, | | CBW | | | | | | | 60, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | 90, | | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 20, | 60 | Table | 17.28 | 2 | -1 | 5 | -95.6 | | 25, | | A.3. | | | | | | | 30, | | 3.2-3, | | | | | | | 40, | | 20MHz | | | | | | | 50, | | CBW | | | | | | | 60, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | 90, | | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+
Table 8.2.2-3: NR Local Area IAB-MT reference sensitivity levels
+--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | IAB-MT | Sub-c | Ref | signal | IM | SNR | NF | IAB-MT | | c | arrier | erence | BW | | | | ref | | hannel | s | measu | | | | | erence | | ban | pacing | rement | | | | | sensi | | dwidth | (kHz) | c | | | | | tivity | | (MHz) | | hannel | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | level | | | | Ref TS | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .101-1 | | | | | | | | | [3] | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+====+=====+====+========+ | | | | MHz | dB | dB | dB | dBm | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 10, 15 | 30 | Table | 3.96 | 2 | -1 | 13 | -94.0 | | | | A.3. | | | | | | | | | 3.2-2, | | | | | | | | | 5MHz | | | | | | | | | CBW | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | Table | 8.92 | 2 | -1 | 13 | -91.0 | | | | A.3. | | | | | | | | | 3.2-3, | | | | | | | | | 10MHz | | | | | | | | | CBW | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 20, | 30 | Table | 18.36 | 2 | -1 | 13 | -87.4 | | 25, | | A.3. | | | | | | | 30, | | 3.2-2, | | | | | | | 40, | | 20MHz | | | | | | | 50, | | CBW | | | | | | | 60, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | 90, | | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+ | 20, | 60 | Table | 17.28 | 2 | -1 | 13 | -87.6 | | 25, | | A.3. | | | | | | | 30, | | 3.2-3, | | | | | | | 40, | | 20MHz | | | | | | | 50, | | CBW | | | | | | | 60, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | 90, | | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+----+-----+----+--------+
The simplified FRCs are defined as follows:
Table 8.2.2-4: FRC parameters for FR1 reference sensitivity level for IAB-MT.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Reference | G-FR1-A1-22 | G-FR1-A1-23 | G-FR1-A1-25 | G-FR1-A1-26 | | channel | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Subcarrier | 30 | 60 | 30 | 60 | | spacing | | | | | | (kHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated | 11 | 11 | 51 | 24 | | resource | | | | | | blocks | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CP-OFDM | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Symbols per | | | | | | slot (Note | | | | | | 1) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Modulation | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Code rate | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | | (Note 2) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | _DL-DMRS-c | | | | | | onfig-type_ | | | | | | = 1 with | | | | | | _DL-DM | | | | | | RS-max-len_ | | | | | | = 1, | | | | | | _DL-DM | | | | | | RS-add-pos_ | | | | | | = pos2 with | | | | | | {width=" | | | | | | 0.104166666 | | | | | | 66666667in" | | | | | | height="0 | | | | | | .2013888888 | | | | | | 888889in"}= | | | | | | 2, | | | | | | {width=" | | | | | | 0.104166666 | | | | | | 66666667in" | | | | | | height="0 | | | | | | .2013888888 | | | | | | 888889in"}= | | | | | | 6 and 9 as | | | | | | per Table | | | | | | 7.4.1.1.2-3 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | .211 [3]. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: MCS | | | | | | index 4 and | | | | | | target | | | | | | coding rate | | | | | | = 308/1024 | | | | | | are adopted | | | | | | to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | payload | | | | | | size for | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | sensitivity | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 8.3 Dynamic range
The IAB-DU receiver dynamic range requirement is the same as the BS.
There is no IAB-MT receiver dynamic range requirement.
## 8.4 In-band selectivity and blocking
For IAB-MT it is agreed to reuse gNB requirement with update on interfering
signal type as CP-OFDM.
## 8.5 Out-of-band blocking
Considering the deployment scenario of IAB node, it is agreed to reuse the
same gNB requirement for both IAB-MT and IAB-DU.
## 8.6 Receiver spurious emissions
### 8.6.1 IAB-MT Receiver spurious for IAB type 1-H
To protect the coexisting service, the spurious level generated from receiver
should be limited. For example, for the synchronized protected service, this
could be the case of protecting IAB-MT receiving from IAB node#1 as shown in
Figure 8.6-1. The RX spurious generated from IAB-MT receiver at IAB node #2
will impact the UE receiving camped to the parent IAB node#1 cell but not on
the UE camped to IAB-DU cell of IAB node#2. This is because IAB-DU and IAB-MT
will be operated in TDM manner and thus there is no IAB-DU transmitting in IAB
node#2 when IAB-MT receiver is enabled. Compared with the traditional
coexisting distance of 5m for outdoor deployment for UE to UE interference
analysis, the distance between IAB-MT to victim UE at parent IAB cell is
larger as it will be installed at site similar to BS. Therefore, there is not
necessary to reuse the UE Rx spurious requirement.
For the unsynchronized co-existing service, IAB-MT spurious level does not
need to be tighter than IAB-DU receiver spurious requirement.
From protection of both synchronized or unsynchronized coexisting service, the
IAB-DU receiver spurious for receiver spurious could be reused for IAB-MT.
{width="6.707638888888889in" height="3.2284722222222224in"}
Figure 8.6-1: coexisting service interference when IAB-MT receiving from
parent IAB
## 8.7 Receiver intermodulation
For IAB-MT _type 1-H_ , as IBB requirement is agreed to reuse BS requirements
and interfering signal power of RX IMD requirement is close to that of IBB
requirements in general, therefore it\'s agreed to reuse BS RX IMD requirement
for IAB-MT.
## 8.8 In-channel selectivity
For IAB-MT, similar as legacy NR UE, there is no RX in-channel selectivity
requirement defined in TS 38.101, therefore it is agreed that no in-channel
selectivity will be defined for IAB-MT _._
# 9 Radiated transmitter characteristics
## 9.1 General
Radiated transmitter characteristics were defined for IAB-MT and IAB-DU types
1-O and 2-O. Additionally IAB-MT and IAB-DU type 1-H needs to meet the
radiated transmit power requirement. IAB-DU type 1-O and type 2-O requirements
are the same as defined for NR BS. For IAB-MT type 1-O no minimum number of
transceivers have been defined, allowing type 1-O IAB-MT to have any number of
transceivers. Therefore, IAB-MT type 1-O requirements are defined using basic
limits and scaling of basic limits following the same principles as type 1-H
requirements.
From existing RAN4 RF requirements aspect, there is no RAN4 RF requirements
covering the scenario single PRB with high PSD transmission (certain level PSD
power boosting compared to the full PRB allocation PSD).
## 9.2 Radiated transmit power
For configured maximum power it was discussed how the UE requirement is
adapted to fit the characteristic of IAB-MT. The factors like MPR/A-MPR are
included in the UE requirements, but they are not specified for the IAB-MT.
Therefore, they do not need to be defined for the IAB-MT P~CMAX~. Similarly,
as IAB-MT Tx power is declared by the manufacturer using same framework as BS
Tx power declaration, hence power class related factors P~PowerClass~ and
ΔP~PowerClass~ are not included in P~CMAX~ definition. Other factors like
P~EMAX,c~, and the factors related to Interband CA, SUL, and SRS are not
included in the P~CMAX~ definition.
The P~CMAX~ requirement was agreed to be aligned with the output power
declaration, which includes also the declared back off power. Using TRP or
EIRP was discussed, and EIRP was agreed to be used, as it is defined for all
IAB-MT types and the relevant metric for link budget.
_Radiated transmit power is the EIRP level for a declared beam at a specified
beam peak direction. For each declared beam, the manufacturer declared EIRP
level needs to be achieved within a specified accuracy._
## 9.3 IAB OTA output power
IAB OTA output power is a TRP requirement, defined for a RIB. For IAB-MT and
IAB-DU type 1-O, the TRP limits are different for each class. IAB-DU type 1-O
limits were defined to be the same as for NR BS. For local area IAB-MT, due to
no minimum required number of transmitters, the rated carrier TRP limits can
be scaled from 24 dBm to 33 dBm, depending on the number of active transmitter
units. No upper limit for OTA output power is specified for wide area IAB-MT
and IAB-DU.
For IAB-MT and IAB-DU type 2-O no absolute power limits are associated with
IAB OTA output power requirements and only accuracy requirement towards to
declared value is specified.
## 9.4 OTA output power dynamics
For IAB-MT to enable the adjustment UL transmission power to maintain proper
link level, it is agreed to define 5dB power dynamaic range for Wide Area IAB-
MT without corresponding power control requirement. And for Local Area IAB-MT
the power dynamic range is agreed as 10dB with relative and aggregated power
tolerance defined as stated in 7.3.1.
## 9.5 OTA transmit ON/OFF power
According to the analysis in 7.4, both IAB-DU and IAB-MT reuse BS radiated
ON/OFF power requirements including the OFF power and transient period.
## 9.6 OTA transmitted signal quality
### 9.6.1 IAB-DU OTA transmitted signal quality
As the IAB-DU behavior is very similar with BS, all of the transmitted signal
quality requirements can be imported from BS. Therefore, the frequency error,
modulation quality and time alignment error requirements in clause 9.6.1,
9.6.2 and 9.6.3 for BS type 1-O and type 2-O in TS 38.104 [2] apply to IAB-DU
type 1-O and type 2-O respectively.
### 9.6.2 IAB-MT OTA transmitted signal quality
#### 9.6.2.1 Frequency error
IAB-MT OTA transmitted signal quality requirement analysis is the same as the
conducted requirements in 7.5.2.1. The IAB-MT frequency must be within a
certain error limit relative to of the parent node\'s center frequency. IAB-MT
type 1-O and type 2-O OTA frequency error reuses UE requirements to be +/-0.1
PPM relative to received signal from parent node.
#### 9.6.2.2 Error Vector Magnitude
IAB-MT OTA EVM requirement analysis is the same as the conducted requirement
in 7.5.2.2. IAB-MT type1-O EVM requirements should be the same with conducted
requirements. IAB-MT type2-O EVM requirement reuses UE FR2 EVM requirements
with the exception that BPSK requirement is removed. The IAB-MT frequency must
be within a certain error limit relative to of the parent node\'s center
frequency. It is agreed that only CP-OFDM signal is tested for IAB-MT and only
PUSCH channel is measured for EVM requirement.Both BS and UE EVM measurement
procecure can be used by IAB-MT for the Tx uplink signal EVM requirement.
## 9.7 OTA unwanted emissions
OTA Unwanted emissions cover the definitions and requirements for OOB
boundary, occupied bandwidth, ACLR including also absolute ACLR, OBUE, and
spurious emissions.
For IAB-DU all unwanted emissions requirements, except for the protection of
the BS receiver of own or different BS, are the same as specified for NR BS.
The background for these requirements can be found from TR 38.817-02 [7]. The
requirement for the own or other receiver is not specified, as for NR BS the
requirement applies only for FDD operation and no FDD band is defined for IAB.
Wide area IAB-MT requirements were agreed to be the same as defined for wide
area IAB-DU both in FR1 and FR2. In FR1 also local area IAB-MT requirements
were agreed to be the same as defined for local area IAB-DU but in FR2 it was
agreed that 24 dBc ACLR is sufficient, otherwise requirements for local area
IAB-MT were agreed to be the same as defined for local area IAB-DU. It is
agreed that when type 2-O local area IAB-MT transmit during DL time slot, the
ACLR requirement will be the same as local area IAB-DU.
## 9.8 OTA transmitter intermodulation
### 9.8.1 IAB DU intermodulation
For FR1 the IAB node could be co-located if the IAB TDD pattern for
transmission and receiving is the same for both IAB-DU and IAB-MT of both co-
located nodes, i.e. just coordinating the UL/DL timeslots is not sufficient
but the actual Tx and Rx time instants of both IAB-DU and IAB-MT need to be
aligned. IAB DU intermodulation requirement shall be reused from BS spec.
Therefore _IAB-DU type 1-O_ will reuse the framework of OTA TX intermodulation
requirement defined in TS 38.104 [2] clause 9.8 for _NR BS type 1-O_.
_There is no OTA TX intermodulation requirement for_ IAB-DU type 2-O _as there
is no TX IMD requirement for_ BS type 2-O _._
### 9.8.2 IAB MT intermodulation {#iab-mt-intermodulation .list-paragraph}
The co-location scenario of IAB is listed below as:
\- co-located with another IAB-Node in same band
This scenario shall be further considered as if the IAB-DU and IAB-MT of one
IAB-Node don\'t transmit simultaneously, there will exist the scenario that
during UL timeslot one is transmitting in the backhaul link and the other is
receiving in the access link, and correspondingly during DL timeslot one can
be transmitting in the access link and another is receiving in the backhaul
link. In this case, the excessive interference will prevent the two IAB nodes
to be co-located. Hence co-location scenario can only be considered for the
following case:
\- co-located as IAB-DU and IAB-MT of one IAB-Node transmit simultaneously in
the same band with same TDD pattern as the other co-located BS and/or IAB-
Node.
\- In case of two co-located IAB-Nodes, all IAB-MTs and IAB-Dus need to follow
same TDD pattern.
In this case, the co-location scenario is similar to a base station co-located
with another base station in same band, hence the intermodulation requirement
shall be reused from BS spec.
\- co-located with another IAB-DU/BS in another band
With the above co-location scenarios, it is proposed to use the framework of
base stationTX intermodulation requirement for IAB MT with certain co-location
scenarios. Considering the large coupling loss, there is no TX IMD requirement
for _IAB-MT type 2-O_.
## 9.9 Beam correspondence for IAB-MT
For IAB-MT, it is agreed no explicitly RF core requirement will be defined for
beam correspondence.
# 10 Radiated receiver characteristics
## 10.1 Void
## 10.2 OTA sensitivity
### 10.2.1 IAB-DU OTA sensitivity
The IAB-DU OTA sensitivity for IAB-DU type 1-H and 1-O is the same as the BS.
There is no OTA sensitivity requirement for IAB-DU type 2-O.
### 10.2.2 IAB-MT OTA sensitivity
As with the conducted reference sensitivity requirements as the IAB-MT antenna
and receiver front end is similar to the BS the BS OTA sensitivity requirement
is derived using the same assumptions as the BS.
The FR1 OTA sensitivity requirement is declared over a declared RoAoA without
any boundaries and is used as both a minimum sensitivity requirement and
reference level for some of the interference requirements (ACS, in-band
blocking, oob blocking, colocations blocking, RX IMD) as such the requirement
is almost the same as the BS requirement (with the same declarations required
from TS 38.141-2 [6]). However as the IAB-MT receives the DL the FRC\'s used
are from the UE specification as described in table 8.2.2-1.
There is no OTA sensitivity requirement for IAB-MT type 2-O.
## 10.3 OTA reference sensitivity level
### 10.3.1 IAB-DU OTA reference sensitivity
The IAB-DU OTA sensitivity for IAB-DU type 1-H, 2-O and 2-O is the same as the
BS.
### 10.3.2 IAB-MT OTA reference sensitivity
#### 10.3.2.2 FR1
The IAB-MT antenna and front end is similar to that of a BS so the OTA
reference sensitivity requirements will be based upon the same assumptions as
the BS. As with the other IAB-MT sensitivity requirements however the FRC\'s
and the associated SNR requirement will be taken from the UE. The UE FRC\'s
will be of the same signal BW as the associated BS FRC\'s for the requirement.
The FR1 OTA reference sensitivity level is calculated based on the required
equivalent passive antenna gain if a receiver were to meet the conducted
reference sensitivity requirements and cover a declared OTA reference
sensitivity RoAoA (see TS 38.141-2 [6]).
The FR1 IAB-MT reference sensitivity therefore uses the same set of
declarations as the BS, however the calculation is modified to correspond to
the DL FRC\'s and their associated SNR values. The OTA reference sensitivities
are hence offset from the conducted reference sensitivity values given in
tables 8.2.2-1 and 8.2.2-2 as shown in tables 10.3.2.1-1 and 10.3.2.1-2.
Table 10.3.2-1: Wide Area IAB-MT reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | BS channel | Sub-carrier | **Reference | OTA reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel** | level, | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | **Ref TS | | | | | 38.101-1 [3] | (dBm) | | | | Annex A** | | +================+================+================+================+ | 10, 15 | 30 | Table | -102.0 -- | | | | A.3.3.2-2, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | | | 5MHz CBW | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | Table | -99.0 -- | | | | A.3.3.2-3, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | | | 10MHz CBW | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20, 25, 30, | 30 | Table | -95.4 -- | | 40, 50, 60, | | A.3.3.2-2, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | 70, 80, 90, | | 20MHz CBW | | | 100 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20, 25, 30, | 60 | Table | -95.6 -- | | 40, 50, 60, | | A.3.3.2-3, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | 70, 80, 90, | | 20MHz CBW | | | 100 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 10.3.2-2: Local Area IAB-MT reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | BS channel | Sub-carrier | **Reference | OTA reference | | bandwidth | spacing (kHz) | measurement | sensitivity | | (MHz) | | channel** | level, | | | | | EIS~REFSENS~ | | | | **Ref TS | | | | | 38.101-1 [3] | (dBm) | | | | Annex A** | | +================+================+================+================+ | 10, 15 | 30 | Table | -94.0 -- | | | | A.3.3.2-2, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | | | 5MHz CBW | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10, 15 | 60 | Table | -91.0 -- | | | | A.3.3.2-3, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | | | 10MHz CBW | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20, 25, 30, | 30 | Table | -87.4 -- | | 40, 50, 60, | | A.3.3.2-2, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | 70, 80, 90, | | 20MHz CBW | | | 100 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 20, 25, 30, | 60 | Table | -87.6 -- | | 40, 50, 60, | | A.3.3.2-3, | Δ~OTAREFSENS~ | | 70, 80, 90, | | 20MHz CBW | | | 100 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The FRCs are the same as those defined for conducted reference sensitivity in
clause 8.2.2.
#### 10.3.2.1 FR2
The FR2 IAB-MT antenna and front end is similar to that of a BS so the OTA
reference sensitivity requirements will be based upon the same assumptions as
the BS.The BS FR2 OTA reference sensitivity level is based on a declared EIS
value within a specified range, the range is calculated based on the useful
range of antenna gains expected for the BS class. And is calculated as
follows:
Hence for a wide area BS
{width="4.332638888888889in" height="0.28125in"}
Where: BW is the noise BW of the FRC, NF is the noise figure, IM is
implantation margin not related to antenna array, SNR is the required SNR for
demodulation and G is the antenna gain and RF losses.
The expected gain range is the same as the BS, however as there is no medium
range IAB-MT the local area gain range is expanded to cover the medium range
also:
Table 10.3.2.2-1: G assumptions for calculating FR2 WA and LA OTA REFSENS
range
* * *
IAB-MT class G
* * *
                 30 GHz\               45GHz\
                 (24.25 -- 33.4 GHz)   (37 -- 52.6 GHz)
WA 10 to 33 dBi 12 to 35 dBi
LA 0 to 28 dBi 2 to 30 dBi
* * *
The FRC\'s and the associated SNR values are also based on the DL values used
for the UE. There are UE FRC\'s defined which have the same signal BW as the
BS FRC\'s as shown un table 10.3.2.2-2
Table 10.3.2.2-2 FR2 equivalent IAB-MT FRC\'s
BS Reference channel equivalent UE reference channel (TS 38.101-2[4], Annex
A3.3)
* * *
G-FR2-A1-1 Table A.3.3.2-1, 50MHz CBW G-FR2-A1-2 Table A.3.3.2-2, 50MHz CBW
G-FR2-A1-3 Table A.3.3.2-3, 100MHz CBW
The SNR for the BS FRCs range from -1.1 to -1.2 dB , the UE SNR assumption is
-1dB, however as the declaration ranges and declared values are rounded to
integer values this makes no difference to the final range. As such the FR2
IAB-MT range is the same as the BS, as follows:
For Wide Area IAB-MT, EIS~REFSENS_50M~ is an integer value in the range -96 to
-119 dBm. The specific value is declared by the vendor.
For Local Area IAB-MT, EIS~REFSENS_50M~ is an integer value in the range -86
to -114 dBm. The specific value is declared by the vendor.
The FR2 IAB-MT FRC definitions in the core specification in a similar way to
the FR1 RFCs as explained in clause 8.2.2. The simplified FR2 FRCs are defined
as follows:
Table 10.3.2.2-3: FRC parameters for FR2 reference sensitivity level for IAB-
MT.
+-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Reference channel | G-FR2-A1-21 | G-FR2-A1-22 | G-FR2-A1-23 | +=========================+=============+=============+=============+ | Subcarrier spacing | 60 | 120 | 120 | | (kHz) | | | | +-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Allocated resource | 66 | 32 | 66 | | blocks | | | | +-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CP-OFDM Symbols per | 9 | 9 | 9 | | slot (Note 1) | | | | +-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Modulation | QPSK | QPSK | QPSK | +-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Code rate (Note 2) | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/3 | +-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: DM-RS | | | | | configuration type = 1 | | | | | with DM-RS duration = | | | | | single-symbol DM-RS, | | | | | additional DM-RS | | | | | position = pos2 with | | | | | _l~0~_ = 2, _l_ = 6 and | | | | | 9 as per Table | | | | | 7.4.1.1.2-3 of TS | | | | | 38.211 [3]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: MCS index 4 and | | | | | target coding rate = | | | | | 308/1024 are adopted to | | | | | calculate payload size. | | | | +-------------------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 10.4 OTA Dynamic range
The IAB-DU receiver dynamic range requirement is the same as the BS.
There is no IAB-MT receiver dynamic range requirement.
## 10.5 OTA in-band selectivity and blocking
#### 10.5.1 ACS for IAB MT of IAB type 2-O
The ACS requirement for IAB-MT is agreed as 24 dB in 24.25 -- 33.4 GHz BS and
23 dB in 37 -- 52.6 GHz. IAB-MT is expected to have better adjacent carrier
selectivity than UE ACS due to the limited physical separation distance to the
aggressor BS. Generically BS has higher ACS selectivity compared to UE thus BS
type of ACS number can be used for IAB-MT.
#### 10.5.2 In-band blocking for IAB-MT
Traditionally for UTRA the in-band blocker is set according to the 99.99%
probability of interferer cdf curve. It is recommended in [7] that between 99%
and 99.9% could be considered due to the NR OFDMA scheme does not suffer
greatly as for WCDMA.
As the interfere level to IAB-MT receiver relates to the distance between
victim IAB and aggressor BS, coexisting simulation is done assuming the 40m,
50m , 60m and 80m and companies result is captured in Table 10.5.3-1.
Table 10.5.2-1: Coexisting simulation result for In-band blocking level
comparison
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Company | Blocker | Blocker | Physical | Si | RAN4 | | | level | level @ | distance | mulation | cont | | | \@99 | 99.9 | to | scenario | ribution | | | Pe | per | Agressor | | | | | rcentile | ncentile | BS | (Acc. To | | | | point | point | | R4- | | | | | | (m) | 1907825) | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | Ericsson | -67.5 | -65.5 | 40 | Layout 2 | R4 | | | | | | for FR2 | -2001873 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -75 | -66 | 50 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -81 | -75 | 60 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -55 | -48 | 40 | Layout 2 | | | | | | | for FR1 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Nokia | -52 | -45 | 40 | Layout 2 | R4 | | | | | | for FR2 | -2001432 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -55 | -54 | Max grid | | | | | | | shift | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | QUALCOMM | -45 | | 40 | Layout 2 | R4 | | incor | | | | for FR2 | -2001282 | | poration | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -49 | | 60 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -53 | | 80 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Huawei | -64 | | 40 | Layout 2 | R4 | | | | | | for FR2 | -1914757 | | | | | | (element | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | result) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | -69 | | 60 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ZTE | -42 | | 40 | Layout 2 | R4 | | | | | | for | -2000977 | | | | | | FR1 | | | | | | | (element | | | | | | | OTA | | | | | | | result) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
It is concluded from the coexisting simulation results in Table 10.5.2-1 that
IAB-MT can reuse the OTA BS blocking requirement with CP-OFDM interferer
signal. Therefore, the inband blocking level for wide area IAB-MT of type 2-O
is specified with 33 dB higher than OTA REFSENS power level with inteferer
signal of CP-OFDM waveform. The inband blocking level for local area IAB-MT of
type 2-O is specified with 35.5 dB higher than OTA REFSENS power level with
inteferer signal of CP-OFDM waveform for bands n257, n258, n261. The inband
blocking level for local area IAB-MT of type 2-O is specified with 34.5 higher
than OTA REFSENS power level with CP-OFDM waveform of inteferer signal for
bands n260.
## 10.6 OTA Out-of-band blocking
Considereing the deployment scenario of IAB node, it is agreed to reuse the
same gNB requirement for both IAB-MT and IAB-DU.
## 10.7 OTA receiver spurious emissions
### 10.7.1 IAB-MT OTA Receiver spurious for IAB type 1-O and 2-O
The UE receiver spurious requirement can be relaxed as the distance to the
protected service will be increased and this follows the same analysis in
chapter 8.6.1. For protecting unsynchronized coexisting service, IAB-MT OTA
spurious level does not need to be tighter than IAB-DU receiver requirement
and as such the BS specification for OTA Receiver spurious can be specified
for IAB-MT for IAB type 1-O and 2-O.
## 10.8 OTA receiver intermodulation
For _IAB-MT type 2-O_ , similar as legacy FR2 NR UE, there is no RX
intermodulation requirement defined in TS 38.101-2[4], therefore it is agreed
that no RX intermodulation is defined for FR2 IAB-MT.
For IAB-MT _type 1-O_ similar as IAB-MT _type 1-H_ , as IBB requirement is
agreed to reuse BS requirements and interfering signal power of RX IMD
requirement is close to that of IBB requirements in general, therefore it\'s
agreed to reuse BS RX IMD requirement for IAB-MT.
## 10.9 OTA in-channel selectivity
For IAB-MT, similar as legacy NR UE, there is no RX in-channel selectivity
requirement defined in TS 38.101-1/2[3][4], therefore it is agreed that no in-
channel selectivity will be defined for IAB-MT.
# 11 IAB RRM requirements
## 11.1 General
In Rel-16, the WI on IAB is considered for physically fixed deployment only.
In light of the characteristic of Rel-16 IAB (e.g. fixed operation) and the
differences between UE and IAB-MT (e.g. power saving consideration and seeking
for higher throughput), selected RRM requirements in TS 38.133 are considered
fundamentals and defined for Rel-16 IAB. Based on this background the RRM
requirements defined for Rel-16 IAB are agreed as table 11-1.
Table 11-1: Summary on RRM requirement applicability for IAB-MT
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | * | **Items** | **Comments** | **A | | *Requirement** | | | pplicability** | +================+================+================+================+ | RRC Connection | - RRC | To make sure | Apply for both | | Mobility | re | IAB can remain | Local Area and | | Control | -establishment | RRC connection | Wide Area | | | | after link | IAB-MT. | | | - Random | failure with | | | | access | original | | | | | parent node. | | | | - RRC release | | | | | with | | | | | redirection | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Radio Link | - | Feature to | Apply for | | Monitoring | Requirements | maintain | Local Area | | | for radio link | PCell's MT | IAB-MT only. | | | monitoring | link with | | | | | parent node. | Requirements | | | | | are defined | | | | | for no-DRX | | | | | only. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Link Recovery | - | Feature to | Apply for | | Procedures | Requirements | maintain | Local Area | | | for beam | PCell's MT | IAB-MT only. | | | failure | beam | | | | detection | management | Requirements | | | | with parent | are defined | | | - | node. | for no-DRX | | | Requirements | | only. | | | for candidate | | | | | beam detection | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | MT Timing | - MT transmit | The same as UE | Apply for both | | related | timing | related | Local Area and | | requirements | | requirement | Wide Area | | | - Timing | which is | IAB-MT. | | | Advance | reused for | | | | | IAB-MT | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DU Timing | - Cell phase | Reuse the | Apply for | | related | s | requirement 3 | IAB-DU. | | requirements | ynchronization | µs in TS38.133 | | | | accuracy | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
For other UE or BS RRM requirements in TS38.133, including handover,
interruptions, (de)activation delay, addition/release delay, active BWP
switching, measurement related requirements and so forth, are not defined or
not decided for IAB in Rel-16 due to various reasons such as fixed IAB
operation where the link remains comparatively stable for longer periods of
time. The requirements which are not defined not necessarily indicate the
corresponding features are not supported by IAB.
# 12 IAB EMC requirements
## 12.1 IAB EMC Emission requirements
EMC emissions testing covers both conducted and radiated emissions. . Test
methods and levels for conducted emissions, harmonic and voltage fluctuations
and flicker testing defined by IEC/CISPR are independent of the product (IAB)
characteristics and features, including the operating frequency or the Radio
Access Technology (RAT). It is agreed that the applicable requirements for EMC
conducted emissions of IAB nodes are the ones defined for NR BS in TS
38.113[12].
EMC radiated emissions test involves measuring the electromagnetic field
strength of the emissions that are unintentionally generated by a product (an
IAB node in this case). Emissions are inherent to the switching voltages and
currents within any digital circuit. In this case, the radiated emission
requirements as well as the test methods that apply are defined by IEC and
CISPR subcommittee in the Standard CISPR 32 [11]. Testing and limits of
emissions intentionally generated by the BS are covered by ITU-R
recommendations SM.329 [9] and SM.1539 [10].
3GPP has agreed that for IAB type 1-O and IAB type 2-O, the radiated emission
is covered by radiated spurious emission requirement in TS 38.174 [8],
conforming to the test requirement in TS 38.174 [8].
## 12.2 IAB EMC immunity requirements
### 12.2.1 Radiated Immunity requirements
#### 12.2.1.1 One enclosure case
The IAB node is a network node with similar outside radio frequency
electromagnetic environment as base station. So in this case, it is reasonable
to apply base station test levels to the IAB node.
#### 12.2.1.2 Different enclosure case
For different enclosure cases, the radiated immunity requirement apply for
each enclosure. Still the test level as reusing the base station requirement
applies as the electromagnetic environment is similar to BS.
#### 12.2.1.4 Summary
The base station requirement as 3V/m from 80MHz to 6000MHz is used as a
starting point and the exclusion band for Radiated immunity test is FFS.
### 12.2.2 Other Immunity requirements
It is agreed that similar working environment as for a base station applies to
an IAB node. So it is agreed to reuse the BS requirements for IAB node, for
the following immunity requirements as listed below.
\- ESD test
\- Fast transient common mode
\- RF common mode 0.15 -- 80 MHz
\- Voltage dips and interruption
\- Surge
# 13 Conformance testing aspects
## 13.1 General
BS conformance testing framework is reused mainly for IAB conformance testing
in [13][14] with necessary modifications as summaried in Table 13.1-1.
Table 13.1-1: Summary on IAB conformance testing
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Items | Summary | +====================+================================================+ | Test configuration | Existing BS Test configuration is reused for | | | IAB with update on FR1 channel bandwidth as | | | 5MHz is replaced by 10MHz. And the NB-IoT | | | related aspect is removed since this feature | | | is not applied for IAB node. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Test model | Existing BS Test model is reused for IAB-DU. | | | And for IAB-MT there are some updates on | | | details such as: | | | | | | > \- Updates for UL modulation where | | | > necessary. | | | > | | | > \- Physical channel of PUSCH with DMRS and | | | > PTRS, which is optional for FR2, are | | | > configured for IAB-MT. | | | > | | | > \- Multi-user and power boosting are not | | | > considered for IAB-MT. Hence only TM1.1, | | | > TM2, TM2a, TM3.1 and TM3.1a are defined for | | | > IAB-MT. | | | > | | | > \- Similar to BS, there is no test case for | | | > a single high PRB with high PSD | | | > transmission. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Declaration | IAB node declaration can be independent for | | | IAB-DU and IAB-MT respectively. And IAB node | | | declaration is built based on BS declaration | | | table with below exceptions: | | | | | | > \- NB-IOT is not applicable for IAB node. | | | > | | | > \- TAE is not applicable for IAB-MT. | | | > | | | > \- Dedicated declaration for IAB is defined | | | > as D.IAB-1 to improve test efficiency as | | | > stated in 4.6. | | | > | | | > \- IAB-MT declaration on FR2 PT-RS is | | | > defined as D.IAB-2. | | | > | | | > \- Additional baseband related declarations | | | > are defined for demodulation performance. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
###### ## Annex A (normative): Co-existence simulation results
This clause contains references to contributions submitted during Rel-16 IAB
WI containing co-existence evaluation results for IAB mainly based on the
simulation assumptions provided in Clause 6. Details of the simulation
parameters and observations can be found in the corresponding referenced
contributions:
\- R4-1908843 FR1 IAB co-existence study, CMCC
\- R4-1908075 Co-existence simulation result for layout 1, Samsung
\- R4-1908076 Co-existence simulation result for layout 2, Samsung
\- R4-1908586 simulation results for FR1 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
\- R4-1908587 simulation results for FR2 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
\- R4-1908733 IAB simulation results for Layout 1 Huawei, HiSilicon
\- R4-1908872 Simulation results for the homogeneous scenario in FR2, Qualcomm
Incorporated
\- R4-1908873 Simulation results for the heterogeneous scenario in FR2,
Qualcomm Incorporated
\- R4-1909272 Initial IAB-Node coexistence simulation results, Nokia, Nokia
Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1909389 coexistence simulation results for IAB network, Ericsson
\- R4-1910838 FR1 IAB co-existence study, CMCC
\- R4-1911332 Simulation results on the minimum Tx power of IAB MT and ACIR,
Huawei, HiSilicon
\- R4-1911395 Updated simulation result for layout 2, Samsung
\- R4-1911638 IAB-Node coexistence and dynamic range requirements, Nokia,
Nokia Shanghai Bell
\- R4-1911639 IAB-Node coexistence simulation results, Nokia, Nokia Shanghai
Bell
\- R4-1911735 simulation results for FR1 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-1911736 simulation results for FR2 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-1912891 simulation results for FR2 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-1912008 Coexistence simulation results updates for FR2 -- layout 1,
Ericsson
\- R4-1912009 Coexistence simulation results for FR1 -- layout 1, Ericsson
\- R4-1912010 Coexistence simulation results for FR2 - layout 2, Ericsson
\- R4-1912011 Coexistence simulation results for FR1 - layout 2, Ericsson
\- R4-1913334 Further simulation on IAB-MT ACLR and TX min power, Samsung
\- R4-1914162 Simulation results for IAB in FR2, Huawei, HiSilicon
\- R4-1914163 Simulation results for IAB in FR1, Huawei, HiSilicon
\- R4-1914222 Min Tx power simulation results updates- layout 1, Ericcson
\- R4-1914235 simulation results for FR2 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-1914236 simulation results for FR1 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-1914260 IAB-Node coexistence simulation results, Nokia, Nokia Shanghai
Bell
\- R4-2000972 simulation results for FR1 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-2000973 simulation results for FR2 IAB coexistence study, ZTE
Corporation
\- R4-2000977 In-band blocking for FR1 IAB MT, ZTE Corporation
\- R4-2000978 In-band blocking for FR2 IAB MT, ZTE Corporation
#