# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of Band 65 for
New Radio.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] RP-181844, \"New WI: Band 65 for New Radio\"
[3] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"GSM/EDGE Radio transmission and reception\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Carrier: modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA or UTRA physical channels**
**Channel bandwidth:** RF bandwidth supporting a single E-UTRA RF carrier with
the transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a cell.
**Channel edge:** lowest or highest frequency of the NR carrier, separated by
the _BS channel bandwidth_.
**Contiguous spectrum:** spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of spectrum
with no _sub-block gap_(s).
**Inter-band gap** : The frequency gap between two supported consecutive
operating bands.
**operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or unpaired),
that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
∆f Separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal -3dB point of
the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ _RF reference frequency_ on the channel raster
f_offset Separation between the channel edge frequency and the centre of the
measuring filter
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BC Base Station Class
BS Base Station
CBW Channel Bandwidth
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
LTE Long Term Evolution
NB-IoT Narrowband -- Internet of Things
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
MSR Multistandard Radio
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
SC-FDMA Single Carrier FDMA
UE User Equipment
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 Background
NR band n65 is a LTE re-farming band from LTE Band 65. During NR Rel-15, many
LTE re-farming bands were included into NR specifications as a part of the NR
standardization work, without any band specific TR\'s. From Rel-16 onwards, a
band specific WI is needed to add LTE re-farming band into NR specifications.
As the band n65 is very similar to LTE B65, with small UE aspect differences,
the list of issues is pretty limited.
# 5 Frequency band arrangements
## 5.1 Adjacent 3GPP bands
The 3GPP bands nearby to band n65, when addressing co-existence aspects are
bands 1 and 34 as shown in figure 5.1. Band 1 is for both Region 1 and 3,
while Band 34 is region 3.
{width="3.33125in" height="3.011111111111111in"}
Figure 5.1: 3GPP bands nearby Band n65
# 6 List of band specific issues for n65
The list of band-specific issues for Band n65 are provided below.
\- General issues
\- Carrier frequency and NR-ARFCN
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP bands in Region 1 and Region 3
\- E-UTRA specific issues
\- UE
\- Network signalling and A-MPR
> \- BS
\- Co-existence with NB-IoT (MSR specification)
# 7 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 7.1 UE aspect issues
n65 has to protect PHS in Region 3, which is below n65 uplink. n1 same the
same protection requirements, hence the same network signaling value and A-MPR
are applied to n65.
n65 has to protect Band 34, which is right above n65 uplink as shown in figure
7.1-1. A-MPR study is done using applicable NR transmitter requirements. The
following scenarios are simulated, shown in figure 7.1-1.
{width="6.676388888888889in" height="1.6770833333333333in"}
Figure 7.1-1: B34 protection scenarios
Simulation results were provided by Qualcomm (R4-1812118) in table 7.1-1.
Table 7.1-1: A-MPR for NS_24
Channel Bandwidth, MHz | Carrier Centre Frequency, Fc, MHz | Region A | Region B | Region C |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | Rbend*12*SCS MHz | LCRB*12*SCS MHz | A-MPR | Rbend*12*SCS MHz | LCRB*12*SCS MHz | A-MPR | Rbend*12*SCS MHz | LCRB*12*SCS MHz | A-MPR  
5MHz | Fc=1992.5 |  | >3.24 | A7 |  |  |  |  |  |   
5MHz | Fc=1997.5 |  | >3.24 | A4 |  |  |  |  |  |   
5MHz | Fc=2002.5 |  | >2.16 | A1 | >3.78 | ≤1.98 | A2 | ≤3.6 | ≤1.98 | A3  
10MHz | Fc=1985 | >5.4 |  | A4 |  |  |  |  |  |   
10MHz | Fc=1995 |  | >4.5 | A1 | >7.56 | ≤4.32 | A2 | ≤7.38 | ≤4.32 | A3  
10MHz | Fc=2000 | >6.84 |  | A5 | 1.44 | A6  
15MHz | Fc=1987.5 |  | >7.02 | A1 | >11.52 | ≤6.84 | A2 | ≤11.34 | ≤6.84 | A3  
15MHz | Fc=1997.5 | >9.36 |  | A5 | 1.44 | A6  
20MHz | Fc=1990 | >13.5 |  | A5 | 2.16 | A6  
20MHz | Fc=1995 | >12.6 |  | A5 | 1.44 | A6  
NOTE 1: The A-MPR values are listed in Table 7.1-2. NOTE 2: For any undefined region, MPR applies. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.1-2: A-MPR for modulation and waveform type
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **M | * | * | * | * | * | * | * | | odula | *A1** | _A2_ _|_ A3**| *A4** | _A5_ _|_ A6**| *A7** | | tion/ | | | | | | | | | Wavef | | | | | | | | | orm**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |** Out | **Out |** Out | **Ou |** Out | **Out |** Ou | | | er/In | er/In | er/In | ter**| er/In | er/In | ter** | | | ner**| ner** | ner**| | ner** | ner** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT-s | ≤ 11 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 10 | ≤ 3.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | PI/2 | | | | | | | | | BPSK | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT-s | ≤ 11 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 10 | ≤ 3.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT-s | ≤ 11 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 18 | ≤ 10 | ≤ 3.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | 16 | | | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT-s | ≤ 11 | ≤ 5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 19 | ≤ 10 | ≤ 3.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | 64 | | | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DFT-s | ≤ 11 | ≤ 5 | | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 20 | ≤ 10 | | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CP | ≤ 13 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 19 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 5.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CP | ≤ 13 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 19 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 5.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | 16 | | | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CP | ≤ 13 | ≤ 6.5 | ≤ 4 | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 19 | ≤ 12 | ≤ 5.5 | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | 64 | | | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | CP | ≤ 13 | ≤ 6.5 | | ≤ 8.5 | ≤ 20 | ≤ 12 | | | -OFDM | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | ckoff | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | max | | | | | | | | | (MPR, | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | -MPR) | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | MPR | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | 2.2-1 | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | 101-1 | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | Outer | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | inner | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | lloca | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.2.2 | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | 101-1 | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Simulation results provided by Nokia (R4-1812051):
Table 7.1-3: Parameter
* * *
CBW [MHz] Offset from band edge [MHz] Fc [MHz] A-MPR
5 15 1992,5 A1 5 10 1997,5 A2 5 5 2002,5 A3 10 20 1985 A4 10 10 1995 A5 10 5
2000 A6 15 15 1987,5 A7 20 10 1990 A8
* * *
Table 7.1-4: A-MPR
* * *
A1 A2 A3 A4  
Inner Outer Inner Outer Inner Outer Inner Outer  
SC-FDMA pi/2-BPSK MPR MPR MPR 2 MPR 8 MPR 1,5 QPSK MPR MPR MPR 3,5 2 9 MPR 2,5
16QAM MPR MPR MPR 4 2 9,5 MPR 3 64QAM MPR MPR MPR 4 MPR 10 MPR 3 256QAM MPR
MPR MPR 5 10 11 MPR MPR OFDMA QPSK MPR MPR MPR 4,5 4 11 MPR 4,5 16QAM MPR MPR
MPR 4,5 3,5 11 MPR 4,5 64QAM MPR MPR MPR 5 4 10,5 MPR 4,5 256QAM MPR MPR MPR
MPR 10 11,5 MPR MPR A5 A6 A7 A8  
Inner Outer Inner Outer Inner Outer Inner Outer SC-FDMA pi/2-BPSK MPR 7 13
14,5 MPR 7 13 13 QPSK 1,5 8,5 13,5 15 1 8 14 14 16QAM 2 9 15 15,5 1,5 8,5 15
14,5 64QAM MPR 9 15,5 15,5 MPR 8,5 15 14,5 256QAM 5,5 9,5 16 16 MPR 9 16 15
OFDMA QPSK 3,5 10,5 18 18 3,5 10 18 17 16QAM 3,5 10 18 17,5 3,5 10 18 17,5
64QAM MPR 10,5 17,5 17,5 MPR 10 18,5 17,5 256QAM MPR 10,5 18,5 18 MPR 10 18,5
17,5
* * *
# 8 Study of MSR specific issues
Because n65 is very similar to n1, the same requirements for cases when
Standalone NB-IoT carrier is located outside the BS RF are used for n65.
### 8.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
Unless otherwise stated, the Operating band unwanted emission limits are
defined from Δf~OBUE~ below the lowest frequency of each supported downlink
operating band to the lower Base Station RF Bandwidth edge located at F~BW\
RF,low~ and from the upper Base Station RF Bandwidth edge located at F~BW\
RF,high~ up to Δf~OBUE~ above the highest frequency of each supported downlink
operating band. The values of Δf~OBUE~ are defined in table 6.6-1 in TS
38.101-1 [4]. The requirements shall apply whatever the type of transmitter
considered and for all transmission modes foreseen by the manufacturer\'s
specification, except for any operating band with GSM/EDGE single RAT
operation. The requirements in TS 45.005 [3] as defined in subclause 6.6.2.3
in TS 38.101-1 [4] apply to an MSR Base Station for any operating band with
GSM/EDGE single RAT operation in Band Category 2.
For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands are mapped on
separate antenna connectors, the single-band requirements apply and the
cumulative evaluation of the emission limit in the Inter-RF Bandwidth gap are
not applicable.
### 8.1.1 General minimum requirement for Band Categories 1 and 3
For a Wide Area BS operating in Band Category 1 or Band Category 3 the
requirement applies outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges. In addition,
for a Wide Area BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any
sub-block gap. In addition, for a Wide Area BS operating in multiple bands,
the requirements apply inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For a Medium Range BS operating in Band Category 1 the requirement applies
outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges. In addition, for a Medium Range
BS operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any sub-block gap.
In addition, for a Medium Range BS operating in multiple bands, the
requirements apply inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
For a Local Area BS operating in Band Category 1 the requirement applies
outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges. In addition, for a Local Area BS
operating in non-contiguous spectrum, it applies inside any sub-block gap. In
addition, for a Local Area BS operating in multiple bands, the requirements
apply inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gap.
Outside the Base Station RF Bandwidth edges, emissions shall not exceed the
maximum levels specified in Tables 8.1.1-1 to 8.1.1-4 below, where:
\- ∆f is the separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge frequency
and the nominal -3 dB point of the measuring filter closest to the carrier
frequency.
\- f_offset is the separation between the Base Station RF Bandwidth edge
frequency and the centre of the measuring filter.
\- f_offset~max~ is the offset to the frequency Δf~OBUE~ outside the downlink
operating band.
\- ∆f~max~ is equal to f_offset~max~ minus half of the bandwidth of the
measuring filter.
For a BS operating in multiple bands, inside any Inter RF Bandwidth gaps with
Wgap \ | \ | | | | -- Last) | -- Last) | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | n65 | 100 | 384000 -- | 422000 -- | | | | \ \-- | \ \-- | | | | 402000 | 440000 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#