# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for NR vehicle mounted UE with 2Rx
antenna at FR1 in Rel-15. The purpose is to gather the relevant background
information and studies in order to address 2Rx exception for NR vehicular UEs
in a few specific NR bands such as n7, n38, n41, n77, n78 and n79 since NR UE
shall be equipped with 4Rx ports as a baseline is mandated for these NR bands.
To allow 2 RX exception for vehicular UEs, as requested by 5GAA, it is
essential for 3GPP RAN 4 to further study the design of telematics control
units (TCU) in vehicles to gain confidence that performance is not degraded at
system level by deploying 2 RX. As a part of allowing the 2 RX exception, RAN
4 needs to evaluate identification of vehicle mounted UEs in the network and
corresponding test methods
This Technical Report contains the evaluation results for the impact of 2Rx
vehicle mounted UE on coverage and throughput considering the realistic RF
architecture and link budget with reasonable antenna gain of 2Rx vehicle UE.
Also propose the methods to distinguish vehicle UE from handheld UE to verify
conformance and GCF certification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[6] R4-1811897 \"WF on Evaluation for 2 RX exception in Rel-15 vehicle mounted
UE\".
[7] RP-182169 \"LS on impact of 2Rx vehicle mounted UEs on coverage\".
[8] R4-1814143 \"WF on 2 Rx vehicle UE: Link budget simulation assumptions\".
[9] R4-1816253, \"Response LS to RAN4 on method to distinguish vehicle UE from
handheld UE\".
[10] R4-1815465, \"Method to distinguish vehicle NR UE with 2Rx Exception\".
[11] R4-1816650, \"Updated WF on 2 Rx vehicular UE\".
[12] 3GPP TR 38.901: \"Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
GHz\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); Mobility Management Entity
(MME) and Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on
Diameter protocol\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.423: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); X2 Application Protocol (X2AP)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔR~IB,4R~ Reference sensitivity adjustment due to support for 4 antenna ports
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BS Base Station
FR Frequency Range
FRC Fixed reference channel
GCF Global Certification Forum
HHUE HandHeld UE
NR New Radio
OTA Over-The-Air
RCT Radio Communication Tester
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
TCU Telematics Control Units
TX Transmitter
# 4 Background
The present document is a technical report for NR vehicle mounted UE with 2Rx
antenna at FR1 in Rel-15. The document contained the following objectives due
to **urgent market demands of the automotive industry for 5G**
Aspects to study in allowing 2 RX exception for vehicle mounted UEs in
frequency bands where 4 Rx is mandated:
\- Investigate the impact of 2Rx vehicle mounted UE on coverage and throughput
and the possible ways to avoid or at least minimize such impact.
\- Link budget with 2 RX vehicular UE
\- **TCU receiver RF chain and architecture**
\- **Coverage and throughput impacts at system level**
\- Methods to distinguish vehicular UE from handheld UE
\- Methods to define vehicle mounted UEs
\- Methods to verify conformance and GCF certification (excluding OTA scope)
# 5 General aspects for NR vehicular UE at FR1
This section contains relevant aspects for the link budget evaluation.
## 5.1 Antenna implementation for 2 Rx vehicle mounted UE
The following implementation examples are a selection of typical antenna
implementation including cable loss.
### 5.1.1 Typical Baseline Rx Antenna Gain in the Market
The sub-section illustrates selection of antenna gain values of prominent
vehicle manufacturers.
#### 5.1.1.1 Baseline Antenna Gain Values: OEM A
The cable loss depends on the chosen package and mounting concept of the
telematics unit and the antenna. OEM A has chosen a concept which allows to
eliminate the cable loss completely in nearly all cars.
\- The average gain of the 2x2 MIMO antenna is about -1 dBi at 2.6 GHz.
\- The average loss of a coax cable is about 1 dB/m.
\- This is an example for better performance than baseline antenna values
including cable loss.
#### 5.1.1.2 Baseline Antenna Gain Values: OEM B
The following antenna gain (dBi) values are expected minimum in the frequency
ranges until 3.8GHz:
\- 2 RX scenarios:
\- Antenna 1: Average Antenna gain (theta=60°-90°, phi=0° to 359°, Car
implementation on PEC) including cable loss: 1 dBi, based on a rooftop antenna
implementation
\- Antenna 2: Average Antenna gain (theta=60°-90°, phi=0° to 359°, Car
implementation on PEC) including cable loss: 0 dBi, based on a second radiator
in rooftop antenna implementation
\- This is an example for better performance than baseline antenna values
including cable loss.
#### 5.1.1.3 Baseline Antenna Gain Values: OEM C
The cable loss depends on the chosen package and mounting concept of the
telematics unit and the antenna.
\- The average gain of the 2x2MIMO antennas is about -2/-3 dBi at 2.5 GHz.
\- The average loss of a coax cable is about 1 dB/m at 2.5 GHz
\- Window antenna:
\- Antenna Gain: -2 dBi / Cable length: 2 m / Overall gain: -4 dBi
This is an example for performance which is closer to baseline antenna values
including cable loss.
### 5.1.2 Antenna measurement procedures
For clarification, the following overview of active and passive measurement
procedures indicates the difference between the measurements for both types of
devices.
Active antenna measurements:
\- Here the transceiver of the HH establishes a wireless link against an RCT
(radio communication tester (=BS simulator)). The RCT measures the power
received by antennas of the test setup. The test setup has been calibrated
that way, that the losses in power caused by the distance between the sending
and receiving antenna are known and that the measured results exclude these
losses.
\- One procedure is to rotate the DUT on a turn table in discrete steps, the
receiving antenna is moved around the DUT in discrete steps. Both movements
together give measurements results at different radiation directions. Results
are usually accumulated and averaged of several directions -> E.G. This gives
the angle dependent gain values.
\- Subtracting the conducted power (RCT directly connected to the HH, without
any antenna) of the radiated power gives the antenna efficiency.
\- HH are usually measured this way
Passive antenna measurements:
\- Here power is fed to the antenna by measurement cables. The power at a
receiving antenna is measured e.g. by a power meter. The test setup has been
calibrated that way, that the losses of the measurement cables as well of the
losses in power caused by the distance between the sending and receiving
antenna are known and that the measured results exclude these losses.
\- The DUT is rotated on a turn table in discrete steps, the receiving antenna
is moved around the DUT in discrete steps. Both movements together give
measurements results at different radiation directions. Results are usually
accumulated and averaged of several directions -> E.G. This gives the angle
dependent gain values.
\- Vehicles are usually measured this way, HH usually only during development
but not for any certification purposes.
## 5.2 Baseline Rx antenna gain
> Table 5.2-1 defines the baseline Rx antenna gain for the link budget
> calculation.
Table _5.2-1_ : Reference baseline Rx antenna gain
* * *
Link budget parameter name Link budget parameter value Rx antenna gain -3 dBi
* * *
Note: Based on the WF [11] in RAN4#89, the Rx antenna gain in table 5.2-1 was
revised.
# 6 Evaluation on the coverage related issue
## 6.1 Coverage Evaluation
### 6.1.1 Link budget simulation assumption
RAN4 agreed on the RF parameters to evaluate the coverage related issues as
shown in Table 6.1.1-1 [8].
Table _6.1.1-1_ : RF parameters for Link budget evaluation
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | 4Rx | 4Rx | 4Rx | 2Rx V-UE | | | | HHUE\ | HHUE\ | HHUE\ | | | | | (Outdoor | (P | (Dash | | | | | b | assenger | board) | | | | | rowsing) | Holding | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | rowsing) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | Antenna | 4Rx/2Tx | 4Rx/2Tx | 4Rx/2Tx | 2Rx/2Tx | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | BS | 18 | 18 | 18 | 18 | | | Antanna | | | | | | | Gain^1^ | | | | | | | [dBi] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | UE\ | Antenna | -7.5 | -7.5 | -4.5 | -3 | | Antenna\ | system | | | | | | Gain | gain per | | | | | | | element | | | | | | | ^2,5^ | | | | | | | [dBi] | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | Pen | 0 | 9 | 9 | 0 | | | etration | | | | | | | Loss^3^ | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | Total | -7.5 | -16.5 | -13.5 | -3 | | | [dB] | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | Fading | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | | Margin | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | Inte | 3 | 0.5 | 0.5 | 3 | | | rference | | | | | | | Margin | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | DL | BS Tx | 46 | 46 | 46 | 46 | | | Power | | | | | | | [dBm] | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | UE | -87.4 | -87.4 | -87.4 | -84.7 | | | RE | | | | | | | FSENS^4^ | | | | | | | [dBm] | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | **Note | | | | | | | 1:** | | | | | | | Ericsson | | | | | | | proposed | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | AH | | | | | | | meeting | | | | | | | in RAN4 | | | | | | | #88BIS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **Note | | | | | | | 2:** | | | | | | | Antenna | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | gain per | | | | | | | element | | | | | | | = (ant. | | | | | | | ef | | | | | | | ficiency | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | dire | | | | | | | ctivity) | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | ble/Body | | | | | | | Loss. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | detail | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | n7/n41 | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | based on | | | | | | | follows | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - HH UE | | | | | | | : HH-UE | | | | | | | : | | | | | | |  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | Vehicle | | | | | | | UE: LS | | | | | | | (R4- | | | | | | | 1811528) | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | 5GAA | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **Note | | | | | | | 3:** O2I | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | pen | | | | | | | etration | | | | | | | loss is | | | | | | | based on | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | R 38.901 | | | | | | | [12], | | | | | | | 7.4.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **Note | | | | | | | 4:** 4 | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | REFSENS | | | | | | | = 2 Rx | | | | | | | REFSENS | | | | | | | (TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | | [3], | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2-1) | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | Δ | | | | | | | R~IB,4R~ | | | | | | | (TS | | | | | | | 38.101- | | | | | | | 1 [3], | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2-2) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+
Note: Based on the WF [11] in RAN4#89, the RF parameters and Note 5 in table
6.1.1-1 were revised and removed.
### 6.1.2 Coverage evaluation results
In this section, the coverage evaluation results based on the agreed coverage
analysis parameters are provided in Table 6.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2-1: Coverage analysis for n41
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | | 4Rx HHUE\ | 4Rx HHUE\ | 4Rx HHUE\ | 2Rx VUE | | | | (Outdoor) | ( | (Dash | | | | | | Passenger | board) | | | | | | Holding) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | UE | 4Rx/2Tx | 4Rx/2Tx | 4Rx/2Tx | 2Rx/2Tx | | | Antenna | | | | | | | Conf | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | BS | 18 | 18 | 18 | 18 | | | Antenna | | | | | | | Gain | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | UE\ | Antenna | -7.5 | -7.5 | -4.5 | -3 | | Antenna\ | system | | | | | | Gain^1^ | gain per | | | | | | | element | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | [dBi] | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | | Pe | 0 | 9 | 9 | 0 | | | netration | | | | | | | Loss^2^ | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | | Total | -7.5 | -16.5 | -13.5 | -3 | | | [dB] | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | Fading | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | | Margin | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | Int | 3 | 0.5 | 0.5 | 3 | | | erference | | | | | | | Margin | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | DL | BS Tx | 46 | 46 | 46 | 46 | | | Power | | | | | | | [dBm] | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | | UE | -87.4 | -87.4 | -87.4 | -84.7 | | | R | | | | | | | EFSENS^3^ | | | | | | | [dBm] | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | | Maximum | 131.9 | 125.4 | 128.4 | 133.7 | | | allowable | | | | | | | path loss | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | Antenna | | | | | | | Gain | | | | | | | including | | | | | | | cable & | | | | | | | body loss | | | | | | | is based | | | | | | | on [6]. | | | | | | | Detailed | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | for n41 | | | | | | | are based | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | HH-UE : | | | | | | |  | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Vehicle | | | | | | | UE: 5GAA | | | | | | | LS | | | | | | | (R4 | | | | | | | -1811528) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | O2I car | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | netration | | | | | | | loss is | | | | | | | based on | | | | | | | TR 38.901 | | | | | | | [12], | | | | | | | 7.4.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: 4 | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | REFSENS = | | | | | | | 2 Rx | | | | | | | REFSENS | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | TS 38.101 | | | | | | | -1 [3], | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2-1) | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | ΔR~IB,4R~ | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | TS 38.101 | | | | | | | -1 [3], | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2-2) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | **Note | | | | | | | 4:** | | | | | | | Antenna | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | gain per | | | | | | | element = | | | | | | | (ant. | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | fficiency | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | dir | | | | | | | ectivity) | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | able/Body | | | | | | | Loss | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+---------+-------+
The smallest difference in DL Maximum allowable path loss is observed to be
1.8dB from the analysis.
From evaluated Maximum allowable path loss value, actual cell coverage in n41
based on typical pathloss model defined in TR 38.901 [12] are shown in Figure
6.1.2-1 with relative cell coverage ratio which is normalized with 4Rx HHUE at
outdoor.
{width="5.990277777777778in" height="2.2284722222222224in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1. Evaluated n41 cell coverage based on pathloss model in TR
38.901 [12]
Based on Table 6.1.2-1 and Figure 6.1.2-1, interpretations are:
**_\- 2 Rx Vehicular UE can provide larger Maximum allowable path loss value
than 4 Rx HH UE._**
**_\- 2 Rx Vehicular UE can provide at least 11% larger cell coverage than 4
Rx HH UE._**
### 6.1.3 Conclusions
According to the discussions and performance evaluation results captured in
the previous section, the following conclusions can be drawn:
\- 2 Rx vehicular UE achieve higher Maximum allowable path loss in the
evaluation scenarios
\- Because of the fixed mounting of antennas several vehicle specific
advantages (e.g. better antenna gain due to the limitation of the required
sphere, no body losses) are given and result in the higher Maximum allowable
path loss
\- 2 Rx vehicle implementation are less arbitrary in the performance as the
number of possible antenna positions is much more limited compared to the
handheld use cases and holding positions.
\- Even in browsing mode there are several usage and holding positions whereas
the vehicle has clear defined position because of the mounting.
\- No performance degradation in cell-edge coverage was identified in case of
allowing 2 Rx vehicular UEs
**Conclusion: Based on the results of the cell-edge performance evaluation,
there was no indication for a degradation of the cell-edge coverage
performance by using 2Rx vehicular UEs in bands where 4Rx is mandated. This
conclusion is valid when the vehicular UE reflects antenna system gain per
element which is at least -4.8 dBi due to difference in maximum allowable path
loss between 2 RX Vehicular UE and 4 RX HH UE outdoor in Table 6.1.2-1.**
## 6.2 Evaluation on European Commission**\'** s Broadband vision
This section aims at summarizing the several studies which were conducted
since RAN #80 meeting in order to conclude the evaluations of 2 RX impacts
with respect to throughput required for European Commission**\'** s Broadband
vision.
### 6.2.1 Scope of the Study
In RAN 4 #88 meeting, a WF was agreed [6], where following agreements were
reached:
\- Throughput study is out of scope of RAN 4.
\- Coverage is based on link budget analysis
In RAN #81 meeting, the following was agreed and LS was sent to RAN 4 [7]:
\- The impact of 2RX vehicular UEs on coverage in terms of cell edge
performance has to be evaluated.
\- Cell capacity analysis is not considered essential.
\- As a reference to the cell edge performance for link budget evaluation, the
requirement of the European Commission**\'** s Broadband Europe vision of 30
Mbps downlink throughput could be used
\- To augment the existing pass/fail limit for reference sensitivity, an
analysis could be provided of the downlink signal level at which a certain
throughput target is reached.
### 6.2.2 Analysis of cell edge performance
Intensive discussions and studies have been carried out to analyze link
budgets and parameters for link budgets have been discussed extensively in
several meetings and agreed in [8]. Based on the agreed parameters in [8][11],
the following link budget study provided in section 6.1.
It can be seen that Maximum allowable path loss values have been mentioned for
analyzing cell coverage. As a part of the link budget discussions in
[6][8][11], reference sensitivity values specified in TS 38.101-1 [3] have
been taken into account for the frequency bands under discussion (example
n41). It should be noted that reference sensitivity values mentioned in TS
38.101-1 [3], correspond to Fixed reference channel (FRC) for receiver
requirements seen in TS 38.101-1 [3].
The maximum throughput averaged over 1 frame which shall be met with FRC
defined in TS 38.101-1 [3] is up to 34.603 Mbps. It is evident that the
downlink signal level for meeting EC throughput requirement at cell edge
performance, of 30 Mbps mentioned in [7], has been satisfied while calculating
2 RX link budgets for vehicular UEs.
Furthermore, it has been shown in section 6.1 that actual cell coverage
analysis based on Table 6.1.1-1 using path loss models (RMa, UMa, UMI-SC,
Freespace) does not impact the network and as well meets the required
throughput limits recommended by RAN [7]
**Conclusion: The downlink signal level for meeting EC vision at cell edge
performance, of 30 Mbps, has been satisfied while calculating link budgets for
2 RX vehicular UEs.**
# 7 Evaluation on the throughput related issue
Based on the agreed WF [6], the throughput evaluation is out-of-scope of RAN
WG4. Hence, RAN4 do not need further discussion for the evaluation on the
throughput issues. However, RAN4 has studied the **cell edge performance based
on link budget evaluation** to satisfy **the European Commission\'s Broadband
Europe vision (see note) of 30 Mbps downlink throughput [7] in cluase 6 based
on vehicle link budget evaluation.**
NOTE: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/broadband-europe
# 8 Method to distinguish the 2Rx vehicular NR UE from 4Rx NR UE
Based on the study in RAN4, following options in table 8-1are adopted to
distinguish vehicular UE and other type of UE.
Table 8-1: Methods to distinguish vehicular UE and other type of UE
* * *
No Solution Objective Action 1 UE vender**\'** s declaration for GCF
certification For different UE type declaration, different requirements should
be applicable and verified for certification test. RAN5 should define
different test cases for different UE type though in a same band. 2 # of MIMO
layer Consider maximum supported MIMO layer signaling to distinguish 2Rx vs
4Rx UE Existing **UE capability signaling** can be used in networks 3
Vehicular UE definition Define clearly the characteristic of vehicular UE in
the spec. RAN4 needs to work out an appropriate definition for vehicular UE 4
Vehicular UE identification For different UE type, operator can further check
the applicability, identify the 2Rx vehicular UE, authorize and perform
service management. RAN plenary CR
* * *
For option1, GCF sent LS [9] to RAN4 that 2Rx for vehicular UE exception could
be handled as:
**\- For module certification:**
The module manufacturer shall declare the intended use:
\- Intended for 4Rx devices; or
\- Intended for 2Rx vehicle mounted devices; or
\- Intended for 4Rx devices or 2Rx vehicle mounted devices.
**\- For device certification:**
The device manufacturer shall declare if the intended use:
\- Vehicle mounted use only; or
\- Other
**For device certification the 2Rx exception will ONLY be valid for devices
declared as \'Vehicle mounted use only\'. Such device may use a pre-certified
module declared as \'Intended for 2Rx vehicle mounted devices\' or**
**\'Intended for 4Rx devices or 2Rx vehicle mounted devices\'.**
For devices declared as **\'** Other**\'** the certification shall be based on
4Rx, i.e. the 2Rx exception will NOT apply. If a pre-certified module is used,
then shall the module have a valid certification for 4Rx.
For option 2, basically, there is no direct coupling between maximum supported
MIMO layer and number of UE Rx port in LTE. But, in NR, following decision was
captured in endorsed UE feature list during last RAN plenary meeting [3].
> _For single CC standalone NR, it is mandatory with capability signaling to
> support at least 4 MIMO layers in the bands where 4Rx is specified as
> mandatory for the given UE and at least 2 MIMO layers in FR2. Some
> relaxations to this requirement may be applicable in the future (including
> in Rel-15). Mandatory in all cases means mandatory with capability
> signaling._
It means that NR UE supporting 4 Rx should also support up to 4 layer MIMO at
least for current 4 Rx mandated NR bands for single CC standalone NR. Thus, we
can assume the maximum supported MIMO layer is directly coupled into the
number of UE Rx port based on above decision. Also for CA/DC UE, the CA/DC UE
capability for MIMO layer will be discussed and decided as separately. So the
option2 is still useful to distinguish 2RX and 4RX UE.
For option3, the definition of vehicular UE should be specify in TS 38.101-1
[3] to distinguish vehicular UE and Handheld UE. Also need to make different
REFSENS requirements. Then RAN5/GCF will define different test cases for
different UE type though in a same band.
For option4, one possible solution is to adopt the approach of using the
RFSP/SPID parameter and to define a new SPID value for \"vehicle authorised
for 2Rx use\", as in Annex I of TS 36.300 [14]. The advantage of using the
RFSP approach is that it is already fully standardised for both EPC and
5GCore. It is based on the RFSP parameter being loaded using existing O&M
processes into the HSS/UDM, and supplied to the MME/AMF when the UE Attaches
(or does Tracking Area Update) in that MME/AMF. Then at every RRC Connection
Establishment, the MME/AMF supplies the RFSP value to the RAN, and the RAN can
then use\"vehicle authorised for 2Rx use\" value in combination with the
UE**\'** s Radio Access Capabilities, to control (e.g. limit or reject) radio
resource allocation to 2Rx devices that are not in authorised vehicles. With
regard to RFSP, the relevant EPS specifications are the system level Stage 2
specification in TS 23.401 (see clause 4.3.6); the HSS to MME signalling in TS
29.272 [13] (see clauses 7.3.2 and 7.3.46); the E-UTRAN stage 2 specification
in TS 36.300 [14] (clause 16.1.8 and Annex I); the MME to eNB signalling in TS
36.413 [15] (e.g. see clauses 8.3.1.2, 8.3.4.1, 8.4.2.2, 8.6.2.2, and
9.2.1.39) and similar signalling for X2 handovers in TS 36.423 [16]. The
specification references for 5GCore and NG-RAN can be derived from the EPS
references.
Based on the summary in Table 8-1 and GCF reply LS, RAN4 decide that UE
vendor**\'** s declaration is a solution for the certification aspect and the
existing **RRC signaling for # of MIMO layers are used to differentiate 2Rx
vehicular UE from 4Rx NR UE**.
Therefore, RAN4 conclude as follow based on [11]:
**Conclusion 1:** Declare and differentiate 2 RX Vehicular UE through 3GPP
compliance testing via GCF/other certification organizations [9].
a. 3GPP do not need to consider UE outside 3GPP compliance.
**Conclusion 2:** **RAN 4 agree on existing UE capability signaling for # of
MIMO layers to differentiate 2 RX UE from 4 RX UE**.
**Conclusion 3:** Definition of Vehicular UE in TS 38.101-1 [3] is needed.
> **Vehicular UE:** A UE which is integrated in a vehicle with externally
> radiating antennas for NR operating bands
>
> Note: Integrated UE does not refer to other UE form factors placed inside
> the vehicle.
**Conclusion 4: For Vehicular UE, network based identification is required for
authorization purposes. The actual implementation of network based
identification method does not impact 3GPP decision on 2 RX exception.**
a. A possible solution to implement conclusion 2 is based on SPID value in
36.300[14] / 38.300 (Annex I), targeting rel-15 and beyond, to be captured in
TR 38.826.
b. Other network based identification proposals in 3GPP are not precluded.
c. RAN 4 recommends RAN to consider other network based identification
proposals without additional RAN signaling.
**Final Conclusion: 2 RX Vehicular UE can be distinguished based on conclusion
1+2+3+4**
#