# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the study item on NR MIMO
OTA, which was approved at TSG RAN#80 [2]. The scope of the SI is to define
the radiated metrics and end-to-end test methodology for the verification of
multi-antenna reception performance of NR UEs in FR1 and FR2 and the
associated preliminary measurement uncertainty budgets.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-182691, "Revised SID: Study on radiated metrics and test methodology
for the verification of multi-antenna reception performance of NR UEs," CAICT,
OPPO, Samsung, 3GPP RAN #82, December 2018.
[3] 3GPP TR 37.977: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Verification of radiated multi-
antenna reception performance of User Equipment (UE)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.810: "Study on test methods for New Radio".
[5] IEEE Std 149: \"IEEE Standard Test Procedures for Antennas\", IEEE.
[6] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: "User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
Common test environment".
[7] 3GPP TR 25.914: "Measurement of Radio Performances for UMTS terminals in
speech mode".
[8] 3GPP TS 34.114: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS) Over The Air
(OTA) antenna performance; Conformance testing\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.521-2: "User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**PSP (PAS Similarity Percentage):** The similarity of the PAS produced by the
OTA system and the reference PAS, which is presented by the Total Variation
Distance (TVD) of power angular spectrum (PAS). PSP is defined as
(1-TVD)*100%. PSP=100% denotes full similarity and PSP=0% denotes full
dissimilarity.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_D_ ~rad~ The diameter of the effective radiating aperture
_R_ ~TZ~ The radius of the test zone
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3D three-dimensional
AOA Azimuth angle Of Arrival
AOD Azimuth angle Of Departure
AS Angular Spread
ASA Azimuth angle Spread of Arrival
ASD Azimuth angle Spread of Departure
BS Base Station
CDL Clustered Delay Line
D2D Device-to-Device
DML Data Mode Landscape
DMP Data Mode Portrait
DMSU Data Mode Screen Up
DS Delay Spread
EUT Equipment Under Test
FR1 Frequency Range 1
FR2 Frequency Range 2
FS Free Space
FWA Fixed wireless access
InO Indoor Office
LOS Line Of Sight
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MPAC Multi-Probe Anechoic Chamber
NLOS Non-LOS
OTA Over The Air
PAS Power Angular Spectrum
PDP Power Delay Profile
PSP PAS Similarity Percentage
RMS Root Mean Square
RTS Radiated Two Stage
TVD Total Variation Distance
UE User Equipment
UMa Urban Macro
UMi Urban Micro
XPR Cross-Polarization Ratio
ZOA Zenith angle Of Arrival
ZOD Zenith angle Of Departure
ZSA Zenith angle Spread of Arrival
ZSD Zenith angle Spread of Departure
# 4 General
## 4.1 Device types
The following device types are in the scope of this study:
\- Smartphone
\- Tablet
\- Wearable device
\- Fixed wireless access (FWA) terminal
\- Other UE types are not precluded for discussion as a second priority
The development of test methodology aspects shall initially focus on the
smartphone device type.
## 4.2 Testing configuration
Utilizing the free space (FS) testing configuration is the first priority. A
second priority is the study of head/hand/body blocking and its impact on test
methods -- this will be in collaboration with CTIA who plan to study these
aspects.
NR MIMO OTA testing should be performed under primary mechanical mode of UE
for data mode usage. The primary mechanical mode for data mode usage for
devices having multiple mechanical modes shall be declared by the
manufacturers. Single primary mechanical mode for each device should be
declared to test labs for NR MIMO OTA.
## 4.3 Testing Bands
The present technical report covers both FR1 and FR2 operating bands.
Table 4.3-1: Definition of frequency ranges
Frequency range designation Corresponding frequency range
* * *
FR1 7125 MHz FR2 24250 MHz -- 52600 MHz
Table 4.3-2: NR operating bands in FR1
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | NR operating | Uplink (UL) | Downlink (DL) | Duplex Mode | | band | _operating |_ operating | | | | band _\ | band_ \ | | | | BS receive / UE | BS transmit / | | | | transmit | UE receive | | | | | | | | | F~UL_low~ -- | F~DL_low~ -- | | | | F~UL_high~ | F~DL_high~ | | +=================+=================+=================+=============+ | n1 | 1920 MHz -- | 2110 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1980 MHz | 2170 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n2 | 1850 MHz -- | 1930 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1910 MHz | 1990 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n3 | 1710 MHz -- | 1805 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1785 MHz | 1880 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n5 | 824 MHz -- 849 | 869 MHz -- 894 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n7 | 2500 MHz -- | 2620 MHz -- | FDD | | | 2570 MHz | 2690 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n8 | 880 MHz -- 915 | 925 MHz -- 960 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n12 | 699 MHz -- 716 | 729 MHz -- 746 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n20 | 832 MHz -- 862 | 791 MHz -- 821 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n25 | 1850 MHz -- | 1930 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1915 MHz | 1995 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n28 | 703 MHz -- 748 | 758 MHz -- 803 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n34 | 2010 MHz -- | 2010 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2025 MHz | 2025 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n38 | 2570 MHz -- | 2570 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2620 MHz | 2620 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n39 | 1880 MHz -- | 1880 MHz -- | TDD | | | 1920 MHz | 1920 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n40 | 2300 MHz -- | 2300 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2400 MHz | 2400 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n41 | 2496 MHz -- | 2496 MHz -- | TDD | | | 2690 MHz | 2690 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n50 | 1432 MHz -- | 1432 MHz -- | TDD^1^ | | | 1517 MHz | 1517 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n51 | 1427 MHz -- | 1427 MHz -- | TDD | | | 1432 MHz | 1432 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n66 | 1710 MHz -- | 2110 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1780 MHz | 2200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n70 | 1695 MHz -- | 1995 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1710 MHz | 2020 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n71 | 663 MHz -- 698 | 617 MHz -- 652 | FDD | | | MHz | MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n74 | 1427 MHz -- | 1475 MHz -- | FDD | | | 1470 MHz | 1518 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n75 | N/A | 1432 MHz -- | SDL | | | | 1517 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n76 | N/A | 1427 MHz -- | SDL | | | | 1432 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n77 | 3300 MHz -- | 3300 MHz -- | TDD | | | 4200 MHz | 4200 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n78 | 3300 MHz -- | 3300 MHz -- | TDD | | | 3800 MHz | 3800 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n79 | 4400 MHz -- | 4400 MHz -- | TDD | | | 5000 MHz | 5000 MHz | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n80 | 1710 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 1785 MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n81 | 880 MHz -- 915 | N/A | SUL | | | MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n82 | 832 MHz -- 862 | N/A | SUL | | | MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n83 | 703 MHz -- 748 | N/A | SUL | | | MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n84 | 1920 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 1980 MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+ | n86 | 1710 MHz -- | N/A | SUL | | | 1780MHz | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------+
Table 4.3-3: NR operating bands in FR2
* * *
Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\
Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
                   F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
n257 26500 MHz -- 29500 MHz 26500 MHz -- 29500 MHz TDD
n258 24250 MHz -- 27500 MHz 24250 MHz -- 27500 MHz TDD
n260 37000 MHz -- 40000 MHz 37000 MHz -- 40000 MHz TDD
n261 27500 MHz -- 28350 MHz 27500 MHz -- 28350 MHz TDD
* * *
# 5 Performance metrics
## 5.1 Figure of Merits
5.1.1 Definition of MIMO throughput
MIMO throughput is defined here as the time-averaged number of correctly
received transport blocks in a communication system running an application,
where a Transport Block is defined in the reference measurement channel. From
OTA perspective, this is also called MIMO OTA throughput. It will be used as
the baseline figure of merit for FR1 and also FR2 static testing.
The MIMO OTA throughput is measured at the top of physical layer of NR system
under the use of FRC, the SS transmit fixed-size payload bits to the DUT. The
DUT signals back either ACK or NACK to the SS. The SS then records the
following:
\- Number of ACKs,
\- Number of NACKs, and
\- Number of DTX slots
Hence the MIMO (OTA) throughput can be calculated as
{width="3.546527777777778in" height="0.3951388888888889in"}
Where Transmitted TBS is the Transport Block Size transmitted by the SS, which
is fixed for a FRC during the measurement period. MeasurementTime is the total
composed of successful slots (ACK), unsuccessful slots (NACK) and DTX-symbols.
The time-averaging is to be taken over a time period sufficiently long to
average out the variations due to the fading channel. Therefore, this is also
called the average MIMO OTA throughput. The throughput should be measured at a
time when eventual start-up transients in the system have evanesced.
## 5.2 Averaging of throughput curves
For FR1 MIMO OTA measurement, the throughput curves shall be averaged by:
The average TRMS of free space data mode portrait (FS DMP), free space data
mode landscape (FSDML), and free space data mode screen up (FS DMSU), as
defined in Annex A.3. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRMS
results at these DUT positions.
{width="4.540972222222222in" height="0.5104166666666666in"}
where
{width="4.384722222222222in" height="0.5104166666666666in"}
Such that _MODE_ is one of {_FS_DMP, FS_DML, FS_DMSU_}, _x_ is one of
throughput outage (for example {[_70%, 95%_]}), and {_P~MODE,x,0~, ...,
P~MODE,x,11~_} are the measured sensitivity values at each azimuth position.
For FR2 MIMO OTA measurement, the throughput curves shall be averaged by:
The MIMO Average Spherical Coverage (MASC) is the Figure of Merit of FR2 MIMO
OTA requirement. FR2 MIMO OTA is measured with 36 constant-density points
within the 3D sphere. The MASC is determined by the averaging of the best 18
sensitivity values for power class 3 UE. The averaging shall be done in linear
scale for the MASC result according to the formula:
$$\text{MAS}C_{70} = 10\log\left\lbrack \frac{18}{\left(
\frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{70,1}}{10}}} + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{70,2}}{10}}} +
\cdot \cdot \cdot + \frac{1}{10^{\frac{P_{70,18}}{10}}} \right)}
\right\rbrack$$
Such that {P~70,1~, ..., P~70,18~} are the best 18 sensitivity values from all
the 36 constant density measurement points, as defined in clause 6.2.3.2.
# 6 Measurement methodologies
## 6.1 Environmental conditions
UE-noise limited environmental condition is adopted for both FR1 and FR2 MIMO
OTA testing, i.e., UE throughput characterized as a function of signal power
incident to the DUT antennas.
## 6.2 Measurement setup
### 6.2.1 Multi-Probe Anechoic Chamber (MPAC) for FR1
MPAC test method is the reference methodology for FR NR MIMO OTA testing. By
arranging an array of antennas around the Equipment Under Test (EUT), a
spatial distribution of angles of arrival in MPAC system may be simulated to
expose the EUT to a near field environment that appears to have originated
from a complex multipath far field environment.
As illustrated schematically in Figure 6.2.1-1,signals propagate from the base
station/communication tester to the EUT through a simulated multipath
environment known as a spatial channel model, where appropriate channel
impairments such as Doppler and fading are applied to each path prior to
injecting all of the directional signals into the chamber simultaneously
through the antenna array. The resulting field distribution in the test zone
is then integrated by the EUT antenna(s) and processed by the receiver(s) just
as it would do so in any non-simulated multipath environment. MPAC system with
16 uniformly-spaced dual-polarized probes is permitted for NR FR1 MIMO OTA
testing.
{width="6.0in" height="2.0694444444444446in"}
Figure 6.2.1-1: MPAC system layout for NR FR1 MIMO OTA testing
#### 6.2.1.1 Calibration procedure
The system needs to be calibrated by using a reference calibration antenna
with known gain values in order to ensure that the downlink signal power is
correct. In non-standalone (NSA) mode, the LTE link antenna provides a stable
LTE signal without precise path loss or polarization control.
Unlike traditional TRP/TRS testing where the path loss corrections can all be
applied as a post processing step to the measured data, the path loss for each
probe in the MPAC system must be balanced at test time in order to generate
the desired channel model environment within the test zone of the chamber. The
imbalance of each path during testing would result in an alteration of the
angular dependence of the channel model (i.e. varied characteristics of
generated channel model) within the test zone of the chamber.
1\. Place a vertical reference dipole in the center of the test zone,
connected to a VNA port, with the other VNA port connected to the input of the
channel emulator unit -- Figure 7.4.1.1-1.
2\. Configure the channel emulator for bypass mode.
3\. Measure the response of each path from each vertical polarization probe to
the reference antenna in the center of test zone.
4\. Adjust the power on all vertical polarization branches of the channel
emulator so that the powers received at the center are equal.
5\. Repeat the steps 1 to 4 with the magnetic loop or horizontally polarized
reference dipole instead, and adjust the horizontal polarization branches of
the channel emulator.
6\. The worst-case path loss becomes the reference path loss of the entire
system, this loss is used to compute the power in the center of the test zone
relative to the output power of the Base Station simulator. Besides, based on
the reference path loss, the relative offset of each path loss shall be
corrected.
Note: calibration based on other antennas, e.g., horn antennas is not
precluded.
#### 6.2.1.2 Test procedure
Before throughput testing, the initial conditions shall be confirmed to reach
the correct measurement state for each test case.
1\. Ensure environmental requirements of Annex C are met.
2\. Configure the test system according to Clauses 8.2 and 7.2 for the
applicable test case.
3\. Verify the implementation of the channel model as specified in Clause
7.4.1.
4\. Position the UE in the chamber according to Annex A.
5\. Power on the UE.
6\. Set up the connection.
Note For step 3, the verification of the channel model implementation is
usually performed once for each channel model as part of the laboratory
accreditation process, and will remain valid as long as the setup and
instruments remain unchanged. Otherwise the channel model validation may need
to be performed prior to starting each throughput test.
For throughput testing, the following steps shall be followed in order to
evaluate NR MIMO OTA performance of the DUT:
1\. Measure MIMO OTA throughput from one measurement point, the maximum
downlink power is [-80dBm/15kHz (or equivalent -77dBm/30kHz)]. MIMO OTA
throughput is the minimum downlink signal power resulting in a pre-defined
throughput value (70% and 90%) of the maximum theoretical throughput. The
downlink signal power step size shall be no more than 0.5 dB when RF power
level is near the NR MIMO sensitivity level.
2\. Rotate the UE around vertical axis of the test system by 30 degrees and
repeat from step 1 until one complete rotation has been measured i.e. 12
different UE azimuth rotations.
3\. Repeat the test from step 1 for each specified device orientation. A list
of orientations is given in Annex A.3.
4\. The postprocessing method to calculate the average MIMO Throughput is
defined in 5.2.
Note 1: For step 1 of throughput testing, the measurement is not needed to
start from maximum downlink power each time. To save testing time, the
starting downlink power can be set as a proper value (lower than maximum
downlink power supported by test system) as long as all the throughput curve
curves at 12 different UE azimuth rotations can reach at least 90% of the
maximum theoretical throughput.
Note 2: For devices that exhibit non-linear TP behaviour and that achieve
target throughput at multiple RF power levels, NR MIMO sensititivity level is
chosen to be lowest measured DL power level which crosses the target
throughput level.
Note 3: For saving measurement time, as soon as the measured TP drops below
70% of maximum theoretical throughput, the sensitivity level search can be
stopped. In case non-linear TP behaviour presents, the TP cut-off point can be
set lower, to find the lowest measured DL power level at target throughput
level.
### 6.2.2 Radiated Two Stage (RTS) for FR1
RTS test method is the harmonized methodology for FR1 NR MIMO OTA testing,
according to the applicability criteria.
#### 6.2.2.1 RTS system setup
One example RTS system layout suitable for 4x4 testing is shown in Figure
6.2.2.1-1 while Figure 6.2.2.1-2 illustrates the coordinate system and one
example dual-probe antenna configuration. The Base Station emulator sends the
downlink signals to the channel emulator, which could be integrated within the
base station emulator or be external. The specified channel models are
implemented in the channel emulator and the output signals from the channel
emulator are fed to the probe antennas. The DUT is placed in the centre of the
anechoic chamber and a separate communication antenna is used for the uplink
connection with the Base Station emulator. Depending on chamber size and path
losses, amplifiers may be needed for downlink and uplink.
To support the channel model scenarios in Clause 7.1, at least two cross-
polarized probe antennas located at different positions are required for the
4x4 MIMO OTA RTS test methodology. The probe antennas can be placed on a
circular arc around the DUT in the x-y plane as shown in Figure 6.2.2.1-1 or
the y-z plane as shown in Figure 6.2.2.1-2 with each dual-polarized probe
antenna placed arbitrarily on the arc. If more than two dual-polarized probe
antennas are placed on the arc, electric switching could be used to select the
required probe antenna.
The DUT is placed in the centre of the arc in the desired test condition and
can be rotated in the x-y plane. The distributed axis system can perform 3D or
2D antenna pattern measurements which can then be used to determine the
transmission paths between the probe antennas/polarizations and the DUT
antennas. The transmission matrix, _H_ , is then described by a 4 x 4 or 2 x 2
matrix depending on whether 4x4 or 2x2 MIMO OTA is tested. Changing the probe
antenna positions and/or rotating the DUT alters the transmission matrix. To
perform the second stage RTS test, it is only necessary to find one
transmission matrix which can achieve sufficient isolation after applying an
inverted channel matrix using the channel emulator. The minimum isolation
level sufficient for the 2^nd^ stage throughput is FFS.
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: Example RTS system layout for 2x2 or 4x4 NR FR1 MIMO OTA
testing
Figure 6.2.2.1-2: Coordination system and one probe antenna layout example for
RTS NR FR1 MIMO OTA testing
#### 6.2.2.2 Test procedure
The RTS test method divides the test procedure into two stages: The First
stage is to acquire the DUT's antenna pattern, and the second stage is to
calibrate the transmission matrix between probe antennas and the DUT's
receiver prior to performing the throughput tests.
**First stage: Antenna pattern measurement**
The first stage is to acquire the DUT's antenna pattern. For this to be a non-
intrusive antenna measurement, the DUT needs to have the capability of
measuring the amplitude and relative phase of known signals incident at the
DUT antennas. This functionality is commonly referred to as the Antenna Test
Function (ATF) using the SS Reference Signal Received Power per Branch (SS-
RSRPB) and SS Reference Signal Antenna Relative Phase (SS-RSARP) measurements.
This capability is implemented as part of a test mode in the device. By
rotating the DUT relative to the known incident signal it is possible to
construct the 3D or 2D antenna patterns from the DUT amplitude measurements
and relative phase measurements between the antennas. To fully characterize
the antennas, measurements are made at two orthogonal probe antenna
orientations, typically vertical and horizontal. This can be done by switching
between two separate probe antennas or by rotating a single probe antenna
polarization direction.
The absolute accuracy of the resulting antenna patterns is not primarily a
function of the accuracy of the DUT measurements but is referenced to the
calibration of the known incident signals in the anechoic chamber. The
linearity of the DUT measurements for amplitude and relative phase can also be
calibrated out if necessary. The measured amplitude and phase information
should be transmitted over the uplink air interface which is active during the
pattern measurements. This may take the form of an IP data connection with
associated client application (depends on the support of chip vendors) or
using a layer 3 signalling connection.
**Second stage: Wireless channel calibration and throughput measurements**
The second stage of the RTS MIMO OTA test method is illustrated in Figure
6.2.2.2-1 using a 2 x 2 MIMO configuration as an example. The specified base
station antenna pattern from Table 7.2-7 is loaded into the channel emulator
as the Tx antenna pattern, while the measured DUT's antenna pattern obtained
in the 1^st^ stage is loaded into the channel emulator as the Rx antenna
pattern and both are then convolved with the spatial channel model chosen to
evaluate the DUT performance. This process generates the signals at the DUT
receiver that would have been received by the DUT had it been placed in the
chosen 2D or 3D spatial field.
Prior to the throughput test, a "wireless cable" connection needs to be
established between the probe antennas and DUT's receivers. The purpose of the
wireless cable connection is to enable the signals generated by the channel
emulator, which are already conditioned to include the effect of the device
antennas, to be directly connected to the device receiver as if through a
lossless cable connection. However, this can only be done by calibrating out
the impact of the signal propagation in the anechoic chamber and the impact of
the receive antennas in the device. To achieve this calibration, it is
necessary to measure the propagation matrix inside the anechoic chamber
(dotted lines in Figure 6.2.2.2-1) and modify the transmitted signals by
multiplying by the inverse matrix of the propagation matrix. This approach
will make the DUT receive signals equivalent to cable conducted conditions at
the receiver but with radiated self-interference included.
The isolation between branches in the second stage can be measured by
establishing a connection and measuring the difference in dB between the SS-
RSRPB reported for each DUT receiver. For a DUT to be usable with the RTS
method a minimum isolation of FFS has to be achieved averaged over sufficient
number of SS-RSRPB measurements.
The choice of DUT orientation for the radiated second stage can be chosen from
the measured antenna pattern to avoid any nulls in either antenna which would
otherwise reduce the achievable isolation.
After the isolation has been confirmed, the throughput tests are performed for
each rotation angle. During this second stage it is not necessary to alter the
device orientation physically relative to the probe antennas since the
rotation of the DUT relative to the chosen channel model is performed
electrically within the channel emulator by rotating the measured DUT's
antenna pattern measured in the first stage.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: Illustration of the 2x2 RTS Second Stage
The applicability criteria of RTS MIMO OTA test method are:
\- The RTS method requires device support for the antenna test function (ATF)
\- The RTS method is only applicable to devices which do not change their
antenna pattern or configuration in response to the radio environment
\- The RTS method can only be used if the isolation between channels is above
FFS dB. Separate values might be required for 2x2 and 4x4.
### 6.2.3 3D Multi-Probe Anechoic Chamber (MPAC) for FR2
The 3D MPAC test method is the reference methodology for FR2 NR MIMO OTA
testing. By arranging an array of antennas around the Equipment Under Test
(EUT), a spatial distribution of angles of arrival in the 3D MPAC system may
be simulated to expose the EUT to a near field environment that appears to
have originated from a complex multipath far field environment.
As illustrated schematically in Figure 6.2.3-1, signals propagate from the
base station/communication tester to the EUT through a simulated multipath
environment known as a spatial channel model, where appropriate channel
impairments such as Doppler and fading are applied to each path prior to
injecting all of the directional signals into the chamber simultaneously
through the probe array. The resulting field distribution in the test zone is
then integrated by the EUT antenna(s) and processed by the receiver(s) just as
it would do so in any non-simulated multipath environment. The 3D MPAC system
with 6 dual-polarized probes (illustrated with black dots in Figure 6.2.3-1)
placed on a sector with minimum radius of 0.75m from the centre of the test
zone is permitted for NR FR2 MIMO OTA testing.
{width="5.022916666666666in" height="2.046527777777778in"}
Figure 6.2.3-1: 3D MPAC system layout for NR FR2 MIMO OTA testing
The exact probe locations with respect to the OTA test system coordinate
system are tabulated in Table 6.2.3-1.
Table 6.2.3-1. FR2 3D MPAC Probe Locations in OTA test system coordinate
system
+--------------+---------------+---------+ | Probe Number | Theta [deg] | Phi | | | | | | | | [deg] | +==============+===============+=========+ | 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 2 | 11.2 | 116.7 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 3 | 20.6 | -104.3 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 4 | 20.6 | 104.3 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 5 | 20.6 | 75.7 | +--------------+---------------+---------+ | 6 | 30.0 | 90.0 | +--------------+---------------+---------+
The 3D MPAC probes in Table 6.2.3-1 can be implemented using conventional
millimetre-wave probes as well as IFF-based probes as long as the same probe
configuration and same number of probes is used.
The channel model parameters and probe locations for channel model
implementation are defined in a channel model coordinate system, which is
illustrated in figure 6.2.3-2. The channel model coordinate axes _x_ ~CM~, _y_
~CM~, and _z_ ~CM~ correspond to the OTA test system coordinate axes _z_ , _y_
, and -_x_ , respectively.
{width="2.6979166666666665in" height="2.3604166666666666in"}
Figure 6.2.3-2: Channel Model Coordinate Axes
The probe locations with respect to channel model coordinate axes are
tabulated in table 6.2.3-2.
Table 6.2.3-2. FR2 3D MPAC Probe Locations in Channel Model Coordinate System
Probe Number Theta [deg] Phi [deg]
* * *
1 90 0 2 85 10 3 85 -20 4 85 20 5 95 20 6 90 30
The channel model rotations assumed for this probe configuration are tabulated
in Table 6.2.3--3.
Table 6.2.3-3. Channel Model Rotations
InO CDL-A UMi CDL-C
* * *
Phi [deg] Theta [deg] Phi [deg] Theta [deg] -5 -2.0 32 15.0
These channel model rotations assume the relative orientations of BS and UE
antennas displayed in Figure 6.2.3-3, i.e., the DUT antenna is pointed towards
the BS in channel model coordinate system.
In order to avoid positioning ambiguities, the turntable implementing the
rotation in θ shall match the intended DUT θ for P0 Orientation 1 without the
re-positioning approach, as defined in Annex A.3, applied. With the re-
positioning approach applied, the relative orientation between the DUT and the
probes for P0 Orientation 2 shall be the same the relative orientation between
DUT and probes as for P0 Orientation 1.
{width="3.41875in" height="1.91875in"}
Figure 6.2.3-3: Relative orientations of BS and UE antennas.
**Since the test points are uniformly spaced in 3D already, Table**
6.2.3.2-1**, there is no need to adjust/rotate the DUT rotations by the
channel model rotations.**
#### 6.2.3.1 Calibration procedure
The system needs to be calibrated by using a reference calibration antenna
with known gain values in order to ensure that the downlink signal power is
correct. In non-standalone (NSA) mode, the LTE link antenna provides a stable
LTE signal without precise path loss or polarization control.
The path loss for each probe in the 3D MPAC system must be calibrated at test
time in order to generate the desired channel model environment within the
test zone of the chamber. The imbalance of each path during testing would
result in an alteration of the angular dependence of the channel model (i.e.
varied characteristics of generated channel model) within the test zone of the
chamber.
For the calibration measurement, the reference antenna is placed in the centre
of the quiet zone, connected to a VNA port, with the other VNA port connected
to the input of the channel emulator unit as illustrated schematically in
Figure 7.4.1.1-1. For each probe antenna, the reference antenna needs to be
aligned in polarization, i.e., θ or φ, and direction with the probe antenna
that corresponds to the respective path to be calibrated. For each calibration
measurement, the channel emulator needs to be configured in bypass mode. The
calibration process determines the composite loss, Lpath,pol, of the entire
receiver chain path gains (measurement antenna, amplification) and losses
(switches, combiners, cables, path loss, etc.). The calibration measurement is
repeated for each measurement path (two orthogonal polarizations and each
signal path).
#### 6.2.3.2 Test procedure
Before throughput testing, the initial conditions shall be confirmed to reach
the correct measurement state for each test case.
1\. Ensure environmental requirements of Annex C are met.
2\. Configure the test system according to Clauses 8.2 and 7.2 for the
applicable test case.
3\. Verify the implementation of the channel model as specified in Clause
7.4.1.
4\. Position the UE in the chamber according to Annex D.3.
5\. Power on the UE.
6\. Set up the connection.
Note: For step 3, the verification of the channel model implementation is
usually performed once for each channel model as part of the laboratory
accreditation process, and will remain valid as long as the setup and
instruments remain unchanged. Otherwise the channel model validation may need
to be performed prior to starting each throughput test.
For throughput testing, the following steps shall be followed in order to
evaluate NR MIMO OTA performance of the DUT:
1\. Position the DUT in the default P0 alignment option (Orientation 1), as
defined in Section D.3
2\. Measure MIMO OTA throughput, the maximum downlink power is
[-79.1dBm/120kHz]. MIMO OTA throughput is the minimum downlink signal power
resulting in a pre-defined throughput value (70%) of the maximum theoretical
throughput. The downlink signal power step size shall be no more than 0.5 dB
when RF power level is near the NR MIMO sensitivity level.
3\. Rotate the UE to the next test point. Table 6.2.3.2-1 lists 36 evenly
spaced test points determined using the charged particle approach and with
test point #1 centred at (0,0).
4\. Repeat the test from step 2 for each specified test point. If the re-
positioning concept is applied, the device needs to be positioned in P0
Orientation 2 (either option 1 or option 2).
5\. he postprocessing method and the performance metric are defined in Clause
5.2.
Note: For step 2 of throughput testing, the measurement is not needed to start
from maximum downlink power each time. To save testing time, the starting
downlink power can be set as a proper value (lower than maximum downlink power
supported by test system) as long as the throughput curve curve can reach at
least 70% of the maximum theoretical throughput.
Table 6.2.3.2-1. Evenly spaced FR2 test points with a constant density
Test Point Number Theta [deg] Phi [deg]
* * *
1 0.0 0.0 2 33.5 139.7 3 33.9 49.7 4 35.5 -142.9 5 35.5 -76.9 6 37.6 -17.2 7
52.3 94.7 8 56.9 175.7 9 62.5 20.4 10 63.7 -99.8 11 67.1 -55.0 12 69.3 -139.5
13 69.5 130.1 14 70.3 60.8 15 72.1 -16.2 16 88.7 -167.5 17 88.7 98.5 18 89.3
157.0 19 93.9 -78.9 20 94.6 31.6 21 95.3 -115.6 22 99.6 -38.3 23 103.8 -1.1 24
104.4 66.3 25 110.1 127.5 26 115.1 -145.6 27 120.8 171.9 28 125.3 -60.7 29
128.2 -104.1 30 128.8 91.3 31 129.9 35.8 32 136.0 -13.4 33 145.8 138.1 34
150.2 -153.3 35 160.6 -67.4 36 161.7 59.1
## 6.3 Test methodology verification
For FR1 MPAC and FR2 3D-MPAC MIMO OTA system, the power verification is
defined in subclause 7.4.1.5.
## 6.4 Test method applicability
For FR1 MIMO OTA, the MPAC system is applicable for up to 4x4 MIMO with device
within 20cm. For FR2 MIMO OTA, the 3D-MPAC system is applicable for up to 2x2
MIMO with device within 20cm.
## 6.5 EUT positioning in the chamber
6.5.1 Minimum test zone size
The minimum test zone size for NR MIMO OTA test methods, both FR1 and FR2, is
20cm. Another test zone size larger than 20cm is FFS. "Black-box" testing
approach is adopted for NR MIMO OTA testing, the physical center of the EUT
shall be placed in the centre of the test zone, the EUT shall be completely
contained within the test zone size defined by respective operation band. The
detailed test zone size for each band is listed in Annex A.4.
6.5.2 EUT orientation within the test zone
In order to minimize measurement uncertainty, it's important that test house
ensure the EUT is oriented within the chamber's test zone in a standardized
manner. Annex A.3 provides a preliminary set of normative EUT orientation
conditions.
For FR1 MIMO OTA, the DUT shall be tested under Free Space Data Mode Portrait
(FS DMP), Free Space Data Mode Landscape (FS DML), and Free Space Data Mode
Screen Up flat (FS DMSU), the DUT azimuthal rotation shall be performed over
360 degrees per orientation in 30 degree steps (12 total positions). Fine
angular steps at FR1 high frequency for rotation is FFS.
For FR2 MIMO OTA, the DUT shall be tested using a 3D scan. With the DUT
positioned in the default P0 alignment option, as defined in Section A.3,
measurements on 36 evenly spaced test points with a constant density shall be
performed.
## 6.6 Minimum Range Length for FR1 MIMO OTA Systems
This sub-section specifies the minimum range lengths for NR FR1 MIMO OTA
systems. The range length is defined as the distance from the centre of the
test zone to the aperture of the measurement probes/antennas, as illustrated
in Figure 6.6-1 for MPAC and Figure 6.6-2 for RTS.
{width="2.4881944444444444in" height="2.4770833333333333in"}
Figure 6.6-1: Illustration of range length definition of MPAC
{width="2.2444444444444445in" height="2.4652777777777777in"}
Figure 6.6-2: Illustration of range length definition of RTS
#### 6.6.1 MPAC
The minimum range length for NR FR1 MPAC OTA systems with 20cm test zone size
is 1.2m. While for MPAC systems, the far-field requirements do not have to
apply, it was shown that the spatial correlation can be impacted significantly
for distances below 1.2m.
#### 6.6.2 RTS
For RTS NR FR1 MIMO OTA systems, far-field conditions have to apply due to the
pattern measurements in the first stage. The minimum range length shall be the
maximum of the following three limits
\- The phase uncertainty limit: _R_ ~TZ~+2 _D_ ~rad~^2^/λ
\- The amplitude uncertainty limit: 3 _D_
\- The reactive Near-Field limit: _R_ ~TZ~+2λ
where _R_ ~TZ~ is defined as the radius of the test zone, i.e., _R_ ~TZ~=_D_
/2, and _D_ ~rad~ is the diameter of the effective radiating aperture., The
minimum range length calculations for _D_ =20cm test zone size RTS systems
shall assume that _D_ ~rad~ is 20cm below 1.5GHz and decrease linearly from
20cm to 5cm from 1.5GHz to 7.125GHz, respectively. The last column of Table
6.6.2-1 shall be considered the minimum range length for NR FR1 RTS MIMO
systems with 20cm test zone size.
Table 6.6.2-1. Minimum Range Length for RTS Systems with 20cm test zone size.
_f_ [GHz] D~rad~ [m] R~TZ~+2 _D~rad~_ ²/λ 3 _D_ = 6 _R_ ~TZ~ R~TZ~+2λ
max(R~TZ~+2λ,3 _D_ ,R~TZ~+2 _D_ ²/λ)
* * *
0.41 0.20 0.21 0.60 1.56 1.56 0.60 0.20 0.26 0.60 1.10 1.10 0.70 0.20 0.29
0.60 0.96 0.96 0.80 0.20 0.31 0.60 0.85 0.85 1.00 0.20 0.37 0.60 0.70 0.70
1.20 0.20 0.42 0.60 0.60 0.60 1.40 0.20 0.47 0.60 0.53 0.60 1.60 0.20 0.53
0.60 0.47 0.60 1.80 0.20 0.58 0.60 0.43 0.60 2.00 0.20 0.63 0.60 0.40 0.63
2.20 0.20 0.69 0.60 0.37 0.69 2.40 0.18 0.60 0.60 0.35 0.60 2.60 0.17 0.61
0.60 0.33 0.61 2.80 0.17 0.61 0.60 0.31 0.61 3.00 0.16 0.62 0.60 0.30 0.62
4.00 0.13 0.58 0.60 0.25 0.60 5.00 0.11 0.48 0.60 0.22 0.60 6.00 0.08 0.36
0.60 0.20 0.60 7.00 0.05 0.24 0.60 0.19 0.60 7.13 0.05 0.22 0.60 0.18 0.60
# 7 Channel Models
## 7.1 General
The different channel models are defined to create corresponding complex
multipath radio propagation conditions for FR1 and FR2. The following
scenarios are selected for NR MIMO OTA:
FR1 scenarios:
\- For 2x2 MIMO: Urban Macro
\- For 4x4 MIMO: Urban Micro
FR2 static testing scenarios:
\- Urban Micro street canyon and Indoor
In order to describe unambiguously the procedure of generating realizations
CDL channel models, various aspects need to be clarified, e.g., details of
scaling procedure, inclusion of BS antenna arrays and beams to the model
output, and removing unwanted randomness of model realizations.
The concept of angular scaling is based on rotating AoDs/ZoDs and scaling CDL
model using the methods in TR 38.901 (section 7.7.5.1) to make them fit the
median values in TR 38.901 Table 7.5-6 for the accepted scenarios.
For NR MIMO OTA testing, the following channel models are required to be
measured: FR1 UMi CDL-A in table 7.2.1-1, FR1 UMa CDL-C in table 7.2.1-8; FR2
InO CDL-A in table 7.2.2-6, FR2 UMi CDL-C in table 7.2.2-3.
For NR FR1 and FR2 MIMO OTA testing, the number of samples for sequence length
at each testing point is FFS.
## 7.2 Channel Models
This section describes amendments to the step-wise procedure of the CDL
subclause 7.7.1 in TR 38.901 for generating fast fading radio channel
realizations. This channel model methodology considers non-Jakes spectrum with
the multi-path fading propagation conditions between the gNB emulator and test
chamber probe modelled based on Clustered Delay Line (CDL) methodology.
First, the RMS delay spread values of CDL models are normalized first and they
must be scaled in delay so that a desired RMS delay spread can be achieved.
The scaled delays can be obtained according to the following equation:
, (7.2-1)
in which
\- is the normalized delay value of the _n_ th cluster in a CDL in Tables
7.7.1.1 -- 7.7.1.5 of [2]
\- is the new delay value (in [ns]) of the _n_ th cluster
\- is the target delay spread (in [ns]).
Values of $\text{DS}_{\text{desired}}$ for FR1/FR2 and for different model
scenarios are specified in Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1. Target delay spread values.
Frequency Scenario DS~desired~
* * *
FR1 UMi 100 ns FR1 UMa 365 ns FR2 UMi 60 ns FR2 InO 30 ns
[Subsequently, the]{.underline} departure and arrival angles (based on
subclause 7.7.1 step 1 in TR38.901 are generated by combining 7.7-5 and part
of step 7 in subclause 7.5. The arrival angles of azimuth using are generated
using the following equation
, (7.2-2)
where
_\- φ~n,~_ ~AOA~ and _c_ ~ASA~ are the cluster AOA and the cluster-wise rms
azimuth spread of arrival angles (cluster ASA), respectively, in Tables
7.7.1.1 -- 7.7.1.5 of TR38.901
_\- α~m~_ denotes the ray offset angles within a cluster given by Table 7.5-3,
_-_ is the mean angle of the original channel model table in NLOS case
(equation is specified in Annex A.2 of TR38.901) and the LOS angle in LOS
case,
\- Tables 7.2-2 and 7.2.-3 contain the non-circular angle spread values of the
original CDL models of TR38.901 before any angular scaling, AS~model~ are the
angular spreads derived from the original CDL Tables 7.7.1.1 -- 7.7.1.5 of
TR38.901. TR25.996 describes $\mu_{\theta}$:
{width="1.1159722222222221in" height="0.7326388888888888in"}, (7.2-3)
The values are calculated for the AOD, AOA, ZOD, and ZOA angles after removing
the mean angle following the definition of rms angular spread in TR25.996,
without finding the minimum over circular shifts. Here, the calculation is
performed after removing the mean angle first and subsequently equation A-2
from Annex A of TR38.901
{width="2.4770833333333333in" height="0.5in"}, (7.2-4)
is used to rotate μ~θ~ to zero (and also wrap AOAs within +/-180). Equations
A-3
{width="1.1159722222222221in" height="0.7326388888888888in"}, (7.2-5)
and A-1 of TR 25.996
, (7.2-6)
are used to calculate the AS~model~. Note that equation A-2 of TR 25.996 is
not applied to AS~model~ calculations, the following equation is used instead
AS~desired~ is the target angular spread. Table 7.2-4 specifies AS~desired~
values for CDL-A,B,C,D,E UMi and UMa at FR1 and Table 7.2-5 specifies the
corresponding AS~desired~ values at FR2. These target values are obtained by
determining median angular spreads of Table 7.5-6 of TR38.901.
The angular scaling is applied to the ray angles and no further scaling is
performed. The generation of AOD (), ZOA (), and ZOD () follows a procedure
similar to AOA as described above. Here, the azimuth angles may need to be
wrapped around to be within [0, 360] degrees, while the zenith angles may need
to be clipped to be within [0, 180] degrees.
Each CDL parameter table of contains two sets of three rows, i.e., three
clusters, with exactly same angular parameters. This is harmful for the
statistical properties of the models as they become non-WSS across the
ensemble of model realizations. Instead of making the angular parameters non-
equal by introducing small offsets to angles of the three rows, the
problematic clusters are treated as midpaths as intended when the CDLs where
drawn from statistical distributions which works across all frequency ranges.
For the clusters that look like midpaths, e.g., Cluster 2-4 and 5-7 for CDL-A
and Cluster 2-4 and 6-8 for CDL-C, the powers for each of the three clusters
are added and using the regular midpath power distribution of 0.5, 0.3, and
0.2 specified in Table 7.5-5 of TR38.901, the powers for the each of the
midpaths are calculated. Notice that the intra cluster delay spread in Table
7.5-5 of TR38.901 is not followed, and the same delays as the original CDL are
followed for the midpaths (aka Sub-Cluster). This helps keeping the rms DS of
the modified CDL to 1s.
Table 7.2-2: Original (non-circular) angle spreads of CDL models UMi and UMa
(K-factor 9 dB)
Model AS~model~ [deg]
* * *
          ASD                 ASA       ZSD       ZSA
CDL-A 73.6985 85.2676 28.5575 21.0831 CDL-B 41.5917 59.3326 5.9633 10.3818
CDL-C 39.0949 71.1175 4.0666 10.4245 CDL-D 15.6771 17.3604 2.4462 1.5362 CDL-E
13.1544 37.5640 1.4577 2.4601
Table 7.2-3: Original (non-circular) angle spreads of CDL-D and CDL-E models
InO (K-factor 7 dB)
Model AS~model~ [deg]
* * *
          ASD                 ASA       ZSD      ZSA
CDL-D 18.9859 21.0747 2.9629 1.8735 CDL-E 15.7784 45.3434 1.7692 2.9982
Table 7.2-4: Desired AS for UMi and UMa at 3.5 GHz (FR1)
Model AS~desired~$\text{A}\text{S}_{\text{desired}}$ [deg]
* * *
                                                                                                                            ASD                                                      ASA       ZSD      ZSA
UMi NLOS (CDL-A, B, C) 23.9751 57.2457 0.7762 7.8320 UMi LOS (CDL-D, E)
15.0432 47.6149 0.6166 4.6204 UMa NLOS (CDL-A, B, C) 25.7620 74.1138 4.8978
18.2050 UMa LOS (CDL-D, E) 14.0180 64.5654 3.4674 8.9125 Note: For UMa
frequency fc = 6 as stated in [2], and other parameters hUMa = 25, hUMi = 10,
hUT = 1.5, and D2D = 100.
Table 7.2-5: Desired AS for UMi and InO at 28 GHz (FR2)
Model
AS~desired~$\text{A}\text{S}_{\text{desired}}$$\text{A}\text{S}_{\text{desired}}$
[deg]
* * *
                           ASD                                                                                         ASA       ZSD       ZSA
UMi NLOS (CDL-A, B, C) 15.6188 49.3183 0.7762 7.2695 UMi LOS (CDL-D, E)
13.7050 41.0212 0.6166 3.8350 InO NLOS (CDL-A, B, C) 41.6869 50.3659 12.0226
14.7109 InO LOS (CDL-D, E) 39.8107 31.8526 1.3702 11.4756
Subsequently, the AOD angles are coupled to AOA angles within a cluster _n_.
Instead of random procedure, the coupling is performed using the fixed
coupling pattern specified in Table 7.2-6. The same fixed coupling pattern is
applied for all clusters _n._
Table 7.2-6: Fixed coupling pattern of ray angles to be applied for each
cluster
* * *
     m                                                                                              
     6    12   5    10   8    11   16   14   18   9    20   4    2    15   7    13   19   17   3    1
     20   9    12   1    13   18   10   4    8    2    6    14   11   19   7    3    17   5    15   16
     2    16   3    11   18   9    5    17   4    19   15   20   13   7    10   1    8    12   6    14
     15   18   13   1    12   9    6    7    5    3    2    8    14   17   19   16   11   20   10   4
* * *
In the next steps, the linear cross polarization power ratios (XPR) _κ_ are
calculated for each ray _m_ of each cluster _n_ as
, (7.2-7)
where _X_ is the per-cluster XPR in dB from Tables 7.7.1.1 -- 7.7.1.5 of
TR38.901.
The gNB beam pattern including the assumptions for gNB antenna for definitions
and symbols of subclause 7.3 of TR38.901 for FR1 and FR2 are summarized in
_Table 7.2-7._
Table 7.2-7: BS Antenna Parameters
Parameter description Symbol Parameter value
* * *
                                                         FR1 ≤2.5GHz       FR1 \>2.5GHz   FR2
Antenna panels in vertical dimension _M~g~_ 1 1 1 Antenna panels in horizontal
dimension _N~g~_ 1 1 1 Elements per panel in vertical dimension _M~e~_ 4 8 8
Elements per panel in horizontal dimension _N~e~_ 8 8 16 Number of
polarizations per panel _P_ 2 2 2 Element spacing in horizontal dimension (λ)
_d~H~_ 0.5 0.5 0.5 Element spacing in vertical dimension (λ) _d~V~_ 0.5 0.5
0.5
Antenna element radiation patterns, including orientation of the element main
polarization components as well as orientation of the antenna array for both
FR1 and FR2 are as in the example pattern in Table 7.3-1 of TR38.901. The
antenna element has ±45° polarization components and the radiation pattern
parameters are θ~3dB~ = 65°, φ~3dB~ = 65°, A~max~ = 30dB, SLAv = 30dB,
_G~E,max~_ =8 dBi.
It is assumed the co-polarized elements of the array are combined to a single
RF port, i.e. they compose an antenna array that can form beams by setting
certain weights per element. Weight vector for the first polarization and for
the second polarization is
$\begin{bmatrix} \alpha_{1,1} & \ldots & \alpha_{M_{e},N_{e}} \ \end{bmatrix}
= \left{ \frac{1}{M_{e}N_{e}}\exp\left( - j2\pi\frac{{\widehat{r}}_{tx,max\
}^{T}\ \mathbf{\bullet}\ {\overline{d}}_{tx,m_{e},n_{e}}}{\lambda_{0}} \right)
\right} \in \mathbb{C}^{1 \times M_{e}N_{e}}$, (7.2-8)
where ${\overline{d}}_{tx,m_{e},n_{e}}$ is the location vector of transmit
antenna element $m_{e} = 1,a?|,M_{e}$ and $n_{e} = 1,a?|,N_{e}$, and
${\widehat{r}}_{\text{tx},\max}$ is a spherical unit vector denoting the
target beam direction. Determination of beam directions
${\widehat{r}}_{\text{tx},\max}$ is
described in section 7.3..
Random initial phase {width="1.4770833333333333in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"} are not used for the different polarization
combinations (_θθ, θϕ, ϕθ, ϕϕ_). Instead, a fixed and pre-defined set of
initial phases $\left{
\Phi_{m}^{\text{θθ}},\Phi_{m}^{\text{θϕ}},\Phi_{m}^{\text{ϕθ}},\Phi_{m}^{\text{ϕϕ}}
\right}$ of Table 7.2-8 and a scalar random initial phase term $\Phi_{n,m}\sim
Uni( - \pi,\pi)\ $is used for each ray _m_ of each cluster _n_.
The set of fixed initial phases can be same for all clusters, i.e.
$\Phi_{n,m}^{\text{θθ}} = \Phi_{m}^{\text{θθ}}\ \forall\ n = 1,\ldots,N$ etc.
for all four polarization combinations. These 20×4 initial phase values can be
specified either by a table of values or by setting a random number generator
and a fixed seed number. The distribution of scalar initial phases
$\Phi_{n,m}$ is uniform within $\left\lbrack - \pi,\pi \right\rbrack$. Its
purpose is to enable generation of different fading sequences on different
uses of the model, but still maintaining the power angular distribution of the
model. The scalar initial phases can be fixed (or removed) if completely
deterministic process, i.e. exactly same fading sequences at each model use,
is aimed at.
Table 7.2-8: Fixed initial phases for 2x2 polarization matrices. These values
are drawn from uniform distribution
_m_ $\mathbf{\Phi}_{\mathbf{m}}^{\mathbf{\text{θθ}}}$ [rad]
$\mathbf{\Phi}_{\mathbf{m}}^{\mathbf{\text{ϕθ}}}$ [rad]
$\mathbf{\Phi}_{\mathbf{m}}^{\mathbf{\text{θϕ}}}$ [rad]
$\mathbf{\Phi}_{\mathbf{m}}^{\mathbf{\text{ϕϕ}}}$ [rad]
* * *
1 1.7609 -0.6928 -1.6230 -0.6037 2 -2.5356 -2.3124 2.7775 2.8660 3 0.4725
-2.7660 -1.6664 -0.9226 4 2.0181 -3.0448 -2.8713 -2.0798 5 0.9369 1.4560
0.9283 -0.3084 6 0.2954 -1.2798 1.5375 -1.9544 7 1.1735 -1.9886 -0.8263 0.7893
8 1.7607 -2.6319 2.6979 1.7324 9 -0.0830 -0.4030 -0.3344 -1.2167 10 0.0535
0.0677 1.9957 1.8525 11 0.9068 -0.7627 1.9577 0.2062 12 -0.9379 2.7583 2.3621
0.3151 13 0.7695 0.5469 -1.8363 -1.2488 14 -0.1827 -1.6934 2.1634 -1.9179 15
-1.7221 -2.0690 -1.7111 -0.4040 16 -1.1869 2.6602 -0.4385 -1.9804 17 2.5439
3.0143 -0.3841 -2.4434 18 -1.5201 -0.5735 0.5962 -1.4941 19 0.6462 1.3271
-1.7483 -2.4038 20 -1.2775 -1.1386 -0.4765 0.0494
To determine the channel all clusters are treated as \"weaker cluster\", i.e.,
no further sub-clusters in delay should be generated. The BS beamforming
weights $\alpha_{m_{e},n_{e}}$ defined in Equation 7.2-8for antenna elements
are used and the BS antenna signals are summed for BS beamforming. The BS
transmits downlink signals with _S_ beams. Index $s = 1,\ldots,S$ denotes the
formed beam index. Each beam may have different and thus the beamforming
weight of eq. (7.2-8) becomes specific for index _s_ as
$\alpha_{s,m_{e},n_{e}}$; it should be noted though that there are always two
orthogonally polarized beams to the same direction. Here, the random initial
phases $\Phi_{n,m}$ are used for sub-paths, but not for the different
polarization combinations (_θθ_ , _θϕ,_ _ϕθ,_ _ϕϕ_). The channel coefficient
for time instant _t_ , Rx antenna/beam _u_ , Tx beam _s_ , and cluster _n_ is
defined by the following equations. They apply for the NLOS clusters and the
LOS path, respectively:
$$H_{u,s,n}^{\text{NLOS}}\left( t \right) = \sqrt{\frac{P_{n}}{M}}\sum_{m =
1}^{M}{\sum_{n_{e} = 1}^{N_{e}}{\sum_{m_{e} = 1}^{M_{e}}{\begin{bmatrix}
F_{\text{rx},u,\theta}\left( \theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}}
\right) \ F_{\text{rx},u,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOA}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}^{T}\begin{bmatrix} \exp\left( {j\Phi}_{m}^{\text{θθ}} \right) &
\sqrt{\kappa_{n,m}^{- 1}}\exp\left( {j\Phi}_{m}^{\text{θϕ}} \right) \
\sqrt{\kappa_{n,m}^{- 1}}\exp\left( {j\Phi}_{m}^{\text{ϕθ}} \right) &
\exp\left( {j\Phi}_{m}^{\text{ϕϕ}} \right) \ \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix}
F_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e},\theta}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right) \
F_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e},\varphi}\left(
\theta_{n,m,\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{n,m,\text{AOD}} \right) \ \end{bmatrix}}}}$$
$\alpha_{s,m_{e},n_{e}}\exp\left( j\Phi_{n,m} \right)\exp\left(
\frac{j2\pi\left( {\widehat{r}}_{\text{rx},n,m}^{T}.{\bar{d}}_{\text{rx},u}
\right)}{\lambda_{0}} \right)\exp\left( \frac{j2\pi\left(
{\widehat{r}}_{\text{tx},n,m}^{T}.{\bar{d}}_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e}}
\right)}{\lambda_{0}} \right)\exp\left(
j2\pi\frac{{\widehat{r}}_{\text{rx},n,m}^{T}.\bar{v}}{\lambda_{0}}t \right)$,
(7.2-9)
$$H_{u,s,n}^{\text{LOS}}\left( t \right) = \sum_{n_{e} =
1}^{N_{e}}{\sum_{m_{e} = 1}^{M_{e}}{\begin{bmatrix}
F_{\text{rx},u,\theta}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right) \
F_{\text{rx},u,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOA}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOA}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}^{T}\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 \ 0 & \- 1 \
\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} F_{\text{tx},s,\theta}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOD}} \right) \
F_{\text{tx},s,\varphi}\left(
\theta_{\text{LOS},\text{ZOD}},\varphi_{\text{LOS},\text{AOD}} \right) \
\end{bmatrix}\alpha_{s,m_{e},n_{e}}}}$$
$\exp\left( j2\pi\frac{\left( {\widehat{r}}_{\text{rx},\text{LOS}}^{T} \bullet
{\bar{d}}_{\text{rx},u} \right)}{\lambda_{0}} \right)\exp\left(
j2\pi\frac{\left( {\widehat{r}}_{\text{tx},\text{LOS}}^{T} \bullet
{\bar{d}}_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e}} \right)}{\lambda_{0}} \right)\exp\left(
j2\pi\frac{{\widehat{r}}_{\text{rx},\text{LOS}}^{T} \bullet
\bar{v}}{\lambda_{0}}t \right)$ , (7.2-10)
where $F_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e},\theta}$,
$F_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e},\varphi}$, and
${\bar{d}}_{\text{tx},s,m_{e},n_{e}}$ are the theta and phi polarized
radiation patterns and the position vector of the BS antenna element
$m_{e},n_{e}$ of sub-array _s_ , respectively. Symbols _F~rx,u,θ~_ ,
_F~rx,u,ϕ~_ , {width="0.3486111111111111in" height="0.22083333333333333in"},
{width="0.3486111111111111in" height="0.22083333333333333in"}, and
{width="0.2791666666666667in" height="0.2791666666666667in"}, are determined
as in TR 38.901. UE velocity vector is determined as
(7.2-11)
UE velocity _v_ is defined as follows: 30km/h for FR1 vs 3 km/h (Indoor
Office) and 12 km/h (UMi) for FR2. The UE travelling direction (_φ_ ~v,~ _θ_
~v~) are as follows for FR1:
\- (135°,90^o^) for UMi CDL A channel model
\- ([127.0455°],90^o^) for UMi CDL C channel model
\- ([182.1659°],90^o^) for UMa CDL A channel model
\- (65°,90^o^) for UMa CDL C channel model
The UE travelling direction (_φ_ ~v~, _θ_ ~v~) are as follows for FR2:
\- (112.51°,90°) for InO CDL-A channel model
\- (74.11°,90°) for UMi CDL-C channel model
### 7.2.1 Channel Models for FR1
The Channel model parameter tables for CDL-A, B, C, D, and E for UMa and UMi
at 3.5 GHz are presented in this subclause without the effect of base station
antenna filtering.
For FR1, the baseline emulated propagation environment for FR1 MIMO OTA is 2D
without elevation modelling, i.e., all ZOA are set 90° and ZSA is 0° in the
following tables.
Tables 7.2.1-1---7.2.1-5 show the model parameters, UMi CDL-A---CDL-E models,
respectively. For the determination of desired zenith spread of departure
(ZSD~desired~) from table 7.5-8 of TR38.901, the following parameters are used
h~BS~ = 10 m, h~UT~ = 1.5 m, and d2d = 100 m.
Table 7.2.1-1: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-A at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -13.4014 -59.324 98.721 95.9936 90 2 38.19 0 -2.752 -156.546
97.1624 90 3 40.25 -2.2185 -2.752 -156.546 97.1624 90 4 58.68 -3.9794 -2.752
-156.546 97.1624 90 5 46.1 -5.9799 27.9576 115.7066 97.9452 90 6 53.75 -8.1984
27.9576 115.7066 97.9452 90 7 67.08 -9.9593 27.9576 115.7066 97.9452 90 8 57.5
-10.5014 38.1399 -55.2369 98.7118 90 9 76.18 -7.5014 -27.9638 -82.1587 96.1295
90 10 153.75 -15.9014 50.144 127.5226 95.3467 90 11 189.78 -6.6014 -28.3867
99.1238 98.0648 90 12 222.42 -16.7014 42.4666 -131.84 99.2935 90 13 217.18
-12.4014 -51.1586 82.1383 98.7444 90 14 249.42 -15.2014 -57.3396 115.7066
98.902 90 15 251.19 -10.8014 -43.6439 -58.728 95.912 90 16 305.82 -11.3014
-45.6283 -69.4699 95.7272 90 17 408.1 -12.7014 52.4212 -85.7169 95.806 90 18
445.79 -16.2014 46.8909 138.3987 99.0271 90 19 456.95 -18.3014 41.7835
161.2923 94.9226 90 20 479.66 -18.9014 -39.9679 168.543 95.083 90 21 500.66
-16.6014 -51.5165 132.7593 99.2962 90 22 530.43 -19.9014 39.7665 -155.942
95.2461 90 23 965.86 -29.7014 -19.6683 101.3393 98.5677 90 Per-Cluster
Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.6266 7.385 0.0815 0 10
* * *
Table 7.2.1-2: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-B at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 0 3.2594 -173.655 105.6621 90 2 10.72 -2.2185 3.2594 -173.655
105.6621 90 3 21.55 -3.9794 3.2594 -173.655 105.6621 90 4 20.95 -3.2014
-21.7581 127.2975 106.8987 90 5 28.7 -9.8014 -39.8007 -91.3552 107.4194 90 6
29.86 -1.2 -8.6729 155.8564 105.3237 90 7 37.52 -3.4185 -8.6729 155.8564
105.3237 90 8 50.55 -5.1794 -8.6729 155.8564 105.3237 90 9 36.81 -7.6014
-40.8383 -93.0919 107.2762 90 10 36.97 -3.0014 28.1617 133.6653 105.1674 90 11
57 -8.9014 -43.6052 -87.11 104.9592 90 12 52.83 -9.0014 40.7281 98.1597
104.6858 90 13 110.21 -4.8014 -32.1917 106.2642 105.3497 90 14 127.56 -5.7014
-31.2117 -91.1623 105.2325 90 15 154.74 -7.5014 33.292 -95.697 105.0893 90 16
178.42 -1.9014 15.5376 -140.658 105.2976 90 17 201.69 -7.6014 -43.8934
-93.8638 104.9071 90 18 282.94 -12.2014 -54.327 62.7505 106.8857 90 19 302.19
-9.8014 -46.8333 -82.6718 104.9722 90 20 361.87 -11.4014 -49.7155 69.6972
107.4584 90 21 410.67 -14.9014 -61.8207 57.058 107.3413 90 22 427.9 -9.2014
41.4774 91.7918 107.2241 90 23 478.34 -11.3014 -46.8333 -64.726 106.9508 90
Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 5.7644 21.2262 0.3905 0 8
* * *
Table 7.2.1-3: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-C at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -36.1891 -122.2815 98.9242 90 2 20.99 -1.25 -21.5937
125.831 99.1915 90 3 22.19 -3.4684 -21.5937 125.831 99.1915 90 4 23.29 -5.2294
-21.5937 125.831 99.1915 90 5 21.76 -2.5215 -32.5709 -143.6126 99.5732 90 6
63.66 0 -7.4275 166.4003 99.306 90 7 64.48 -2.2185 -7.4275 166.4003 99.306 90
8 65.6 -3.9794 -7.4275 166.4003 99.306 90 9 65.84 -7.4215 37.2175 73.8315
100.4513 90 10 79.35 -7.1215 -47.1664 82.7664 98.5616 90 11 82.13 -10.7215
41.5716 -79.6999 100.6231 90 12 93.36 -11.1215 -67.1585 66.9895 98.218 90 13
122.85 -5.1215 -41.5244 84.0543 100.165 90 14 130.83 -6.8215 -47.0437 -96.2818
100.2604 90 15 217.04 -8.7215 -55.7519 94.8406 98.1225 90 16 271.05 -13.2215
55.3698 53.9494 100.2604 90 17 425.89 -13.9215 53.2234 16.0364 98.4852 90 18
460.03 -13.9215 46.8456 32.2963 98.1416 90 19 549.02 -15.8215 -70.1021 18.2098
97.9698 90 20 560.77 -17.1215 48.9306 37.0455 100.7376 90 21 630.65 -16.0215
49.6052 33.7452 98.1225 90 22 663.74 -15.7215 57.7615 29.801 98.1034 90 23
704.27 -21.6215 65.6725 11.6092 100.4513 90 24 865.23 -22.8215 -83.5324
56.2837 100.9476 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.2265 12.0742 0.5726 0 7
* * *
Table 7.2.1-4: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-D at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.2 0 180 98.5 90 Laplacian 0
-13.8303 0 -180 98.5 90 2 Laplacian 3.5275 -19.1289 85.5931 -69.0402 95.2232
90 3 Laplacian 61.6807 -21.3474 85.5931 -69.0402 95.2232 90 4 Laplacian
137.3705 -23.1083 85.5931 -69.0402 95.2232 90 5 Laplacian 141.6035 -18.2289
12.4743 133.3735 98.2479 90 6 Laplacian 181.8169 -20.4474 12.4743 133.3735
98.2479 90 7 Laplacian 261.6389 -22.2083 12.4743 133.3735 98.2479 90 8
Laplacian 178.8941 -23.2303 33.2009 -62.0624 98.5 90 9 Laplacian 407.3746
-28.1303 -61.8919 -109.358 95.9542 90 10 Laplacian 799.9337 -23.9303 -31.5697
36.555 96.6852 90 11 Laplacian 949.8016 -25.1303 50.4731 -14.3389 99.8359 90
12 Laplacian 978.4246 -30.3303 -126.759 -71.2668 93.9125 90 13 Laplacian
1262.337 -28.0303 74.0784 83.851 95.4753 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 4.7978 21.9419 0.7562 0 11
* * *
Table 7.2.1-5: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-E at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.03 0 180 99.6 90 Laplacian 0
-22.2442 0 -180 99.6 90 2 Laplacian 49.9706 -16.0427 65.756 -25.0925 101.5457
90 3 Laplacian 52.9593 -18.2612 65.756 -25.0925 101.5457 90 4 Laplacian
54.8089 -20.0221 65.756 -25.0925 101.5457 90 5 Laplacian 52.9593 -23.1142
-22.986 80.8762 99.5154 90 6 Laplacian 69.2365 -22.6142 18.526 94.9462
100.1076 90 7 Laplacian 185.8637 -18.8128 10.6353 -148.945 99.2616 90 8
Laplacian 187.8204 -21.0313 10.6353 -148.945 99.2616 90 9 Laplacian 190.702
-22.7922 10.6353 -148.945 99.2616 90 10 Laplacian 257.2613 -22.5142 21.7281
-133.48 100.1076 90 11 Laplacian 361.5249 -25.8142 37.3951 -71.8765 98.2465 90
12 Laplacian 530.7998 -20.4142 0.5718 138.1703 99.3039 90 13 Laplacian 1168.55
-30.0142 63.9262 2.2763 97.9081 90 14 Laplacian 2009.522 -29.4142 65.8703
15.2055 101.7149 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 5.7179 13.9432 1.2689 0 8
* * *
Tables 7.2.1-6---7.2.1-10 tabulate channel model parameters for UMa CDL-A---
CDL-E models at 3.5 GHz, respectively.
In the determination of desired angle spreads (AS~desired~), frequency is set
6 GHz as stated in Table 7.5-6 Part-1 of TR38.901.
For the determination of desired zenith spread of departure (ZSD~desired~)
from table 7.5-7 of TR38.901, the following parameters are used h~UT~ = 1.5 m,
and d2d = 100 m.
Table 7.2.1-6: Channel model parameters for UMa CDL-A at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -13.4014 -63.5923 70.1754 89.1998 90 2 139.3935 0 -2.804
-154.231 96.5746 90 3 146.9125 -2.2185 -2.804 -154.231 96.5746 90 4 214.182
-3.9794 -2.804 -154.231 96.5746 90 5 168.265 -5.9799 30.1944 92.1659 101.5139
90 6 196.1875 -8.1984 30.1944 92.1659 101.5139 90 7 244.842 -9.9593 30.1944
92.1659 101.5139 90 8 209.875 -10.5014 41.1356 -23.0699 106.3504 90 9 278.057
-7.5014 -29.8948 -57.9245 90.0573 90 10 561.1875 -15.9014 54.0343 107.4637
85.1179 90 11 692.697 -6.6014 -30.3493 70.6969 102.2686 90 12 811.833 -16.7014
45.7847 -122.245 110.0206 90 13 792.707 -12.4014 -54.8184 48.7064 106.5562 90
14 910.383 -15.2014 -61.46 92.1659 107.551 90 15 916.8435 -10.8014 -46.7436
-27.5897 88.6853 90 16 1116.243 -11.3014 -48.8759 -41.4968 87.519 90 17
1489.565 -12.7014 56.4812 -62.5312 88.0164 90 18 1627.1335 -16.2014 50.5387
121.5446 108.3399 90 19 1667.8675 -18.3014 45.0506 151.184 82.4424 90 20
1750.759 -18.9014 -42.7936 160.5712 83.4543 90 21 1827.409 -16.6014 -55.2029
114.2434 110.0378 90 22 1936.0695 -19.9014 42.8834 -153.449 84.4834 90 23
3525.389 -29.7014 -20.9811 73.5652 105.4414 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.7478 9.5611 0.5145 0 10
* * *
Table 7.2.1-7: Channel model parameters for UMa CDL-B at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 0 3.8721 -170.785 105.7717 90 2 39.128 -2.2185 3.8721 -170.785
105.7717 90 3 78.6575 -3.9794 3.8721 -170.785 105.7717 90 4 76.4675 -3.2014
-23.0099 112.7684 113.5742 90 5 104.755 -9.8014 -42.3972 -64.2347 116.8595 90
6 108.989 -1.2 -8.9495 149.7425 103.6362 90 7 136.948 -3.4185 -8.9495 149.7425
103.6362 90 8 184.5075 -5.1794 -8.9495 149.7425 103.6362 90 9 134.3565 -7.6014
-43.5122 -66.4831 115.956 90 10 134.9405 -3.0014 30.6303 121.0127 102.6507 90
11 208.05 -8.9014 -46.4853 -58.7386 101.3365 90 12 192.8295 -9.0014 44.1333
75.0448 99.6118 90 13 402.2665 -4.8014 -34.2211 85.5375 103.8005 90 14 465.594
-5.7014 -33.1681 -63.9849 103.0613 90 15 564.801 -7.5014 36.143 -69.8558
102.1579 90 16 651.233 -1.9014 17.0654 -128.065 103.472 90 17 736.1685 -7.6014
-46.795 -67.4824 101.008 90 18 1032.731 -12.2014 -58.0062 29.2019 113.4921 90
19 1102.994 -9.8014 -49.9539 -52.9926 101.4187 90 20 1320.826 -11.4014 -53.051
38.1956 117.1059 90 21 1498.946 -14.9014 -66.0584 21.8321 116.3667 90 22
1561.835 -9.2014 44.9385 66.8006 115.6275 90 23 1745.941 -11.3014 -49.9539
-29.7588 113.9027 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 6.194 27.4808 2.464 0 8
* * *
Table 7.2.1-8: Channel model parameters for UMa CDL-C at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -37.4195 -96.4031 96.7645 90 2 76.6135 -1.25 -21.7362
118.7405 98.4506 90 3 80.9935 -3.4684 -21.7362 118.7405 98.4506 90 4 85.0085
-5.2294 -21.7362 118.7405 98.4506 90 5 79.424 -2.5215 -33.5316 -124.0196
100.8594 90 6 232.359 0 -6.5142 171.2639 99.1732 90 7 235.352 -2.2185 -6.5142
171.2639 99.1732 90 8 239.44 -3.9794 -6.5142 171.2639 99.1732 90 9 240.316
-7.4215 41.4581 51.4188 106.3995 90 10 289.6275 -7.1215 -49.2149 62.9864
94.4761 90 11 299.7745 -10.7215 46.1367 -41.2744 107.4834 90 12 340.764
-11.1215 -70.697 42.5606 92.3083 90 13 448.4025 -5.1215 -43.1524 64.6538
104.5929 90 14 477.5295 -6.8215 -49.0831 -62.7423 105.1951 90 15 792.196
-8.7215 -58.4403 78.6184 91.7061 90 16 989.3325 -13.2215 60.9633 25.6781
105.1951 90 17 1554.4985 -13.9215 58.6569 -23.4063 93.9944 90 18 1679.1095
-13.9215 51.8037 -2.3553 91.8265 90 19 2003.923 -15.8215 -73.86 -20.5926
90.7426 90 20 2046.8105 -17.1215 54.0442 3.7933 108.2061 90 21 2301.8725
-16.0215 54.7691 -0.4794 91.7061 90 22 2422.651 -15.7215 63.5332 -5.5859
91.5856 90 23 2570.5855 -21.6215 72.0338 -29.1381 106.3995 90 24 3158.0895
-22.8215 -88.2912 28.7003 109.5309 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.3179 15.632 3.6131 0 7
* * *
Table 7.2.1-9: Channel model parameters for UMa CDL-D at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.2 0 180 98.5 90 Laplacian 0
-13.8303 0 -180 98.5 90 2 Laplacian 12.8753 -19.1289 79.7601 -157.697 80.0732
90 3 Laplacian 225.1344 -21.3474 79.7601 -157.697 80.0732 90 4 Laplacian
501.4023 -23.1083 79.7601 -157.697 80.0732 90 5 Laplacian 516.8527 -18.2289
11.6242 116.7749 97.0826 90 6 Laplacian 663.6315 -20.4474 11.6242 116.7749
97.0826 90 7 Laplacian 954.9819 -22.2083 11.6242 116.7749 97.0826 90 8
Laplacian 652.9634 -23.2303 30.9383 -20.0777 98.5 90 9 Laplacian 1486.917
-28.1303 -57.6741 147.6324 84.1838 90 10 Laplacian 2919.758 -23.9303 -29.4182
-14.5102 88.2944 90 11 Laplacian 3466.776 -25.1303 47.0334 44.6351 106.0125 90
12 Laplacian 3571.25 -30.3303 -118.12 95.5983 72.7025 90 13 Laplacian 4607.53
-28.0303 69.03 177.7798 81.4907 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 4.4709 29.753 4.2523 0 11
* * *
Table 7.2.1-10: Channel model parameters for UMa CDL-E at 3.5 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.03 0 180 99.6 90 Laplacian 0
-22.2442 0 -180 99.6 90 2 Laplacian 182.3926 -16.0427 61.2748 -98.1037
110.5415 90 3 Laplacian 193.3013 -18.2612 61.2748 -98.1037 110.5415 90 4
Laplacian 200.0527 -20.0221 61.2748 -98.1037 110.5415 90 5 Laplacian 193.3013
-23.1142 -21.4195 45.5889 99.1243 90 6 Laplacian 252.7131 -22.6142 17.2635
64.6678 102.4543 90 7 Laplacian 678.4024 -18.8128 9.9105 -137.889 97.6971 90 8
Laplacian 685.5446 -21.0313 9.9105 -137.889 97.6971 90 9 Laplacian 696.0624
-22.7922 9.9105 -137.889 97.6971 90 10 Laplacian 939.0038 -22.5142 20.2473
-116.92 102.4543 90 11 Laplacian 1319.566 -25.8142 34.8467 -33.3854 91.9885 90
12 Laplacian 1937.419 -20.4142 0.5328 123.2792 97.935 90 13 Laplacian 4265.208
-30.0142 59.5698 67.1651 90.0856 90 14 Laplacian 7334.755 -29.4142 61.3814
84.697 111.493 90 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 5.3282 18.9069 7.1358 0 8
* * *
### 7.2.2 Channel Models for FR2
Channel model parameter tables for CDL-A and C for UMi and InO at 28 GHz are
presented in this subclause. The channel model tables presented here are only
the propagation parameters, i.e., without the effect of base station antenna
filtering.
Tables 7.2.2-1---7.2.2.5 show the model parameters, UMi CDL-A---CDL-E models,
respectively. For the determination of desired zenith spread of departure
(ZSD~desired~) from table 7.5-8 of TR38.901, the following parameters are used
h~BS~ = 10 m, h~UT~ = 1.5 m, and d2d = 100 m.
Table 7.2.2-1: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-A at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -13.4014 -39.363 112.1365 95.9936 100.6889 2 22.914 0 -2.5086
-157.634 97.1624 88.9311 3 24.15 -2.2185 -2.5086 -157.634 97.1624 88.9311 4
35.208 -3.9794 -2.5086 -157.634 97.1624 88.9311 5 27.66 -5.9799 17.4974
126.7698 97.9452 89.8621 6 32.25 -8.1984 17.4974 126.7698 97.9452 89.8621 7
40.248 -9.9593 17.4974 126.7698 97.9452 89.8621 8 34.5 -10.5014 24.1308
-70.3543 98.7118 73.6909 9 45.708 -7.5014 -18.9331 -93.5479 96.1295 76.7596 10
92.25 -15.9014 31.951 136.9496 95.3467 67.8293 11 113.868 -6.6014 -19.2086
112.4835 98.0648 77.7251 12 133.452 -16.7014 26.9494 -136.349 99.2935 66.4156
13 130.308 -12.4014 -34.0436 97.8501 98.7444 74.415 14 149.652 -15.2014
-38.0703 126.7698 98.902 106.7919 15 150.714 -10.8014 -29.1481 -73.3619 95.912
97.9305 16 183.492 -11.3014 -30.4408 -82.6162 95.7272 99.7579 17 244.86
-12.7014 33.4345 -96.6134 95.806 99.9303 18 267.474 -16.2014 29.8317 146.3196
99.0271 68.6913 19 274.17 -18.3014 26.5044 166.0428 94.9226 66.8293 20 287.796
-18.9014 -26.7533 172.2895 95.083 62.6917 21 300.396 -16.6014 -34.2767
141.4611 99.2962 107.7918 22 318.258 -19.9014 25.1904 -157.113 95.2461
109.4124 23 579.516 -29.7014 -13.5289 114.3922 98.5677 111.2743 Per-Cluster
Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 1.0596 6.3623 0.0815 1.0344 10
* * *
Table 7.2.2-2: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-B at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 0 0.3941 -175.004 105.6621 76.7603 2 6.432 -2.2185 0.3941
-175.004 105.6621 76.7603 3 12.93 -3.9794 0.3941 -175.004 105.6621 76.7603 4
12.57 -3.2014 -15.9038 134.1256 106.8987 65.837 5 17.22 -9.8014 -27.6578
-104.101 107.4194 63.4563 6 17.916 -1.2 -7.3793 158.7297 105.3237 68.7779 7
22.512 -3.4185 -7.3793 158.7297 105.3237 68.7779 8 30.33 -5.1794 -7.3793
158.7297 105.3237 68.7779 9 22.086 -7.6014 -28.3337 -105.597 107.2762 79.3511
10 22.182 -3.0014 16.6169 139.6116 105.1674 67.9377 11 34.2 -8.9014 -30.1363
-100.444 104.9592 64.6467 12 31.698 -9.0014 24.8034 109.0228 104.6858 62.1259
13 66.126 -4.8014 -22.7008 116.0051 105.3497 76.2702 14 76.536 -5.7014
-22.0624 -103.935 105.2325 78.931 15 92.844 -7.5014 19.9591 -107.841 105.0893
65.2068 16 107.052 -1.9014 8.3929 -146.576 105.2976 76.1301 17 121.014 -7.6014
-30.324 -106.262 104.9071 64.1565 18 169.764 -12.2014 -37.1211 78.5171
106.8857 79.5612 19 181.314 -9.8014 -32.2392 -96.62 104.9722 64.0865 20
217.122 -11.4014 -34.1169 84.5019 107.4584 61.6358 21 246.402 -14.9014
-42.0029 73.6129 107.3413 63.4563 22 256.74 -9.2014 25.2916 103.5368 107.2241
63.5964 23 287.004 -11.3014 -32.2392 -81.1593 106.9508 65.1368 Per-Cluster
Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 3.7533 18.2868 0.3905 4.9015 8
* * *
Table 7.2.2-3: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-C at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -30.4353 -134.4434 98.9242 83.3318 2 12.594 -1.25
-20.9269 129.1633 99.1915 72.5229 3 13.314 -3.4684 -20.9269 129.1633 99.1915
72.5229 4 13.974 -5.2294 -20.9269 129.1633 99.1915 72.5229 5 13.056 -2.5215
-28.0782 -152.8206 99.5732 71.1282 6 38.196 0 -11.6982 164.1145 99.306 74.7544
7 38.688 -2.2185 -11.6982 164.1145 99.306 74.7544 8 39.36 -3.9794 -11.6982
164.1145 99.306 74.7544 9 39.504 -7.4215 17.3861 84.3647 100.4513 69.2454 10
47.61 -7.1215 -37.5865 92.0623 98.5616 66.7349 11 49.278 -10.7215 20.2226
-97.7585 100.6231 72.0348 12 56.016 -11.1215 -50.6106 78.4702 98.218 64.4337
13 73.71 -5.1215 -33.911 93.1719 100.165 85.4238 14 78.498 -6.8215 -37.5066
-112.0441 100.2604 64.1548 15 130.224 -8.7215 -43.1797 102.4645 98.1225
64.7824 16 162.63 -13.2215 29.2116 67.2359 100.2604 92.467 17 255.534 -13.9215
27.8133 34.5731 98.4852 65.6889 18 276.018 -13.9215 23.6584 48.5813 98.1416
68.7572 19 329.412 -15.8215 -52.5282 36.4455 97.9698 59.1339 20 336.462
-17.1215 25.0168 52.6729 100.7376 65.3402 21 378.39 -16.0215 25.4562 49.8296
98.1225 58.4365 22 398.244 -15.7215 30.7697 46.4316 98.1034 65.2705 23 422.562
-21.6215 35.9234 30.759 100.4513 62.6903 24 519.138 -22.8215 -61.2775 69.2469
100.9476 61.993 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 0.799 10.4021 0.5726 4.8814 7
* * *
Table 7.2.2-4: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-D at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.2 0 180 98.5 81.5 Laplacian 0
-13.8303 0 -180 98.5 81.5 2 Laplacian 2.1165 -19.1289 77.9794 -34.5531 95.2232
94.9807 3 Laplacian 37.0084 -21.3474 77.9794 -34.5531 95.2232 94.9807 4
Laplacian 82.4223 -23.1083 77.9794 -34.5531 95.2232 94.9807 5 Laplacian
84.9621 -18.2289 11.3647 139.8304 98.2479 76.2575 6 Laplacian 109.0901
-20.4474 11.3647 139.8304 98.2479 76.2575 7 Laplacian 156.9833 -22.2083
11.3647 139.8304 98.2479 76.2575 8 Laplacian 107.3364 -23.2303 30.2476
-78.3945 98.5 73.2618 9 Laplacian 244.4247 -28.1303 -56.3864 -69.288 95.9542
61.7782 10 Laplacian 479.9602 -23.9303 -28.7614 56.4193 96.6852 73.5114 11
Laplacian 569.8809 -25.1303 45.9833 -37.2797 99.8359 95.2304 12 Laplacian
587.0548 -30.3303 -115.483 -136.177 93.9125 54.2889 13 Laplacian 757.4022
-28.0303 67.4889 47.3128 95.4753 60.0307 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 4.371 18.9034 0.7562 7.4893 11
* * *
Table 7.2.2-5: Channel model parameters for UMi CDL-E at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.03 0 180 99.6 80.4 Laplacian
0 -22.2442 0 -180 99.6 80.4 2 Laplacian 29.9823 -16.0427 59.9068 3.3088
101.5457 80.4 3 Laplacian 31.7756 -18.2612 59.9068 3.3088 101.5457 80.4 4
Laplacian 32.8854 -20.0221 59.9068 3.3088 101.5457 80.4 5 Laplacian 31.7756
-23.1142 -20.9413 94.6029 99.5154 81.0235 6 Laplacian 41.5419 -22.6142 16.8781
106.7245 100.1076 89.5973 7 Laplacian 111.5182 -18.8128 9.6893 -153.245
99.2616 83.9854 8 Laplacian 112.6923 -21.0313 9.6893 -153.245 99.2616 83.9854
9 Laplacian 114.4212 -22.7922 9.6893 -153.245 99.2616 83.9854 10 Laplacian
154.3568 -22.5142 19.7953 -139.922 100.1076 84.2971 11 Laplacian 216.9149
-25.8142 34.0687 -86.8495 98.2465 92.2473 12 Laplacian 318.4799 -20.4142
0.5209 143.9629 99.3039 81.3353 13 Laplacian 701.1301 -30.0142 58.2398
-22.9654 97.9081 93.1826 14 Laplacian 1205.713 -29.4142 60.011 -11.8267
101.7149 77.1264 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 5.2093 12.0124 1.2689 10.912 8
* * *
Tables 7.2.2-6---7.2.2.10 tabulate channel model parameters for InO CDL-A---
CDL-E models at 28 GHz, respectively.
Table 7.2.2-6: Channel model parameters for InO CDL-A at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -13.4014 -101.633 110.3637 77.4554 114.0008 2 11.457 0 -3.2678
-157.49 95.5583 90.2073 3 12.075 -2.2185 -3.2678 -157.49 95.5583 90.2073 4
17.604 -3.9794 -3.2678 -157.49 95.5583 90.2073 5 13.83 -5.9799 50.1288
125.3079 107.6831 92.0912 6 16.125 -8.1984 50.1288 125.3079 107.6831 92.0912 7
20.124 -9.9593 50.1288 125.3079 107.6831 92.0912 8 17.25 -10.5014 67.8333
-68.3566 119.5552 59.3663 9 22.854 -7.5014 -47.105 -92.0429 79.5604 65.5763 10
46.125 -15.9014 88.7055 135.7039 67.4357 47.5044 11 56.934 -6.6014 -47.8403
110.7181 109.5355 67.5301 12 66.726 -16.7014 75.3564 -135.753 128.5646 44.6436
13 65.154 -12.4014 -87.4352 95.7739 120.0604 60.8316 14 74.826 -15.2014
-98.1824 125.3079 122.5022 126.3512 15 75.357 -10.8014 -74.3689 -71.4282
76.1924 108.4188 16 91.746 -11.3014 -77.8193 -80.879 73.3297 112.1169 17
122.43 -12.7014 92.665 -95.1735 74.5505 112.4658 18 133.737 -16.2014 83.0491
145.2729 124.4388 49.2488 19 137.085 -18.3014 74.1685 165.4151 60.8681 45.4809
20 143.898 -18.9014 -67.9771 171.7944 63.352 37.1078 21 150.198 -16.6014
-88.0574 140.3112 128.6067 128.3747 22 159.129 -19.9014 70.6615 -156.959
65.878 131.6542 23 289.758 -29.7014 -32.6811 112.6674 117.3239 135.4221 Per-
Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 2.8282 6.4975 1.263 2.0933 10
* * *
Table 7.2.2-7: Channel model parameters for InO CDL-B at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 0 9.3327 -174.826 105.9611 81.8761 2 3.216 -2.2185 9.3327
-174.826 105.9611 81.8761 3 6.465 -3.9794 9.3327 -174.826 105.9611 81.8761 4
6.285 -3.2014 -34.1667 133.2233 125.1141 59.7711 5 8.61 -9.8014 -65.5384
-102.417 133.1785 54.9534 6 8.958 -1.2 -11.4147 158.35 100.7192 65.7225 7
11.256 -3.4185 -11.4147 158.35 100.7192 65.7225 8 15.165 -5.1794 -11.4147
158.35 100.7192 65.7225 9 11.043 -7.6014 -67.3425 -103.945 130.9608 87.119 10
11.091 -3.0014 52.6316 138.8259 98.2999 64.0221 11 17.1 -8.9014 -72.1535
-98.6816 95.0741 57.3623 12 15.849 -9.0014 74.4815 107.5873 90.8403 52.2611 13
33.063 -4.8014 -52.3082 114.7179 101.1224 80.8842 14 38.268 -5.7014 -50.6043
-102.247 99.308 86.2688 15 46.422 -7.5014 61.552 -106.237 97.0902 58.4959 16
53.526 -1.9014 30.6814 -145.794 100.316 80.6008 17 60.507 -7.6014 -72.6547
-104.624 94.2677 56.3704 18 84.882 -12.2014 -90.7961 76.4337 124.9125 87.5441
19 90.657 -9.8014 -77.7663 -94.7768 95.2758 56.2287 20 108.561 -11.4014
-82.7778 82.5456 133.7833 51.2692 21 123.201 -14.9014 -103.826 71.4253
131.9688 54.9534 22 128.37 -9.2014 75.7845 101.9848 130.1543 55.2368 23
143.502 -11.3014 -77.7663 -78.9878 125.9205 58.3542 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 10.0229 18.6752 6.0483 9.9189 8
* * *
Table 7.2.2-8: Channel model parameters for InO CDL-C at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°] ZOD in [°]
ZOA in [°] 1 0 -4.4215 -48.3848 -132.8363 93.0309 93.3988 2 6.297 -1.25
-23.0068 128.723 97.1699 71.5254 3 6.657 -3.4684 -23.0068 128.723 97.1699
71.5254 4 6.987 -5.2294 -23.0068 128.723 97.1699 71.5254 5 6.528 -2.5215
-42.0936 -151.6038 103.0827 68.703 6 19.098 0 1.6247 164.4166 98.9437 76.0412
7 19.344 -2.2185 1.6247 164.4166 98.9437 76.0412 8 19.68 -3.9794 1.6247
164.4166 98.9437 76.0412 9 19.752 -7.4215 79.2514 82.9728 116.6821 64.8928 10
23.805 -7.1215 -67.4716 90.8339 87.4138 59.8126 11 24.639 -10.7215 86.8222
-95.3722 119.3429 70.5376 12 28.008 -11.1215 -102.233 76.9531 82.0922 55.1556
13 36.855 -5.1215 -57.6616 91.9671 112.2475 97.6324 14 39.249 -6.8215 -67.2583
-109.9613 113.7257 54.5912 15 65.112 -8.7215 -82.3998 101.457 80.614 55.8612
16 81.315 -13.2215 110.8139 65.4801 113.7257 111.8854 17 127.767 -13.9215
107.0819 32.1236 86.2312 57.6958 18 138.009 -13.9215 95.9924 46.4294 80.9097
63.905 19 164.706 -15.8215 -107.3512 34.0358 78.2489 44.4306 20 168.231
-17.1215 99.6178 50.6078 121.1167 56.9902 21 189.195 -16.0215 100.7907 47.7042
80.614 43.0194 22 199.122 -15.7215 114.9725 44.234 80.3184 56.8491 23 211.281
-21.6215 128.7278 28.2285 116.6821 51.6277 24 259.569 -22.8215 -130.7032
67.5339 124.3688 50.2165 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter CASD in [°] CASA in [°] CZSD in [°] CZSA in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 2.1326 10.6231 8.8692 9.8783 7
* * *
Table 7.2.2-9: Channel model parameters for InO CDL-D at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.2 0 180 98.5 81.5 Laplacian 0
-12.1055 0 -180 98.5 81.5 2 Laplacian 0.8738 -17.404 -172.96 42.7638 92.4883
114.5755 3 Laplacian 15.2798 -19.6225 -172.96 42.7638 92.4883 114.5755 4
Laplacian 34.0301 -21.3834 -172.96 42.7638 92.4883 114.5755 5 Laplacian
35.0787 -16.504 27.2592 154.306 98.0376 68.6373 6 Laplacian 45.0405 -18.7225
27.2592 154.306 98.0376 68.6373 7 Laplacian 64.8144 -20.4834 27.2592 154.306
98.0376 68.6373 8 Laplacian 44.3165 -21.5055 72.5514 -115.009 98.5 61.2872 9
Laplacian 100.9167 -26.4055 -135.248 20.546 93.8293 33.1118 10 Laplacian
198.1633 -22.2055 -68.9868 100.9531 95.1704 61.8997 11 Laplacian 235.2893
-23.4055 110.295 -88.7107 100.9509 115.188 12 Laplacian 242.3799 -28.6055
83.0045 78.3003 90.0836 14.7365 13 Laplacian 312.7121 -26.3055 161.8778
-34.6022 92.9507 28.8242 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 10.4843 12.0913 1.3873 18.3753 11
* * *
Table 7.2.2-10: Channel model parameters for InO CDL-E at 28 GHz
* * *
Cluster # Cluster PAS Absolute Delay [ns] Power in [dB] AOD in [°] AOA in [°]
ZOD in [°] ZOA in [°] 1 Specular (LOS path) 0 -0.03 0 180 99.6 80.4 Laplacian
0 -20.5194 0 -180 99.6 80.4 2 Laplacian 12.3987 -14.3178 145.0787 66.3397
103.1625 80.4 3 Laplacian 13.1402 -16.5363 145.0787 66.3397 103.1625 80.4 4
Laplacian 13.5992 -18.2972 145.0787 66.3397 103.1625 80.4 5 Laplacian 13.1402
-21.3894 -50.7145 125.0665 99.4451 81.931 6 Laplacian 17.1789 -20.8894 40.8743
132.864 100.5293 102.9826 7 Laplacian 46.1165 -17.0879 23.4649 -162.789
98.9804 89.2034 8 Laplacian 46.602 -19.3064 23.4649 -162.789 98.9804 89.2034 9
Laplacian 47.317 -21.0673 23.4649 -162.789 98.9804 89.2034 10 Laplacian
63.8316 -20.7894 47.939 -154.219 100.5293 89.9689 11 Laplacian 89.7015
-24.0894 82.5056 -120.079 97.1217 109.4894 12 Laplacian 131.7019 -18.6894
1.2616 156.8183 99.0579 82.6965 13 Laplacian 289.9404 -28.2894 141.0417
-78.9842 96.5022 111.7859 14 Laplacian 498.6022 -27.6894 145.331 -71.819
103.4723 72.3621 Per-Cluster Parameters  
Parameter C~ASD~ in [°] C~ASA~ in [°] C~ZSD~ in [°] C~ZSA~ in [°] XPR in [dB]  
Value 12.6155 7.7272 2.3234 26.7929 8
* * *
### 7.3 Channel Model emulation of the Base Station beamforming configuration
The basic parameters of NR BS antenna is specified in table 7.2-7. The
propagation environment generated in the test zone is channel model defined in
section 7.2 with base station antenna filtering effect. For the channel model
emulation in the chamber, the beamforming characteristic of the BS pattern is
defined as follow:
\- For FR1: A code book of 60 fixed beams is constructed to a grid of five
elevation angles from --20° to +20° with 10° steps and 12 azimuth angles from
--80° to +80° with \~15° steps；
\- For FR2: A code book of 128 fixed beams is constructed to a grid of eight
elevation angles from --25° to +25° with \~7.1° step size and 16° azimuth
angles from --60° to +60° with 8° step size；
For NR FR1 MIMO OTA, 2 strongest transmitting beams are selected from the pre-
defined beam grid based on their proximity to the strong clusters of each FR1
channel model.
For FR1 4x4 MIMO OTA, two strongest transmitting beams are selected from the
pre-defined beam grid based on their proximity to the strong clusters of each
FR1 channel model. These beams should have different azimuth directions and
can provide the highest receive power for UE.
For FR1 2x2 MIMO OTA, 1 strongest transmitting beam is selected from the pre-
defined beam grid which provides the highest received power for UE based on
the FR1 channel model.
\- In detail, beam directions for channels model given in Clause 7.2.1 are
\- For UMa CDL-C, the beam directions are:
\- Strongest beam: AoD: -7.27°, ZoD: 100°
\- 2^nd^ strongest beam: AoD: -21.82°, ZoD: 100°
\- For UMi CDL-C, the strongest beam direction is: AoD: -7.27°, ZoD: 100°.
For NR FR2 MIMO OTA, 1 strongest transmitting beam is generated from BS, the
direction of this beam towards the strongest cluster of each FR2 channel
model. In detail, the directions in CDL-A InO and CDL-C UMi models are (-4.0°,
93.6°) and (-12.0°, 100.7°), respectively.
## 7.4 Verification of Channel Model implementation
### 7.4.1 Channel Models validation
This clause describe the MIMO OTA validation measurements, in order to ensure
that the channel models are correctly implemented and hence capable of
generating the propagation environment, as described by the model, within the
test zone.
The following measurements shall be done for FR1 channel model validation:
\- Power Delay Profile (PDP)
\- Doppler/Temporal correlation
\- Spatial correlation
\- Cross-polarization
\- Power validation
The following measurements shall be done for FR2 channel model validation:
Power Delay Profile (PDP)
Doppler/Temporal correlation
PAS similarity percentage (PSP)
Cross-polarization
Power validation
Frequencies to be used to test for channel model validation and quality of
quiet zone validation:
Table 7.4.1-1: Frequencies for PDP, Doppler, Spatial correlation, Cross-
polarization validation, and Quality of Quiet Zone validation
* * *
NR FR1 Bands Range Test frequency (MHz) n71 Low 617MHz n12, n17, n29, n14, n28
722MHz n5, n8, n18, n20 836.5MHz n50, n51, n74 Mid 1575.42MHz n3, n2, n25, n39
1880MHz n1, n34, n65 2132.5MHz n7, n30, n41, n40, n38, [n90] 2450MHz n77,n78
High 3600MHz n79 [4700MHz]
* * *
Table 7.4.1-2: Channel model validation and Quality of Quiet Zone validation
frequencies
NR FR2 Bands Range Test Frequency (MHz)
* * *
n257 Low 27750 n260 High 38500 n258 Low 25875 n261 Low 27925
Table 7.4.1-3: Frequencies for FR1 power validation
* * *
NR FR1 Bands Range Test frequency (center frequency of each band) n71 Low n71
n12, n17, n29, n14, n28 n28 n5, n8, n18, n20 n8 n50, n51, n74 Mid n51 n3, n2,
n25, n39 n3 n1, n34, n65 n1 n7, n30, n41, n40, n38, [n90] n41 n77, n78 High
n78 n79 n79
* * *
#### 7.4.1.1 Power Delay Profile (PDP)
This measurement checks that the resulting power delay profile (PDP) is in-
line with the PDP defined for the channel model. For PDP validation
measurement, only Vertical validation is required.
**FR1 PDP validation procedure for MPAC system:**
The PDP measurement is performed with a Vector Network Analyzer (VNA). An
example setup for PDP measurement is shown in Figure 7.4.1.1-1. VNA transmits
frequency sweep signals thorough the NR MIMO OTA test system. A reference
antenna (i.e dipole antenna), within the center of the test zone, receives the
signal and VNA analyses the frequency response of the system. A number of
traces (frequency responses) are measured and recorded by VNA and analyzed by
a post processing SW, e.g., Matlab. Special care has to be taken into account
to keep the fading conditions unchanged, i.e. frozen, during the short period
of time of a single trace measurement. The fading may proceed only in between
traces.
{width="5.093055555555556in" height="1.4881944444444444in"}
Figure 7.4.1.1-1: Setup for PDP measurements
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA. I.e. run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA trace, run the emulation to CIR number 10, pause,
measure VNA trace. Continue until 1000 VNA traces are measured.
**VNA settings:**
Table 7.4.1.1-1: VNA settings for PDP measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 200 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 1101 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table 7.4.1.1-2: Channel model specification for PDP measurements
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in | | | | Clause 7.2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m/s] / Speed | | | | of light [m/s] * | | | | Center frequency | | | | [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Method of measurement result analysis:**
Measured VNA traces (frequency responses H(t,f)) are saved into a hard drive.
The data is read into, e.g., Matlab.\ The analysis is performed by taking the
Fourier transform of each FR. The resulting impulse responses h(t,τ) are
averaged in power over time:
Finally the resulting PDP is shifted in delay, such that the first tap is on
delay zero.
**FR2 PDP validation procedure for 3D-MPAC system:**
The PDP measurement is performed with a Vector Network Analyzer (VNA). An
example setup for PDP measurement is shown in Figure 7.4.1.1-2. VNA transmits
frequency sweep signals thorough the NR MIMO OTA test system. A reference
antenna, within the centre of the test zone, receives the signal and VNA
analyses the frequency response of the system. A number of traces (frequency
responses) are measured and recorded by VNA and analyzed by a post processing
SW, e.g., Matlab. Special care has to be taken into account to keep the fading
conditions unchanged, i.e. frozen, during the short period of time of a single
trace measurement. The fading may proceed only in between traces.
{width="5.232638888888889in" height="2.0in"}
Figure 7.4.1.1-2: Setup for PDP measurements (FR2)
Step the emulation and store traces from VNA. I.e. run the emulation to CIR
number 1, pause, measure VNA trace, run the emulation to CIR number 10, pause,
measure VNA trace. Continue until 1000 VNA traces are measured.
**VNA settings:**
Table 7.4.1.1-1: VNA settings for PDP measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 200 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 1101 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table 7.4.1.1-3: Channel model specification for FR2 PDP measurements
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in | | | | Clause 7.2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m/s] / Speed | | | | of light [m/s] * | | | | Center frequency | | | | [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Method of measurement result analysis:**
Measured VNA traces (frequency responses H(t,f)) are saved into a hard drive.
The data is read into, e.g., Matlab.\ The analysis is performed by taking the
Inverse Fourier transform of each trace. The resulting impulse responses
h(t,τ) are averaged in power over time:
Finally, the resulting PDP is shifted in delay, such that the first tap is on
delay zero.
#### 7.4.1.2 Doppler/Temporal correlation
This measurement checks the Doppler/temporal correlation. For Doppler/Temporal
correlation validation measurement, only Vertical validation is required.
**FR1 Doppler/Temporal correlation validation procedure for MPAC system:**
The Doppler spectrum is measured with a spectrum analyzer as shown in Figure
7.4.1.2-1. In this case a signal generator transmits CW signal through the NR
MIMO OTA test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally the signal is analyzed by a spectrum analyzer and the measured
spectrum is compared to the target spectrum. This setup can be used to measure
Doppler Spectrum of the Channel models defined in Clause 7.2.
**Method of measurement:**
{width="5.395138888888889in" height="2.0in"}
Figure 7.4.1.2-1: Setup for Doppler measurements
Sine wave (CW, carrier wave) signal is transmitted from the signal generator.
The signal is connected from the signal generator to fading emulator via
cables. The fading emulator output signals are connected to power amplifier
boxes via cables. The amplified signals are then transferred via cables to the
probe antennas. The probe antennas radiate the signals over the air to the
test antenna The Doppler spectrum is measured by the spectrum analyzer and the
trace is saved.
**Signal generator settings:**
Table 7.4.1.2-1: Signal generator settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Modulation | | OFF | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Spectrum analyzer settings:**
Table 7.4.1.2-2: Spectrum analyzer settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Minimum Span | Hz | 4 kHz | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 16002 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 100 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table 7.4.1.2-3: Channel model specification for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+----------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+============================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +------------------+------+----------------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Clause 7.2 | +------------------+------+----------------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 100 | +------------------+------+----------------------------+
Method of measurement result analysis: Measurement data file (Doppler power
spectrum) is saved into hard drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The
analysis is performed by taking the Fourier transformation of the Doppler
spectrum. The resulting temporal correlation function is normalized such that
. Then the function values left from the maximum is cut out. Further on the
function values after, e.g. seven periods is cut out.
**FR2 Doppler/Temporal correlation validation procedure for 3D-MPAC system:**
The Doppler spectrum is measured with a spectrum analyzer as shown in Figure
7.4.1.2-2. In this case a signal generator transmits CW signal through the NR
MIMO OTA test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is analysed by a spectrum analyser and the measured
spectrum is compared to the target spectrum. This setup can be used to measure
Doppler Spectrum of the Channel models defined in Clause 7.2.
**Method of measurement:**
{width="4.511805555555555in" height="1.7909722222222222in"}
Figure 7.4.1.2-2: Setup for Doppler measurements
Sine wave (CW, carrier wave) signal is transmitted from the signal generator.
The signal is connected from the signal generator to fading emulator via
cables. The fading emulator output signals are connected to frequency
converter and power amplifier boxes via cables. The amplified signals are then
transferred via cables to the probe antennas. The probe antennas radiate the
signals over the air to the test antenna The Doppler spectrum is measured by
the spectrum analyzer and the trace is saved.
**Signal generator settings:**
Table 7.4.1.2-2: Signal generator settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Modulation | | OFF | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Spectrum analyzer settings:**
Table 7.4.1.2-2: Spectrum analyzer settings for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Minimum Span | Hz | 4 kHz | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 16002 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 100 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table 7.4.1.2-3: Channel model specification for Doppler/Temporal correlation
measurements
+------------------+------+----------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+============================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +------------------+------+----------------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in Clause 7.2 | +------------------+------+----------------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 3 | +------------------+------+----------------------------+
Method of measurement result analysis: Measurement data file (Doppler power
spectrum) is saved into hard drive. The data is read into, e.g., Matlab. The
analysis is performed by taking the Fourier transformation of the Doppler
spectrum. The resulting temporal correlation function is normalized such that
. Then the function values left from the maximum is cut out. Further on the
function values after, e.g. seven periods is cut out.
#### 7.4.1.3 Spatial correlation
This measurement checks whether the measured correlation curve follows the
theoretical curve. For spatial correlation validation measurement, both
Vertical and Horizontal validation are required. Spatial correlation
validation is only adopted for FR1 MIMO OTA.
The spatial correlation validation measurement setup is illustrated in Figure
7.4.1.3-1. The network analyser transmits signals through the fading emulator
and probes. The 16 probes radiate the signals within the anechoic chamber and
a receiving test antenna is placed within the test zone. The test antenna is
attached to a positioner that can move the antenna to pre-defined spatial
locations on a fixed radius from the centre of the quiet zone. The received
signal is measured with the network analyser.
The measurement and analysis procedure is as follows:
1 Set the target channel model to fading emulator.
2 For each position of the test antenna in the test zone, step & pause the
emulator to different time instances. Measure the frequency responses $H\left(
f,t \right) = H\left( m\Delta f,n\text{ΔT} \right),\ m = 0,\ldots,M - 1$ for
all stepped channel snapshots $n = 0,\ldots,N - 1$, where the interval between
frequency and time samples is $\Delta f$ and $\text{ΔT}$, respectively. The
number of channel snapshots $N$ and frequency samples $M$ should be
sufficiently high so that the matrix can be estimated reliably.
3 Move the measurement antenna with a positioner to another location $k$ and
repeat step 2 to record frequency responses $H_{k}\left( m\Delta f,n\text{ΔT}
\right)$ of all stepped channel snapshots.
4 Repeat step 3 to record frequency responses at all $k = 1,\ldots,K$ spatial
sample points.
5 Stack measured time and frequency samples to a vector and calculate
correlation between the first spatial sample point (i.e. $k = 1$) and other
spatial points $k = 1,\ldots K$
6 $\rho_{k} = \text{corr}\left\lbrack \text{vec}{\left( H_{1}\left( m\Delta
f,n\text{ΔT} \right) \right),\text{vec}\left( H_{k}\left( m\Delta f,n\text{ΔT}
\right) \right)} \right\rbrack$
7 Take the theoretical reference spatial correlation of the corresponding
spatial sample points. Plot both the measured and theoretical curves.
8 Calculate the weighted RMS correlation error between the measured and the
reference.
Figure 7.4.1.3-1: Configuration for spatial correlation validation
**Time and frequency samples**
The number of temporal snapshots _N_ and frequency samples _M_ is TBD. They
must be chosen to minimize the validation measurement time, but sufficiently
high to keep an adequate correlation estimation accuracy. It is beneficial to
choose the time sampling interval $\text{ΔT}$ larger than the coherence time
of the channel model. such that the recorded time samples represent
independent fading occasions. The same principle applies also to frequency
sampling interval $\Delta f$ and the channel coherence bandwidth.
**Spatial samples**
The spatial samples for the correlation validation measurement are on the
circumference of the quiet zone, as illustrated in Figure 7.4.1.3-2. The test
zone is a circle with 20 cm diameter in the horizontal plane. The reference
point (denoted by a red marker) is in AoA 270°. The mean AoAs of the CDL-A and
CDL-C models are slightly different, but the underlying geometry for the CDL
model indicates that the mean AoA (or assumed LoS direction) of the model is
180°. The reference point orientation of the validation measurement is
proposed to be with 90° offset to the channel model reference AoA to enable
accurate sampling of the main lobe of the spatial correlation curve. The
reference point orientation must be defined in the channel model coordinate
system instead of the chamber/probe coordinate system to enable optimization
of OTA model implementation to achieve better alignment with the cluster AoAs
and probe directions. In order to have spatial samples that yield reasonable
measurement times and adequately capture the main lobe of the correlation
curve, a non-uniform sampling is used where the first quadrant i.e.,
270°-180°, is sampled with dense sampling compared to the rest of the circle.
The spacing of the spatial samples is summarized in Table 7.4.1.3-1 for test
frequencies less than 1800 MHz and equal to or greater than 1800 MHz.
Table 7.4.1.3-1: Spacing of Spatial Samples
Test Frequencies [MHz] First quadrant of test zone circumference
(270^o^-180^o^) Remaining quadrants
* * *
**617, 722, 836.5 1575.42** λ/15 λ/4 1800, 2132.50, 2450, 3600, 4700 λ/10 λ/2
{width="2.5in" height="2.558333333333333in"}
{width="3.3722222222222222in"
height="2.4770833333333333in"}{width="3.2909722222222224in"
height="2.41875in"}
Figure 7.4.1.3-2: Spatial sampling for spatial correlation validation
measurement for test frequencies less than and equal to or greater than 1800
MHz: 617 MHz spatial sampling (left) and 4700 MHz spatial sampling (right).
**Reference Spatial Correlation Curves**
The spatial correlation validation reference curves are tabulated in Tables
7.4.1.3-2 and 7.4.1.3-3 for CDL-A UMi and in Tables 7.4.1.3-4 and 7.4.1.3-5
for CDL-C UMa for a vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly
spaced probes.
Table 7.4.1.3-2: Spatial correlation reference curves for CDL-A UMi model for
a vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes at FR1
test frequencies below 1800 MHz
617 MHz 722 MHz 836.5 MHz 1575.42 MHz
* * *
Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^]
ρ~ref~ 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 251.4 0.999 254.1 0.999
256.3 0.999 262.7 0.999 232.9 0.997 238.3 0.997 242.6 0.996 255.5 0.996 214.3
0.992 222.4 0.993 228.9 0.993 248.2 0.992 195.8 0.981 206.6 0.984 215.2 0.987
240.9 0.987 110.40 0.809 190.7 0.969 201.6 0.975 233.7 0.982 40.80 0.823
120.52 0.778 187.9 0.955 226.4 0.977 331.21 0.96 61.05 0.731 128.66 0.751
219.1 0.971 1.57 0.88 77.33 0.645 211.9 0.962 302.09 0.99 25.99 0.762 204.6
0.949 334.66 0.928 197.3 0.929 283.32 0.998 190.0 0.903 182.8 0.868 152.74
0.620 125.48 0.363 98.23 0.299 70.97 0.364 43.71 0.460 16.45 0.58 349.20 0.71
321.94 0.86 294.68 0.97
Table 7.4.1.3-3: Spatial correlation reference curves for CDL-A UMi model for
a vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes at FR1
test frequencies equal to or greater than 1800 MHz
1800 MHz 2132.5 MHz 2450 MHz 3600 MHz 4700 MHz
* * *
Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^]
ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000
270.0 1.000 260.9 0.998 261.9 0.998 263.0 0.997 265.2 0.997 266.3 0.997 251.7
0.991 253.9 0.990 256.0 0.990 260.5 0.990 262.7 0.990 242.6 0.981 245.8 0.980
249.0 0.979 255.7 0.979 259.0 0.979 233.5 0.967 237.8 0.967 242.0 0.966 250.9
0.966 255.4 0.969 224.3 0.951 229.7 0.952 234.9 0.951 246.1 0.950 251.7 0.956
215.2 0.932 221.7 0.933 227.9 0.932 241.4 0.932 248.1 0.942 206.0 0.906 213.6
0.911 220.9 0.913 236.6 0.908 244.4 0.922 196.9 0.877 205.6 0.883 213.9 0.888
231.8 0.881 240.8 0.896 187.8 0.845 197.5 0.854 206.9 0.862 227.1 0.857 237.1
0.872 134.3 0.748 189.5 0.823 199.9 0.833 222.3 0.832 233.5 0.842 88.6 0.729
181.4 0.795 192.9 0.805 217.5 0.815 229.8 0.817 43.0 0.833 139.7 0.737 185.9
0.783 212.7 0.800 226.1 0.792 357.3 0.953 99.5 0.725 144.9 0.742 208.0 0.792
222.5 0.775 311.6 0.978 59.2 0.753 109.9 0.754 203.2 0.785 218.8 0.760 18.9
0.884 74.8 0.727 198.4 0.782 215.2 0.753 338.6 0.970 39.8 0.778 193.7 0.781
211.5 0.750 298.4 0.982 4.7 0.901 188.9 0.786 207.9 0.753 329.7 0.974 184.1
0.795 204.2 0.760 294.6 0.980 156.1 0.886 200.6 0.775 132.3 0.952 196.9 0.792
108.4 0.949 193.3 0.817 84.6 0.906 189.6 0.840 60.7 0.830 185.9 0.865 36.9
0.741 182.3 0.888 13.0 0.774 161.7 0.978 349.1 0.894 143.5 0.945 325.3 0.966
125.2 0.926 301.4 0.969 106.9 0.926 277.6 0.994 88.6 0.948 70.4 0.948 52.1
0.896 33.8 0.747 15.5 0.682 357.3 0.799 339.0 0.912 320.7 0.956 302.4 0.968
284.2 0.973
Table 7.4.1.3-4: Spatial correlation reference curves for CDL-C UMa model for
a vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes at FR1
test frequencies below 1800 MHz
617 MHz 722 MHz 836.5 MHz 1575.42 MHz
* * *
Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^]
ρ~ref~ 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 251.4 0.999 254.1 0.999
256.3 0.999 262.7 0.999 232.9 0.997 238.3 0.997 242.6 0.996 255.5 0.996 214.3
0.992 222.4 0.993 228.9 0.993 248.2 0.992 195.8 0.981 206.6 0.984 215.2 0.987
240.9 0.987 110.40 0.809 190.7 0.969 201.6 0.975 233.7 0.982 40.80 0.823
120.52 0.778 187.9 0.955 226.4 0.977 331.21 0.96 61.05 0.731 128.66 0.751
219.1 0.971 1.57 0.88 77.33 0.645 211.9 0.962 302.09 0.99 25.99 0.762 204.6
0.949 334.66 0.928 197.3 0.929 283.32 0.998 190.0 0.903 182.8 0.868 152.74
0.620 125.48 0.363 98.23 0.299 70.97 0.364 43.71 0.460 16.45 0.58 349.20 0.71
321.94 0.86 294.68 0.97
Table 7.4.1.3-5: Spatial correlation reference curves for CDL-C UMa model for
a vertically polarized MPAC OTA setup with 16 uniformly spaced probes at FR1
test frequencies equal to or greater than 1800 MHz
1800 MHz 2132.5 MHz 2450 MHz 3600 MHz 4700 MHz
* * *
Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^]
ρ~ref~ Azimuth [^o^] ρ~ref~ 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000 270.0 1.000
270.0 1.000 260.9 0.998 261.9 0.998 263.0 0.997 265.2 0.997 266.3 0.996 251.7
0.991 253.9 0.991 256.0 0.992 260.5 0.989 262.7 0.988 242.6 0.984 245.8 0.984
249.0 0.983 255.7 0.979 259.0 0.976 233.5 0.976 237.8 0.975 242.0 0.975 250.9
0.969 255.4 0.966 224.3 0.967 229.7 0.966 234.9 0.965 246.1 0.960 251.7 0.957
215.2 0.955 221.7 0.955 227.9 0.953 241.4 0.954 248.1 0.951 206.0 0.936 213.6
0.940 220.9 0.939 236.6 0.947 244.4 0.945 196.9 0.908 205.6 0.918 213.9 0.921
231.8 0.937 240.8 0.940 187.8 0.863 197.5 0.888 206.9 0.898 227.1 0.925 237.1
0.935 134.3 0.309 189.5 0.846 199.9 0.867 222.3 0.903 233.5 0.928 88.6 0.269
181.4 0.793 192.9 0.829 217.5 0.876 229.8 0.918 43.0 0.396 139.7 0.280 185.9
0.786 212.7 0.837 226.1 0.902 357.3 0.619 99.5 0.252 144.9 0.245 208.0 0.798
222.5 0.882 311.6 0.879 59.2 0.257 109.9 0.299 203.2 0.753 218.8 0.851 18.9
0.471 74.8 0.215 198.4 0.708 215.2 0.816 338.6 0.661 39.8 0.251 193.7 0.669
211.5 0.767 298.4 0.937 4.7 0.489 188.9 0.624 207.9 0.708 329.7 0.652 184.1
0.580 204.2 0.651 294.6 0.946 156.1 0.175 200.6 0.580 132.3 0.565 196.9 0.516
108.4 0.745 193.3 0.444 84.6 0.820 189.6 0.383 60.7 0.750 185.9 0.310 36.9
0.493 182.3 0.229 13.0 0.120 161.7 0.445 349.1 0.272 143.5 0.750 325.3 0.498
125.2 0.879 301.4 0.843 106.9 0.813 277.6 0.991 88.6 0.733 70.4 0.740 52.1
0.873 33.8 0.944 15.5 0.643 357.3 0.250 339.0 0.178 320.7 0.375 302.4 0.726
284.2 0.929
**Time Domain Alternative Method:**
Time domain techniques can also be used to validate the spatial correlation.
The spatial correlation validation measurement setup is illustrated in Figure
7.4.1.3-3. In this case a Signal generator transmits a CW signal through the
MIMO test system. The signal is received by a test antenna within the test
area. Finally, the signal is collected by a signal analyzer and the measured
signal is stored for postprocessing.
{width="4.720833333333333in" height="3.115972222222222in"}
Figure 7.4.1.3-3: Configuration for spatial correlation validation based on
time domain techniques
For each spatial point, the channel emulator should issue a trigger signal
each time fading is started. For each point collect a time domain trace with
the signal analyzer, when done, stop fading. Data recording is synchronized
with the channel emulator trigger.
Follow the same procedure to postprocess the data and calcalate the spatial
correlation by setting _m_ to 1. The settings for the Signal Generator and
Signal Analyzer are in Table 7.4.1.3-6 and 7.4.1.3-7 respectively.
> Table 7.4.1.3-6: Signal Generator Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Center frequency MHz Downlink center frequency in Table 7.4.1-1 Output power
dBm Function of the CE. Sufficiently above Noise Floor
> Table 7.4.1.3-7: Signal Analyzer Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Center frequency MHz Downlink center frequency in Table 7.4.1-1 Sampling Hz At
least 15 times bigger than the max Doppler spread (_f~d~=v/λ)_ Observation
time s At least 16s. Channel Model length should be the same or greater than
the observation time.
#### 7.4.1.4 Cross-polarization
**FR1 Cross polarization validation procedure for MPAC system:**
This measurement checks how well the measured vertically or horizontally
polarized power levels follow expected values. The test setup for cross-
polarization is the same as PDP validation in Figure 7.4.1.1-1.
**Method of measurement:** Step the emulation and store traces from VNA.
**VNA settings:**
Table 7.4.1.4-1: VNA settings for cross-polarization
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink Center Frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 40 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 802 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table 7.4.1.4-2: Channel model specification for cross-polarization.
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in | | | | Clause 7.2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 30 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m /s] / | | | | Speed of light | | | | [m/s] * Center | | | | frequency [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Play or step through the channel model listed in clause 7.2.
2\. Measure the absolute power received at the center of the test zone,
averaged over a statistically significant number of fades.
a. Use a vertically polarized sleeve dipole to measure the V component.
b. Use a horizontally polarized (vertically oriented) magnetic loop dipole, or
a horizontally polarized sleeve dipole measured in four orthogonal horizontal
positions and summed to measure the H component.
3\. Calculate the V/H ratio.
4\. Compare it with the theory value.
**FR2 Cross polarization validation procedure for 3D-MPAC system:**
This measurement checks how well the measured vertically or horizontally
polarized power levels follow expected values. The test setup for cross-
polarization is the same as PDP validation in Figure 7.4.1.1-2.
**Method of measurement:** Step the emulation and store traces from VNA.
**VNA settings:**
Table 7.4.1.4-1: VNA settings for cross-polarization
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink Center Frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 40 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 802 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
Table 7.4.1.4-2: Channel model specification for cross-polarization.
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in | | | | Clause 7.2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Mobile speed | km/h | 3 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m /s] / | | | | Speed of light | | | | [m/s] * Center | | | | frequency [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Play or step through the channel model listed in clause 7.2.
2\. Measure the absolute power received at the center of the test zone,
averaged over a statistically significant number of fades.
a. Use a dual polarized horn antenna and by terminating the H branch of
antenna to measure the V component.
b. Use a dual polarized horn antenna and by terminating the V branch of
antenna to measure the H component.
3\. Calculate the V/H ratio.
4\. Compare it with the theory value.
#### 7.4.1.5 Power validation
**FR1 power validation procedure for MPAC system:**
This measurement checks the total power in the center of the test zone. The
power validation is measured with a spectrum analyzer as shown in Figure
7.4.1.5-1.
{width="5.3375in" height="1.9770833333333333in"}
Figure 7.4.1.5-1: Setup for power validation measurements
**Spectrum analyzer settings:**
Table 7.4.1.5-1: Spectrum analyzer settings for Power validation measurements
+-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=========================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-1 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Integrated Channel Span | Hz | 20MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 30 kHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | > ≥10MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | ≥400 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | ≥100 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Detector | | RMS | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Place a vertical reference dipole in the center of the test zone connected
to a spectrum analyzer (or power meter) via a cable.
2\. Record the cable and reference dipole gains.
3\. Load the target channel model into the channel emulator.
4\. Start the NR FR1 signaling in the base station emulator with the required
parameter identical to the measurements conditions.
5\. Average the power received by the spectrum analyzer for a sufficient
amount of time to account for the fading channel -- one full channel
simulation might be unnecessary.
6\. Repeat steps 1 to 4 with a magnetic loop for the horizontal polarization,
or a horizontally polarized sleeve dipole measured in at least four orthogonal
horizontal positions and average the summed orientations to get the H
component.
7\. Calculate the total power received at the test area as the sum of the
power in the two polarizations.
Note: in step 6, if horizontally polarized sleeve dipole is used, the
reference gain correction should be the average of the theta gain pattern cut
of the dipole. Besides, more horizontal positions for averaging will improve
the measurement accuracy but increase the total measurement time.
The power validation result is considered as systematic offset, which needs to
be corrected on the UE final sensitivity value to further reduce measurement
uncertainty.
**FR2 power validation procedure for 3D-MPAC system:**
This measurement checks the total power in the centre of the test zone. The
power validation is measured with a spectrum analyser as shown in Figure
7.4.1.5-2.
{width="4.686111111111111in" height="2.1277777777777778in"}
Figure 7.4.1.5-2: Setup for power validation measurements
**Spectrum analyzer settings:**
Table 7.4.1.5-2: Spectrum analyzer settings for Power validation measurements
+-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=========================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Integrated Channel Span | Hz | 20MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | RBW | Hz | 30 kHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | VBW | Hz | > ≥10MHz | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | ≥400 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Averaging | | ≥100 | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Detector | | RMS | +-------------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Measurement Procedure:**
1\. Place a horn antenna with H polarization terminated in the centre of the
test zone connected to a spectrum analyzer (or power meter) via a cable.
2\. Record the cable and horn antenna gains.
3\. Load the target channel model into the channel emulator.
4\. Start the NR FR2 signalling in the base station emulator with the required
parameter identical to the measurements conditions.
5\. Average the power received by the spectrum analyzer for a sufficient
amount of time to account for the fading channel -- one full channel
simulation might be unnecessary.
6\. Repeat steps 1 to 4 with a horn antenna V polarization terminated for the
horizontal polarization, in four orthogonal horizontal positions and summed to
measure the H component.
7\. Calculate the total power received at the test area as the sum of the
power in the two polarizations.
#### 7.4.1.6 PAS similarity percentage (PSP)
The PSP validation measurements aim at evaluating PAS similarity percentage
(PSP), which is one of the validation metrics for characterizing FR2 channel
model under test in the quite zone of 3D-MPAC. For PSP validation measurement,
only vertical polarization validation is required. The measurement array is
essentially a virtual array configuration realized in 3D-MPAC through a φ-θ
positioning system. The measurement array is a semi-circle and sectored array
configuration illustrated in Figure 7.4.1.6-1 where complex channel frequency
response is measured at each antenna location 0.5 λ apart using a vector
network analyser (VNA) setup. The vertical sectors of the measurement array
are limited to 60° (±30°) and the horizontal sector to 180° (±90°) with the
broad side direction points towards the probes. Depending of the turntable
architecture/implementation, the virtual array configuration for the PSP
validation is composed of two alternative semi-circle arrangements (1 x
horizontal and either 2 x crossed vertical or 2 x parallel vertical). The
radius of the array element locations with respect to the centre of the test
zone is 5 cm, which is equivalent to the half of the test zone radius at 28
GHz. For different frequency bands, the radius of the measurement array
sectored semi-circles remains fixed at 5 cm while the spatial sampling of the
array varies. This measurement validates the proper angular behaviour in the
test zone _._
{width="3.186111111111111in" height="2.4069444444444446in"}
{width="3.186111111111111in" height="2.4069444444444446in"}
> **Figure 7.4.1.6-1: Semi-circle measurement array configurations with K = 37
> elements (at 28 GHz). On the left with two crossed vertical sectors, on the
> right with two parallel vertical sectors.**
{width="5.0in" height="1.8840277777777779in"}
Figure 7.4.1.6-2: Setup for PSP validation measurements
The PSP validation is measured with a vector network analyser as shown in
Figure 7.4.1.6-2 illustrating the PSP measurement setup. Port 1 of the VNA
transmits signals through the fading emulator and radiate them through L
probes within the anechoic chamber. The radiated signals are then received at
the test antenna that is positioned inside the test zone. The test antenna is
mounted on a φ-θ positioner which is capable of moving the antenna to pre-
defined spatial locations on a fixed radius from the centre of the quiet zone
according the measurement array configuration. Finally, the signal is received
at port 2 of the VNA. The most suitable approach for the PSP validation is
based on an omnidirectional antenna (omnidirectional pattern in AZ and wide BW
in EL) as the test can be automated easily. Alternatively, a directional
antenna could be used but requires frequent re-positioning.
The measurement and analysis procedure are given as follows:
1 Set the target channel model in the Channel Emulator.
2 For each position of the test antenna on the measurement array configuration
in the test zone, step & pause the emulator to different time instances.
Measure the complex frequency responses $H\left( f,t \right) = H\left( m\Delta
f,n\text{ΔT} \right),\ m = 0,\ldots,M - 1$ for all stepped channel snapshots
$n = 0,\ldots,N - 1$, where the interval between frequency and time samples is
$\Delta f$ and $\text{ΔT}$, respectively. The number of channel snapshots $N$
and frequency samples $M$.
3 Move the measurement antenna with a positioner to another location $k$ and
repeat step 2 to record frequency responses $H_{k}\left( m\Delta f,n\text{ΔT}
\right)$ of all stepped channel snapshots.
4 Repeat step 3 to record frequency responses at all $k = 1,\ldots,K$ spatial
sample points.
5 Estimate the measured PAS through the following two-step processing:
a In the first step, calculate the discrete azimuth and elevation angles (DoA)
for the measurement array configuration by applying the MUSIC algorithm.
Estimate the powers from the DoA and auto-covariance matrix of the received
signal acquired through VNA complex frequency response data. A near field to
far-field conversion is then applied to the transfer function between probes
and measurement array positions.
b In the second step, use the angle and power estimates, i.e. the discrete PAS
of N azimuth and elevation directions and power values in conjunction with a
4x4 DUT sampling array for beamforming with the conventional Bartlett
beamformer to estimate the "measured PAS seen by DUT" for PSP calculation.
6 Evaluate the reference OTA PAS for the 4x4 DUT array by applying the
conventional Bartlett beamformer to the OTA probe weights and the strongest
beam from the code book of 128 beam-grid with 4x4 DUT sampling array.
7 Calculate total variation distance (_D_ ~p~) from the reference and measured
PAS. Mathematically,
> {width="2.1625in" height="0.40694444444444444in"}
8 Calculate PSP values as PSP = (1-_D~p~_) x 100%.
> **VNA settings:**
>
> Table 7.4.1.6-1: VNA settings for FR2 PSPmeasurements
+------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +==================+======+===========================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Span | MHz | 0 (or the minimum) | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of traces | | 1000 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+ | Number of points | | 1 | +------------------+------+---------------------------+
**Channel model specification:**
> Table 7.4.1.6-2: Channel model specification for FR2 PSP measurements
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Item | Unit | Value | +=======================+===================+=======================+ | Center frequency | MHz | Downlink center | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | in Table 7.4.1-2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Distance between | wavelength (Note) | > 2 | | traces in channel | | | | model | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel model | | As specified in | | | | Clause 7.2 | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | NOTE: Time [s] = | | | | distance [λ] / MS | | | | speed [λ/s] | | | | | | | | MS speed [λ/s] = MS | | | | speed [m/s] / Speed | | | | of light [m/s] * | | | | Center frequency | | | | [Hz] | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
**Time Domain Alternative Method:**
PSP validation can also be implemented using time-domain techniques using the
testing setup presented in Figure 7.4.1.6-3. The VNA is substituted by a
signal generator, and a signal analyser.
{width="6.0in" height="2.5118055555555556in"}
Figure 7.4.1.6-3: Setup for PSP validation measurements based on time domain
> Table 7.4.1.6-3: Signal Generator Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Center frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in 3GPP as required per band
Output power dBm Function of the CE. Sufficiently above Noise Floor
> Table 7.4.1.6-4: Signal Analyzer Settings
Item Unit Value
* * *
Center frequency MHz Downlink centre frequency in 3GPP as required per band
Sampling Hz At least 10 times bigger than the max Doppler spread (_f~d~=v/λ)_
Observation time s At least 32s
The measurement and analysis procedure are given as follows:
Follow the same procedure as before, but _M_ is set to 1. The Channel Emulator
is not stepped, but it is allowed to play in free run mode for each of the _K_
spatial points.
### 7.4.2 Pass/Fail Criteria
The Pass/Fail Criteria of channel model validation for FR1 and FR2 is FFS.
# 8 Base station configuration
## 8.1 General
In this part, Base station configuration for NR MIMO OTA testing is defined.
## 8.2 gNodeB emulator settings
Editor's note: Further down selecting of parameters (FR1 TDD Bandwidth and FR2
DL Modulation) for RMC will be done in WI phase
The gNodeB emulator parameters shall be set according to Table 8.2-1 for FR1
common parameters, Table 8.2-2 for FR1 FDD 2x2 test parameters, Table 8.2-3
for FR1 TDD 2x2 test parameters, Table 8.2-4 for FR1 FDD 4x4 test parameters,
Table 8.2-5 for FR1 TDD 4x4 test parameters, and Table 8.2-6 for FR2 common
parameters, Table 8.2-7 and Table 8.2-8 for FR2 TDD 2x2 test parameters.
Table 8.2-1: FR1 Common test parameters
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | **Unit** | **Value** | | | | Parameter** | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | PDSCH | | T | | | | t | | ransmission | | | | ransmission | | scheme 1 | | | | scheme | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Carrier | Offset | RBs | 0 | | | co | between | | | | | nfiguration | Point A and | | | | | | the lowest | | | | | | usable | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | on this | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | (Note 2) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Subcarrier | kHz | 15 or 30 | | | | spacing | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL BWP | Cyclic | | Normal | | | co | prefix | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | #1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | RB offset | RBs | 0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | PRBs | Maximum | | | | contiguous | | t | | | | PRB | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 5.3.2 of | | | | | | TS 38.101-1 | | | | | | for tested | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | spacing | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Common | Physical | | 0 | | | serving | Cell ID | | | | | cell | | | | | | parameters | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | SSB | | First SSB | | | | position in | | in Slot #0 | | | | burst | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | SSB | ms | 20 | | | | periodicity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First DMRS | | 2 | | | | position | | | | | | for Type A | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | mapping | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PDCCH | Slots for | | Each slot | | | co | PDCCH | | | | | nfiguration | monitoring | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Symbols | Symbols | 0, 1 | | | | with PDCCH | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | Table 5.2-2 | | | | PRBs in | | of TS | | | | CORESET | | 38.101-4 | | | | | | for tested | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | spacing | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 1/AL8 | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | candidates | | | | | | and | | | | | | aggregation | | | | | | levels | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CCE-to-REG | | Non- | | | | mapping | | interleaved | | | | type | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | DCI format | | 1_1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | TCI state | | TCI state | | | | | | #1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Cross | | Not | | | | carrier | | configured | | | | scheduling | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CSI-RS for | First | | k~0~=0 for | | | tracking | subcarrier | | CSI-RS | | | | index in | | resource | | | | the PRB | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First OFDM | | l~0~ = 6 | | | | symbol in | | for CSI-RS | | | | the PRB | | resource 1 | | | | used for | | and 3 | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | | | l~0~ = 10 | | | | | | for CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 2 | | | | | | and 4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 1 for | | | | CSI-RS | | CSI-RS | | | | ports (X) | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CDM Type | | 'No CDM' | | | | | | for CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Density (ρ) | | 3 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | periodicity | | 20 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | 40 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource | | | | | | 1,2,3,4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | offset | | | | | | | | 10 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 1 | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 11 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 3 | | | | | | and 4 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | | | | | | | 20 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 1 | | | | | | and 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | 21 for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | resource 3 | | | | | | and 4 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Frequency | | Start PRB 0 | | | | Occupation | | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | PRB = BWP | | | | | | size | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | QCL info | | TCI state | | | | | | #0 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NZP CSI-RS | First | | k~0~ = 0 | | | for CSI | subcarrier | | | | | acquisition | index in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First OFDM | | l~0~ = 12 | | | | symbol in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | Same as | | | | CSI-RS | | number of | | | | ports (X) | | transmit | | | | | | antenna | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CDM Type | | 'FD-CDM2' | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Density (ρ) | | 1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | periodicity | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | 40 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 0 | | | | offset | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Frequency | | Start PRB 0 | | | | Occupation | | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | PRB = BWP | | | | | | size | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | QCL info | | TCI state | | | | | | #1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ZP CSI-RS | First | | k~0~ = 4 | | | for CSI | subcarrier | | | | | acquisition | index in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | First OFDM | | l~0~ = 12 | | | | symbol in | | | | | | the PRB | | | | | | used for | | | | | | CSI-RS | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 4 | | | | CSI-RS | | | | | | ports (X) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CDM Type | | 'FD-CDM2' | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Density (ρ) | | 1 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 15 kHz SCS: | | | | periodicity | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | 30 kHz SCS: | | | | | | 40 | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSI-RS | Slots | 0 | | | | offset | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Frequency | | Start PRB 0 | | | | Occupation | | | | | | | | Number of | | | | | | PRB = BWP | | | | | | size | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PDSCH DMRS | Antenna | | {1000, | | | co | ports | | 1001} for | | | nfiguration | indexes | | Rank 2 | | | | | | tests | | | | | | | | | | | | {1000-1003} | | | | | | for Rank 4 | | | | | | tests | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | | 1 for Rank | | | | PDSCH DMRS | | 2 tests | | | | CDM | | | | | | group(s) | | 2 for Rank | | | | without | | 4 tests | | | | data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCI state | Type 1 QCL | SSB index | | SSB #0 | | #0 | information | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | Type C | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Type 2 QCL | SSB index | | N/A | | | information | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | N/A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | TCI state | Type 1 QCL | CSI-RS | | CSI-RS | | #1 | information | resource | | resource 1 | | | | | | from | | | | | | 'CSI-RS for | | | | | | tracking' | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | Type A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Type 2 QCL | CSI-RS | | N/A | | | information | resource | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | QCL Type | | N/A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PT-RS | | PT-RS is | | | | co | | not | | | | nfiguration | | configured | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | | 1 | | | | number of | | | | | | code block | | | | | | groups for | | | | | | ACK/NACK | | | | | | feedback | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | | 1 | | | | number of | | | | | | HARQ | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HARQ | | Multiplexed | | | | ACK/NACK | | | | | | bundling | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Redundancy | | N.A | | | | version | | | | | | coding | | | | | | sequence | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Precoding | | SP Type I, | | | | co | | Random per | | | | nfiguration | | slot with | | | | | | PRB | | | | | | bundling | | | | | | granularity | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Symbols for | | OCNG Annex | | | | all unused | | A.5 of TS | | | | REs | | 38.101-4 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Minimum | | 20000 for | | | | Number of | | 15kHz SCS | | | | Slots per | | | | | | Stream | | 40000 for | | | | | | 30kHz SCS | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note 3) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Transmit | dBm | 13 dBm | | | | Power | | | | | | Control | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: UE | | | | | | assumes | | | | | | that the | | | | | | TCI state | | | | | | for the | | | | | | PDSCH is | | | | | | identical | | | | | | to the TCI | | | | | | state | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | the PDCCH | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmission. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | Point A | | | | | | coincides | | | | | | with | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | guard band | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | 5.3.3-1 | | | | | | from TS | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | for tested | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | and | | | | | | subcarrier | | | | | | spacing. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: For | | | | | | FR1 MIMO | | | | | | OTA test | | | | | | lab | | | | | | alignments | | | | | | and FR1 | | | | | | MIMO OTA UE | | | | | | performance | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements, | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values can | | | | | | be used: | | | | | | | | | | | | For FR1 | | | | | | bands | | | | | | >1GHz: 20k | | | | | | for 30kHz | | | | | | SCS, 10k | | | | | | for 15kHz | | | | | | SCS; | | | | | | | | | | | | For FR1 | | | | | | bands | | | | | | \ 0dB. If it is not the case, the mismatch
uncertainty at its input and output shall be either measured or determined by
the method described in [7].
\- Gain
\- If the external amplifier is used for both stages, measurement and
calibration the uncertainty contribution associated with it can be considered
systematic and constant -> 0dB. If it is not the case, this uncertainty shall
be considered.
#### B.1.2.7 Random uncertainty
This contribution is used to account for all the unknown, unquantifiable, etc.
uncertainties associated with the measurements. Random uncertainty MU
contributions are normally distributed. The random uncertainty term, by
definition, cannot be measured, or even isolated completely. A value of 0.2dB
aligned with LTE is suggested.
#### B.1.2.8 Throughput measurement: output level step resolution
The cause of this uncertainty contributor is due to the step size in the power
level used in the throughput measurement stage. Depending on the system
provider implementation, the power level adjustment is based on changing the
output power of BS simulator or channel model emulator. Fixed 0.5dB step is
defined for NR MIMO OTA testing, an uncertainty contribution of 0.25dB with a
rectangular distribution should be reported.
#### B.1.2.9 DUT sensitivity drift
Due to statistical uncertainty of throughput measurement, drift in the TRMS
can not be monitored. An uncertainty value of 0.2dB can be used, or the TRMS
drift should be measured, with a setup corresponding to the actual MIMO OTA
measurement.
#### B.1.2.10 Signal flatness
For wireless technologies with wide channel bandwidths, the test system might
not have a flat frequency response across the entire channel. While the range
calibration corrects for any variation of frequency response as a function of
the center frequency of the channel, the broadband radiated power measured or
delivered to the test zone will be a function of the entire channel bandwidth
as opposed to just the center frequency. Thus, any deviation of the rest of
the channel from the signal level at the center frequency will result in an
error in the measured result. The determination of the MU element is FFS.
#### B.1.2.11 Mismatch for calibration process
During calibration stage, there will be impendence mismatch between the
various RF cables and components used within the system. Standing waves are
created by the reflections between any two components and uncertainty in the
signal level will be generated. In general, three mismatch for calibration
process should be considered:
\- Loopback cable path: This item comes from the mismatch between the
reference cable and the loopback cable during the loopback cable measurement
step.
\- System input path: This item comes from the mismatch between the loopback
cable and the system input cable (generally the output cable after BS
simulator). The reflectivity of the source output port is measured at the end
of the loopback cable connecting to the system input cable.
\- Reference antenna: This item comes from the mismatch between the VNA input
port and the reference antenna. The reflectivity of the VNA input port is
measured at the end of the reference cable connecting to the reference
antenna.
#### B.1.2.12 Reference antenna positioning misalignment
This contribution originates from reference antenna alignment and pointing
error. In this measurement if the maximum gain directions of the reference
antenna and the receiving antenna are aligned to each other, this contribution
can be considered negligible and therefore set to zero.
#### B.1.2.13 Total Uncertainty of the Network Analyzer
This contribution originates from all uncertainties involved transmission
magnitude measurement (including drift and frequency flatness) with a network
analyser. The uncertainty value will be indicated in the manufacturer\'s data
sheet. It needs to be ensured that appropriate manufacturer\'s uncertainty
contribution is specified for the absolute levels measured.
#### B.1.2.14 Uncertainty of an absolute gain of the calibration antenna
The calibration antenna only appears in calibration phase (Stage 1).
Therefore, the gain uncertainty has to be taken into account. This uncertainty
will come from a calibration report with traceability to a National Metrology
Institute with measurement uncertainty budgets generated following the
guidelines outlined in internationally accepted standards.
#### B.1.2.15 Offset of the Phase Center of the Reference Antenna
During range reference measurement, if a directional antenna is used, the
uncertainty in the accuracy of positioning its phase center on the axis of
rotation will directly generate an uncertainty in this part of the
measurement. In practical measurement, sleeve dipoles and loops are used for
FR1 calibration, then the uncertainty of this element should be 0 dB, since
the phase center offset is negligible.
# B.2 Measurement uncertainty budget for FR2
## B.2.1 Measurement Uncertainty assessment
Table B.2.1-1: Measurement uncertainty budget for FR2 3D-MPAC
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UID | Des | Example | Example | Dist | Details | | | cription | value | value | ribution | in | | | of | (26 | (37GHz | of the | | | | unc | .5GHz≤f≤ | ≤ | pro | | | | ertainty | 29.5GHz) | f≤40GHz) | bability | | | | cont | | | | | | | ribution | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | Stage 2: | | | | | | | DUT | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | Mismatch | | | U-Shaped | B.2.2.1 | | | for | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | process | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | Measure | | | Normal | B.2.2.2 | | | distance | | | | | | | unc | | | | | | | ertainty | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | Quality | | | Rec | B.2.2.3 | | | of quiet | | | tangular | | | | zone | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | Base | | | Rec | B.2.2.4 | | | Station | | | tangular | | | | s | | | | | | | imulator | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | Channel | | | Normal | B.2.2.5 | | | Emulator | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -s | | | | | | | tability | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -l | | | | | | | inearity | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | A | | | Rec | B.2.2.6 | | | mplifier | | | tangular | | | | uncer | | | | | | | tainties | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | Random | | | Normal | B.2.2.7 | | | unc | | | | | | | ertainty | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | Th | | | Rec | B.2.2.8 | | | roughput | | | tangular | | | | meas | | | | | | | urement: | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | step | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | solution | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | DUT | | | Rec | B.2.2.9 | | | sen | | | tangular | | | | sitivity | | | | | | | drift | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 | Signal | | | Normal | B.2.2.10 | | | flatness | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Stage 1: | | | | | | | Cal | | | | | | | ibration | | | | | | | mea | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11 | Mismatch | | | U-Shaped | B.2.2.11 | | | for | | | | | | | cal | | | | | | | ibration | | | | | | | process | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | loopback | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | input | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eference | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | R | | | Normal | B.2.2.12 | | | eference | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | itioning | | | | | | | misa | | | | | | | lignment | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 13 | Quality | | | Rec | B.2.2.3 | | | of quiet | | | tangular | | | | zone | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 14 | Total | | | Rec | B.2.2.13 | | | unc | | | tangular | | | | ertainty | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | | Analyzer | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 15 | Unc | | | Normal | B.2.2.14 | | | ertainty | | | | | | | of an | | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | | gain of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | cal | | | | | | | ibration | | | | | | | antenna | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 16 | Offset | | | Normal | B.2.2.16 | | | of the | | | | | | | Phase | | | | | | | Center | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | eference | | | | | | | Antenna | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## B.2.2 Measurement error contribution descriptions
#### B.2.2.1 Mismatch for measurement process
This term comes from the mismatch between the system input cables connecting
to the base station simulator output port.
#### B.2.2.2 Measure distance uncertainty
The cause of this uncertainty contributor is due to the reduction of distance
between the measurement antenna and the DUT. Given that 0.75m is defined as
the minimum range length for FR2 3D-MPAC system, this term could be set as 0
dB.
#### B.2.2.3 Quality of quiet zone
The quality of the quiet zone procedure characterizes the quiet zone
performance of the anechoic chamber, specifically the effect of reflections
within the anechoic chamber including any positioners and support structures.
#### B.2.2.4 Base Station simulator
gNB emulator is used to drive a signal to the channel emulator and then to the
device under test. Generally there occurs uncertainty contribution from
absolute level accuracy, non-linearity and frequency characteristic of the gNB
emulator.
For practical reasons, in a case that a VNA is used as a calibration
equipment, gNB emulator is connected to the system after the calibration
measurement is performed by the VNA. Hence, the uncertainty on the absolute
level of gNB emulator (transmitter device) cannot be assumed as systematic.
This uncertainty should be calculated from the manufacturer's data in logs
with a rectangular distribution, unless otherwise informed. Furthermore, the
uncertainty of the non-linearity is included in the absolute level
uncertainty.
#### B.2.2.5 Channel Emulator
The channel emulator is also working as a signal source in the FR2 MIMO OTA
system, therefore there occurs uncertainty contribution from absolute level
accuracy, non-linearity, frequency characteristic and stability of the channel
emulator. These uncertainty contributions shall be taken from the
manufacturer's data sheet. This uncertainty value shall be the final value
after mmWave radio head.
#### B.2.2.6 Amplifier uncertainties
Any components in the setup can potentially introduce measurement uncertainty.
It is then needed to determine the uncertainty contributors associated with
the use of such components. For the case of external amplifiers, the following
uncertainties should be considered but the applicability is contingent to the
measurement implementation and calibration procedure.
\- Stability
\- An uncertainty contribution comes from the output level stability of the
amplifier. Even if the amplifier is part of the system for both measurement
and calibration, the uncertainty due to the stability shall be considered.
This uncertainty can be either measured or determined by the manufacturers'
data sheet for the operating conditions in which the system will be required
to operate.
\- Linearity
\- An uncertainty contribution comes from the linearity of the amplifier since
in most cases calibration and measurements are performed at two different
input/output power levels. This uncertainty can be either measured or
determined by the manufacturers' data sheet.
\- Noise Figure
\- When the signal goes into an amplifier, noise is added so that the SNR at
the output is reduced with regard to the SNR of the signal at the input. This
added noise introduces error on the signal which affects the Error Rate of the
receiver thus the EVM (Error Vector Magnitude). An uncertainty can be
calculated through the following formula:
{width="2.0in" height="0.44166666666666665in"}
\- Where SNR is the signal to noise ratio in dB at the signal level used
during the sensitivity measurement.
\- Mismatch
\- If the external amplifier is used for both stages, measurement and
calibration the uncertainty contribution associated with it can be considered
systematic and constant -> 0dB. If it is not the case, the mismatch
uncertainty at its input and output shall be either measured or determined by
the method described in [7].
\- Gain
\- If the external amplifier is used for both stages, measurement and
calibration the uncertainty contribution associated with it can be considered
systematic and constant -> 0dB. If it is not the case, this uncertainty shall
be considered.
#### B.2.2.7 Random uncertainty
This contribution is used to account for all the unknown, unquantifiable, etc.
uncertainties associated with the measurements. Random uncertainty MU
contributions are normally distributed. The random uncertainty term, by
definition, cannot be measured, or even isolated completely. A value of 0.2dB
aligned with FR1 is suggested.
#### B.2.2.8 Throughput measurement: output level step resolution
The cause of this uncertainty contributor is due to the step size in the power
level used in the throughput measurement stage. Depending on the system
provider implementation, the power level adjustment is based on changing the
output power of BS simulator or channel model emulator. Fixed 0.5dB step is
defined for NR MIMO OTA testing, an uncertainty contribution of 0.25dB with a
rectangular distribution should be reported.
#### B.2.2.9 DUT sensitivity drift
Due to statistical uncertainty of throughput measurement, drift in the TRMS
can not be monitored. An uncertainty value of 0.2dB can be used, or the TRMS
drift should be measured, with a setup corresponding to the actual MIMO OTA
measurement.
#### B.2.2.10 Signal flatness
For wireless technologies with wide channel bandwidths, the test system might
not have a flat frequency response across the entire channel. While the range
calibration corrects for any variation of frequency response as a function of
the center frequency of the channel, the broadband radiated power measured or
delivered to the test zone will be a function of the entire channel bandwidth
as opposed to just the center frequency. Thus, any deviation of the rest of
the channel from the signal level at the center frequency will result in an
error in the measured result. The determination of the MU element is FFS.
#### B.2.2.11 Mismatch for calibration process
During calibration stage, there will be impendence mismatch between the
various RF cables and components used within the system. Standing waves are
created by the reflections between any two components and uncertainty in the
signal level will be generated. In general, three mismatch for calibration
process should be considered:
\- Loopback cable path: This item comes from the mismatch between the
reference cable and the loopback cable during the loopback cable measurement
step.
\- System input path: This item comes from the mismatch between the loopback
cable and the system input cable (generally the output cable after BS
simulator). The reflectivity of the source output port is measured at the end
of the loopback cable connecting to the system input cable.
\- Reference antenna: This item comes from the mismatch between the VNA input
port and the reference antenna. The reflectivity of the VNA input port is
measured at the end of the reference cable connecting to the reference
antenna.
#### B.2.2.12 Reference antenna positioning misalignment
This contribution originates from reference antenna alignment and pointing
error. In this measurement if the maximum gain directions of the reference
antenna and the receiving antenna are aligned to each other, this contribution
can be considered negligible and therefore set to zero.
#### B.2.2.13 Total Uncertainty of the Network Analyzer
This contribution originates from all uncertainties involved transmission
magnitude measurement (including drift and frequency flatness) with a network
analyser. The uncertainty value will be indicated in the manufacturer\'s data
sheet. It needs to be ensured that appropriate manufacturer\'s uncertainty
contribution is specified for the absolute levels measured.
#### B.2.2.14 Uncertainty of an absolute gain of the calibration antenna
The calibration antenna only appears in calibration phase (Stage 1).
Therefore, the gain uncertainty has to be taken into account. This uncertainty
will come from a calibration report with traceability to a National Metrology
Institute with measurement uncertainty budgets generated following the
guidelines outlined in internationally accepted standards.
#### B.2.2.15 Offset of the Phase Center of the Reference Antenna
Gain is defined at the phase centre of the antenna. If the phase centre of the
calibration antenna is not aligned at the centre of the set up during the
calibration, then there will be uncertainty related to the measurement
distance.
###### ### Annex C: Environmental requirements
# C.1 Scope
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s) in FR1 and FR2.
# C.2 Ambient temperature
All the MIMO OTA requirements are applicable in room temperature e.g. 25°C.
# C.3 Operating voltage
For FR1 MIMO OTA, all nominal voltage test cases shall be performed with the
DUT operated in stand-alone battery powered mode.
For FR2 MIMO OTA, all nominal voltage test cases shall be performed with the
DUT operated in stand-alone battery powered mode or external power source. It
shall be demonstrated that the impact of external power source to device
performance is negligible comparing to stand-alone battery powered mode.
###### ### Annex D: Procedure to characterize the quality of the quiet zone
# D.1 FR1 quality of the quiet zone
Unwanted reflections and support structure blockage cause a volumetric ripple
to the field magnitude seen from each measurement antenna as shown in Figure
D1-1. By rotating an omnidirectional antenna through the test volume as
illustrated by the red line, this volumetric ripple may be probed to obtain an
estimate of the measurement uncertainty due to this volumetric error. The
quality of the quiet zone test consists of a phi-axis ripple test that covers
a cylindrical quiet zone 20 cm in diameter around the phi axis and 20 cm tall.
Each reference antenna is oriented with its axis parallel to the phi axis at a
total of three positions offset 10 cm perpendicular to the phi with 0 cm and
±10 cm offsets parallel to the phi axis. At each position, the phi axis is
rotated 360°o record the ripple. Each position is labeled by its radial and
axial offset from the center position, (_R_ ,_Z_), using 0, +, or -- to
represent the appropriate offset in each direction. See Figure D1-2 for
additional information.
{width="6.220833333333333in" height="2.5694444444444446in"}
Figure D1-1: Volumetric ripple and 20cm Phi axis cut
{width="5.558333333333334in" height="4.790972222222222in"}
Figure D1-2: Phi-axis test geometry
For each polarization and band, repeat the following steps:
1 Place the Measurement Antenna and any associated theta-axis positioner at
theta = 90° such that the Measurement Antenna is boresight with the center of
the quiet zone. The Measurement Antenna should be at the same separation
distance to be used for actual pattern measurements. This distance must be at
least _R_ (the minimum measurement distance is defined in clause 6.6) meters
away from the center of the quiet zone. Select the polarization of the
Measurement Antenna to correspond to the polarization (V or H) to be tested.
2 Mount the reference antenna to the phi-axis positioner using a low
permittivity dielectric support. Use the sleeve dipole for the V polarization
and the loop for the H polarization. At each of the six offset positions,
ensure that the axis of the reference antenna is parallel to the phi axis of
rotation.
3 Attach a signal source to a coaxial cable feeding the Measurement Antenna
and set the frequency to the appropriate channel. Set the amplitude to a level
appropriate for the measurement receiver. Connect a measurement receiver to
the reference antenna. The received signal during the ripple test measurement
should be at least 40 dB above the noise floor or noise errors greater than
0.1 dB will result. Ensure that all coaxial cables are dressed to minimize
effects upon the measurement results.
4 Rotate the reference antenna about the phi axis and record the signal
received by the Measurement Antenna at resolution sufficient to ensure
smoothly varying curves for a total of 360°.
5 Record the measurement results to a file that can be imported into a
spreadsheet.
6 Record test parameters including: (a) the distance between the measurement
and reference antennas, (b) cable losses and other losses associated with the
measurement setup, (c) the power of the signal source at the reference antenna
connector, and (d) the noise level of the receiver with no signal applied.
7 Repeat steps 1 through 6 above for each reference antenna (polarization and
band) for each of the 6 test positions, offsetting 100 mm ±2 mm from the
center of the quiet zone in each direction along the phi axis and radially
from the center. In order to accommodate reference positioning in the lower
portion of the quiet zone, support materials with a dielectric constant less
than 1.2 may be removed to a maximum distance of 250 mm outside the quiet zone
for the tests that require additional clearance.
# D.2 FR2 quality of the quiet zone
The FR2 quality of quiet zone validation test characterizes the quiet zone
performance of the anechoic chamber, specifically the effect of reflections
within the anechoic chamber including any positioners and support structures.
The spherical test zone with 20 cm diameter to be validated with the FR2
quality of quiet zone procedure is illustrated in Figure D.2-1.
{width="5.0in" height="4.0in"}
Figure D.2-1: Illustration of spherical 20 cm test zone validated using
quality of quiet zone procedure
The quality of quiet zone test procedure, equipment, and test frequencies are
defined in Annex O.2 of TS 38.521-2 [9]. For NR FR2 MIMO OTA, only the single-
directional EIRP and EIS metrics need to be assessed and the procedure needs
to be performed using just a single 3D MPAC probe.
#