# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the results of co-existence evaluation for CLI
and RIM for NR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-182864: \"Revised WID on Cross link Interference (CLI) handling and
Remote Interference Management (RIM) for NR\".
[3] 3GPP TR 38.802: \"Study on new radio access technology Physical layer
aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.866: \"Study on remote interference management for NR\".
[5] 3GPP TR 38.803: \"Study on new radio access technology: Radio Frequency
(RF) and co-existence aspects\".
[6] 3GPP TR 36.828: \"Further enhancements to LTE Time Division Duplex (TDD)
for Downlink-Uplink (DL-UL) interference management and traffic adaptation\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[8] 3GPP TR 36.873: \"Study on 3D channel model for LTE\".
[9] 3GPP TR 36.942 (V15.0.0): \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Downlink:** in general the direction from a Network to a UE.
**Macro cells** : "Macro cells" are outdoor cells with a large cell radius.
**Micro cells** : "Micro cells" are small cells.
**Throughput** : A parameter describing service speed. The number of data bits
successfully transferred in one direction between specified reference points
per unit time (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Uplink** : An "uplink" is a unidirectional radio link for the transmission
of signals from a UE to a base station, from a Mobile Station to a mobile base
station or from a mobile base station to a base station.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACI Adjacent Channel Interference
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
CBW Carrier Band Width
CLI Cross Link Interference
DL Downlink
DTDD Dynamic TDD
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FR Frequency Range
gNB Next generation Node B
LOS Line Of Sight
NLOS Non Line Of Sight
NR New Radio
RIM Remote Interference Management
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
RU Resource Usage
SINR Signal-to-Interference Noise Ratio
SLA Side Lobe Attenuation
TDD Time division duplex(ing)
TDM Time division multiplex(ing)
TRP Total Radiated Power
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
# 4 Background
## 4.1 General
RAN4 requirements designed to ensure co-existence between different networks
operating on adjacent carriers in the same band (i.e. ACLR, ACS) were
developed in release 15 under the assumption of synchronized TDD. Interference
between adjacent carriers is mitigated as long as all networks apply uplink
and downlink at the same occasions.
Dynamic TDD describes a mode of operation in which a network adapts the DL/UL
subframe pattern according to traffic conditions. If different nodes in the
same network apply DL and UL at different times, then interference between
different UEs and different BS occurs. RAN1 has specified measurements to
enable co-channel Cross Link Interference (CLI) mitigation within the same
network.
Dynamic TDD also causes interferers between networks on adjacent channels.
Unlike the co-channel case, interference between adjacent channel networks
cannot be coordinated. Instead, the interference is mitigated by transmitter
and receiver selectivity (ACLR and ACS) as analogue filtering is not generally
feasible within an operating band.
As part of the CLI WI, RAN4 has been tasked to investigate the adjacent
channel co-existence effects arising when CLI, or more generically dynamic TDD
is operated in an aggressor network. The scope of the investigation is to
target no or very minimal impact on RF requirements, and so the investigation
examines the throughput losses experienced in a victim network assuming that
all base stations and UEs conform to the release 15 requirements.
This report captures a description of the adjacent channel interference
effects that arise with dynamic TDD as well as a simulation investigation of
adjacent channel interference in a number of different deployment scenarios.
## 4.2 WID description
### 4.2.1 Justification
As captured in TR38.802, NR aims to support duplexing flexibility in both
paired and unpaired spectrum.
> "NR supports paired and unpaired spectrum and strives to maximize
> commonality between the technical solutions, allowing FDD operation on a
> paired spectrum, different transmission directions in either part of a
> paired spectrum, TDD operation on an unpaired spectrum where the
> transmission direction of time resources is not dynamically changed, and TDD
> operation on an unpaired spectrum where the transmission direction of most
> time resources can be dynamically changing. DL and UL transmission
> directions at least for data can be dynamically assigned on a per-slot basis
> at least in a TDM manner. It is noted that transmission directions include
> all of downlink, uplink, sidelink, and backhaul link. NR supports at least
> semi-statically assigned DL/UL transmission direction as gNB operation,
> i.e., the assigned DL/UL transmission direction can be signaled to UE by
> higher layer signaling."
Rel-14 NR study showed that duplexing flexibility with cross-link interference
mitigation shows better user throughput compared to static UL/DL operation or
dynamic UL/DL operation without interference mitigation in indoor hotspot
(4GHz and 30GHz) and urban macro scenarios (4GHz and 2GHz). The mitigation
techniques include coordinated scheduling scheduling/beamforming, power
control, link adaptation, hybrid dynamic/static UL/DL resource assignment.
During Rel-15 NR WI, enablers for basic support of cross-link interference
mitigation schemes to support duplexing flexibility for paired and unpaired
spectrum were discussed but could not specified as the work has been
deprioritized. Mainly, it was agreed to introduce UE-to-UE measurement for
CLI, and Transmission Reception Point-to-Transmission Reception Point
measurement/coordination techniques were discussed. Rel-15 NR specification
supports mechanisms to allow dynamic DL/UL assignments. Yet, any cross-link
interference mitigation techniques and coexistence requirements have not been
specified and thus the use of dynamic DL/UL assignment operation is
considerably restricted.
As observed during study, dynamic DL/UL resource assignments would be more
beneficial in indoor hotspot and urban macro scenarios where gNB TX power is
rather limited, and ISD is small. During the study, dynamic DL/UL assignment
operations offers performance gain in high frequencies such as 4 GHz and 30
GHz. In such frequencies, advanced MIMO techniques can be utilized to mitigate
cross-link interference which has not been fully evaluated.
Furthermore, semi-static and/or dynamic DL/UL resource assignments should also
consider coexistence issues particularly among different operators where tight
coordination are challenged. Coexistence mechanisms among different operators
in co-channel and adjacent channels are essential regardless whether each cell
operates in semi-static or dynamic DL/UL assignment mechanism. For efficient
coexistence, not only coexistence requirements need to be understood but also
advanced mechanisms to mitigate interference such as transmission reception
point-to-transmission reception point measurement and adaptation based on
measurements should be considered.
In commercial TD-LTE network with macro deployment scenario, it is observed in
relatively large scale of eNBs that IoT (amounts to above -105dBm, even to
-90dBm in some extreme cases) in these eNBs intermittently deteriorated to
severely impact the network coverage and connection successful rate. Jointed
with several approaches, e.g., IoT statistics from the eNBs in some regions
over the forecast of troposphere bending
(http://www.dxinfocentre.com/tropo.html) , as well as the symptoms varying
with the artificially constructed transmission patterns, it is identified that
this kind of IoT degradation is caused by the downlink signal of remote eNB
(furthest as 300km away with observed record) as long as the atmospheric
conditions favourable for producing troposphere bending of radio waves are
available. To mitigate the impact of this kind of remote base station
interference as it intermittently happens, but not to scarify the network
resources all the time, in the field TD-LTE network, some adaptive mechanisms
are introduced, where abnormal IoT enhancement will trigger the victim eNB to
transmit a specific signal in a window, each eNB that detected the specific
signal in a window will identify itself as the contributor of the deteriorated
IoT in some eNB(s), and then it will reconfigure the GP or some other
parameters to reduce its weight to the interference. In this framework, the
impact of troposphere bending is mitigated to some extension, however, some
disadvantages are also apparent in the proprietary implementation, e.g., rely
on some static mechanism for detection signal transmission and detection due
to lack inter-vendor inter-eNB coordination, decision making is per individual
eNB based implementation, etc.
In NR deployment on lower TDD frequency, the impact of the troposphere bending
will continue existing if no special mechanisms are introduced. Though the
design of the frame structure in NR has already considered much more flexible
GP to leave larger room for avoiding the remote interference, it is necessary
to study mechanisms for identifying when or how long will the long enough GP
be configured, as well as corresponding gNB's behaviour and inter-gNB's
coordination procedure.
In the RIM SI, the frameworks for mechanisms for gNBs to start and terminate
the transmission/detection of reference signal(s), the functionalities and
requirements of the corresponding RS(s) as well as the design of the RS(s),
and the backhaul-based coordination mechanisms among gNBs have been studied,
where the outcome and conclusions of the SI was captured in TR38.866. It is
recommended to specify RIM RS(s) to support identifying remote interference
related information, it is also recommended to specify the inter-set RIM
backhaul signalling via the core network for backhaul-based solution.
### 4.2.2 Objective
In the WID on Cross Link Interference (CLI) handling and Remote Interference
Management (RIM) for NR , the detailed objectives for cross-link interference
mitigation to support flexible resource adaptation for unpaired NR cells are:
\- Specify cross-link interference measurements and reporting at a UE (e.g.,
CLI-RSSI and/or CLI-RSRP) [RAN1, RAN2, RAN4]
\- Perform coexistence study to identify conditions of coexistence among
different operators in adjacent channels [RAN4]
\- Target no or very minimal impact on RF requirement
NOTE: Measurement and coordination mechanisms should be applicable to IAB
nodes.
The detailed objectives for remote-interference management are:
\- Specify RIM RS resource and configurations, including [RAN1]
\- A basic RIM-RS resource
\- Configuration of RIM-RS and distinguishable RIM RS-1/2 resources, including
sequence type, time and frequency transmission pattern
\- Determine gNB set identification information through detection of RIM-RS(s)
by implicit or explicit indication. Determine further information that can be
carried by the RIM-RS, such as "Ducting phenomenon exists", "Enough
mitigation" & "Not enough mitigation", [RAN1, SA5]
\- Specify the inter-set RIM backhaul signalling via the core network to
convey the messages of "RIM-RS detected" and "RIM-RS disappeared [RAN3]
\- Identify corresponding OAM functions to support RIM operation [RAN1, RAN3].
This technical report focuses on evaluating co-existence of CLI among
different operators in adjacent channels and RAN4 targets no or very minimal
impact on RF requirement.
## 4.3 Dynamic TDD adjacent interference scenarios
### 4.3.1 General
This section provides a description of the interference scenarios that occur
between different TDD networks within the same operating band. Section 4.3.2
describes interference scenarios that occur during periods of time in which
both networks transmit DL or both UL. These interference scenarios occur in
both synchronized and unsynchronized networks. Section 4.3.3 describes
additional interference scenarios that arise in unsynchronized networks when
one network is transmitting downlink whilst another transmits uplink.
### 4.3.2 Interference scenarios that occur for both synchronized and
unsynchronized TDD (including CLI)
In synchronized TDD networks, there are two aspects of co-existence; DL-DL and
UL-UL. For DL-DL co-existence, UEs in a victim network are impacted by nearby
BS from an aggressor network during DL subframes.
{width="3.602739501312336in" height="1.3448129921259842in"}
Figure 4.3.2-1: DL-DL inter-operator interference scenario
The impact of the aggressor BS may be twofold; adjacent channel leakage from
the aggressor BS may raise the interference floor at the victim UE.
Alternatively, the wanted power from the aggressor BS may leak into the wanted
carrier due to the UE adjacent channel selectivity. Thus, BS ACLR and UE ACS
are the key RF parameters relating to DL-DL co-existence.
UL-UL co-existence refers to degradation of a BS receiver due to the impact of
nearby aggressor network UEs during UL subframes.
{width="3.826470909886264in" height="1.4461056430446195in"}
Figure 4.3.2-2: UL-UL inter-operator interference scenario
The impact of the UEs may be twofold; adjacent channel leakage from the
aggressor UEs may degrade the BS interference floor. Alternatively, the wanted
power from aggressor UEs may leak into the BS receive carrier due to the
adjacent channel selectivity of the BS. Thus, UE ACLR and BS ACS are the key
RF parameters relating to UL-UL coexistence.
When operating dynamic TDD or CLI, BS to UE and UE to BS interference of this
type can occur during subframes that are aligned in the same direction for
both operators.
### 4.3.3 Additional interference scenarios that occur for unsynchronized TDD
(including dynamic TDD and CLI)
Dynamic TDD in at least one network implies additional scenarios for adjacent
channel interference. When both networks transmit in the same direction, then
the DL-DL and UL-UL scenarios described in section 4.3.2 still occur. However,
there will be additional instances of DL (aggressor) -- UL (victim) and UL
(aggressor) -- DL (victim).
CLI techniques may be used within an individual network to avoid interference
due to dynamic TDD. However, between adjacent frequency networks, it must be
assumed that the interference is not coordinated and hence the interference is
only mitigated by suppression of adjacent channel and interference and
receiver selectivity (ACLR/ACS).
In the DL (aggressor) -- UL (victim) scenario, an aggressor BS is transmitting
whilst BS in a receiver network are receiving.
{width="4.128569553805774in" height="1.7008442694663166in"}
Figure 4.3.3-1: DL-UL adjacent channel interference scenario
For co-located BS, the interference from the aggressor will cause blocking, as
described in section 4.4. For non-co-located BS, the extent of degradation
will depend on the inter-site distance and the antenna gains of the two BS.
In the UL (aggressor) -- DL (victim) scenario, an aggressor UE is transmitting
whilst close to a victim UE.
{width="1.9711931321084863in" height="1.7433202099737533in"}
Figure 4.3.3-2: UL-DL adjacent channel interference scenario
The statistical co-existence will depend on UE TX power, separation, traffic
etc. and needs to be explored with system simulation.
## 4.4 BS-BS interference for zero grid shift scenarios
When dynamic TDD is operated by at least two operators that are co-located at
the same site and transmit in the same band, then BS-BS interference will
occur. If the victim is receiving and the aggressor transmitting, then the
victim will suffer interference. Conversely, if the aggressor is receiving and
the victim transmitting, then the aggressor will suffer the interference.
It was concluded that if dynamic TDD is operated at co-located base stations,
during subframes in which the victim BS is receiving uplink whilst an
aggressor BS is transmitting downlink the victim BS receiver would fail due to
interference from the aggressor. No simulation analysis is required for the
co-located base station scenario, since the uplink receiver blocking will
occur in all subframes for which one BS receives whilst the other transmits.
Details of the analysis leading to this conclusion are provided in Annex B.
# 5 Co-existence analysis
## 5.1 Scenarios
### 5.1.1 FR1
Table 5.1.1-1 summarizes agreed simulation scenarios for FR1 (4 GHz).
Table 5.1.1-1: Summary of simulation scenarios for FR1 (4 GHz)
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Scenario | Deployment | Aggressor | Aggressor | Victim | | | Scenario | baseline | in CLI | | | No. | | | | | | | (Aggressor | | | | | | -> Victim) | | | | +==========+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1 | Macro → | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | Macro | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2 | | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | Macro → | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | Indoor | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 4 | | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | Indoor → | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | Macro | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | Indoor → | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | Indoor | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | | NR, 100 | 1. NR, 100 | NR, 100 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 100MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.1.2 FR2
Table 5.1.2-1 summarizes agreed simulation scenarios for FR2 (30 GHz).
Table 5.1.2-1: Summary of simulation scenarios for FR2 (30 GHz)
+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Scenario | Deployment | Aggressor | Aggressor | Victim | | | Scenario | baseline | in CLI | | | No. | | | | | | | (Aggressor | | | | | | -> Victim) | | | | +==========+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 9 | Macro → | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | Macro | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | Micro → | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | Micro | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 13 | Indoor → | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | Macro | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 14 | | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | Indoor → | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | Indoor | MHz, DL | MHz, | MHz, DL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | UL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 16 | | NR, 200 | 1. NR, 200 | NR, 200 | | | | MHz, UL | MHz, | MHz, UL | | | | | DL50%+UL50% | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. NR, | | | | | | 200MHz, | | | | | | DL100% | | +----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.2 Simulation assumptions
### 5.2.1 FR1
#### 5.2.1.1 Network layout model
##### 5.2.1.1.1 Urban macro
Details on urban macro network layout model are listed in Table 5.2.1.1.1-1.
Table 5.2.1.1.1-1: Single operator layout for urban macro in FR1 (4 GHz)
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layout | Single layer with 19 hexagonal | | | cell with wrap around | +==================================+==================================+ | Inter-BS distance | 500 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 4 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Path-loss model | - Macro(Aggressor) → | | | Macro(Victim) | | | | | | - Macro-to-UE: UMa see TR | | | 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - Macro-to-Macro: UMa (h_UE = | | | 25 m) see TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - UE-to-UE: Outdoor UE -- | | | Outdoor UE see TR 36.828 [6]\ | | | + penetration loss see TR 38.803 | | | [5] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS Tx power | 49 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Tx power | 23 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configurations | (Mg,Ng,M,N,P)=(1,1,8,8,2) | | | (dH,dV)=(0.5,0.8)λ | | | | | | Note 1,2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna height | 25 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna element gain + | 5 dBi (assuming antenna 1.8dB | | connector loss | loss) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS receiver noise figure | 5 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna configuration | Omni | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna height | h~UT~=3(n~fl~-1)+1.5 | | | | | | n~fl~ for outdoor UEs: 1 | | | | | | n~fl~ for indoor UEs: | | | n~fl~\~uniform(1,N~fl~) where | | | N~fl~ = 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE antenna gain | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE receiver noise figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Multi operators layout | uncoordinated operation (100% | | | Grid Shift) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Mg = number of antenna | | | panels in elevation, Ng -- | | | number of antenna panels in | | | azimuth, M = number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in elevation, | | | N= number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in azimuth, P | | | = number of polarizations. | | | | | | Note 2: TX power is specified | | | per polarization, a single | | | polarization may be simulated | | | under the assumption of | | | polarization match. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.2.1.1.2 Indoor
Details on indoor network layout model are listed in Table 5.2.1.1.2-1.
Table 5.2.1.1.2-1: Single operator layout for Indoor scenarios in FR1 (4 GHz)
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Layouts | 1. Indoor-to-Indoor : 6 BSs per | | | 120 m x 50 m | | | | | | {width="2.6319444444444446in" | | | height="1.0625in"} | | | | | | 2. Indoor-to-Macro : the number of | | | Indoor per macro cell (drop randomly) | | | = 1 | | | | | | {width="2.21966426071741in" | | | height="1.7239577865266842in"} | +=============================+=======================================+ | Inter-BS distance | Indoor-to-Indoor: 20 m | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | | The minimum distance between Macro to | | | Indoor: [35] m | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Minimum BS-UE (2D) distance | Indoor-to-Indoor: 0 m | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Minimum UE-UE (2D) distance | Indoor-to-Indoor: 1 m \~ 3 m | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 4G Hz | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | BS TX power | 24 dBm | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE TX power | 23 dBm | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Path-loss model | - Indoor (Aggressor) → Macro | | | (Victim): | | | | | | - BS-to-BS: InH-office + penetration | | | loss see TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - BS-to-UE: InH-office + penetration | | | loss see TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - UE-to-UE: Outdoor UE -- Outdoor | | | UE\ | | | + penetration loss see TR 38.803 | | | [5], TR 36.828 [6] | | | | | | - Indoor (Aggressor) → Indoor | | | (Victim) | | | | | | - BS-to-BS: InH-office see | | | TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - BS-to-UE: InH-office see | | | TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - UE-to-UE: InH-office see | | | TR 38.803 [5] | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | BS antenna | FR1 BS antenna element pattern for | | | Indoor scenario from subclause | | | 5.2.1.5.1 / ceiling | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | BS antenna height: | 3 m | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE antenna | Omni | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE antenna height | 1.5 m | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Antenna gain of UE | 0 dBi | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Cell selection criteria | Cell selection is based on RSRP | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | BS receiver noise figure | 5 dB | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE receiver noise figure | 9 dB | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | UE power control | Power control as defined in Section | | | 5.2.3.4 | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | Multi operators layout | uncoordinated operation (100% Grid | | | Shift) | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 ACIR
Table 5.2.1.2-1: ACIR for FR1
* * *
Parameter Assumption/Value **ACIR BS-BS** 43 dB **ACIR BS-UE** 33 dB **ACIR
UE-BS** 30 dB **ACIR UE-UE** 28 dB
* * *
#### 5.2.1.3 UE distribution
Table 5.2.1.3-1: UE distribution for FR1
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Scenarios | UE distribution | +======================+==============================================+ | **Indoor-to-Indoor** | Indoor -> Indoor = 1 user per Transmission | | | Reception Point; 100% indoor | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | **Macro-to-Indoor** | Indoor \ macro = 1 user per Transmission | | | Reception Point; Indoor has 100% indoor UE. | | | Macro victim has 50% indoor UE and 50% | | | outdoor. | | | | | | Indoor \ macro = Aggressor: 1 user per | | | Transmission Reception Point, 100% indoor. | | | Victim: 1 user per Transmission Reception | | | Point, 100% outdoor | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | **Urban Macro** | 20% indoor and 80% outdoor | | | | | **(Macro-to-Macro)** | | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
#### 5.2.1.4 Other simulation parameters
Table 5.2.1.4-1: Other simulation parameters for FR1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Indoor | Urban macro | +======================+======================+======================+ | Channel bandwidth | 100 MHz | 100 MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Scheduled channel | 100 MHz | 100 MHz | | bandwidth per UE | | | | (DL) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Scheduled channel | 100 MHz | 100 MHz | | bandwidth per UE | | | | (UL) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic model | Low (RU 10%) and | Low (RU 10%) and | | | Full buffer | Full buffer | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL power control | NO | NO | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | YES | YES | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS max TX power in | 24 dBm | 49 dBm | | dBm TRP (Total | | | | Radiated Power) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE max TX power in | 23 dBm | 23 dBm | | dBm | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE min TX power in | -33 dBm (100 MHz | -33 dBm (100 MHz | | dBm | CBW) | CBW) | | | | | | | see TS 38.101-1 | see TS 38.101-1 | | | [7] | [7] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Noise figure in | 5 dB | 5 dB | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Noise figure in | 9 dB | 9 dB | | dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover margin | 3 dB (Same as FR2) | 3 dB (Same as FR2) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.1.5 Antenna configuration
##### 5.2.1.5.1 Urban macro scenario
Table 5.2.1.5.1-1: FR1 BS antenna element pattern for Urban Macro scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element vertical | $$A_{E,V | | radiation pattern (dB) | }(\theta^{''}) = - \min\left{ 1 | | | 2\left( \frac{\theta^{''} - 90{^ | | | \circ}}{\theta_{\text{3dB}}} \ri | | | ght)^{2},\text{SL}A_{V} \right} | | | ,\theta_{\text{3dB}} = 65{^\circ | | | },\text{SL}A_{V} = 25\text{dB}$$ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element horizontal | $ | | radiation pattern (dB) | $A_{E,H}(\phi^{''}) = - \min\lef | | | t{ 12\left( \frac{\phi^{''}}{\p | | | hi_{\text{3dB}}} \right)^{2},A_{ | | | m} \right},\phi_{\text{3dB}} = | | | 65{^\circ},A_{m} = 25\text{dB}$$ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Combining method for 3D antenna | | | element pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum directional gain of an | 5 dBi (assuming 1.8dB loss) | | antenna element _G~E,max~_ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Mg = number of antenna | | | panels in elevation, Ng -- | | | number of antenna panels in | | | azimuth, M = number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in elevation, | | | N= number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in azimuth, P | | | = number of polarizations. | | | | | | Note 2: TX power is specified | | | per polarization, a single | | | polarization may be simulated | | | under the assumption of | | | polarization match. | | | | | | Note 3: A 65 degree horizontal | | | element beamwidth was assumed | | | for simulations, even though the | | | physically correct beamwidth | | | would be 130 degrees. The | | | difference in assumption does | | | not substantially impact the | | | simulation results. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.2.1.5.2 Indoor scenario
Table 5.2.1.5.2-1: FR1 BS antenna element pattern for Indoor scenario
Parameter Values
* * *
Antenna element vertical radiation pattern (dB)  
Antenna element horizontal radiation pattern (dB)  
Combining method for 3D antenna element pattern (dB)  
Maximum directional gain of an antenna element _G~E,max~_ 3.5 dBi (assuming
1.8dB loss)
##### 5.2.1.5.3 UE antenna element pattern
The UE antenna element is assumed to be omnidirectional with 0dBi gain.
### 5.2.2 FR2
#### 5.2.2.1 Network layout model
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Urban macro
Table 5.2.2.1.1-1: Single operator layout for urban macro in FR2 (30 GHz)
+------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Network layout | hexagonal grid, 19 macro sites, 3 sectors | | | per site with wrap around | +========================+============================================+ | Inter-site distance | 200 m | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | BS antenna height | 25 m | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Path-loss model | - Macro (Aggressor) -- Macro (Victim) | | | | | | - Macro-to-Macro: UMa (h_UE = 25 m) see | | | TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - Macro-to-UE(V): Uma + penetration loss | | | see TR 38.803 [5] | | | | | | - UE-to-UE: UMi (h_BS=1.5 m \~ 22.5 m)\ | | | + penetration loss see TR 38.803 [5] | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Shadowing correlation | Between cells: 1.0 | | | | | | Between sites: 0.5 | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+ | Multi operators layout | uncoordinated operation (100% Grid Shift) | +------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Dense urban
Table 5.2.2.1.2-1: Single operator layout for Dense urban in FR2 (30 GHz)
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Values | Remark | +======================+======================+======================+ | Network layout | Fixed cluster circle | note1 | | | within a macro cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of micro BSs | 3 | 3 cluster circles | | per macro cell | | are in a macro cell. | | | | 1 cluster circle has | | | | 1 micro BS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radius of UE | \ Indoor = 1 user per Transmission Reception Point;
100% indoor Macro-to-Indoor Indoor \ macro = Aggressor: 1 user per
Transmission Reception Point, 100% indoor. Victim: 1 user per Transmission
Reception Point, 100% outdoor
#### 5.2.2.4 Other simulation parameters
Table 5.2.2.4-1: Other simulation parameters
Parameters Indoor Urban macro Dense urban
* * *
Channel bandwidth 200MHz 200MHz 200MHz Scheduled channel bandwidth per UE (DL)
200MHz 200MHz 200MHz Scheduled channel bandwidth per UE (UL) 200MHz 200MHz
200MHz Traffic model Low (RU 10%) and Full buffer Low (RU 10%) and Full buffer
Low (RU 10%) and Full buffer DL power control NO NO NO UL power control YES
YES YES BS max TX power in dBm TRP (Total Radiated Power) 23dBm 43dBm 33dBm UE
Peak EIRP in dBm 22.4 dBm 22.4 dBm 22.4 dBm UE min TX power in dBm -40dBm
-40dBm -40dBm BS Noise figure in dB 10 (note 1) 10 (note 1) 10 (note 1) UE
Noise figure in dB 10 (note 1) 10 (note 1) 10 (note 1) Handover margin 3dB 3dB
3dB Note 1: ITU WP5D response
#### 5.2.2.5 Antenna configuration
##### 5.2.2.5.1 Urban macro scenario
Table 5.2.2.5.1-1: FR2 BS antenna modelling for urban macro scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element vertical | | | radiation pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element horizontal | | | radiation pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Combining method for 3D antenna | | | element pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum directional gain of an | 3 dBi (assuming 1.8dB loss) | | antenna element _G~E,max~_ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (M~g~, N~g~, M, N, P) | For 30 GHz: (1, 1, 8, 16, 2) | | | Note1,2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (d~v~, d~h~) | (0.5λ, 0.5λ) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Mg = number of antenna | | | panels in elevation, Ng -- | | | number of antenna panels in | | | azimuth, M = number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in elevation, | | | N= number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in azimuth, P | | | = number of polarizations. | | | | | | Note 2: TX power is specified | | | per polarization, a single | | | polarization may be simulated | | | under the assumption of | | | polarization match. | | | | | | Note 3: A 65 degree element | | | beamwidth was assumed for | | | simulations, even though the | | | physically correct beamwidth | | | would be 130 degrees. The | | | difference in assumption does | | | not substantially impact the | | | simulation results. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.2.2.5.2 Dense urban scenario
Table 5.2.2.5.2-1: FR2 BS antenna element pattern for dense urban scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element vertical | | | radiation pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element horizontal | | | radiation pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Combining method for 3D antenna | | | element pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum directional gain of an | 3 dBi (assuming 1.8dB loss) | | antenna element _G~E,max~_ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configuration | (M~g~, N~g~, M, N, P) = (1, 1, | | | 8, 16, 2) | | | | | | Note 1,2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (d~v~, d~h~) | (0.5λ, 0.5λ) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Mg = number of antenna | | | panels in elevation, Ng -- | | | number of antenna panels in | | | azimuth, M = number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in elevation, | | | N= number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in azimuth, P | | | = number of polarizations. | | | | | | Note 2: TX power is specified | | | per polarization, a single | | | polarization may be simulated | | | under the assumption of | | | polarization match. | | | | | | Note 3: A 65 degree element | | | beamwidth was assumed for | | | simulations, even though the | | | physically correct beamwidth | | | would be 130 degrees. The | | | difference in assumption does | | | not substantially impact the | | | simulation results | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.2.2.5.3 Indoor scenario
Table 5.2.2.5.3-1: FR2 BS antenna element pattern for indoor scenario
+---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +=======================================+=============================+ | Antenna element vertical radiation | | | pattern (dB) | | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Antenna element horizontal radiation | | | pattern (dB) | | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Combining method for 3D antenna | | | element pattern (dB) | | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Maximum directional gain of an | 3 dBi (assuming 2dB loss) | | antenna element _G~E,max~_ | | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | (M~g~, N~g~, M, N, P) ^note^ | For 30 GHz: (1, 1, 4, 8, 2) | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | (d~v~, d~h~) | (0.5λ, 0.5λ) | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Note 1: Mg = number of antenna panels | | | in elevation, Ng -- number of antenna | | | panels in azimuth, M = number of | | | antenna elements/subarrays in | | | elevation, N= number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in azimuth, P = | | | number of polarizations. | | | | | | Note 2: TX power is specified per | | | polarization, a single polarization | | | may be simulated under the assumption | | | of polarization match. | | | | | | Note 3: A 90 degree element beamwidth | | | was assumed for simulations, even | | | though the physically correct | | | beamwidth would be 130 degrees. The | | | difference in assumption does not | | | substantially impact the simulation | | +---------------------------------------+-----------------------------+
##### 5.2.2.5.4 UE antenna element pattern
Table 5.2.2.5.4-1: FR2 UE antenna element pattern
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Antenna element vertical | | | radiation pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna element horizontal | | | radiation pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Combining method for 3D antenna | | | element pattern (dB) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum directional gain of an | 3 dBi (assuming 5dBi directivity | | antenna element _G~E,max~_ | and 2dB loss) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configuration | (M~g~, N~g~, M, N, P) = (1, 1, | | | 2, 2, 2) | | | | | | Note 1,2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | (d~v~, d~h~) | (0.5λ, 0.5λ) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE orientation | Random orientation in the | | | azimuth domain: uniformly | | | distributed between -90 and 90 | | | degrees Note 3 | | | | | | Fixed elevation: 90 degrees | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Mg = number of antenna | | | panels in elevation, Ng -- | | | number of antenna panels in | | | azimuth, M = number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in elevation, | | | N= number of antenna | | | elements/subarrays in azimuth, P | | | = number of polarizations. | | | | | | Note 2: TX power is specified | | | per polarization, a single | | | polarization may be simulated | | | under the assumption of | | | polarization match. | | | | | | Note3: This is done to emulate | | | two panels: the configuration is | | | equivalent to 2 panels with 180 | | | shift in horizontal orientation | | | and UE orientation uniformly | | | distributed in the azimuth | | | domain between -180 and 180 | | | degrees. | | | | | | Note 4: A 90 degree element | | | beamwidth was assumed for | | | simulations, even though the | | | physically correct beamwidth | | | would be 130 degrees. The | | | difference in assumption does | | | not substantially impact the | | | simulation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.2.3 Common assumptions
#### 5.2.3.1 Propagation model
The Path loss model is summarized in Table 5.2.3.1-1. Note that the
distribution of the shadow fading is log-normal, and its standard deviation
for each scenario is given in Table 5.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.2.3.1-1: Path-loss models
+----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | Scenario | Pathloss | Shadow | Applicability | | | [dB], _f~c~_ | | range, | | | is in GHz and | fading | | | | _d_ is in | | antenna height | | | meters ^(6)^ | std [dB] | | | | | | default values | +================+================+==============+================+ | UMa LOS | | _σ~SF~_ =4.0 | 10m \7 | | | | | GHz is | | | | | validated | | | | | based on a | | | | | single | | | | | measurement | | | | | campaign | | | | | conducted at | | | | | 24 GHz. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: UMa | | | | | NLOS pathloss | | | | | is from | | | | | TR36.873 with | | | | | simplified | | | | | format and and | | | | | PL~UMa-LOS~ = | | | | | Pathloss of | | | | | UMa LOS | | | | | outdoor | | | | | scenario. | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | PL~UMi-LOS~ = | | | | | Pathloss of | | | | | UMi-Street | | | | | Canyon LOS | | | | | outdoor | | | | | scenario. | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: Break | | | | | point distance | | | | | _d~BP~_ = 2π | | | | | _h~BS~_ | | | | | _h~UT~_ | | | | | _f~c~_ /_c_ , | | | | | where _f~c~_ | | | | | is the centre | | | | | frequency in | | | | | Hz, _c_ = 3.0 | | | | | × 10^8^ m/s is | | | | | the | | | | | propagation | | | | | velocity in | | | | | free space, | | | | | and _h~BS~_ | | | | | and _h~UT~_ | | | | | are the | | | | | antenna | | | | | heights at the | | | | | BS and the UT, | | | | | respectively. | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | _f~c\ ~_ | | | | | denotes the | | | | | center | | | | | frequency | | | | | normalized by | | | | | 1GHz, all | | | | | distance | | | | | related values | | | | | are normalized | | | | | by 1m, unless | | | | | it is stated | | | | | otherwise. | | | | +----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+
#### 5.2.3.2 LOS model
The Line-Of-Sight (LOS) probabilities are given in Table 5.2.3.2-1.
Table 5.2.3.2-1: LOS probability
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenario | LOS probability (distance is in | | | meters) | +==================================+==================================+ | UMi -- Street canyon | Outdoor users: | | | | | | Indoor users: | | | | | | Use _d~2D-out~_ in the formula | | | above instead of _d~2D~_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UMa | Outdoor users: | | | | | | where | | | | | | and | | | | | | Indoor users: | | | | | | Use _d~2D-out~_ in the formula | | | above instead of _d~2D~_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Indoor -- Open office | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note: The LOS probability is | | | derived with assuming antenna | | | heights of 3m for indoor, 10m | | | for UMi, and 25m for Uma | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.3.3 O-to-I penetration loss
The Path loss incorporating O-to-I building penetration loss is modelled as in
the following:
PL = PL~b~ + PL~tw~ + PL~in~ + _N_(0, σ _~P~^2^_)
where PL~b~ is the basic outdoor path loss given in Section 5.1.2.2.1. PL~tw~
is the building penetration loss through the external wall, PL~in~ is the
inside loss dependent on the depth into the building, and σ _~P~_ is the
standard deviation for the penetration loss.
PL~tw~ is characterized as:
is an additional loss is added to the external wall loss to account for non-
perpendicular incidence;
, is the penetration loss of material _i_ , example values of which can be
found in Table 5.2.3.3-1.
_p~i~_ is proportion of _i_ -th materials, where ; and
_N_ is the number of materials.
Table 5.2.3.3-1: Material penetration losses
Material Penetration loss [dB]
* * *
Standard multi-pane glass $$L_{\text{glass}} = 2 + 0.2 \cdot f$$ IRR glass
$$L_{\text{IRRglass}} = 23 + 0.3 \cdot f$$ Concrete $$L_{\text{concrete}} = 5
+ 4 \cdot f$$ Wood $$L_{\text{wood}} = 4.85 + 0.12 \cdot f$$ Note: f is in GHz
Table 5.2.3.3-2 gives PL~tw~, PL~in~ and σ _~P~_ for two O-to-I penetration
loss models. The O-to-I penetration is UT-specifically generated, and is added
to the SF realization in the log domain.
Table 5.2.3.3-2: O-to-I penetration loss model
Path loss through external wall: $\mathbf{\text{PL}}_{\mathbf{\text{tw}}}$
[dB] Indoor loss: $\mathbf{\text{PL}}_{\mathbf{\text{in}}}$ [dB] Standard
deviation: σ _~P~_ [dB]
* * *
Low-loss model $$5 - 10\log_{10}\left( 0.3 \cdot 10^{-
\frac{L_{\text{glass}}}{10}} + 0.7 \cdot 10^{- \frac{L_{\text{concrete}}}{10}}
\right)$$ 0.5 _d_ ~2D-in~ 4.4 High-loss model $$5 - 10\log_{10}\left( 0.7
\cdot 10^{- \frac{L_{\text{IRRglass}}}{10}} + 0.3 \cdot 10^{-
\frac{L_{\text{concrete}}}{10}} \right)$$ 0.5 _d_ ~2D-in~ 6.5
_d~2D~-~in~_ is minimum of two independently generated uniformly distributed
variables between 0 and 25 m for RMa, UMa and UMi-Street Canyon. _d~2D~-~in~_
shall be UT-specifically generated.
Both low-loss and high-loss models are applicable to UMa and UMi-Street
Canyon.
Only the low-loss model is applicable to RMa.
The composition of low and high loss is a simulation parameter that should be
determined by the user of the channel models, and is dependent on the use of
metal-coated glass in buildings and the deployment scenarios. Such use is
expected to differ in different markets and regions of the world and also may
increase over years to new regulations and energy saving initiatives.
Furthermore, the use of such high-loss glass currently appears to be more
predominant in commercial buildings than in residential buildings in some
regions of the world.
The pathloss incorporating O-to-I car penetration loss is modelled as in the
following:
PL = PL~b~ + _N_(_μ_ , σ _~P~^2^_)
where PL~b~ is the basic outdoor path loss given in Section 7.4.1. _μ_ = 9,
and σ _~P~_ = 5. Optionally, for metallized car windows, _μ_ = 20 can be used.
The O-to-I car penetration loss models are applicable for at least 0.6-60 GHz.
#### 5.2.3.4 Transmission power control model
For downlink scenario, no power control scheme is applied.
For uplink scenario, TPC model specified in Section 9.1 TR 36.942 [9] is
applied with following parameters.
\- CLx-ile = 88 + 10*log10(200/X), where X is UL transmission BW (MHz)
\- γ = 1
#### 5.2.3.5 Received signal power model
The following model is applied.
RX_PWR = TX_PWR -- Path loss + G_TX + G_RX
where:
RX_PWR is the received power.
TX_PWR is the transmitted power.
G_TX is the transmitter antenna gain (directional array gain).
G_RX is the receiver antenna gain (directional array gain).
#### 5.2.3.6 Evaluation metric
Table 5.2.3.6-1: Parameters describing baseline Link Level performance for 5G
NR
* * *
Parameter DL UL Notes α, attenuation 0.6 0.4 Represents implementation losses
SNIR~MIN~, dB -10 -10 Based on QPSK, 1/8 rate (DL) & 1/5 rate (UL) SNIR~MAX~,
dB 30 22 Based on 256QAM 0.93(DL) & 64QAM 0.93 (UL)
* * *
#### 5.2.3.7 Antenna modelling
Note the above gives the correct antenna array radiation pattern, however the
correct gain is only achieved if the element pattern is selected for the exact
element spacing. For other element spacing's, the element pattern must be
separately calculated such that it is correct for the element spacing (_d~g,H\
and~ d~g,V~). If_ is not linked to the element spacing then the calculated
absolute gain may diverge from the correct value in a manner that varies as
the beam is steered.
_The correct composite array radiation pattern directivity(D) is given by:_
,
_The composite array radiation pattern gain can then be calculated as:_
Where L is the Loss associated with the antenna. This is currently included in
the estimate for element gain , and is 1.8dB.
#### 5.2.3.8 Simulation description
Adopt following simulation steps.
1\. Aggressor and victim network are generated.
\- UEs are distributed randomly across the network.
2\. UE associations: UEs are associated to base station based on coupling
loss.
\- Associations are made assuming a single element at both UE and BS.
3\. Once association is done, round robin scheduling is used. BF weights are
adjusted to point to the LOS direction between BS-UE. This is done for both
victim and aggressor networks.
4\. (Optional) Throughput is computed in the victim systems without
considering ACI as below:
\- $\text{Thput}_{\text{NO}\ \text{ACI}}\left\lbrack \text{bpshz}
\right\rbrack = f\left( \text{SINR}_{\text{ICI}} \right) = f\left( \frac{S}{N
+ I_{\text{ICI}}} \right)$, where $I_{\text{ICI}}$ is the inter-cell
interference.
5\. Throughput is computed considering ACI as below:
\- $\text{Thput}_{\text{ACI}}\left\lbrack \text{bpshz} \right\rbrack = f\left(
\text{SINR}_{ICI + ACI} \right) = f\left( \frac{S}{N + I_{\text{ICI}} +
I_{\text{ACI}}} \right)$, where $I_{\text{ACI}}$ is the adjacent channel
interference.
NOTE: Simulation results should be in the form of the throughput with adjacent
network with DTDD and without DTDD and the relative difference between the two
can be compared at 50% and 5% points.
## 5.3 Simulation results
### 5.3.1 General
This sub-clause captures the co-existence simulation results for scenarios in
Table 5.1.1-1 and Table 5.1.1-2. The following cases are considered as
follows:
\- Case 1: (Baseline) the transmission directions of aggressor and victim are
set as all DL.
\- Case 2: The transmission direction of aggressor is randomly set as DL and
UL with a 50% probability.
\- Case 3: The transmission direction of aggressor is set as UL, which is
opposite to the victim's transmission direction.
### 5.3.2 Simulation limitations
Some limitations may have the potential to influence the impact to neighbor
operator networks in the co-existence simulation. The limitations are not
necessarily specific to the CLI simulations. Some of these aspects may be as
follows:
\- The simulations currently schedule a single UE at a time. For FR2 with
beamforming, this makes most sense, but for FR1 and sectorized base station
antennas, multi-user frequency domain scheduling could reveal more
interference cases. There may be many UEs transmitting in uplink
simultaneously resulting in a higher total radiated UL power. This could
change the UL-to-DL and also UL-to-UL ACI interference environment.
\- Lack of co-channel interference mitigation schemes in the indoor scenarios.
For any adjacent channel UL transmission to exceed the co-channel interference
level, the interfering UE would need to be extremely close to the victim UE.
Different geometries and ICIC mechanisms could improve the co-channel
performance, thereby making adjacent channel interference more visible.
\- In addition to the base station geometry, the UE geometry may also have an
impact on the results. The UEs are dropped in the simulations uniformly in the
specified simulation area, whereas in reality users would sometimes group e.g.
in a meeting room.
The RF performance parameters used in the simulation are according to RAN4
minimum requirements at the specified test points. For example, when it comes
to UE performance:
\- The TX leakage on the adjacent channel (ACLR) depends on the actual
resource allocation, with the specified minimum requirement typically
occurring only with a fully populated channel.
\- ACLR also depends on transmit power, typically improving when less than
maximum output power is configured.
### 5.3.3 FR1
#### 5.3.3.1 Scenario 1: 4 GHz Macro→ Macro (DL)
##### 5.3.3.1.1 Results
**Table 5.3.3.1-1:** SINR and throughput degradation for Macro aggressor Macro
victim
* * *
Source Observation Point Victim DL
* * *
                                   SNR degradation (dB)   Throughput degradation (%)
                                   50DL/50UL              UL                           50DL/50UL   UL
Huawei\ 5% -0.47 -0.13 -10.13 -2.83 (1905522)
              50%                  -0.12                  -0.37                        -0.57       -1.75
              95%                  -0.74                  -0.21                        0.00        0.00
LGE\ 5% - 2.5 - 31.33 (1907601)
              50%                  \-                     0.04                         \-          0.2
              95%                  \-                     0.2                          \-          0.47
Ericsson\ 5% \ Figure A.1.1.2-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.1.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.1.3-1: Macro-to-Macro SINR result (victim: DL)
### A.1.1.4 Qualcomm
{width="2.955224190726159in"
height="2.216593394575678in"}{width="3.067163167104112in"
height="2.3005544619422573in"}
Figure A.1.1.4-1: Comparison of SINR and throughput performance with ACI in
UMa-to-UMa scenario
## A.1.2 Scenario 2: 4GHz Macro → Macro (UL)
### A.1.2.1 Ericsson
#### A.1.2.1.1 100% grid shift
##### A.1.2.1.1.1 100% utilization
{width="3.0074628171478563in" height="2.2555971128608925in"}
{width="3.1496062992125986in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
Figure A.1.2.1.1.1-1: UL SINR and throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift, 500m
ISD.
{width="3.0671642607174103in"
height="2.2975010936132985in"}{width="3.1535433070866143in"
height="2.3622047244094486in"}
Figure A.1.2.1.1.1-2: UL SINR and throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift, 200m
ISD
##### A.1.2.1.1.2 50% utilization
{width="3.018694225721785in" height="2.261194225721785in"}
{width="3.1535433070866143in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
Figure A.1.2.1.1.2-1: UL SINR and throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift, 500m
ISD
##### A.1.2.1.1.3 10% utilization
{width="3.111940069991251in"
height="2.3310411198600174in"}{width="3.1535433070866143in"
height="2.3622047244094486in"}
Figure A.1.2.1.1.3-1: UL SINR and throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift, 500m
ISD.
#### A.1.2.1.2 Other grid shifts
{width="3.044775809273841in" height="2.2807305336832897in"}
{width="3.1535433070866143in" height="2.3622047244094486in"}
Figure A.1.2.1.2-1: UL SINR and throughput CDFs with 50% grid shift, 500m ISD.
{width="3.028655949256343in"
height="2.268655949256343in"}{width="3.1535433070866143in"
height="2.3622047244094486in"}
Figure A.1.2.1.2-2: UL SINR and throughput CDFs with 10% grid shift, 500m ISD.
### A.1.2.2 Huawei
{width="3.0074628171478563in"
height="2.2547003499562557in"}{width="3.0816010498687665in"
height="2.267361111111111in"}
Figure A.1.2.2-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.2.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.2.3-1: Macro-to-Macro SINR result (victim: UL)
## A.1.3 Scenario 3: 4GHz Macro → Indoor (UL)
### A.1.3.1 Huawei
{width="2.9701487314085737in"
height="2.2680555555555557in"}{width="3.196365923009624in"
height="2.2694444444444444in"}
Figure A.1.3.1-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.3.2 Nokia
#### A.1.3.2.1 Full buffer
{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.3.2.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Macro
aggressor Indoor UL victim (full buffer)
#### A.1.3.2.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.3.2.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Macro
aggressor Indoor UL victim, 10% traffic
## A.1.4 Scenario 4: 4GHz Macro → Indoor (DL)
### A.1.4.1 Huawei
{width="3.044775809273841in"
height="2.187153324584427in"}{width="3.1268766404199475in"
height="2.2527777777777778in"}
Figure A.1.4.1-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.4.2 Nokia
#### A.1.4.2.1 Full buffer
{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.4.2.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Macro
aggressor Indoor DL victim, full buffer traffic
#### A.1.4.2.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.4.2.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Macro
aggressor Indoor DL victim, 10% traffic
### A.1.4.3 Qualcomm
{width="2.9328357392825897in"
height="2.1998009623797024in"}{width="3.0441404199475066in"
height="2.247916666666667in"}
Figure A.1.4.3-1: Comparison of SINR and throughput performance with ACI in
UMa-to-InH scenario
## A.1.5 Scenario 5: 4GHz Indoor → Macro (UL)
### A.1.5.1 Huawei
{width="2.962687007874016in"
height="2.2211318897637797in"}{width="3.126275153105862in"
height="2.2635378390201226in"}
Figure A.1.5.1-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.5.2 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.5.2-1: Indoor-to-Macro (victim: UL) SINR result (24 dBm Tx power)
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.5.2-2: Indoor-to-Macro (victim: UL) SINR result (30 dBm Tx power)
### A.1.5.3 Nokia
#### A.1.5.3.1 Full buffer
{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
**Figure A.1.5.3.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for
Indoor aggressor Macro UL victim, full buffer traffic**
#### A.1.5.3.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.2204724409448815in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.5.3.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Macro UL victim, 10% traffic
## A.1.6 Scenario 6: 4GHz Indoor → Macro (DL)
### A.1.6.1 Huawei
{width="2.9179101049868765in"
height="2.187564523184602in"}{width="3.3243055555555556in"
height="2.223581583552056in"}
Figure A.1.6.1-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.6.2 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.6.2-1: Indoor-to-Macro (victim: DL) SINR result (24 dBm Tx power)
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.6.2-2: Indoor-to-Macro (victim: DL) SINR result (30 dBm Tx power)
### A.1.6.3 Nokia
#### A.1.6.3.1 Full buffer
{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.6.3.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Macro DL victim, full buffer traffic
#### A.1.6.3.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="5.228346456692913in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.6.3.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Macro DL victim, 10% traffic
## A.1.7 Scenario 7: 4GHz Indoor → Indoor (UL)
### A.1.7.1 Ericsson
#### A.1.7.1.1 100% utilization
{width="2.9925371828521437in" height="2.2355161854768153in"}
{width="3.1569444444444446in" height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.7.1.1-1: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the UL victim (24 dBm
BS transmission power)
{width="3.027075678040245in" height="2.261317804024497in"}
{width="3.1569444444444446in" height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.7.1.1-2: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the UL victim (30 dBm
BS transmission power)
#### A.1.7.1.2 0% utilization
{width="3.026910542432196in" height="2.261194225721785in"}
{width="3.1569444444444446in" height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.7.1.2-1: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the UL victim
#### A.1.7.1.3 10% utilization
{width="2.9925371828521437in"
height="2.2355161854768153in"}{width="3.1569444444444446in"
height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.7.1.3-1: CDF for the SINR and corresponding throughput for the UL
victim.
### A.1.7.2 Huawei
{width="2.940298556430446in"
height="2.202769028871391in"}{width="3.3244674103237095in"
height="2.3132567804024498in"}
Figure A.1.7.2-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.7.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.7.3-1: Indoor-to-Indoor (victim: UL) SINR result (24 dBm Tx power)
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.7.3-2: Indoor-to-Indoor (victim: UL) SINR result (30 dBm Tx power)
### A.1.7.4 Nokia
#### A.1.7.4.1 Full buffer
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.7.4.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor UL victim, full buffer traffic
#### A.1.7.4.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.7.4.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor UL victim, 10% traffic
## A.1.8 Scenario 8: 4GHz Indoor → Indoor (DL)
### A.1.8.1 Ericsson
#### A.1.8.1.1 100% utilization
{width="3.1569444444444446in" height="2.3583333333333334in"}
{width="3.0074628171478563in" height="2.2466655730533684in"}
{width="3.1569444444444446in" height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.8.1.1-1: CDFs for the SINR and throughput for the DL victim with
linear and logarithmic scale\ (24 dBm BS transmission power)
{width="3.154166666666667in" height="2.3625in"}
{width="3.0298512685914263in" height="2.2693864829396326in"}
{width="3.154166666666667in" height="2.3625in"}
Figure A.1.8.1.1-2: CDFs for the SINR and throughput for the DL victim with
linear and logarithmic scale\ (30 dBm BS transmission power)
#### A.1.8.1.2 50% utilization
{width="3.0173917322834645in"
height="2.254083552055993in"}{width="3.1569444444444446in"
height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.8.1.2-1: CDF for the SINR and corresponding throughput for the DL
victim.
#### A.1.8.1.3 10% utilization
{width="2.9566338582677165in"
height="2.208695319335083in"}{width="3.1569444444444446in"
height="2.3583333333333334in"}
Figure A.1.8.1.3-1: CDF for the SINR and corresponding throughput for the DL
victim.
### A.1.8.2 Huawei
{width="3.095651793525809in"
height="2.5202941819772526in"}{width="3.0520833333333335in"
height="2.4965277777777777in"}
Figure A.1.8.2-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.1.8.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.8.3-1: Indoor-to-Indoor (victim: DL) SINR result (24 dBm Tx power)
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.1.8.3-2: Indoor-to-Indoor (victim: DL) SINR result (30 dBm Tx power)
### A.1.8.4 Nokia
#### A.1.8.4.1 Full buffer
{width="4.533321303587051in"
height="2.3311679790026245in"}{width="4.535180446194226in"
height="2.6215824584426946in"}
**Figure A.1.8.4.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for
Indoor aggressor Indoor DL victim, full buffer traffic**
#### A.1.8.4.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.1.8.4.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor DL victim, 10% traffic
### A.1.8.5 Qualcomm
{width="3.1556375765529308in"
height="2.071104549431321in"}{width="2.9894017935258095in"
height="1.9807895888013998in"}
Figure A.1.8.5-1: Comparison of SINR and throughput performance with ACI in
InH-to-InH scenario (24 dBm Tx power)
# A.2 FR2
## A.2.1 Scenario 9: 30 GHz Macro → Macro (DL)
### A.2.1.1 Ericsson
{width="2.9298611111111112in"
height="2.3688877952755907in"}{width="3.2521741032370954in" height="2.5in"}
Figure A.2.1.1-1: Downlink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift
### A.2.1.2 Huawei
{width="2.781800087489064in"
height="2.38837489063867in"}{width="3.344155730533683in"
height="2.505325896762905in"}
Figure A.2.1.2-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.1.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.2.1.3-1: Macro-to-Macro SINR result (victim: DL)
### A.2.1.4 Nokia
#### A.2.1.4.1 Full buffer
{width="4.533333333333333in"
height="2.2077919947506564in"}{width="4.53416447944007in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.2.1.4.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Macro
aggressor Macro DL victim, full buffer traffic
#### A.2.1.4.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="4.53416447944007in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.53416447944007in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.2.1.4.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Macro
aggressor Macro DL victim, 10% traffic
### A.2.1.5 Qualcomm
{width="2.9192147856517936in"
height="1.9350656167979003in"}{width="3.3040737095363077in"
height="1.889015748031496in"}
Figure A.2.1.5-1: Comparison of SINR and throughput performance with ACI in
UMa-to-UMa scenario
## A.2.2 Scenario 10: 30 GHz Macro → Macro (UL)
### A.2.2.1 Ericsson
#### A.2.2.1.1 100% grid shift
##### A.2.2.1.1.1 100% Utilization
{width="2.9818121172353456in"
height="2.4406408573928258in"}{width="3.2708333333333335in"
height="2.4520833333333334in"}
Figure A.2.2.1.1.1-1: Uplink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift,
100% utilization
##### A.2.2.1.1.2 50% Utilization
{width="2.9819444444444443in"
height="2.4009109798775152in"}{width="3.277083333333333in"
height="2.470138888888889in"}
Figure A.2.2.1.1.2-1: Uplink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift,
50% utilization
##### A.2.2.1.1.3 10% Utilization
{width="3.033333333333333in"
height="1.902597331583552in"}{width="3.186111111111111in"
height="1.837237532808399in"}
Figure A.2.2.1.1.3-1: Uplink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 100% grid shift,
10% utilization
#### A.2.2.1.2 50% grid shift
##### A.2.2.1.2.1 100% Utilization
{width="2.9826082677165355in"
height="2.24078302712161in"}{width="3.2472222222222222in"
height="2.4520833333333334in"}
Figure A.2.2.1.2.1-1: Uplink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 50% grid shift,
100% utilization
##### A.2.2.1.2.2 50% Utilization
{width="2.964583333333333in"
height="2.4594739720034995in"}{width="3.295138888888889in"
height="2.4756944444444446in"}
Figure A.2.2.1.2.2-1: Uplink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 50% grid shift, 50%
utilization
##### A.2.2.1.2.3 10% Utilization
{width="2.9472222222222224in"
height="2.4579615048118986in"}{width="3.3194444444444446in"
height="2.4881944444444444in"}
Figure A.2.2.1.2.3-1: Uplink SINR and Throughput CDFs with 50% grid shift, 10%
utilization
### A.2.2.2 Huawei
{width="2.9467989938757655in"
height="2.398943569553806in"}{width="3.3001957567804023in"
height="2.4723939195100613in"}
Figure A.2.2.2-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.2.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.2.2.3-1: Macro-to-Macro SINR result (victim: UL)
## A.2.3 Scenario 11: 30 GHz Micro → Micro (UL)
### A.2.3.1 Ericsson
{width="3.1043482064741905in"
height="2.3472222222222223in"}{width="3.1391305774278213in"
height="2.363888888888889in"}
Figure A.2.3.1-1: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the UL victim.
### A.2.3.2 Huawei
{width="2.8956517935258095in"
height="2.515972222222222in"}{width="3.324675196850394in"
height="2.4920209973753282in"}
Figure A.2.3.2-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
## A.2.4 Scenario 12: 30 GHz Micro → Micro (DL)
### A.2.4.1 Ericsson
{width="2.956045494313211in"
height="1.9933716097987753in"}{width="3.1555555555555554in"
height="1.9608048993875766in"}
Figure A.2.4.1-1: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the DL victim.
### A.2.4.2 Huawei
{width="2.95625in" height="2.442361111111111in"}{width="3.259739720034996in"
height="2.4433464566929133in"}
Figure A.2.4.2-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.4.3 Qualcomm
{width="2.904348206474191in"
height="2.479861111111111in"}{width="3.306824146981627in"
height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure A.2.4.3-1: Comparison of SINR and throughput performance with ACI in
UMi-to-UMi scenario
## A.2.5 Scenario 13: 30 GHz Indoor → Macro (UL)
### A.2.5.1 Huawei
{width="2.904348206474191in"
height="2.4916666666666667in"}{width="3.331169072615923in"
height="2.4968886701662294in"}
Figure A.2.5.1-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.5.2 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.2.5.2-1: Indoor-to-Macro SINR result (victim: UL)
## A.2.6 Scenario 14: 30 GHz Indoor → Macro (DL)
### A.2.6.1 Huawei
{width="2.8956517935258095in"
height="2.5057600612423445in"}{width="3.3402799650043744in"
height="2.5037160979877515in"}
Figure A.2.6.1-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.6.2 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.2.6.2-1: Indoor-to-Macro SINR result (victim: DL)
## A.2.7 Scenario 15: 30 GHz Indoor → Indoor (UL)
### A.2.7.1 Ericsson
{width="2.8868055555555556in" height="2.1623370516185476in"}{width="3.3375in"
height="2.1741437007874014in"}{width="3.3375in" height="2.083233814523185in"}
Figure A.2.7.1-1: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the UL victim.
{width="3.5118055555555556in" height="2.4545450568678917in"}
Figure A.2.7.1-2: CDF for the SINR for the UL victim, without UL power
control.
### A.2.7.2 Huawei
{width="2.8521741032370955in"
height="2.470833333333333in"}{width="3.3489588801399823in"
height="2.5102230971128607in"}
Figure A.2.7.2-1: CDF of UL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.7.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.2.7.3-1: Indoor-to-Indoor (victim: UL) SINR result
### A.2.7.4 Nokia
#### A.2.7.4.1 Full buffer
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.2.7.4.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor UL victim, full buffer traffic
#### A.2.7.4.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.2.7.4.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor UL victim, 10% traffic
## A.2.8 Scenario 16: 30 GHz Indoor → Indoor (DL)
### A.2.8.1 Ericsson
{width="3.034782370953631in"
height="2.395138888888889in"}{width="3.1979166666666665in"
height="2.395138888888889in"}
Figure A.2.8.1-1: CDF for the SINR and throughput for the DL victim.
### A.2.8.2 Huawei
{width="2.8956517935258095in"
height="2.4964293525809276in"}{width="3.3569444444444443in"
height="2.516207349081365in"}
Figure A.2.8.2-1: CDF of DL SINR and throughput from Huawei
### A.2.8.3 LGE
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure A.2.8.3-1: Indoor-to-Indoor (victim: DL) SINR result
### A.2.8.4 Nokia
#### A.2.8.4.1 Full buffer
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.2.8.4.1-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor DL victim, full buffer traffic
#### A.2.8.4.2 FTP3 with 10% load
{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}{width="4.535433070866142in"
height="2.84251968503937in"}
Figure A.2.8.4.2-1: SINR (top) and throughput (bottom) degradation for Indoor
aggressor Indoor DL victim, 10% traffic
### A.2.8.5 Qualcomm
{width="2.8608694225721787in" height="2.479861111111111in"}
{width="3.3068252405949257in" height="2.4803149606299213in"}
Figure A.2.8.5-1: Comparison of SINR and throughput performance with ACI in
InH-to-InH scenario
###### ### Annex B: Detailed analysis for zero grid shift
This annex provides analysis of the inter-BS interference effects when there
is zero grid shift (i.e. co-located aggressor and victim base stations). The
interference between the base stations may be calculated analytically by
considering the aggressor TX power, and the isolation between co-located base
stations.
FR1:
For FR1, a typical assumption for the isolation between co-located base
stations is 30dB. The 30dB assumption is the basis of the transmitter
intermodulation and co-location blocking requirements for the FR1
specifications. A typical TRP transmit power as assumed for this study is
24-49dB, dependent on scenario (see section 5.3.1).
The power arriving into the receiver of a co-located victim is the aggressor
TX power -- isolation = 24 to 49dBm -- 30dB = -6 to 19dBm. The FR1 receiver
blocking requirement is -43dBm, so the interference from the aggressor to the
victim will block the RF receiver and prevent uplink reception at the victim.
FR2:
For FR2, during the development of the 38.104 RF requirements in RAN4, around
50 to 70dB isolation between co-located BS was assumed. The total radiated
power assumed for an FR2 BS in this study is 23 to 33 dBm, depending on
scenario (see section 5.3.2). The range of interference power levels arriving
at the receiver of a co-located receiver would be equal to TX power --
isolation = (23 to 33dBm) -- (50 to 70dB) = -17 to -47dBm. The FR2 blocking
requirement is equal to the reference sensitivity + 33dB. The highest FR2
blocking level is -50dBm (for other sensitivity levels, the FR2 blocking
requirement will be lower). Thus, power levels in the range arising for co-
location scenarios will lead to receiver blocking in all circumstances.
#