# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document is technical report for NR RF Requirement Enhancements
for FR2 WI.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.307: \"Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a
release-independent frequency band\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Fs Frequency separation class
Fsd Frequency separation class for DL-only spectrum
∆MB~P,n~ Reference sensitivity relaxation parameter
∆MB~S,n~, EIS spherical coverage relaxation parameter
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ADC Analog to digital converter
AoA Angle of arrival
BC Beam correspondence
CA Carrier aggregation
CBW Channel bandwidth
CC Component carrier
CSI-RS Channel State Information Reference Signal
DL Downlink
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
EIS Effective Isotropic sensitivity
EVM Error vector magnitude
FR2 Frequency range 2
LO Local oscillator
MBR Multiband relaxation
MOP Maximum output power
NZP CSI RS Non zero power CSI-RS
OBW Occupied bandwidth
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDSCH Physical Data Shared Channel
PRB Physical resource block
PSD Power spectral density
RRM Radio resource management
RSRP Reference signal received power
SCS Sub-carrier spacing
SMTC SSB-based RRM Measurement Timing Configuration
SNR Signal to noise ratio
SSB Synchronization Signal Block
UE User equipment
UL Uplink
QCL Quasi co-located
# 4 Topics
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 FR2 UE Beam Correspondence requirements
### 4.2.1 Beam correspondence based on SSB
#### 4.2.1.1 Feasibility
A requirement on beam correspondence based on SSB verifies the UE\'s ability
to select its uplink beam based on measurements of SSB. SSB is a mandatory
signal with various repetition rates (5ms, 10ms, 20ms, 40ms, 80ms, and 160ms
periodicity). As a reliable, repetitive resource, it can serve as a standard
candle for the UE to evaluate its beams for best directional gain. It follows
that SSB can indeed serve as a reference signal for beam correspondence.
SSB-based beam correspondence is very important because it is the basis of
initial acquisition. It also potentially allows faster roll-out of networks,
because it requires a simpler set of signals from the gNB. These
considerations generally imply both motivation and feasibility to use SSB as
the sole reference signal for the UE to achieve beam correspondence.
A requirement on beam correspondence based on SSB, provided the side
conditions can be guaranteed, presents a problem due to two sets of MOP: MOP
requirements for SSB based BC and CSI-RS based BC. Two sets of MOP indicated
not only MOP test will be doubled, but also other TX test cases will be
affected. Two sets of MOP test may produce two different beam peak direction,
however, most of other TX test cases are based on unique beam peak direction.
Two different beam peak direction will make other TX test cases ambiguous. It
is not reasonable and not affordable to test all TX test cases two times based
on the two beam peak direction respectively. Not only beam peak direction, but
also side condition will be used for other TX test case. According to TS
38.101-2, beam correspondence side conditions for SSB and CSI-RS will be used
for other test cases. Based on above observations, it can be concluded that
SSB based BC is not feasible, unless side condition can be guaranteed and two
sets of MOP issue can be addressed. One possible approach is that SSB based BC
will be set as an optional feature, if UE supports SSB based BC, then MOP
based on SSB based BC will be considered as the unique MOP, and CSI-RS based
BC test shall be skipped; if UE does not support SSB based BC, MOP will be
based on CSI-RS based BC.
Cell-level mobility is based on L3 SSB measurements. For a UE that supports
SSB-based beam correspondence, beam-level mobility is based on L1 SSB
measurements. The SSBs used for L1 and L3 measurements may not be the same,
but the UE possesses knowledge of which SSB is associated with each
measurement category. The UE that supports SSB-based beam correspondence can
opportunistically use its L1 measurement opportunities to perform beam
refinement.
SSB-based RRM requirements upper-bound the number of Rx beams to 8, in context
of a specific cell search and measurement timeline, see table 9.5.4.1-1 of
TS38.133. The standard however does not mandate that the SSB codebook consist
exclusively of rough beams. A simple algorithm for a UE to implement SSB-based
beam correspondence is below:
1\. To search non-serving cells/SSBs, use rough beams on non-serving cell SSB
bursts in SMTC windows
2\. For serving-cell SSB measurements, use progressively refined beams when
conditions allow. Opportunistic beam refinement detail is below:
a. At time-1, UE receives 8 SSB bursts
i. UE obtains 8 sets of data pairs, e.g. (rough beam-1, RSRP-1), (rough
beam-2, RSRP-2), ..., (rough beam-8, RSRP-8).
ii. UE finds the data set corresponding to the max RSRP out of 8 sets, for
example, (rough beam-2, RSRP-2)
b. At time-2, UE receives 8 SSB bursts.
iii. UE measures RSRP with rough beam-2 first.
iv. UE compares the measured RSRP to RSRP-2 that was measured in the previous
occasion Time-1.
v. If the difference is marginal, then UE can tell it doesn\'t need to repeat
RSRP measurement for all hypotheses. (UE doesn\'t need to perform neighbor
cell search because those resources will be provided separately, e.g.
measurement gap and/or SMTC configuration in measurement object)
vi. UE can attempt to refine Rx beam during 7 remaining SSB bursts.
c. At time-3, UE receives 8 SSB bursts.
vii. UE measures RSRP with rough beam-2 first.
viii UE compares the measured RSRP to RSRP-2 that was measured in the previous
occasion Time-2.
ix. Again, UE can tell it doesn\'t further need to measure RSRP.
x. UE performs beam refinement starting from the refined beam at Time-2.
xii. UE can tell the first tried refine beam quality is still as good as
Time-2.
xiii. UE can skip 6 remaining SSB burst reception for power saving.
d. At time-4, repeats the same procedure of Time-3
xiv. If measured RSRP is different from the previous one by some threshold
value, UE sweeps its Rx beam for the rest of the 7 SSB bursts, and follows
time-1 procedure.
This algorithm was implemented in a UE for experimental verification in a UE
compliance test context. The example UE was chosen for its superior spherical
coverage, a detail that helps later for this exercise. In Fig. 4.2.1.1-1, the
EIS CCDF is presented on a reversed (1 dB/ x division) EIS scale to allow for
shape comparison with EIRP CDF. The close similarity in shapes confirms that
the same set of beams is used in both DL and UL, in high path loss conditions.
Further considerations are required to confirm that the common beam set does
indeed comprise refined (high-gain beams):
1\. The peak EIRP value obtained from the CDF of SSB based BC is compared to
the best EIRP obtained by manually characterizing each refined beam. The
agreement (0.3 dB difference) between the \'head\' of the CDF and the manually
determined peak EIRP value confirms that EIRP in this CDF is indeed generated
from refined beams. By shape similarity, the conclusion can be extended to
sensitivity condition also.
2\. A second consideration is the shape of the CDF. RRM requirements assume
7dB lower gain with rough beams. While the gain difference can be smaller in
PC3 devices, it is still close to 10log(4). In context of this example UE\'s
CDF, one can conclude that no rough beams are used in the top 50% directions,
which have less than 6dB gain drop from peak. It is therefore possible to
confirm from measurements that refined beams have indeed been used for all
directions used to confirm spherical coverage compliance in this example UE.
Note that the example UE\'s superior spherical coverage merely helped
illustrate the dependence on refined beams to establish spherical coverage.
Figure 4.2.1.1-1: EIRP and EIS statistics for UE with SSB-based beam
correspondence
Not all companies have agreed that the algorithm above and supporting results
are proof of feasibility. One view is based on an interpretation of RRM rules
that limits the UE to the same 8 beams for all L1-RSRP measurements:
Even though BC is based on L1-RSRP, the Rx codebook size for SSB and CSI-RS
can still be significant different. For SSB based L1-RSRP, total 8Rx beams are
assumed, i.e. N=8 for the measurement period T~L1-RSRP_Measurement_Period_SSB~
defined in Table 9.5.4.1-1, TS38.133. Since the UE cannot assume QCL between
SSB used for L3 measurement and SSB for L1 measurement, Rx refinement for SSB
cannot be easily assumed. Meanwhile, SSB based L3 measurement is critical to
comply with in order to guarantee UE\'s mobility performance. Due to this
reason, it has been specified in TS38.133 that up to 24 SMTC can be used for
cell detection and measurement, respectively. Based on this analysis, all UE
designs cannot be assumed to implement more than 8 Rx beams, since further
increasing the number of Rx beam for SSB measurements including L1-RSRP and L3
can lead to a trade-off in measurement accuracy and/or delay.
The situation for CSI-RS based measurement is quite different. CSI-RS based Rx
refinement for L1-RSRP can be realized by P1/P2/P3 CSI-RS configurations. Even
for L3 measurement, it is noted that there is no CSI-RS L3
measurement/reporting requirements in Rel-15. Therefore, UE has the
flexibility to implement large codebook for Rx beamforming. It is also
reasonable to assume the restriction on Rx beam sweeping can be largely
relaxed for CSI-RS measurement since UE\'s mobility performance can be
maintained by SSB based L3 measurement. Rel-15 UE can take advantage this by
configuring denser Rx beam sweeping for CSI-RS than SSB.
An analysis of the performance degradation with SSB only based beam
correspondence, when compared to SSB+CSI-RS based beam correspondence, has
been performed based on the following simulation assumptions:
\- SSB SNR level is specified as per antenna elements. Depending on Rx antenna
array configuration, additional Rx beamforming gain should be considered to
derive the baseband SNR for RSRP measurement.
\- Additional RSRP measurement inaccuracy margin due to implementation is also
considered. In the simulations, implementation margin is uniformly distributed
within [-X dB, +X dB], where X=2 or 4.
\- P3 CSI-RS is not considered in the evalatuion of SSB-only based BC
performance.
\- Different antenna array configurations are evaluated.
\- The evaluation matric are defined as the CDF of 50-percentile EIRP
differences between SSB based and SSB+CSI-RS based BC.
\- Different size of Rx beam codebooks are assumed for SSB and CSI-RS
measurement. More specifically, codebook size of 4 and 8 are considered for
SSB related Rx beam sweeping and codebook size of 16 and 32 are assumed for
CSI-RS related Rx beam sweeping
The detailed simulation procedure can be described as follows:
**_For ue_cnt = 1 To num_UE_**
> **_For sample = 1 To num_sample_in_a_sphere_**
>
> _Measure RSRP_SSB over Rx beams in SSB_CODEBOOK_
>
> _Find SSB_rx_beam by maximizing RSRP_SSB_
>
> _Find SSB_tx_beam by adding UL mismatch to SSB_rx_beam_
>
> _Measure EIRP_SSB(sample)_
>
> _Measure RSRP_CSIRS over Rx beams in CSIRS_CODEBOOK_
>
> _Find CSIRS_rx_beam by maximizing RSRP_CSIRS_
>
> _Find CSIRS_tx_beam by adding UL mismatch to CSIRS_rx_beam_
>
> _Measure EIRP_CSIRS(sample)_
>
> **_END_**
>
> _50-percentile_EIRP_loss_SSB_wrt_CSIRS(ue_cnt) = 50-percentile (EIRP_CSIRS)
> - 50-percentile(EIRP_SSB)_
**_END_**
The simulation results are illustrated in Figures 4.2.1.1-2 and 4.2.1.1-3
below.
* * *
Figure 4.2.1.1-2: 50%-tile EIRP loss between SSB and SSB+CSI-RS based BC with
different RSRP implementation margin, 2x2 antenna array aonfiguration
* * *
Figure 4.2.1.1-3: 50%-tile EIRP performance loss between SSB and SSB+CSI-RS
based BC with different RSRP implementation margin, 4x1 Antenna Array
Configuration
The simulation results can be summarized as follows:
Table 4.2.1.1-1: 50^th^ percentile EIRP Loss at 90^th^ percentile
                                             Num beams per array for SSB   Num beams per array for CSI-RS   SSB SNR Level (dB)   EIRP Loss (dB) with zero RSRP margin   EIRP Loss (dB) with Implementation Margin of 2dB for RSRP   EIRP Loss (dB) with Implementation Margin of 4dB for RSRP
* * *
Antenna array with 2x2 Dual-Pol elements 4 16 6 3.4 4.7 4.5 13 2.2 2.1 2.0 8
16 6 2.5 2.9 3.3 13 1.7 1.6 1.8 4 32 6 3.6 4.0 5.1 13 2.6 2.2 2.4 8 32 6 2.8
3.1 3.6 13 1.9 1.8 2.2 Antenna array with 4x1 Dual-Pol elements 4 16 6 3.3 3.1
4.0 13 2.2 1.9 1.8 8 16 6 1 1 1.6 13 0.8 0.5 0.6 4 32 6 3.4 3.5 5.0 13 2.4 2.1
2.1 8 32 6 1 1.2 2.3 13 0.8 0.6 0.7
On the feasibility of beam correspondence based on SSB, RAN4 concluded the
following:
\- ∆p = 0 dB, an optional capability
\- If a Rel-16 UE indicates it doesn\'t support beam correspondence based on
SSB, then the network can expect the UE to fulfill beam correspondence based
on Rel-15 beam correspondence requirements.
\- Rel-16 will continue to have _beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping_ = 0
and _beamCorrespondenceWithoutUL-BeamSweeping_ = 1 UEs
#### 4.2.1.2 Side conditions
The side conditions for the requirement are summarized in Table 4.2.1.2-1
below.
Table 4.2.1.2-1: Side conditions for beam correspondence based on SSB
+-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | Parameter | Value | +=====================================================+===============+ | SSB min SNR level | 6 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | SSB periodicity | 20 ms | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | P1 CSI-RS configuration | Not used | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | P3 CSI-RS configuration | Not used | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | Use tracking CSI-RS configuration? | Yes | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | Tracking CSI-RS QCL info | qcl-TypeD=SSB | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | Tracking CSI-RS min SNR level | 6 dB | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | PDCCH/PDSCH DM-RS QCL info | qcl-TypeD=TRS | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: RAN4 didn\'t assume more than [1] SSB | | | indices should be transmitted | | | | | | NOTE 2: SSB use configuration for Rel-15 which is | | | specified in 38.508 per agreed in RAN4 #92bis | | | meeting | | +-----------------------------------------------------+---------------+
RAN4 discussed the applicability rule for peak direction for beam
correspondence based on SSB with the following outcome: if a UE supports beam
correspondence based on SSB, then the network can expect the UE to also
fulfill Rel-15 beam correspondence requirements. An additional applicability
rule is needed when the UE supports both SSB based beam correspondence and
CSI-RS based beam correspondence in Rel-16 (see Clause 4.2.2).
For UEs which support both beam correspondence based on SSB and beam
correspondence based on CSI-RS:
\- The UE RF core requirements for both side conditions specified in sublause
6.6.4.3.1 of TS38.101-2 apply
\- All UL RF requirements are verified with the side condition sets listed in
sublause 6.6.4.3.2 of TS38.101-2
\- If UE meets beam correspondence requirements based on SSB using side
condition sets listed in subclause 6.6.4.3.2 of TS38.101-2, and meets minimum
peak EIRP requirement by additonal representative test using the side
condition sets listed in subclause 6.6.4.3.3 of TS38.101-2, where the link
direction is determined in the SSB based beam correspondence test, then it is
considered that the UE has met both the SSB based and CSI-RS based beam
correspondence requirements
### 4.2.2 Beam correspondence based on CSI-RS
#### 4.2.2.1 Feasibility
RAN4 has discussed four potential methods to achieve a test condition where
the UE can be expected to perform beam correspondence based on the CSI-RS
signal only:
\- Method 1: DUT is configured with an active BWP containing no SSB
\- Method 2: SSB in wide beam and CSI-RS in fine beam from test equipment
\- Method 3: SSB and CSI-RS are present, but SSB\'s PSD is backed-off by XdB
from CSI-RS
\- Method 4: Decrease SSB power until UE SSB based SS-SINR measurement
reporting is ≤ [-3] dB
RAN4 has ruled out Method 1 due to incompatibility with CBW=400 MHz and the
potential for the UE to switch BWPs to continue measuring SSB. RAN4 has also
ruled out Method 2 due to testability concerns, since beam width
characteristics are not varied by test equipment in the RF test setup.
Some companies have indicated that the CSI-RS only condition may not be
typically observed a network and have requested further study to identify the
deployment scenario that this test is going to verify before agreeing the
requirement.
The UE RF front end architecture has to be designed with the assumption that
both SSB and CSI-RS signals are present, and the UE receiver has to
accommodate any PSD difference between CSI-RS and SSB so that the baseband can
demodulate both signals. Thus, a test case side condition which introduces a
PSD level difference between SSB and CSI-RS introduces a requirement on the
receiver which may or may not be well aligned with real deployment conditions.
Some companies have raised concerns that in a real network deployment, the UE
performs scans of SSB to identify neighbor cells and, in the situation of a
large imbalance between SSB and CSI-RS signals arriving from one cell, is
likely to find a different cell where the imbalance is lower and the SSB
signal strength is greater. Since RRM requirements for cell selection and
reporting are based on SSB, it is not likely a large PSD imbalance between the
SSB and CSI-RS signals is \"typical.\"
On the feasibility of beam correspondence based on CSI-RS, RAN4 concluded the
following:
\- SSB and CSI-RS are present, but SSB\'s PSD is backed-off by XdB from CSI-RS
\- The value of X is TBD in the range of [3 -- 9] dB, and is selected to be X
= 5 dB
#### 4.2.2.2 Side conditions
The side conditions for beam correspondence based on CSI-RS are listed in
Table 4.2.2.2-1 below.
Table 4.2.2.2-1: Side conditions for beam correspondence based on CSI-RS
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | P1 CSI-RS configuration | Not used | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P2 CSI-RS configuration | Not used | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P3 CSI-RS configuration | Is configured | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P3 CSI-RS QCL info | qcl-TypeD to P1 CSI-RS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P3 CSI-RS repetitions per | According to _maxNumberRxBeam_ | | resource set | UE capability IE of | | | MIMO-ParametersPerBand | | | repetitions per resource set | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P3 CSI-RS configuration | on | | repetition | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P3 CSI-RS min SNR level | 6 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P3 CSI-RS trigger | [Slot80(120kHz)] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Tracking CSI-RS periodicity | reuse Rel-15 | | | | | | 60 kHz SCS: 40 slots for CSI-RS | | | resources 1 and 2 | | | | | | 120 kHz SCS: 80 slots for CSI-RS | | | resources 1 and 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: One company has proposed | | | to define the P1 CSI-RS QCL info | | | as qcl-TypeD=\'none\' and the | | | following P3 CSI-RS | | | configuration: maxNumberRxBeam | | | in UE capability IE of | | | MIMO-ParametersPerBand | | | repetitions per resource set QCL | | | Type D to P1 CSI-RS | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
RAN4 discussed the applicability rule for peak direction for beam
correspondence based on CSI-RS with the following outcome: if a UE supports
beam correspondence based on CSI-RS, then the network can expect the UE to
also fulfill Rel-15 beam correspondence requirements. An additional
applicability rule is needed when the UE supports both SSB based beam
correspondence (see Clause 4.2.1) and CSI-RS based beam correspondence in
Rel-16.
Further elaborating on NOTE 1 in Table 4.2.2.2-1, an examination of the RAN1
design and associated signaling is provided below.
In TS 38.214 and TS 38.331, CSI-RS can be configured as beam management usage
with periodic and aperiodic, which are also defined as repetition on and off
in TS 38.331. Where repetition is configured in CSI-RS resource set as below:
For periodic CSI-RS configuration, we copy the configuration IE as below:
For _QCL-info_ configuration, it is specified as optional present, which means
the gNB/TE is allowed configure this QCL-Info as \'none\'.
Meanwhile, in TS 38.214, QCL configuration for _NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet_ with
higher layer parameter repetition is specified as below:
_For a CSI-RS resource in a NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet configured with higher
layer parameter repetition, the UE shall expect that a TCI-State indicates one
of the following quasi co-location type(s):_
_\- \'QCL-TypeA\' with a CSI-RS resource in a NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
configured with higher layer parameter trs-Info and, when applicable, \'QCL-
TypeD\' with the same CSI-RS resource, or_
_\- \'QCL-TypeA\' with a CSI-RS resource in a NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet
configured with higher layer parameter trs-Info and, when applicable, \'QCL-
TypeD\' with a CSI-RS resource in a NZP-CSI-RS-ResourceSet configured with
higher layer parameter repetition, or_
_\- \'QCL-TypeC\' with an SS/PBCH block and, when applicable, \'QCL-TypeD\'
with the same SS/PBCH block._
From TS 38.214, we can see that \'QCL-TypeD\' is not always provided by gNB
reflecting with the word \"when applicable\". Based on the above, periodic
CSI-RS beam management can be configured as QCL-info=\'none\' which is
justified with RAN1/2 specification.
If a configuration is defined with periodic CSI-RS(P1 CSI-RS), which is QCL-ed
with SSB for CSI-RS only test case, then from the perspective of beam
management, the proposed configuration actually means UE can skip P1 CSI-RS
measurement and just use the maintenance on SSB measurement as the P1
measurement result, even if there is XdB PSD difference between SSB and CSI-
RS. Combining with aperiodic CSI-RS configuration (P3 CSI-RS), it actually a
test case with both SSB and CSI-RS, which violates the objective in the WID.
Given these considerations, the motivation to define the side conditions as
shown in Table 4.2.2.2-1 is based on the observation that configuring CSI-RS
with \'_qcl-TypeD_ = _none\'_ in FR2 is not fully supported by the current
specification. As background, in order to resolve issues that may arise when
such an unexpected configuration is provided by network, it proposed in RAN1
to add default QCL assumption so that a subsequent UE behavior can be clearly
defined. This, however, was not accepted by RAN1. As an outcome, even in RAN1,
where CSI-RS configurations and pertinent UE behavior should be defined, there
was no clear assumption on default QCL and subsequent UE behavior when _qcl-
TypeD_ of periodic CSI-RS is absent. Therefore, all test cases requiring
periodic CSI-RS should avoid configuring _qcl-typeD = \'none\'_.
There may also be technical implementation issues which can be caused by P1
CSI-RS configuration with _qcl-typeD = \'none\'_. An initial UE Rx beam for P1
CSI-RS would not be optimized because UE cannot use the Rx beam obtained from
SSB, which makes UE consume more time and energy to train its Rx beam based on
P1 CSI-RS.
If there is no explicit QCL relation between SSB and P1 CSI-RS, UE would have
to conduct two independent beam managements which may end up with conflict
with each other. When P1 CSI-RS based beam tracking fails, UE cannot fallback
to SSB-based Rx beam without going through RLF.
## 4.3 Void
## 4.4 FR2 UE requirements for non-contiguous intra-DL CA for Frequency
separation classes larger than 1400 MHz
### 4.4.1 General
Enhanced DL CA aggregated BW is gated by:
\- DL data pipe size in the digital domain
\- Signal-handling bandwidth of the \'front end\', which include RF
electronics, ADCs, filters, etc. This parameter is identical to frequency
separation, which is defined as the frequency span between the lower edge of
the lowest component carrier and the upper edge of the highest component
carrier that a UE can support simultaneously.
DL data pipe size enhancement is left to UE implementation. UE frequency
separation enhancement is addressed in the UE architecture study in the next
clause. The following assumptions apply:
\- The UE\'s UL electronics (frequency separation ability) and data handling
capacity (\'data pipe\') are left untouched while the DL CA capability is
enhanced
\- The UE\'s DL CA frequency spectrum coverage, i.e the band where a UE can
support placing DL CCs is contiguous. This assumption does not mean DL CA must
also be contiguous.
\- All DL CCs have the same AoA
The UE can convey sufficient information about its RF CA capabilities to the
network by signaling the following three aspects:
\- Support for specific band combinations
\- The frequency separation class
\- A restriction on the allocation of DL carriers relative to the UL carriers
Based on this information, the network can configure the UE with CCs from the
set of UE supported combinations and according to the applicable restrictions.
We can envision the following potential allocation cases.
### 4.4.2 UE Architecture Choices
#### 4.4.2.1 Single receive chain with expanded capability
The receiver design comprises a single chain with enhanced capability relative
to rel. 15.
Figure 4.4.2.1-1: Single enhanced receiver to support wider frequency
separation
The UL architecture in a UE with independent T/R LOs allows UL coverage to
match DL coverage with retuning of TxLO. In the topology with common LOs, the
enhanced DL coverage will extend past the UL coverage equally on both sides,
unless the UL coverage is enhanced as well.
> Figure 4.4.2.1-2: UL options for UE with single enhanced receiver chain
#### 4.4.2.2 Multiple parallel receive chains
This implementation arranges multiple receiver chains to work in parallel to
deliver CA BW enhancement.
Figure 4.4.2.2-1: Multiple receiver chains to support wider frequency
separation
For UEs with independent Rx and Tx LOs, the UE\'s UL coverage can be made to
match it with retuning of TxLO. For UEs that utilize a common LO, the UL
coverage must be closely related to DL coverage of one of the receivers.
Figure 4.4.2.2-2: UL options for UE with multiple receiver chains
#### 4.4.2.3 UE architecture summary
The UE topologies above exhibit differing UL and DL coverage, summarized in
table 4.4.2.3-1.
Table 4.4.2.3-1: UL and DL coverage comparison for UEs
                               UL Coverage in Relation to enhanced DL coverage type
* * *
                               Independent R/T LOs                                    Common R/T LOs
Single Enhanced receiver Matches DL coverage DL coverage extends past UL
coverage equally on both sides Multiple Rel. 15 receivers Matches DL coverage
DL coverage extends past UL coverage on one side. Additional DL-only spectrum
is configurable to be on higher-frequency side or lower-frequency side of UL
spectrum.
### 4.4.3 Feature Definition
For Rel-16, the DL intra-band CA BW enhancement feature is the definition of
UE capability to support DL-only coverage spectrum. This enhancement is in
addition to the common UL+DL coverage spectrum of UE carried over from Rel-15.
### 4.4.4 UE DL-only spectrum extension cases
The assumption for the DL-only spectrum extension cases assumes that DL Fs ≥
1400 MHz as an enhancement over Rel-15 UE capability. Based on this assumption
the network should be constrained by two factors:
\- Frequency separation class for UL and DL
\- UL coverage spectrum contained within the DL coverage spectrum
Case 1: No restriction Case 2: Symmetric extension Case 3: One-sided extension
* * *
In Case 1 the UE supports different UL & DL coverage spectrum with no
restriction and represents the most flexible frequency separation class
enhancement in Rel-16. As illustrated in Case 1 the IF bandwidth of the UL and
DL can be as wide as 1400 MHz for the UL and 2400 MHz for the DL. The UE
implementation in this case may need a dedicated UL LO which increases
complexity.
In Case 2 the UE supports symmetric extension of bidirectional coverage
spectrum for DL only. These UEs need to further restrict the allocation of DL
carriers such that the UL coverage spectrum is centered within the DL coverage
spectrum. The UE implementation in this case may reduce the RF architecture
complexity by sharing the LO between UL and DL, but it may increase the
network\'s difficulty in exploiting available DL spectrum in the general case.
In Case 3 the UE supports one-sided extension of bidirectional coverage
spectrum for DL only. The UE implementation in this case provides a tradeoff
between full flexibility/high complexity in case 1 and high restrictive
allocation/large DL captured spectrum in case 2.
#### 4.4.4.1 Frequency separation classes for DL-only spectrum
For Rel-16, extend the frequency separation class definition to include the
following values for frequency separation \'Fs\': {800, 1000, 1200, 1400,
1600, 1800, 2000, 2200, 2400} MHz, where Fs values larger 1400 MHz apply to
downlink frequency separation only. The DL-only frequency spectrum is the
width of UE frequency spectrum available to network to configure DL CCs only,
and it extends on one-side of the bidirectional spectrum in contiguous manner
with no frequency gap between the two.. The frequency separation classes for
DL only spectrum are specified in Table 4.4.2-1, which indicates the maximum
DL-only frequency separation span of DL CCs that UE can support per band. The
frequency separation class for DL-only spectrum (Fsd) can be equal but not
larger than the frequency separation (DL Fs). The combined downlink spectrum
(DL Fs + Fsd) cannot exceed 2400 MHz, A UE may configure DL-only spectrum only
if the combined downlink spectrum (DL Fs + Fsd) exceeds 1400 MHz.
Table 4.4.2-1: Frequency separation classes for DL-only spectrum
Frequency separation class Max. DL-only Frequency separation (Fsd)
* * *
I 200 MHz II 400 MHz III - 600 MHz IV 800 MHz V 1000 MHz VI 1200 MHz
## 4.5 Void
## 4.6 FR2 UE requirements for non-contiguous intra-band UL CA
### 4.6.1 Emissions requirements for non-contiguous UL CA
The MPR requirements for intra-band non-contiguous UL CA operation are
governed by the following requirements, captured as TPs to the respective
clauses in TS38.101-2 v16.0.0.
_\ _
> 6.4A.2.0 General
>
> For intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the
> requirements in clauses 6.4A.2.1, 6.4A.2.2, and 6.4A.2.3.
>
> All the parameters defined in clause 6.4A.2 are defined using the
> measurement methodology specified in Annex F.
>
> All the requirements in 6.4A.2 are defined as directional requirement. The
> requirements are verified in beam locked mode on beam peak direction, with
> both UL polarizations active.
>
> 6.4A.2.1 Error Vector magnitude
>
> The requirements in this clause apply to UEs of all power classes. For
> intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the Error
> Vector Magnitude requirement of clause 6.4.2.2 is defined for each component
> carrier. Requirements only apply with PRB allocation in one of the component
> carriers. Similar transmitter impairment removal procedures are applied for
> CA waveform before EVM calculation as is specified for non-CA waveform.
>
> 6.4A.2.2 Carrier leakage
>
> 6.4A.2.2.1 General
>
> Carrier leakage is an additive sinusoid waveform. The carrier leakage
> requirement is defined for each component carrier and is measured on the
> component carrier with PRBs allocated. The measurement interval is one slot
> in the time domain.
>
> Note: When UE has DL configured for non-contiguous CA, carrier leakage may
> land outside the spectrum occupied by all configured UL and DL CC.
>
> The relative carrier leakage power is a power ratio of the additive sinusoid
> waveform and the modulated waveform. The requirement is verified with the
> test metric of Carrier Leakage (Link=TX beam peak direction, Meas=Link
> angle).
>
> 6.4A.2.2.2 Carrier leakage for power class 1
>
> When carrier leakage is contained inside the spectrum occupied by all
> configured UL and DL CCs, the relative carrier leakage power shall not
> exceed the values specified in Table 6.4A.2.2.2-1 for power class 1 UEs.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.2.2-1: Minimum requirements for relative carrier leakage for
> power class 1**
+-------------------------+----------------------------+ | > **Parameters** | > **Relative Limit (dBc)** | +=========================+============================+ | > EIRP > 17 dBm | > -25 | +-------------------------+----------------------------+ | > 4 dBm ≤ EIRP ≤ 17 dBm | > -20 | +-------------------------+----------------------------+
> 6.4A.2.2.3 Carrier leakage for power class 2
>
> When carrier leakage is contained inside the spectrum occupied by all
> configured UL and DL CCs, the relative carrier leakage power shall not
> exceed the values specified in Table 6.4A.2.2.3-1 for power class 2.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.2.3-1: Minimum requirements for relative carrier leakage
> power class 2**
+--------------------------+----------------------------+ | > **Parameters** | > **Relative limit (dBc)** | +==========================+============================+ | > EIRP > 6 dBm | > -25 | +--------------------------+----------------------------+ | > -13 dBm ≤ EIRP ≤ 6 dBm | > -20 | +--------------------------+----------------------------+
> 6.4A.2.2.4 Carrier leakage for power class 3
>
> When carrier leakage is contained inside the spectrum occupied by all
> configured UL and DL CCs, the relative carrier leakage power shall not
> exceed the values specified in Table 6.4A.2.2.4-1 for power class 3 UEs.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.2.4-1: Minimum requirements for relative carrier leakage
> power class 3**
+---------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | > **Parameters** | > **Relative limit (dBc)** | +=======================================+============================+ | > Output power > 0 dBm | > -25 | +---------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | > -13 dBm ≤ Output power EIRP ≤ 0 dBm | > -20 | +---------------------------------------+----------------------------+
> 6.4A.2.2.5 Carrier leakage for power class 4
>
> When carrier leakage is contained inside the spectrum occupied by all
> configured UL and DL CCs, the relative carrier leakage power shall not
> exceed the values specified in Table 6.4A.2.2.5-1 for power class 4 UEs.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.2.5-1: Minimum requirements for relative carrier leakage
> power class 4**
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | > **Parameters** | > **Relative limit (dBc)** | +========================================+============================+ | > Output power > 11 dBm | > -25 | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | > -13 dBm ≤ Output power EIRP ≤ 11 dBm | > -20 | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
> 6.4A.2.3 Inband emissions
>
> 6.4A.2.3.1 General
>
> Inband emission requirement is defined over the spectrum occupied by all
> configured UL and DL CCs. The measurement interval is as defined in clause
> 6.4.2.4. The requirement is verified with the test metric of In-band
> emission (Link=TX beam peak direction, Meas=Link angle).
>
> For intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the
> requirements in this clause apply with all component carriers active and
> with one single contiguous PRB allocation in one of uplink component
> carriers. The inband emission is defined as the interference falling into
> the non-allocated resource blocks for all component carriers.
>
> 6.4A.2.3.2 Inband emissions for power class 1
>
> The relative in-band emission shall not exceed the values specified in Table
> 6.4A.2.3.2-1 for power class 1 UEs.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.3.2-1: Requirements for in-band emissions for power class 1**
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Limit (NOTE | Applicable | | | description | | 1) | Frequencies | | +==============+======+==============+==============+==============+ | General | dB | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB in | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier and | | | | | | not | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **IQ Image** | dB | -25 | Output power | Image | | | | | > 27 dBm | frequencies | | | | | | (NOTES 2, 3) | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -20 | Output power | | | | | | ≤ 27 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | **Carrier | dBc | -25 | Output power | Carrier | | leakage** | | | > 17 dBm | frequency | | | | | | (NOTES 4, 5) | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | > -20 | > 4 dBm ≤ | | | | | | > Output | | | | | | > power ≤ 17 | | | | | | > dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: An | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | emissions | | | | | | combined | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | evaluated in | | | | | | each | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB. For each | | | | | | such RB, the | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | as the | | | | | | higher of | | | | | | (_P~RB\ ~_ \- | | | | | | 25 dB) and | | | | | | the power | | | | | | sum of all | | | | | | limit values | | | | | | (General, IQ | | | | | | Image or | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | leakage) | | | | | | that apply. | | | | | | _P~RB~_ is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | NOTE 9. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | 1 RB and the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | average | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, where | | | | | | the | | | | | | averaging is | | | | | | done across | | | | | | all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. For | | | | | | Pi/2 BPSK | | | | | | with | | | | | | Spectrum | | | | | | Shaping, the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in the | | | | | | allocated RB | | | | | | with highest | | | | | | PSD. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Image | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for UL CA | | | | | | are | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | relation to | | | | | | either UL or | | | | | | DL carrier | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | 1 RB and the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | total power | | | | | | in all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for this | | | | | | limit are | | | | | | those that | | | | | | are enclosed | | | | | | in the RBs | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | or in the | | | | | | two RBs | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | but | | | | | | excluding | | | | | | any | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | Transmission | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | for kth | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier (see | | | | | | Figure | | | | | | 5.3.3-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: EVM | | | | | | s the limit | | | | | | for the | | | | | | modulation | | | | | | format used | | | | | | in the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | starting | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset | | | | | | between the | | | | | | allocated RB | | | | | | and the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | | | = 1 or | | | | | | | | | | | | = -1 for the | | | | | | first | | | | | | adjacent RB | | | | | | outside of | | | | | | the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | bandwidth), | | | | | | and may take | | | | | | non-integer | | | | | | values when | | | | | | the carrier | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | between the | | | | | | CCs is not a | | | | | | multiple of | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: | | | | | | P~RB~ is the | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, measured | | | | | | in dBm. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 10: All | | | | | | powers are | | | | | | EIRP in beam | | | | | | peak | | | | | | direction. | | | | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
> 6.4A.2.3.3 Inband emissions for power class 2
>
> The relative in-band emission shall not exceed the values specified in Table
> 6.4A.2.3.3-1 for power class 2.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.3.3-1: Requirements for in-band emissions for power class 2**
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Limit (NOTE | Applicable | | | description | | 1) | Frequencies | | +==============+======+==============+==============+==============+ | General | dB | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB in | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier and | | | | | | not | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IQ Image | dB | -25 | Output power | Image | | | | | > 16 dBm | frequencies | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -20 | Output power | (NOTES 2, 3) | | | | | ≤ 16 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Carrier | dBc | -25 | Output power | Carrier | | leakage | | | > 6 dBm | frequency | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -20 | -13 dBm ≤ | (NOTES 4, 5) | | | | | Output power | | | | | | ≤ 6 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: An | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | emissions | | | | | | combined | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | evaluated in | | | | | | each | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB. For each | | | | | | such RB, the | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | as the | | | | | | higher of | | | | | | (_P~RB\ ~_ \- | | | | | | 25 dB) and | | | | | | the power | | | | | | sum of all | | | | | | limit values | | | | | | (General, IQ | | | | | | Image or | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | leakage) | | | | | | that apply. | | | | | | _P~RB~_ is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | NOTE 9. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | 1 RB and the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | average | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, where | | | | | | the | | | | | | averaging is | | | | | | done across | | | | | | all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. For | | | | | | Pi/2 BPSK | | | | | | with | | | | | | Spectrum | | | | | | Shaping, the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in the | | | | | | allocated RB | | | | | | with highest | | | | | | PSD. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Image | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for UL CA | | | | | | are | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | relation to | | | | | | either UL or | | | | | | DL carrier | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | 1 RB and the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | total power | | | | | | in all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for this | | | | | | limit are | | | | | | those that | | | | | | are enclosed | | | | | | in the RBs | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | or in the | | | | | | two RBs | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | but | | | | | | excluding | | | | | | any | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | Transmission | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | for kth | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier (see | | | | | | Figure | | | | | | 5.3.3-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: EVM | | | | | | s the limit | | | | | | for the | | | | | | modulation | | | | | | format used | | | | | | in the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | starting | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset | | | | | | between the | | | | | | allocated RB | | | | | | and the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | | | = 1 or | | | | | | | | | | | | = -1 for the | | | | | | first | | | | | | adjacent RB | | | | | | outside of | | | | | | the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | bandwidth), | | | | | | and may take | | | | | | non-integer | | | | | | values when | | | | | | the carrier | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | between the | | | | | | CCs is not a | | | | | | multiple of | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: | | | | | | P~RB~ is the | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, measured | | | | | | in dBm. | | | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE 10: | | | | | | > All powers | | | | | | > are EIRP | | | | | | > in beam | | | | | | > peak | | | | | | > direction. | | | | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
> 6.4A.2.3.4 Inband emissions for power class 3
>
> The relative in-band emission shall not exceed the values specified in Table
> 6.4A.2.3.4-1 for power class 3 UEs.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.3.4-1: Requirements for in-band emissions for power class 3**
+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Limit (NOTE | Applicable | | | description | | 1) | Frequencies | | +==============+======+==============+==============+==============+ | General | dB | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB in | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier and | | | | | | not | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | IQ Image | dB | -25 | Output power | Image | | | | | > 10 dBm | frequencies | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -20 | Output power | (NOTES 2, 3) | | | | | ≤ 10 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Carrier | dBc | -25 | Output power | Carrier | | | | | > 0 dBm | frequency | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | leakage | | -20 | -13 dBm ≤ | (NOTES 4, 5) | | | | | Output power | | | | | | ≤ 0 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: An | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | emissions | | | | | | combined | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | evaluated in | | | | | | each | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB. For each | | | | | | such RB, the | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | as the | | | | | | higher of | | | | | | (_P~RB\ ~_ \- | | | | | | 25 dB) and | | | | | | the power | | | | | | sum of all | | | | | | limit values | | | | | | (General, IQ | | | | | | Image or | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | leakage) | | | | | | that apply. | | | | | | _P~RB~_ is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | NOTE 9. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | 1 RB and the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | average | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, where | | | | | | the | | | | | | averaging is | | | | | | done across | | | | | | all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. For | | | | | | Pi/2 BPSK | | | | | | with | | | | | | Spectrum | | | | | | Shaping, the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in the | | | | | | allocated RB | | | | | | with highest | | | | | | PSD. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Image | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for UL CA | | | | | | are | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | relation to | | | | | | either UL or | | | | | | DL carrier | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | | 1 RB and the | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | expressed as | | | | | | a ratio of | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in one | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | total power | | | | | | in all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for this | | | | | | limit are | | | | | | those that | | | | | | are enclosed | | | | | | in the RBs | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | or in the | | | | | | two RBs | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | but | | | | | | excluding | | | | | | any | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | Transmission | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | for kth | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier (see | | | | | | Figure | | | | | | 5.3.3-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: EVM | | | | | | s the limit | | | | | | for the | | | | | | modulation | | | | | | format used | | | | | | in the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | starting | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset | | | | | | between the | | | | | | allocated RB | | | | | | and the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | n | | | | | | on-allocated | | | | | | RB (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | | | = 1 or | | | | | | | | | | | | = -1 for the | | | | | | first | | | | | | adjacent RB | | | | | | outside of | | | | | | the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | bandwidth), | | | | | | and may take | | | | | | non-integer | | | | | | values when | | | | | | the carrier | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | between the | | | | | | CCs is not a | | | | | | multiple of | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: | | | | | | P~RB~ is the | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, measured | | | | | | in dBm. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 10: All | | | | | | powers are | | | | | | EIRP in beam | | | | | | peak | | | | | | direction. | | | | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
> 6.4A.2.3.5 Inband emissions for power class 4
>
> The relative in-band emission shall not exceed the values specified in Table
> 6.4A.2.3.5-1 for power class 4 UEs.
>
> **Table 6.4A.2.3.5-1: Requirements for in-band emissions for power class 4**
+-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | > **Unit** | > **Limit | > * | | | **Parameter | | > (NOTE | _Applicable | | | > de | | > 1)__| > Fr | | | scription_ _| | | equencies_ _| | +=============+============+=============+=============+=============+ | General | dB | | no | | | | | | n-allocated | | | | | | RB in | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier and | | | | | | not | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IQ Image | dB | -25 | Output | Image | | | | | power > 21 | frequencies | | | | | dBm | (NOTES 2, | | | | | | 3) | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -20 | Output | | | | | | power ≤ 21 | | | | | | dBm | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Carrier | dBc | -25 | Output | Carrier | | leakage | | | power > 11 | frequency | | | | | dBm | (NOTES 4, | | | | | | 5) | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -20 | -13 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output | | | | | | power ≤ 11 | | | | | | dBm | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: An | | | | | | in-band | | | | | | emissions | | | | | | combined | | | | | | limit is | | | | | | evaluated | | | | | | in each | | | | | | no | | | | | | n-allocated | | | | | | RB. For | | | | | | each such | | | | | | RB, the | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | as the | | | | | | higher of | | | | | | (_P~RB\ ~_\- | | | | | | 25 dB) and | | | | | | the power | | | | | | sum of all | | | | | | limit | | | | | | values | | | | | | (General, | | | | | | IQ Image or | | | | | | Carrier | | | | | | leakage) | | | | | | that apply. | | | | | |_ P~RB~* is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | NOTE 9. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | is 1 RB and | | | | | | the limit | | | | | | is | | | | | | expressed | | | | | | as a ratio | | | | | | of measured | | | | | | power in | | | | | | one | | | | | | no | | | | | | n-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | average | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, where | | | | | | the | | | | | | averaging | | | | | | is done | | | | | | across all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. For | | | | | | pi/2 BPSK | | | | | | with | | | | | | Spectrum | | | | | | Shaping, | | | | | | the limit | | | | | | is | | | | | | expressed | | | | | | as a ratio | | | | | | of measured | | | | | | power in | | | | | | one | | | | | | no | | | | | | n-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | power in | | | | | | the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB with | | | | | | highest | | | | | | PSD. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Image | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for UL CA | | | | | | are | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in relation | | | | | | to either | | | | | | UL or DL | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | is 1 RB and | | | | | | the limit | | | | | | is | | | | | | expressed | | | | | | as a ratio | | | | | | of measured | | | | | | power in | | | | | | one | | | | | | no | | | | | | n-allocated | | | | | | RB to the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | total power | | | | | | in all | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | for this | | | | | | limit are | | | | | | those that | | | | | | are | | | | | | enclosed in | | | | | | the RBs | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency, | | | | | | or in the | | | | | | two RBs | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the DC | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | but | | | | | | excluding | | | | | | any | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | T | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | for kth | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | component | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | (see Figure | | | | | | 5.3.3-1). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: EVM | | | | | | s the limit | | | | | | for the | | | | | | modulation | | | | | | format used | | | | | | in the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RBs. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 8: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | starting | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | offset | | | | | | between the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB and the | | | | | | measured | | | | | | no | | | | | | n-allocated | | | | | | RB (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = 1 or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = -1 for | | | | | | the first | | | | | | adjacent RB | | | | | | outside of | | | | | | the | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | bandwidth), | | | | | | and may | | | | | | take | | | | | | non-integer | | | | | | values when | | | | | | the carrier | | | | | | spacing | | | | | | between the | | | | | | CCs is not | | | | | | a multiple | | | | | | of RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 9: | | | | | | P~RB~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | power per | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | RB, | | | | | | measured in | | | | | | dBm. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 10: | | | | | | All powers | | | | | | are EIRP in | | | | | | beam peak | | | | | | direction. | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
_\ _
_\ _
6.5A Output RF spectrum emissions for CA
6.5A.1 Occupied bandwidth for CA
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, the occupied bandwidth is a
measure of the bandwidth containing 99 % of the total integrated power of the
transmitted spectrum. The occupied bandwidth for CA shall be less than the
aggregated channel bandwidth defined in clause 5.3A.
For intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the OBW requirement is met
when the ratio of the transmitted power in all sub-blocks of the uplink CA
configuration to the total integrated power of the transmitted spectrum is
greater than 99%.
The occupied bandwidth for CA is defined as a directional requirement. The
requirement is verified in beam locked mode on beam peak direction.
6.5A.2 Out of band emissions
6.5A.2.1 Spectrum emission mask for CA
The requirement specified in this clause shall apply if the UE has at least
one of UL or DL configured for CA or if the UE is configured for single CC
operation with different channel bandwidths in UL and DL carriers.
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, the spectrum emission mask of
the UE applies to frequencies (Δf~OOB~) starting from the ± edge of the
aggregated channel bandwidth (Table 5.3A.5-1). For any bandwidth class defined
in Table 5.3A.5-1, the UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in
Table 6.5A.2.1-1. The requirement is verified in beam locked mode with the
test metric of TRP (Link=TX beam peak direction).
Table 6.5A.2.1-1: General NR spectrum emission mask for intra-band contiguous
CA in frequency range 2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | Any carrier | Measurement | | | aggregation | bandwidth | | (MHz) | bandwidth class | | +======================+======================+======================+ | ± | -5 | 1 MHz | | 0- | | | | 0.1*BW~Channel_CA~ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± | -13 | 1 MHz | | 0.1*BW~Channel_CA~ | | | | -2*BW~Channel_CA~ | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: If carrier | | | | leakage or I/Q image | | | | lands inside the | | | | spectrum occupied by | | | | the configured UL | | | | and DL CCs, | | | | exception to the | | | | general spectrum | | | | emission mask limit | | | | applies. For carrier | | | | leakage the | | | | requirements | | | | specified in clause | | | | 6.4A.2.2 shall | | | | apply. For I/Q image | | | | the requirements | | | | specified in clause | | | | 6.4A.2.3 shall | | | | apply. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
For intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the spectrum emission mask
requirement is defined as a composite spectrum emissions mask. Composite
spectrum emission mask applies to frequencies up to ± Δf~OOB~ starting from
the edge of each sub-block. Composite spectrum emission mask is defined as
follows:
a) Composite spectrum emission mask is a combination of individual spectrum
emissions masks defined for each sub-block. If for some frequency, spectrum
emission masks from multiple sub-blocks overlap, the spectrum emission mask
allowing the highest power spectral density applies for that frequency
b) In case a sub-block comprises of multiple component carriers spectrum
emissions mask is defined in clause 6.5A.2.1 or in case of a single component
carrier, the sub-block spectrum emission mask is defined in clause 6.5.2.1
c) If for some frequency the spectrum emission mask of one sub-block overlaps
another sub-block, the emission mask does not apply for that frequency.
d) If carrier leakage or I/Q image lands inside the spectrum occupied by the
configured UL and DL CCs, exception to the general spectrum emission mask
limit applies. For carrier leakage the requirements specified in clause
6.4A.2.2 shall apply. For I/Q image the requirements specified in clause
6.4A.2.3 shall apply.
6.5A.2.3 Adjacent channel leakage ratio for CA
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, the carrier aggregation NR
adjacent channel leakage power ratio (CA NR~ACLR~) is the ratio of the
filtered mean power centred on the aggregated channel bandwidth to the
filtered mean power centred on an adjacent aggregated channel bandwidth at
nominal channel spacing. The assigned aggregated channel bandwidth power and
adjacent aggregated channel bandwidth power are measured with rectangular
filters with measurement bandwidths specified in 6.5A.2.3-1. If the measured
adjacent channel power is greater than -35 dBm then the NR~ACLR~ shall be
higher than the value specified in Table 6.5A.2.3-1.
Table 6.5A.2.3-1: General requirements for CA NR~ACLR~
                                                                                                                                                                                  CA bandwidth class / CA NR~ACLR~ / Measurement bandwidth
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                  Any CA bandwidth class
CA NR~ACLR~ for band n257, n258, n261 17 dB CA NR~ACLR~ for band n260 16 dB NR
channel measurement bandwidth^1^ BW~Channel_CA~ -- GB~Channel(1)~ -
GB~Channel(2)~ NOTE 1: The GB~Channel(i)~ is the minimum guard band of the
component carriers at the lower edge F~edge,\ low~ and the upper edge
F~edge,high~ of the sub-block respectively.
For intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, adjacent channel leakage
power ratio is the ratio of the sum of the filtered mean powers centred on
each sub-block bandwidth to the filtered mean power centred on an adjacent
sub-block frequency at nominal spacing equal to the sub-block bandwidth. No
requirement applies in the gap between neighbouring sub-blocks if the
frequency span between the lowest edge of the upper sub-block and the highest
edge of the lower sub-block is smaller than the bandwidth of either sub-block.
### 6.5A.3 Spurious emissions for CA
This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements for carrier
aggregation.
NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be
set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, the spurious emission limits
apply for the frequency ranges that are more than F~OOB~ (MHz) from the edge
of the aggregated channel bandwidth, where F~OOB~ is defined as the twice the
aggregated channel bandwidth. For frequencies Δf~OOB~ greater than F~OOB~, the
spurious emission requirements in Table 6.5.3-2 are applicable. If carrier
leakage or I/Q image lands inside the spectrum occupied by the configured UL
and DL CCs, exception to the spurious emissions requirement applies. For
carrier leakage the requirements specified in clause 6.4A.2.2 shall apply. For
I/Q image the requirements specified in clause 6.4A.2.3 shall apply.
For intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the spurious emission
requirement is defined as a composite spurious emission requirement which is a
combination of individual spurious emission requirements defined for each sub-
block. The limits in Table 6.5.3-2 apply for the frequency ranges that are
more than F~OOB~ (MHz) from the edge of each sub-block but excludes frequency
ranges that coincide with another sub-block. No spurious emission limit
applies in the gap between neighbouring sub-blocks if the frequency span
between the lowest edge of the upper sub-block and the highest edge of the
lower sub-block is smaller than F~OOB_L~ + F~OOB_H~. If carrier leakage or I/Q
image lands inside the spectrum occupied by the configured UL and DL CCs,
exception to the spurious emissions requirement applies. For carrier leakage
the requirements specified in clause 6.4A.2.2 shall apply. For I/Q image the
requirements specified in clause 6.4A.2.3 shall apply.
#### 6.5A.3.1 Spurious emission band UE co-existence for CA
This clause specifies the requirements for the specified carrier aggregation
configurations for coexistence with protected bands.
NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be
set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
For intra-band contiguous and non-contiguous carrier aggregation, the
requirements in Table 6.5A.3-1 apply.
**Table 6.5A.3-1: Requirements for CA**
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | UL CA | Sp | | | | | | | | for | urious | | | | | | | | any | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | +========+========+========+========+========+======+=====+===+ | CA | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | ban | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | dwidth | band / | range | Level | | | | | | class | fre | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | CA | NR | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -2 | 100 | | | _n257 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | n260 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 23600 | - | 24000 | -8 | 200 | 2 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 57000 | - | 66000 | 2 | 100 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | CA | Fre | 23600 | - | 24000 | -8 | 200 | 2 | | _n258 | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 57000 | - | 66000 | 2 | 100 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | CA | NR | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -5 | 100 | | | _n260 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 257 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | NR | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -5 | 100 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 261 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 23600 | - | 24000 | -8 | 200 | 2 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 57000 | - | 66000 | 2 | 100 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | CA | NR | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -2 | 100 | | | _n261 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 260 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 23600 | - | 24000 | -8 | 200 | 2 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | | Fre | 57000 | - | 66000 | 2 | 100 | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5.2-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: The | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ection | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 3600-2 | | | | | | | | | 400MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | meant | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ection | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | sat | | | | | | | | | ellite | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | assive | | | | | | | | | ser | | | | | | | | | vices. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+-----+---+
#### 6.5A.3.2 Additional spurious emissions
##### 6.5A.3.2.1 General
These requirements are specified in terms of an additional spectrum emission
requirement. Additional spurious emission requirements are signalled by the
network to indicate that the UE shall meet an additional requirement for a
specific deployment scenario as part of the cell handover/broadcast message.
##### 6.5A.3.2.2 Additional spurious emission requirements for CA_NS_201
When \"CA_NS_201\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission
shall not exceed the levels specified in Table 6.5.3.2.2-1. This requirement
also applies for the frequency ranges that are less than F~OOB~ (MHz) as
defined in clause 6.5A.3.
##### 6.5A.3.2.3 Additional spurious emission requirements for CA_NS_202
When \"CA_NS_202\" is indicated in the cell, the power of any UE emission
shall not exceed the levels specified in Table 6.5.3.2.3-1.
## 4.7 FR2 UE requirements for inter-band DL CA
## 4.7.1 General
For inter-band downlink carrier aggregation of FR2 bands, the independent beam
management (IBM) between the band pairs is only introduced in Rel-16. In IBM,
Network can assume that IBM UE supports both co-located and non-co-located
deployments. The UE shall meet the EIS spherical coverage requirement
simultaneously among bands to support the common coverage, required for co-
located deployment; further, the receive power imbalance is assumed as
specified below in order to compensate the path loss difference among bands.
## 4.7.2 Reference sensitivity, EIS spherical coverage, and other receiver
requirements
_\ _
#### 7.3A.2.3 Inter-band CA
> The inter-band requirement applies for all active component carriers. The
> throughput for each component carrier shall be ≥ 95 % of the maximum
> throughput of the reference measurement channels as specified in Annexes
> A.2.3.2 and A.3.3.2 (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 TDD for the
> DL-signal as described in Annex A.5.2.1) with peak reference sensitivity for
> each carrier specified in section 7.3.2, and relaxation **ΔR~IB,P,n~**
> applied to peak reference sensitivity requirement. **ΔR~IB,P,n~** is
> specified in Table 7.3A.2.3-1. [The requirement on each component carrier
> shall be met when the power in the component carrier in the other band is
> set to its EIS spherical coverage requirement for inter-band CA specified in
> sub-clause 7.3A.3.3].
>
> For the combination of intra-band and inter-band carrier aggregation, the
> intra-band CA relaxation, ΔR~IB~, is also applied according to the clause
> 7.3A.2.1 and 7.3A.2.2.
>
> Table 7.3A.2.3-1: ΔR~IB~ reference sensitivity relaxation for inter-band CA
> for power class 3
**NR CA bands** **NR band** **ΔR~IB,P,n~ (dB)**
* * *
**CA_n260-n261** **n260** **[3.5]** **n261** **[3.5]**
###
### 7.3A.3 EIS spherical coverage for DL CA
#### 7.3A.3.3 EIS spherical coverage for inter-band CA
> The inter-band CA requirement applies per operating band, for all active
> component carriers with UL assigned to one band and one DL component carrier
> per band. The requirement on each component carrier shall be met when the
> power in the component carrier in the other band is set to its EIS spherical
> coverage requirement for inter-band CA specified in this sub-clause.
>
> The inter-band CA spherical coverage requirement will be satisfied if the
> intersection set of spherical coverage areas exceeds the requirement.
> Intersection set of spherical coverage areas is defined as a fraction of
> area of full sphere measured around the UE where both bands meet their
> defined individual EIS spherical coverage requirements.
>
> The requirement is verified with the test metric of EIS (Link=Beam peak
> search grids, Meas=Link angle).
>
> The reference measurement channels and throughput criterion shall be as
> specified in clause 7.3A.2.3. The requirement shall be met for an uplink
> transmission using QPSK DFT-s-OFDM waveforms and for uplink transmission
> bandwidth less than or equal to that specified in clause 7.3.2.
>
> Unless otherwise specified, the minimum requirements for reference
> sensitivity shall be verified with the network signalling value NS_200
> (Table 6.2.3.1-1) configured.
>
> The required spherical coverage EIS for each band is given in clause 7.3.4
> and modified by ΔR~IB,S,n~. The value of ∆R~IB,S,n~ is defined in Table
> 7.3A.3.3-1.
>
> Table 7.3A.3.3-1: ΔR~IB,S,n~ EIS spherical coverage requirement relaxation
> for inter-band CA for power class 3
**NR CA bands** **NR band** **ΔR~IB,S,n~ (dB)**
* * *
**CA_n260-n261** **n260** **[3.5]** **n261** **[3.5]**
_\ _
> 7.4A.3 Maximum input level for Inter-band CA
>
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with one component carrier per operating
> band and the uplink assigned to one NR band, the maximum input level is
> defined with the uplink active on the band other than the band whose
> downlink is being tested. The UE shall meet the requirements specified in
> clause 7.4 for each component carrier while all downlink carriers are
> active.
>
> 7.5A.3 Adjacent channel selectivity for Inter-band CA
>
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with one component carrier per operating
> band and the uplink assigned to one NR band, the adjacent channel
> requirements are defined with the uplink active on the band other than the
> band whose downlink is being tested. The UE shall meet the requirements
> specified in clause 7.5 for each component carrier while all downlink
> carriers are active.
_\ _
> 7.6A.2.3 In-band blocking for Inter-band non-contiguous CA
>
> For inter-band carrier aggregation with one component carrier per operating
> band and the uplink assigned to one NR band, the in-band blocking
> requirements are defined with the uplink active on the band other than the
> band whose downlink is being tested. The UE shall meet the requirements
> specified in clause 7.6.2 for each component carrier while all downlink
> carriers are active.
_\ _
## 4.8 Void
## 4.9 Void
## 4.10 FR2 UE MBR Enhancement
The Rel-15 FR2 RF specification [2] defines the multi-band requirement
framework as a table (Table 6.2.1.3-4) of total relaxations, ∑MB~P~ and
∑MB~S~, allowed for all possible combinations of the four bands which were
introduced in Rel-15 (i.e. bands n257, n258, n260, n261). The definition of
the multi-band framework in Rel-15 proceeded in two steps: collection of
performance data comparing single band and multi-band performance and the
definition of ∑MB~P~, ΔMB~P,n~, ∑MB~S~, ΔMB~S,n~ terms. The eventual agreement
on MBR was a compromise involving many companies which also included an
agreement on the beam correspondence requirement in Rel-15. The enhancement of
MBR in Rel-16 is motivated by the following observations:
\- As new FR2 bands are introduced in releases following Rel-15, the
framework\'s scalability can become a concern, since the relaxation factors
need to be recalculated for all bands each time a new band is defined.
\- MBR value has an impact on testability in RAN5. The maximum MBR value
decides how much relaxation to be required for each test case. In MOP (EIRP)
analysis, MBR = 1.7 dB (value for UEs supporting n257, n258, n260, n261) is
selected as maximum MBR. This means analysis of testability issue needs to be
conducted again if maximum MBR is updated in the future. If maximum MBR
becomes larger, RAN5 will need to re-evaluate testability issues per test
case. Hence RAN5 cannot and does not intend to keep re-opening testability
topics considered complete.
These concerns have been addressed by enhancing the MBR framework in the
following way:
\- In the scope of Rel-15:
\- RAN4 introduces a maximum cap to the per-band relaxation factors, such that
∆MB~P,n~ ≤ 0.75 dB and ∆MB~S,n~ ≤ 0.75 dB
\- This MBR framework is applicable to the bands defined in Rel-15 (i.e. n257,
n258, n260, n261) and is defined only in the Rel-15 version of TS38.101-2
\- In the scope of Rel-16 and beyond:
\- RAN4 defines fixed per-band relaxation factors, ∆MB~P,n~ and ∆MB~S,n~,
directly in the specification
\- This MBR framework applies to a Rel-16+ UE supporting any FR2 band(s)
\- This MBR framework also applies to a Rel-15 UE if it supports any FR2 band
which is introduced in Rel-16+ (e.g. band n259)
Table 4.10-1 below captures the enhanced MBR framework in Rel-15.
Table 4.10-1: UE multi-band relaxation factors for power class 3 (Rel-15)
+----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | Supported bands | ∑MB~P~ (dB) | ∑MB~S~ (dB) | +========================================+=============+=============+ | n257, n258 | ≤ 1.3 | ≤ 1.25 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n257, n260 | ≤ 1.0 | ≤ 0.75^3^ | | | | | | n258, n260 | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n257, n261 | 0.0 | 0.0 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n258, n261 | ≤ 1.0 | ≤ 1.25 | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n260, n261 | 0.0 | ≤ 0.75^2^ | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n257, n258, n260 | ≤ 1.7 | ≤ 1.75^3^ | | | | | | n257, n258, n261 | | | | | | | | n257, n258, n260, n261 | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n257, n260, n261 | ≤ 0.5 | ≤ 1.25^3^ | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | n258, n260, n261 | ≤ 1.5 | ≤ 1.25^3^ | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The requirements in this table | | | | are applicable to UEs which support | | | | only the indicated bands | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For supported bands n260 + | | | | n261, ΔMB~S,n~ is not applied for band | | | | n260 | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For n260, maximum applicable | | | | ∆MB~S,n~ is 0.4 dB and ∆MB~P,n~ is | | | | 0.75 dB | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For all bands except n260, the | | | | maximum applicable ∆MB~P,n~ and | | | | ∆MB~S,n~ is 0.75 dB | | | +----------------------------------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 4.10-2 below captures the enhanced MBR framework in Rel-16.
Table 4.10-2: UE multi-band relaxation factors for power class 3 (Rel-16)
+--------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | Band | DMBP (dB) | DMBS (dB) | +============================================+===========+===========+ | n257 | 0.7^3^ | 0.7^3^ | +--------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | n258 | 0.6 | 0.7 | +--------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | n260 | 0.5^1^ | 0.4^1^ | +--------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | n261 | 0.5^2,4^ | 0.7^4^ | +--------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+ | Note 1: n260 peak and spherical | | | | relaxations are 0 dB for UE that | | | | exclusively supports n261+n260 | | | | | | | | Note 2: n261 peak relaxation is 0 dB for | | | | UE that exclusively supports n261+n260 | | | | | | | | Note 3: n257 peak and spherical | | | | relaxations are 0 dB for UE that | | | | exclusively supports n261+n257 | | | | | | | | Note 4: n261 peak and spherical | | | | relaxations are 0 dB for UE that | | | | exclusively supports n261+n257 | | | +--------------------------------------------+-----------+-----------+
In order to specify requirements for release-indepenent features, RAN4
maintains the release independence specification [3]. A clarifying note is
added to Table B.4.1-1 in [3], as shown in Table 4.10-3 below.
Table 4.10-3: Common UE RF requirements for a release independent band
Clause / Clause Description
* * *
5.2 Operating bands 5.3 UE Channel bandwidth 5.4 Channel arrangement 6.2
Transmitter power 6.3 Output power dynamics 6.4 Transmit signal quality 6.5
Output RF spectrum emissions 6.6 of [3] Beam correspondence 7.3 Reference
sensitivity 7.4 Maximum input level 7.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity 7.6
Blocking characteristics 7.7 of [2] Spurious response 7.8 of [2]
Intermodulation characteristics 7.9 Spurious emissions NOTE: A UE which
supports any FR2 band introduced in release N, where N > 15, shall meet the
requirements according to the FR2 UE multi-band relaxation factors defined in
Table 6.2.1.3-4 of the release N version of [3] for all FR2 bands which it
supports.
#