# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on UE
Power Saving in NR\" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to study the **UE power
saving framework taking into consideration of latency and performance in NR as
well as network impact. The study of UE power saving in NR includes the study
of the power saving schemes and the associated procedures. The power saving
schemes are to study the UE** adaptation to the traffic and UE power
consumption characteristics in frequency, time, antenna domains, DRX
configuration, and UE processing timeline for UE power saving**. The power
saving signal/channel/procedure is used for triggering adaptation of UE power
consumption characteristic. The power saving study also considers UE power
consumption reduction in RRM measurements. The associated procedures for the
power saving schemes include the enhancement of UE paging procedure based on
the additional power saving signal/channel/procedure and the UE power saving
procedure in supporting efficient transition from RRC_CONNECTED to
RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE mode.**
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905 Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications
[2] 3GPP RP-181463 New SID: Study on UE Power Saving in NR
[3] 3GPP TR 38.913 Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation
Access Technologies
[4] 3GPP TR 38.802 Study on New Radio Access Technology - Physical Layer
Aspects
[5] 3GPP TS 38.814 Physical layer procedures for data
[6] R1-1813684 Calibration results for power saving study Huawei, HiSilicon
[7] R1-1812329 Remaining aspects for evaluation methodology for power saving
vivo
[8] R1-1812360 Evaluation methodology for UE power saving MediaTek Inc.
[9] R1-1813960 Discussion on evaluation methodology for UE power consumption
LG Electronics
[10] R1-1812640 Evaluation Methodology for UE Power Saving Scheme CATT
[11] R1-1813010 Evaluation Methodology for UE power saving Samsung
[12] R1-1813181 Evaluations and modeling of UE power consumption Ericsson
[13] R1-1813446 UE Power Saving Evaluation Methodology Qualcomm Incorporated
[14] R1-1814014 Evaluation methodology for UE power saving techniques Intel
Corporation
[15] R1-1814080 Consideration on UE power consumption model and preliminary
evaluation results ZTE
[16] R1-1900040 Power saving schemes Huawei, HiSilicon
[17] R1-1900145 Discussion on UE adaptation to the traffic and UE power
consumption characteristics vivo
[18] R1-1900192 Adaptation designs for NR UE power saving MediaTek Inc.
[19] R1-1900226 On adaptation aspects for NR UE power consumption reduction
ZTE Corporation
[20] R1-1900305 UE Adaptation to the Traffic and UE Power Consumption
Characteristics OPPO
[21] R1-1900344 UE Power saving schemes with adaptation CATT
[22] R1-1900380 Power consumption adaptation for NR Sony
[23] R1-1900421 Discussion on UE power saving schemes with adaption to UE
traffic CMCC
[24] R1-1900508 UE adaptation to the traffic and UE power consumption
characteristics Intel Corporation
[25] R1-1900599 Discussion on UE adaptation to UE power consumption
characteristics LG Electronics
[26] R1-1900719 Discussion on UE adaptation to the traffic and UE power
consumption characteristics Spreadtrum Communications
[27] R1-1900753 Power saving techniques based on UE adaptation Apple Inc.
[28] R1-1900813 On power saving techniques InterDigital, Inc.
[29] R1-1900818 PDSCH resource allocation restriction for power saving ASUSTEK
COMPUTER
[30] R1-1900911 UE Adaptation to the Traffic and UE Power Consumption
Characteristics Qualcomm
[31] R1-1900947 UE power saving schemes Motorola Mobility, Lenovo
[32] R1-1900980 Discussion on UE adaptation to the traffic and UE power
consumption characteristics NTT DOCOMO, INC.
[33] R1-1900992 Power saving during scheduling opportunity is sparse NEC
Corporation
[34] R1-1901087 On UE adaptation schemes Samsung
[35] R1-1901118 Discussion on UE traffic adaptation and power consumption
characteristics PANASONIC
[36] R1-1901166 Adaptation aspects of NR UE power saving Ericsson
[37] R1-1901188 On UE adaptation to the traffic Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
[38] R1-1900039 Remaining issues for evaluation methodology for UE power
saving Huawei, HiSilicon
[39] R1-1900144 Evaluation Results and remaining issues on evaluation
methodology for UE power saving vivo
[40] R1-1900191 Evaluation of NR power saving designs MediaTek Inc.
[41] R1-1901282 Evaluation results of UE power saving ZTE Corporation
[42] R1-1900304 Evaluation methodology for UE power saving OPPO
[43] R1-1900343 Evaluation Results of UE Power Saving Schemes CATT
[44] R1-1900379 Evaluation results for power saving study Sony
[45] R1-1900507 Evaluation results of UE power saving signals Intel
Corporation
[46] R1-1900598 Numerical results for UE power saving schemes LG Electronics
[47] R1-1900752 Evaluation of UE power saving techniques Apple Inc.
[48] R1-1900910 Evaluation Methodology and Results for UE Power Saving
Qualcomm Incorporated
[49] R1-1901086 Evaluation results for UE power savings Samsung
[50] R1-1901165 Evaluations and modeling of UE power consumption Ericsson
[51] R1-1901187 Initial evaluation results and consideration on DRX settings
Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
[52] R1-1900041 Power saving signal/channel/procedure for triggering
adaptation Huawei, HiSilicon
[53] R1-1901245 Analysis and evaluation of go-to-sleep signaling scheme
Huawei, HiSilicon.
[54] R1-1901246 Analysis and evaluation of wake up signaling scheme Huawei,
HiSilicon.
[55] R1-1900754 Power Saving Techniques based on Explicit Network Indication,
Apple
[56] R1-1900381 Power Consumption Triggering for NR, Sony
[57] R1-1901571 Evaluation results of UE power saving Huawei, HiSilicon
[58] R1-1901709 Detailed Evaluation Results for UE power saving vivo
[59] R1-1901803 Evaluation results for NR power saving designs MediaTek Inc.
[60] R1-1902024 Evaluation Results of UE Power Saving Schemes CATT
[61] R1-1902030 Evaluation results of UE power consumption ZTE Corporation
[62] R1-1902052 Numerical results for UE power saving schemes LG Electronics
[63] R1-1902185 Evaluation results for power saving techniques Sony
[64] R1-1902317 Evaluation results on UE power saving Samsung
[65] R1-1902507 System level evaluation of UE power saving schemes Intel
Corporation
[66] R1-1902618 Evaluation of UE Power Saving Techniques InterDigital, Inc.
[67] R1-1902734 Remaining issues on evaluation methodology for UE power saving
Spreadtrum Communications
[68] R1-1902770 Evaluation of UE power saving techniques Apple Inc.
[69] R1-1902934 Evaluations and modeling of UE power consumption Ericsson
[70] R1-1903374 Evaluation Methodology and Results for UE Power Saving
Qualcomm Incorporated
[71] R1-1903133 Comparison of DRX with WUS and GTS schemes Nokia, Nokia
Shanghai Bell
[72] R1-1901572 Power saving schemes Huawei, HiSilicon
[73] R1-1901710 UE adaptation to traffic and power consumption characteristics
vivo
[74] R1-1903353 NR UE power saving designs MediaTek Inc.
[75] R1-1902025 UE Power saving schemes and power saving signal/channel CATT
[76] R1-1902031 Discussion on potential techniques for UE power saving ZTE
Corporation
[77] R1-1902053 Discussion on potential techniques for UE power saving LG
Electronics
[78] R1-1902186 Power saving techniques for NR Sony
[79] R1-1902318 On UE power saving techniques Samsung
[80] R1-1903344 Discussion on UE power saving schemes with adaption to UE
traffic CMCC
[81] R1-1902508 On potential techniques for UE power saving Intel Corporation
[82] R1-1902735 Discussion on potential techniques for UE power saving
Spreadtrum Communications
[83] R1-1902745 UE Adaptation to the Traffic and UE Power Consumption
Characteristics OPPO
[84] R1-1902771 UE power saving techniques Apple Inc.
[85] R1-1902935 Techniques for NR UE power saving Ericsson
[86] R1-1903016 Potential Techniques for UE Power Saving Qualcomm Incorporated
[87] R1-1903134 On UE adaptation to the traffic Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
[88] R1-1903430 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements Huawei,
HiSilicon
[89] R1-1901711 UE power saving in RRM Measurements vivo
[90] R1-1903354 NR RRM UE power saving MediaTek Inc.
[91] R1-1902026 UE Power saving scheme for RRM measurements CATT
[92] R1-1902032 On UE Power Saving for RRM Measurement ZTE Corporation
[93] R1-1902187 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements Sony
[94] R1-1903236 Discussion on UE power Consumption Reduction in RRM
Measurements NTT DOCOMO,
[95] R1-1902936 RRM aspects of NR UE power saving Ericsson
[96] R1-1903017 UE Power Consumption Reduction in RRM Measurements Qualcomm
Incorporated
[97] R1-1903136 UE Power Consumption Reduction in RRM Measurements Nokia,
Nokia Shanghai Bell
[98] R1-1903194 Calibration results for power saving study Huawei, HiSilicon
[99] R1-1903137 Considerations for limiting the PDCCH blind decoding
candidates Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
[100] R1-1903831 Email discussion summary of [96-NR-11]: observation for
reducing RRM measurement for SSBs by considering adjacent directional beams
vivo
[101] R2-1908127 RAN2 impacts when introducing a DCI-based mechanism to skip
the PDCCH monitoring Intel Corporation
[102] R2-1906493 Is PDCCH skipping really needed Beijing Xiaomi Mobile
Software discussion
[103] R2-1905962 Evaluation on the mobility impact for RRM measurement
relaxation vivo
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
PDCCH Physical Dedicated Control CHannel
# 4 Introduction
UE battery life is an important aspect of the user\'s experience, which will
influence the adoption of 5G NR handsets and/or services. It is critical to
study UE power consumption to ensure that UE power efficiency for 5G NR UEs
can be better than that of LTE, and techniques and designs for improvements
are identified and adopted.
ITU-R defines energy efficiency as one of the minimum technical performance
requirements for IMT-2020. According to ITU-R report -- Minimum requirements
related to technical performance for IMT-2020 radio interface(s), \"energy
efficiency of the device can relate to the support for the following two
aspects: a) Efficient data transmission in a loaded case; b) Low energy
consumption when there is no data. Efficient data transmission in a loaded
case is demonstrated by the average spectral efficiency. Low energy
consumption when there is no data can be estimated by the sleep ratio\".
Because NR system supports high speed data transport, the bursty user data
would be served by network in very short durations. One efficient UE power
saving mechanism is to trigger UE for network access from power efficient
mode. UE would stay in the power efficient mode, such as micro sleep or OFF
period in the long DRX cycle, unless it is informed of network access through
UE power saving framework. Alternatively, network can assist the UE to switch
from the \"network access\" mode to the \"power efficient\" mode when there is
no traffic to deliver, e.g. dynamic UE transition to sleep with network
assistance signal.
**In addition to minimizing the power consumption with the new wake up/go-to-
sleep mechanism, it is equally importance to reduce the power consumption
during the network access in RRC_CONNECTED mode. More than half of the power
consumption in LTE is UE in the access mode. The power saving scheme would
focus on minimizing the dominate factor of power consumption during the
network access, which includes the processing of aggregated bandwidth, number
of active RF chains and active reception/transmission time, and dynamic
transition to power efficient mode. From the field data collected in the LTE
network, most of subframes contain no data or small data. The power saving
scheme for the dynamic adaptation to the different data arrival should be
studied in RRC_CONNECTED mode.** Dynamic adaptation to traffic in different
dimensions, such as carrier, antenna, beamforming, and bandwidth, would be
studied in the studied. Furthermore, methods to enhance the transitions
between \"network access\" mode and power efficient mode should be considered.
Both network-assisted and UE-assisted approaches should be considered for UE
power saving mechanism.
UE also consumes a lot of power for RRM measurements. In particular, UE would
need to power up before the DRX ON period to track the channel in preparation
for the RRM measurement. Some of the RRM measurements are not necessary but
consumes a lot of UE power, for example, the low mobility UEs does not have to
measure as frequent as high mobility UEs. Network would provide the signalling
to assist UE to reduce the power consumption on unnecessary RRM measurements.
Additional UE assistance, for example the UE status information, etc, is also
useful for the network to enable the UE power consumption reduction on RRM
measurements.
The study of UE power saving is to identify the feasibility and benefit of
techniques to allow UE implementations which can operate with reduced power
consumption. **The study of the UE power saving framework would also take into
consideration of latency and performance in NR as well as network impact.**
# 5 UE power saving schemes
## 5.1 UE adaptation to the traffic and power consumption characteristic
### 5.1.1 Adaptation to the variation in frequency
The UE BWP adaptation is to dynamically switch the BWP by gNB based on, e.g.,
the traffic to support efficient operation of BWP switching in reducing the UE
power consumption.
The UE adaptation to the CA/DC is to fast activation/deactivation of the SCell
by gNB based on, e.g., the traffic to support efficient operation for fast
SCell activation/deactivation in achieving UE power saving.
The UE power saving schemes for the UE adaptation in frequency domain in the
study are as follows,
\- BWP - UE adaptation to different BWP
\- RS to assist UE channel tracking and measurements to assist BWP switching
\- The assistance may also include CSI measurements (UE supports and processes
one BWP at a time)
\- Enhancement of L1 signaling, e.g., power saving signal or DCI for power
saving, in triggering the BWP switching
\- Association of BWP and DRX
\- UE assistance information could be considered
Table 1: Power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the BWP switching
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Co | Power | Power | Power | U | Esti | Evalu | Note | | mpany | s | s | s | PT/La | mated | ation | | | | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove | metho | (in | | | s | gain | gain | | rhead | dolog | clude | | | cheme | | for | | | y/bas | UE | | | | | each | | | eline | t | | | | | con | | | assum | hroug | | | | | figur | | | ption | hput) | | | | | ation | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **Med | R | 23.5% | FTP/V | La | RU | SLS | A | | iaTek | el-15 | \~ | ideo: | tency | incr | | lar | | [18\ | DCI | 31.4% | 2 | Incr | ease: | CDRX | ge-BW | | ][40 | and | | 3.54% | ease: | | co | BWP | | ][5 | timer | | | | FTP/V | nfig: | of | | 9]** | based | | IM: | FTP/V | ideo: | | 100 | | | BWP | | 2 | ideo: | - | FTP/ | MHz, | | | swit | | 4.79% | 3.98% | 0.55% | Video | a | | | ching | | | | | (160, | sma | | | with | | VoIP: | IM: | IM: | 100, | ll-BW | | | A-CSI | | 3 | 1.91% | 1.29% | 8) | BWP | | | after | | 1.42% | | | | of 20 | | | swit | | | VoIP: | VoIP: | IM | MHz | | | ching | | | - | 0% | (320, | and a | | | to a | | | 0.07% | | 80, | 20-ms | | | larg | | | | | 10) | BWP | | | er-BW | | | | | | timer | | | BWP | | | | | VoIP | are | | | | | | | | (40, | as | | | | | | | | 10, | sumed | | | | | | | | 4) | for | | | | | | | | | IM | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | FTP/V | | | | | | | | | ideo. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | VoIP, | | | | | | | | | sma | | | | | | | | | ll-BW | | | | | | | | | BWP | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | lways | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | lied. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | Adapt | 9% \~ | 30% | Av | Mar | Nume | | | _vivo | ation | 45% | for | erage | ginal | rical | | | [5 | in | | CDRX | p | | simul | | | 8]__| freq | | | acket | | ation | | | | uency | | | lat | | | | | | d | | | ency: | | Bas | | | | omain | | | 16. | | eline | | | | (UE | | | 83ms; | | a | | | | re | | | | | ssump | | | | ports | | | La | | tion: | | | | its | | | tency | | The | | | | pref | | | incr | | BWP | | | | erred | | | ease: | | is | | | | BWP), | | | 0% | | a | | | | eval | | | | | lways | | | | uated | | | | | 10 | | | | for | | | | | 0MHz; | | | | g | | | | | | | | | aming | | | | | Tr | | | | a | | | | | affic | | | | pplic | | | | | m | | | | ation | | | | | odel: | | | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | | | aming | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CDRX | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | nfig: | | | | | | | | | (40, | | | | | | | | | 10,4) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 45% | Av | | | | | | | | for | erage | | | | | | | | Fixed | p | | | | | | | | PDCCH | acket | | | | | | | | monit | lat | | | | | | | | oring | ency: | | | | | | | | p | 0 | | | | | | | | eriod | .5ms; | | | | | | | | icity | | | | | | | | | (0 | La | | | | | | | | .5ms) | tency | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | ease: | | | | | | | | | 0% | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 9% | Av | | | | | | | | for | erage | | | | | | | | Fixed | p | | | | | | | | PDCCH | acket | | | | | | | | monit | lat | | | | | | | | oring | ency: | | | | | | | | p | 20. | | | | | | | | eriod | 30ms; | | | | | | | | icity | | | | | | | | | ( | La | | | | | | | | 40ms) | tency | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | ease: | | | | | | | | | 0% | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__CAT | Power | 25.2% | ftp3 | Avg. | 7 | SLS | | | T[21 | s | \~ | with | UPT | .14%, | with | | | ][6 | aving | 55.0% | 160ms | loss | 14 | 10UE | | | 0]__| s | | DRX-c | 17.1% | .29%, | per | | | | ignal | (8.5% | ycle: | (FTP3 | 2 | TRP | | | | tr | \~ | 25.2% | λ | 1.4%. | for | | | | igger | 26% | | =3.2) | | DU | | | | BWP | for | IM | | . | sce | | | | ada | R | with | | | nario | | | | ption | el-15 | 320ms | | | to | | | | with | n | DRX-c | | | get | | | | the | arrow | ycle: | | | tr | | | | addit | vs | 55.0% | | | ansmi | | | | ional | full | | | | ssion | | | | RS | BW | ftp3 | | | rate, | | | | (PS- | switc | with | | | and | | | | RS) | hing) | 160ms | | | obs | | | | | | DRX- | | | erved | | | | | | cycle | | | one | | | | | | (R | | | s | | | | | | el-15 | | | ingle | | | | | | n | | | UE | | | | | | arrow | | | for | | | | | | vs | | | power | | | | | | full | | | co | | | | | | BW | | | nsump | | | | | | BWP | | | tion. | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | witch | | | Base | | | | | | ing): | | | line: | | | | | | 8.5% | | | PDCCH | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | IM | | | onito | | | | | | with | | | ring, | | | | | | 320ms | | | CSI | | | | | | DRX- | | | and | | | | | | cycle | | | PDSCH | | | | | | (R | | | rece | | | | | | el-15 | | | ption | | | | | | n | | | on | | | | | | arrow | | | wider | | | | | | vs | | | BW, | | | | | | full | | | FTP3 | | | | | | BW | | | with | | | | | | BWP | | | 0.5M | | | | | | s | | | bytes | | | | | | witch | | | p | | | | | | ing): | | | acket | | | | | | 26% | | | size | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 200ms | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | er-ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | time, | | | | | | | | | IM | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 0.1M | | | | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 2s | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | er-ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | time | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | 1) | 33 \~ | 0dBm | | | Evalu | Power | | Apple | When | 45% | case | | | ation | s | | [68 | UE | | | | | M | aving | | ][8 | knows | | 0.1MB | | | ethod | gain | | 4]__| total | | : 68% | | | = | in | | | size | | | | | Nume | each | | | of | | 0.5MB | | | rical | file | | | file | | : 64% | | | S | size | | | to | | | | | imula | is | | | dow | | 2M : | | | tion, | com | | | nload | | 46% | | | | puted | | | / | | | | | UE | ag | | | up | | 4M : | | | co | ainst | | | load, | | 34% | | | ntinu | the | | | it | | | | | ously | band | | | can | | 23dBm | | | mon | width | | | est | | case | | | itors | cons | | | imate | | | | | P | uming | | | power | | 0.1MB | | | DCCH, | hi | | | effi | | : 51% | | | | ghest | | | cient | | | | | No | power | | | BWP | | 0.5MB | | | CDRX | in | | | s | | : 33% | | | ass | each | | | izes. | | | | | umed. | file | | | | | 2MB : | | | | size. | | | 2) | | 61% | | | No | | | | UE | | | | | GTS | | | | can | | 4MB : | | | ass | | | | ind | | 53% | | | umed. | | | | icate | | | | | | | | | its | | | | | 4Mbps | | | | pref | | | | | for | | | | erred | | | | | 0.1MB | | | | BWP | | | | | file | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | 2 | | | | ation | | | | | 0Mbps | | | | to | | | | | | | | | gNB. | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 0.5MB | | | | 3) | | | | | file | | | | gNB | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | BWPs | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | | | deter | | | | | | | | | mined | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | UE\'s | | | | | | | | | recom | | | | | | | | | menda | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | | | | | File | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | nsfer | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ccurs | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | BWPs. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | 1) | 16 % | 16% | | | Evalu | Power | | Apple | When | | | | | ation | s | | [68 | UE | | | | | M | aving | | ][8 | knows | | | | | ethod | gain | | 4]_ * | the | | | | | = | in | | | total | | | | | Nume | each | | | size | | | | | rical | file | | | of | | | | | Simul | size | | | file | | | | | ation | is | | | to | | | | | | com | | | dow | | | | | UE | puted | | | nload | | | | | co | ag | | | / | | | | | ntinu | ainst | | | up | | | | | ously | the | | | load, | | | | | mon | band | | | it | | | | | itors | width | | | can | | | | | P | cons | | | est | | | | | DCCH, | uming | | | imate | | | | | | hi | | | power | | | | | CDRX | ghest | | | effi | | | | | (160, | p | | | cient | | | | | 100, | ower. | | | BWP | | | | | 8) ms | | | | s | | | | | ass | | | | izes. | | | | | umed. | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | No | | | | UE | | | | | GTS | | | | can | | | | | as | | | | ind | | | | | sumed | | | | icate | | | | | | | | | its | | | | | F | | | | pref | | | | | TP3(0 | | | | erred | | | | | .5MB, | | | | BWP | | | | | 0.2s) | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | 2 | | | | ation | | | | | 0Mbps | | | | to | | | | | | | | | gNB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | | | | | gNB | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | BWPs | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | was | | | | | | | | | deter | | | | | | | | | mined | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | UE\'s | | | | | | | | | recom | | | | | | | | | menda | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | | | | | File | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | | | nsfer | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ccurs | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | BWPs. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5) | | | | | | | | | BWP | | | | | | | | | swit | | | | | | | | | ching | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | DRX | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | ena | | | | | | | | | bled. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observation:
Rel-15 DCI and timer based BWP adaptation between full bandwidth and a narrow
bandwidth can achieve power saving gain in the range 8.5% - 31%. The power
saving schemes with UE adaptation to BWP bandwidth show 16% - 45% power saving
gain if suitable BWP bandwidth is applied. The power saving schemes with UE
adaptation to BWP switching show the power saving gains ranged from 8.5% - 45%
from the Rel-15 BWP operation without adaptation. The higher power saving gain
of 45% comes from suitable BWP adaptation, e.g., selection of BWP based on UE
assistance information. Smaller power saving of 8.5% is provided from one
source, assuming 15-ms CSI acquisition delay for the DCI triggering BWP
adaptation. The average latency increase of the power saving schemes is up to
4%. One source showed that the power saving signal triggering BWP switching
with additional RS for CSI measurements shows 17%-29% power saving gains in
relation to Rel-15 BWP adaptation with UPT improvement of 17% and 7-21%
overhead.
\- CA/DC --
\- Quick activation/de-activation (e.g.,L1 signaling, MAC CE enhancement)
\- Adaptation of PDCCH monitoring/search space on activated SCell
\- Including cross carrier scheduling
\- Adaptation based on the operation in a group of cells in power efficient
way
\- Including group of cells in bundle operation
\- CSI/RRM measurements and beam management at non-active SCell
\- UE assistance information could be considered
\- Including the combined operation with the BWP switching
Table 2: Power saving schemes for SCell operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | ** | ** | ** | **UPT | * | ** |** N | | _Comp | Power | Power | Power | /Late |_ Esti | Evalu | ote**| | any** | s | s | s | ncy**| mated | ation | | | | aving | aving | aving | | Overh | metho |**(in | | | sch | g | gain | | ead**| dolog | clude | | | eme** | ain**| for | | | y/bas | UE | | | | | each | | | eline | thr | | | | | confi | | | as | oughp | | | | | gurat | | | sumpt | ut)** | | | | | ion**| | | ion** | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **Med | BWP- | Total | Total | La | RU | SLS | 1. | | iaTek | based | Sa | sa | tency | incr | | Backg | | [18\ | SCell | ving: | ving: | incr | ease: | CDRX | round | | ][40 | power | | | ease: | | co | tr | | ][5 | s | 21.1% | FTP/V | | FTP/V | nfig: | affic | | 9]** | aving | \~ | ideo: | FTP/V | ideo: | | of | | | and | 27.7% | 21.1% | ideo: | - | FTP/ | p | | | bu | | | -0 | 1.23% | Video | acket | | | ndled | SCell | IM: | .675% | | (160, | size | | | BWP | sa | 27.7% | | IM: | 100, | 256 | | | swit | ving: | | IM: | 0% | 8) | bits | | | ching | | SCell | 1.60% | | | and | | | | 5 | sa | | | IM | mean | | | | 1.18% | ving: | | | (320, | ar | | | | \~ | | | | 80, | rival | | | | 6 | FTP/V | | | 10) | time | | | | 7.33% | ideo: | | | | 200 | | | | | 5 | | | | ms is | | | | | 1.18% | | | | added | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | IM: | | | | the | | | | | 6 | | | | tr | | | | | 7.33% | | | | affic | | | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | | | dels. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | SCell | | | | | | | | | BWP | | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | llows | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | BWP | | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | Cell. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **H | Trigg | 3.91% | 3.91% | 0.71\ | none | SLS | S | | uawei | ering | \~ | \~ | ~2.5% | | | ingle | | [5 | SCe | 2 | 1 | | | CDRX | UE in | | 7]** | ll(s) | 4.16% | 3.76% | | | co | a | | | PDCCH | | for | | | nfig: | cell. | | | monit | | (P | | | (160, | | | | oring | | acket | | | 100, | 4 | | | by | | size | | | 8), | acti | | | sta | | / | | | (160, | vated | | | rting | | ar | | | 40, | CCs. | | | of | | rival | | | 8), | | | | Inact | | rate) | | | (40, | A | | | ivity | | =(0.5 | | | 25, | sc | | | Timer | | /200) | | | 4), | aling | | | on | | | | | (40, | f | | | PCell | | 1 | | | 10, | actor | | | | | 9.13% | | | 4) | of | | | | | \~ | | | | 0.2 | | | | | 2 | | | P | is | | | | | 4.16% | | | acket | as | | | | | for | | | size | sumed | | | | | (P | | | / | for | | | | | acket | | | ar | each | | | | | size | | | rival | acti | | | | | / | | | rate | vated | | | | | ar | | | (M | SCell | | | | | rival | | | bytes | wi | | | | | rate) | | | / | thout | | | | | = | | | ms): | PDCCH | | | | | (0.1/ | | | 0.5 | m | | | | | 2000) | | | /200, | onito | | | | | | | | 0.1 | ring. | | | | | | | | /2000 | | | | | | | | | | La | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | incre | | | | | | | | | asing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | obt | | | | | | | | | ained | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | anal | | | | | | | | | ysis. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.82% | 1.82% | 0 | none | Same | 2 | | | | \~ | \~ | .86\~ | | as | acti | | | | 1 | 5.40% | 2.89% | | first | vated | | | | 2.23% | for | | | case | CCs. | | | | | (P | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | Other | | | | | size | | | | a | | | | | / | | | | ssump | | | | | ar | | | | tions | | | | | rival | | | | are | | | | | rate) | | | | same | | | | | =(0.5 | | | | as | | | | | /200) | | | | first | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | 7.67% | | | | | | | | | \~ | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 2.23% | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | (P | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate) | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | (0.1/ | | | | | | | | | 2000) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2.73% | 2.73% | 0. | none | Same | 10 | | | | \~ | \~ | 09%\~ | | as | UEs | | | | 1 | 9.79% | 2.62% | | first | in a | | | | 6.11% | for | | | case | cell. | | | | | (P | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | Other | | | | | size | | | | a | | | | | / | | | | ssump | | | | | ar | | | | tions | | | | | rival | | | | are | | | | | rate) | | | | same | | | | | =(0.5 | | | | as | | | | | /200) | | | | first | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 2.36% | | | | | | | | | \~ | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 6.11% | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | (P | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | rate) | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | (0.1/ | | | | | | | | | 2000) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Sa | (De) | 5 | Acti | 83 | DCI | Nume | S | | msung | activ | 7.75% | vated | 8.6Mb | based | rical | ingle | | [34 | ation | | CCs | ps/1. | power | simul | UE. | | ][6 | of | 38.7% | ad | 04ms, | s | ation | | | 4]** | SCell | | apted | | aving | | One | | | | | from | 867 | s | No | PDSCH | | | | | 4 to | Mbps/ | ignal | C | over | | | | | 1. | 1.0ms | with | -DRX, | 10 | | | | | | | m | | sy | | | | | Acti | | onito | FTP3 | mbols | | | | | vated | | ring, | tr | in | | | | | CCs | | T = | affic | one | | | | | ad | | 1 | model | slot | | | | | apted | | 024ms | with | is | | | | | from | | | mean | ca | | | | | 4 to | | | of | pable | | | | | 2. | | | inter | of | | | | | | | | p | car | | | | | | | | acket | rying | | | | | | | | arr | 8 | | | | | | | | ivals | 68584 | | | | | | | | = 4ms | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | bits. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Cro | | | | | | | | | ss-ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | sched | | | | | | | | | uling | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Mi | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | sched | | | | | | | | | uling | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | 0 | | | | | | | | | .5ms. | | | | | | | | | (also | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | acti | | | | | | | | | vatio | | | | | | | | | n/dea | | | | | | | | | ctiva | | | | | | | | | tion) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | 1) | 5% \~ | 43% | | | Evalu | Note | | Apple | In | 43% | for | | | ation | that | | [68 | cases | | 1MB | | | M | both | | ][8 | UE is | | file | | | ethod | bas | | 4]**| aware | | with | | | = | eline | | | of | | No | | | Nume | and | | | total | | CDRX | | | rical | pro | | | size | | | | | Simul | posed | | | of | | 7% | | | ation | sc | | | file | | for | | | | hemes | | | ( | | 5MB | | | Bas | have | | | e.g., | | file | | | eline | no | | | v | | with | | | con | i | | | ideo, | | No | | | figur | mpact | | | app) | | CDRX | | | ation | on | | | to | | | | | with | user | | | u | | 17% | | | 2 CC, | throu | | | pload | | for | | | 1 | ghput | | | or | | 1MB | | | HARQ | since | | | down | | file | | | pro | the | | | load, | | with | | | cess, | SCell | | | UE | | CDRX | | | gNB | de | | | can | | | | | d | activ | | | a | | 5% | | | eacti | ation | | | dvise | | for | | | vates | kicks | | | gNB | | 5MB | | | S | in | | | how | | file | | | Cells | after | | | many | | with | | | after | file | | | S | | CDRX | | | SCell | d | | | cells | | | | | de | ownlo | | | it | | | | | activ | ading | | | needs | | | | | ation | is | | | or | | | | | timer | fini | | | when | | | | | value | shed. | | | to | | | | | of | | | | act | | | | | 320ms | | | | ivate | | | | | exp | | | | / | | | | | ires. | | | | deact | | | | | | | | | ivate | | | | | CDRX | | | | SC | | | | | = | | | | ells. | | | | | (320, | | | | | | | | | 200, | | | | 2) | | | | | 10) | | | | UE | | | | | ms | | | | sends | | | | | | | | | SCell | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | activ | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quest | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | file | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | ownlo | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | fini | | | | | | | | | shed. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3a) | | | | | | | | | Wi | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | DRX, | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | dea | | | | | | | | | ctiva | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | gNB | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | move | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RRC | | | | | | | | | INA | | | | | | | | | CTIVE | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | IDLE | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tate. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3b) | | | | | | | | | With | | | | | | | | | CDRX | | | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nters | | | | | | | | | CDRX | | | | | | | | | mode. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** Qua | SCell | 32% | #1) | Av | Signa | Me | > _-_ | | lcomm | Dor | | 33.6% | erage | lling | thod: | > | | [48 | mancy | | | la | ove | SLS | Gain | | ][7 | | | #2) | tency | rhead | | > in | | 0]__| (e.g. | | 32.7% | inc | due | FR2. | > av | | | based | | | rease | to | DL- | erage | | | on | | 1 | | trans | only, | > | | | do | | -slot | #1) | ition | No | power | | | rmant | | PDCCH | 0.38% | com | CDRX | > co | | | BWP, | | p | | mands | | nsump | | | or | | eriod | #2) | | Tr | tion. | | | semi- | | icity | 0.73% | | affic | > | | | persi | | re | | | m | > _-_ | | | stent | | sults | | | odel: | > Bas | | | s | | s | | | FTP3 | eline | | | earch | | hown. | | | | > lat | | | space | | Other | | | Max | ency: | | | co | | set | | | 4CC | > 2 | | | nfig) | | tings | | | | 0.3ms | | | | | avai | | | Trans | > | | | | | lable | | | ition | > _-_ | | | | | in | | | delay | > | | | | | tdoc. | | | as | Addit | | | | | | | | sumpt | ional | | | | | | | | ions: | > la | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | #1) | > is | | | | | | | | Trans | > due | | | | | | | | ition | > to | | | | | | | | De | > | | | | | | | | lay=1 | trans | | | | | | | | slot | ition | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | ( | delay | | | | | | | | ideal | > | | | | | | | | a | > _-_ | | | | | | | | ssump | > Tr | | | | | | | | tion) | affic | | | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | | #2) | cales | | | | | | | | Trans | > | | | | | | | | ition | with | | | | | | | | De | > n | | | | | | | | lay=6 | umber | | | | | | | | slots | > of | | | | | | | | | > car | | | | | | | | (real | riers | | | | | | | | istic | > | | | | | | | | a | > _-_ | | | | | | | | ssump | > 10 | | | | | | | | tion) | > UEs | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | | | ystem | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observation:
The power saving schemes for SCell operation show 12% - 57.75% power saving
gain if the baseline settings exhibit a large amount of PDCCH monitoring
without data scheduling due to sporadic traffic or long data inactivity in
SCell(s). Smaller power saving gain in the range of 2%-7% is observed for the
case of less PDCCH monitoring without data scheduling in SCell(s). The average
latency increase is in the range of 0.1% - 2.6%. One source reports that the
corresponding additional overhead in terms of DL resource usage is negligible.
### 5.1.2 Adaptation to the variation in time
The UE power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the traffic arrival in the
time domain includes cross slot scheduling, single slot scheduling with a gap
between PDCCH and PDSCH reception, and multi-slot scheduling. For both cross-
slot scheduling and single slot scheduling, the UE may achieve power
consumption by switching to micro sleep after PDCCH reception. For multi-slot
scheduling, the UE may achieve power consumption by skipping the PDCCH
monitoring at subsequent slots of PDSCH/PUSCH transmission.
\- Cross-slot scheduling
\- Minimum K0 > 0 and aperiodic CSI-RS triggering offset is not within the
duration - UE could switch to micro sleep after PDCCH reception -- no addition
PDSCH and CSI-RS signals reception within the given duration (e.g. the same
slot)
\- It is known to the UE at PDCCH decoding
\- Extended micro sleep time and reduce the PDCCH processing in reducing UE
power consumption
\- Minimum K2 > 0 is essential to avoid the requirements of fast PDCCH
processing
\- UE assistance information can be considered
\- The general procedure for the study of the power saving scheme when cross-
slot scheduling is used
\- gNB semi-statically configures TDRA to the UE, subject to UE capability (if
any)
\- All schedulable TDRA values have K0 > = x and K2 >= x where x > 0
\- Determination of value x is FFS (which may also be done in the WI phase),
e.g., may also be impacted by BWP switching triggered by DCI (jointly with
cross-slot scheduling, if supported), etc.
\- All aperiodic CSI-RS triggering offsets are not smaller than the value x
\- UE decodes PDCCH and retrieves the index of schedulable TDRA value~~s~~
\- UE could go to micro sleep after reception of last PDCCH symbol
\- UE processes PDSCH at the indicated starting time from TDRA value~~s~~
\- Note: DRX cycle assumed in the evaluation results summarized in the table
below is not necessary long DRX cycle; detailed DRX cycle assumption can be
found in each reference
\- The following table is subject to further update, particularly regarding
evaluation results/assumptions
Table 3: Power saving scheme with cross-slot scheduling
**Company** | **Power saving scheme** | **Power saving gain** | **Power saving gain for each configuration** | **UPT/Latency** | **Estimated Overhead** | **Evaluation methodology/baseline assumption** | **Note** **(include UE throughput)** |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Huawei [16][57]** | Cross-slot scheduling | 13.7% ~ 25.4% | Average power (28.1/24.3)~ (40.9/30.6) | UPT loss: 13.4%~18.4% Latency increase: 0.84~3.2% | none | SLS CDRX config: (160, 100, 8), (160, 40, 8), (40, 25, 4), (40, 10, 4) | Single UE in a cell |  |   
|  | 6.5% ~ 11.3% | (64.4/60.2)~ (87.4/77.6) | UPT loss: 2.9%~5.2% Latency increase: 0.29%~0.46% | none | Same as first case | Multi-UE in a cell (10 UEs in average) |  |   
**Vivo [58]** | cross-slot scheduling | 18%-29% | 18%-25% for UE of 5 percentile SINR | Average packet Latency: 13.94- 58.36 ms; Latency increase: 1%-4% | Marginal | Numerical simulation Baseline assumption: non-UE preferred CDRX configuration; Traffic: ftp model 3 |  |  |   
|  |  | 24%-28% for UE of 50 percentile SINR | Average packet Latency: 4.03- 47.80 ms; Latency increase: 1%-14% |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 25%-29% for UE of 95 percentile SINR | Average packet Latency: 3.01- 46.74 ms; Latency increase: 1%-20% |  |  |  |  |   
**Mediatek [59]** | Cross-slot scheduling With positive values in K0, K2 and A-CSI offset | 13.54% ~ 18.99% | FTP/Video: 18.99% IM: 17.26% VoIP: 13.54% | Latency Increase: FTP/Video: 0.84% IM: 0.34% VoIP: 3.72% | RU increase: FTP/Video: 0% IM: 0% VoIP: 0% | SLS CDRX config: FTP/Video (160, 100, 8) IM (320, 80, 10) VoIP (40, 10, 4) | K0, K2 and A-CSI offset > 0 |  |   
**CATT[21][60]** | Cross-slot scheduling with K0 > 0 indicated to the UE in advance | 1.1%~11.3% | ftp3 with 160ms DRX-cycle: 11.3% IM with 320ms DRX-cycle: 1.1% | \-- | 0% | SLS with 10UE per TRP to get transmission rate, and observed one single UE for power consumption. Baseline: Cross-slot scheduling wo. micro-sleep, FTP3 with 0.5Mbytes and 200ms inter-arrival time, IM with 0.1Mbytes and 2s inter-arrival time |  |  |   
**ZTE [19][41][61]** | Cross-slot scheduling with K0 =1 indicated to the UE in advance | 24%~25% |  |  |  | Numerical simulation; DRX configuration (160-100-8) FTP3 traffic model with 0.1Mbytes and mean of inter packet arrivals = 200ms; | Peak throughput: 10-symbol PDSCH in one slot, 100MHz BWP. No UL. Single UE.  |  |   
**Samsung [34][64]** | Cross-slot scheduling | 21% | #1: 21% #2: 21% #3: 21%. #4: 21% | #1: 837Mbps/1.03ms #2: 565Mbps/1.53ms #3: 426.38Mbps/2.03ms #4: 342.36Mbps/2.53ms | DCI based power saving signal for triggering adaptation with monitoring, T = 1024ms | Numerical simulation No C-DRX, FTP3 traffic model with mean of inter packet arrivals = 4ms Minimum K0: Case #1: 0.5ms, Case #2: 1ms, Case #3: 1.5ms, Case #4: 2ms | Single UE, One PDSCH over 10 symbols in one slot is capable of carrying 868584 information bits. |  |   
**Intel [65]** | Cross-slot scheduling with K0=1 | 16.3% ~ 20.8% | 16.34% | 65.53 MBps | 85.42 ms |  | 5% | FTP model 3  
160, 100, 8 | System level simulations  
1%-4% UPT loss for FTP model 3 1.2-1.8% UPT loss for Instant Messaging  
2.4% UPT loss for VoIP  
|  |  | 19.36% | 84.6 MBps | 60.76 ms |  | 50% |  |   
|  |  | 20.48% | 88.11 MBps | 56.73 ms |  | 95% |  |   
|  |  | 20.25% | 5.65 MBps | 149.13 ms |  | 5% | Instant Messaging  
320, 80, 10 |   
|  |  | 20.77% | 5.73 MBps | 148.72 ms |  | 50% |  |   
|  |  | 20.66% | 5.73 MBps | 148.69 ms |  | 95% |  |   
|  |  | 17.76% | 0.0282 MBps | 11.01 ms |  | 5% | VoIP  
40, 10, 4 |   
|  |  | 17.72% | 0.0279 MBps | 11.03 ms |  | 50% |  |   
|  |  | 17.44% | 0.0282 MBps | 11.02 ms |  | 95% |  |   
**Interdigital [66]** | Cross-slot scheduling with k0 = 1 | 13.1% ~ 22.4% | FTP: 20.1%, 16.2%, 13.1% IM: 18.5%, 18.0%, 22.4% |  |  | SLS Case 1(160, 100, 8), Case 2 (40, 25, 4), Case 3(40, 10, 4) Case 4(320, 80, 10) FTP (Case 1, 2, 3) IM (Case 2, 3, 4) | 10 UEs per cell Average gain Higher gain observed for longer DRX cycle. |  |   
**Apple [68][84]** | 1) UE can indicate its preferred K0, K1, K2 values to gNB before data transfer starts. 2) gNB can use those preferred K0, K1, K2 values for data scheduling. | 5~41 % | 5% for (K0,K1)=(8,8) 41% for (K0,K1)=(0,1) |  |  | Evaluation Method = Mathematical Analysis |  |  |   
**Apple [68][84]** | 1) gNB can configure UE's TDRA table with entries with enough gap between PDCCH and associated PDSCH. The gap (**in slot**) is long enough such that PDSCH transmission starts after the gap ends. | 0~30% | 0% for high load (grant is scheduled every slot). ~30% for very low load (grant is scheduled with very low probability) |  |  | Evaluation Method = Mathematical Analysis, It is assumed that arrived packet could be served with a single PDSCH. | TDRA based gap scheduling (cross slot scheduling only) |  |   
**Ericsson [69]** | Cross-slot scheduling comparing with minimum K0 > 0 K0 = 1 K0= 4 K0= 16 | See next column | K0 = 1: 13%-21% K0 = 4: 9%-19% K0 = 16: 2%-15% | UPT loss: K0 = 1: 3%-5% K0 = 4: 10%-13% K0 = 16: 25%-30% |  | System-level simulation CDRX = (160, 100, 8) ms Traffic model is FTP3 with 180 kB packet size and 200 ms inter-arrival time is used. **48% RU** |  |  |   
|  | See next column | K0 = 1: 16%-20% K0 = 4: 15%-17% K0 = 16: 6%-11% | UPT loss: K0 = 1: 0.3%-4% K0 = 4: 7%-12% K0 = 16: 20%-32% |  | System-level simulation CDRX = (160, 100, 8) ms Traffic model is FTP3 with 180 kB packet size and 200 ms inter-arrival time is used. **3% RU** |  |  |   
**Qualcomm [30][48][70]** | Configuration of minimum DL scheduling offset that applies to K0 and A-CSI triggering offset | 25.8% (for 1-slot PDCCH period) | For PDCCH period 1 slot: 25.8% 2 slots: 17.5% 4 slots: 11.0% 8 slots: 6.9% | Latency increase for PDCCH period 1 slot: 0.57% 2 slot: 0.80% 4 slot: 1.37% 8 slot: 2.50% | none | SLS **FR1** FTP3, no DRX | \- Gain in average power consumption \- Baseline latency: 87.6ms (PDCCH period 1 slot) |  |   
|  | 27% (for 1-slot PDCCH period) | For PDCCH period 1 slot: 27.0% 2 slots: 20.9% 4 slots: 14.7% 8 slots: 9.6% | Latency increase for PDCCH period 1 slot: 0.46% 2 slot: 0.91% 4 slot: 1.37% 8 slot: 2.74% | none | SLS **FR2** FTP3, no DRX, _k_ 0 > 0 | \- Gain in average power consumption \- Baseline latency: 21.9ms (PDCCH period 1 slot) |  |   
|  | 21.7% (for 1-slot PDCCH period) | For PDCCH period 1 slot: 21.0% 2 slots: 16.0% 4 slots: 11.1% 8 slots: 07.8% | Latency increase for PDCCH period 1 slot: 0.14% 2 slot: 0.28% 4 slot: 0.42% 8 slot: 0.84% | none | SLS **FR2** FTP3, _k_ 0 > 0, CDRX config = (160, 100, 4) | \- Gain in average power consumption \- Baseline latency: 71.85ms (PDCCH period 1 slot) |  |   
**Nokia, NSB [37][51]** | Cross-slot scheduling k0 = {2, 4, 8, 16, 32} compared with DRX for k0=0 | 25.9% | k0=2: +25.9 % k0=4: +25.9 % k0=8: +25.9 % k0=16: +25.9 % k0=32: +25.9 % | Latency increase k0=2: +1.9 % k0=4: +3.7 % k0=8: +7.2 % k0=16: +14.2 % k0=32: +28.1 % | none | Numerical simulation FTP3 CDRX config (160, 40, 8) k0 = {2, 4, 8, 16, 32}. Baseline is k0 = 0. Other assumptions same as calibration | Cross-slot scheduling PDCCH-only power is applied in every relevant slot in all cases, because the k0 value is provided semi-statically through RRC messaging (PDSCH-TimeDomainResourceAllocationList) |  |   
Observation:
The power saving schemes with cross slot scheduling show 13% - 28 % power
saving gain and UPT degradation 0.3 %- 5% for minimum K0= 1, 13% - 25% power
saving gain and UPT degradation 7 % -13 % for 1\= 4 and UPT degradation up to 32%. When
minimum K0>1, the power saving gain decreases and UPT degrades as the K0
increases. Smaller power saving gain in the range 1.1% - 6.5% is observed when
the amount of PDCCH monitoring without data scheduling is limited because of
high scheduling activity or going to DRX OFF by MAC-CE. The average latency
increase is up to 4% if minimum K0 value is less than 4 and C-DRX is assumed.
Larger latency increases up to 15% is observed for larger minimum K0 values or
C-DRX is not applied.
\- Same slot scheduling
\- Adaptation of TDRA configurations to achieve UE power saving -- ensure the
gap between PDCCH reception and PDSCH transmission known to the UE
\- Adjustment of TDRA configuration
\- Selection of TDRA entry in the TDRA table [5].
\- Note: cross-slot scheduling could be incorporated in the TDRA configuration
\- Power model for TDRA power saving scheme is the slot-averaged power for a
slot with N-symbol PDSCH aligned to the end of the slot and PDCCH at the
beginning of the slot reported by the proposed scheme.
\- UE assistance information can be considered
\- The general procedure for the study of the power saving scheme when same
slot scheduling is used
\- gNB semi-statically configures TDRA to the UE, subject to UE capability (if
any).
\- All schedulable TDRA values with K0=0 include at least Y symbols between
the last PDCCH symbol and the first PDSCH symbol
\- Y is FFS
\- Note: the value of Y is necessary for power modelling in evaluation,
although the specification (if specified) of Y value may also be done in the
WI phase
\- Note: in case there is a TDRA entry with K0>0, it is assumed that the gap
between the last PDCCH symbol in a first slot and the first PDSCH symbol in a
second slot is no less than Y
\- All aperiodic CSI-RS triggering offsets are greater than Y symbols
\- UE decodes PDCCH and retrieves the index of schedulable TDRA value~~s~~
\- UE could go to micro sleep after reception of last PDCCH symbol
\- UE processes PDSCH at the indicated starting time from TDRA value~~s~~
Table 4: Power saving scheme with same slot scheduling
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Co | Power | Power | Power | U | Esti | Evalu | Note | | mpany | s | s | s | PT/La | mated | ation | | | | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove | metho | (in | | | s | gain | gain | | rhead | dolog | clude | | | cheme | | for | | | y/bas | UE | | | | | each | | | eline | t | | | | | con | | | assum | hroug | | | | | figur | | | ption | hput) | | | | | ation | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **Med | Same | - | FTP/V | La | RU | SLS | # of | | iatek | -slot | 5.94% | ideo: | tency | incr | | sy | | [5 | | \~ | - | Incr | ease: | CDRX | mbols | | 9]** | Sched | 1 | 5.94% | ease: | | co | be | | | uling | 7.17% | | | FTP/V | nfig: | tween | | | with | | IM: | FTP/V | ideo: | | PDCCH | | | a | | 1 | ideo: | 10 | FTP/ | and | | | spec | | 7.17% | 5 | 0.27% | Video | PDSCH | | | ified | | | 5.60% | | (160, | = 6 | | | time | | VoIP: | | IM: | 100, | | | | gap | | 1 | IM: | 9 | 8) | # of | | | be | | 5.50% | 0.47% | 3.51% | | PDSCH | | | tween | | | | | IM | sy | | | PDCCH | | | VoIP: | VoIP: | (320, | mbols | | | and | | | 0.45% | 0% | 80, | | | | PDSCH | | | | | 10) | per | | | | | | | | | slot | | | | | | | | VoIP | = 7 | | | | | | | | (40, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 4) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | 1) | 16 | 16% | | | Evalu | TDRA | | Apple | gNB | \~30% | for | | | ation | based | | [68 | can | | high | | | M | gap | | ][8 | conf | | load | | | ethod | sched | | 4]**| igure | | ( | | | = | uling | | | UE\'s | | grant | | | Ma | | | | TDRA | | is | | | thema | (same | | | table | | sche | | | tical | slot | | | with | | duled | | | Anal | sched | | | en | | every | | | ysis, | uling | | | tries | | slot) | | | | only) | | | with | | | | | It is | | | | e | | \~30% | | | as | | | | nough | | for | | | sumed | | | | gap | | low | | | that | | | | be | | load | | | ar | | | | tween | | ( | | | rived | | | | PDCCH | | grant | | | p | | | | and | | is | | | acket | | | | assoc | | sche | | | could | | | | iated | | duled | | | be | | | | P | | very | | | s | | | | DSCH. | | low | | | erved | | | | The | | pr | | | with | | | | gap | | obabi | | | a | | | |**(in | | lity) | | | s | | | | sym | | | | | ingle | | | | bols/ | | | | | P | | | | slo | | | | | DSCH. | | | | ts)** | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | long | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nough | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | tarts | | | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | ends. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observation:
The power saving schemes with same slot scheduling show by one source 15%-17%
power saving gain for small data using evaluations, and by another source
16%-30% power saving gain for small data using numerical analysis, such as the
instant message or VoIP traffic. 93% overhead increase is observed for the
instant message. For large data, such as FTP traffic, one source shows power
saving gain of negative 5.9% and 55% latency increase and 100% overhead
increase due to the longer PDSCH transmission and reception time that is used
to compensate the reduced PDSCH symbol number in a slot. It is noted that
there is no consensus on the power model of same slot scheduling.
\- Multi-slot scheduling -- PDCCH decoding in one slot (e.g., one DCI,
multiple DCI) supports scheduled PDSCH/PUSCH transmission over multiple slots.
\- Achieving UE power consumption reduction by potentially skipping PDCCH
monitoring at subsequent slots of PDSCH/PUSCH transmission.
Table 5: Power saving scheme with multi-slot scheduling
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Co | Power | Power | Power | U | Esti | Evalu | Note | | mpany | s | s | s | PT/La | mated | ation | | | | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove | metho | (in | | | s | gain | gain | | rhead | dolog | clude | | | cheme | | for | | | y/bas | UE | | | | | each | | | eline | t | | | | | con | | | assum | hroug | | | | | figur | | | ption | hput) | | | | | ation | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **Sa | Multi | 21.6% | #1: | #1: | no | Nume | The | | msung | -slot | \~ | 21 | 1G | | rical | re | | [34 | s | 38.1% | .64%, | bps/0 | | simul | sults | | ][6 | chedu | | | .81ms | | ation | shown | | 4]** | ling: | | #2: | | | | also | | | one | | 32 | #2: | | No | re | | | PDCCH | | .28%, | 0.62G | | C | flect | | | sche | | | bps/1 | | -DRX, | c | | | dules | | #3: | .37ms | | | ombin | | | at | | 35 | | | FTP3 | ation | | | most | | .65%, | #3: | | tr | with | | | N TBs | | | 0.45G | | affic | re | | | a | | #4: | bps/1 | | model | duced | | | cross | | 37 | .54ms | | with | PDCCH | | | N | | .25%, | | | mean | monit | | | c | | | #4: | | of | oring | | | onsec | | #5: | 0.35 | | inter | to | | | utive | | 38.1% | Gbps/ | | p | ba | | | s | | | 2.5ms | | acket | lance | | | lots. | | | | | arr | the | | | | | | #5: | | ivals | t | | | | | | 0.28G | | = 4ms | hroug | | | | | | bps/3 | | | hput. | | | | | | .06ms | | Ma | | | | | | | | | ximum | S | | | | | | | | s | ingle | | | | | | | | chedu | UE. | | | | | | | | lable | | | | | | | | | s | One | | | | | | | | lots, | PDSCH | | | | | | | | F, | over | | | | | | | | and | 10 | | | | | | | | PDCCH | sy | | | | | | | | monit | mbols | | | | | | | | oring | in | | | | | | | | p | one | | | | | | | | eriod | slot | | | | | | | | icity | is | | | | | | | | T, | ca | | | | | | | | ( | pable | | | | | | | | F,T): | of | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | Case | rying | | | | | | | | #1: | 8 | | | | | | | | (2, | 68584 | | | | | | | | 1ms) | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | Case | ation | | | | | | | | #2: | bits. | | | | | | | | (4, | | | | | | | | | 2ms) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | #3: | | | | | | | | | (6, | | | | | | | | | 3ms) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | #4: | | | | | | | | | (8, | | | | | | | | | 4ms) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | #5: | | | | | | | | | (10, | | | | | | | | | 5ms) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Z | Multi | 0.65% | | | | Nume | Mo | | TE[7 | -slot | -1.9% | | | | rical | nitor | | 6]** | s | | | | | s | PDCCH | | | chedu | | | | | imula | at | | | ling: | | | | | tion; | each | | | One | | | | | | slot | | | PDCCH | | | | | C-DRX | e | | | sche | | | | | c | xcept | | | dules | | | | | onfig | the | | | 2\ | | | | | (1 | slots | | | \3\4 | | | | | 60,10 | with | | | TBs | | | | | 0,8); | PDSCH | | | a | | | | | | tra | | | cross | | | | | | nsmis | | | 2\ | | | | | | sion. | | | \3\4 | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | Peak | | | onsec | | | | | | t | | | utive | | | | | | hroug | | | s | | | | | | hput: | | | lots, | | | | | | 10-s | | | mo | | | | | | ymbol | | | nitor | | | | | | PDSCH | | | PDCCH | | | | | | in | | | at | | | | | | one | | | each | | | | | | slot, | | | slot | | | | | | 1 | | | e | | | | | | 00MHz | | | xcept | | | | | | BWP. | | | the | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | No | | | with | | | | | | UL. | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | S | | | nsmis | | | | | | ingle | | | sion. | | | | | | UE. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observation:
For the power saving schemes with multi-slot scheduling, 21.6% - 38.1% power
saving gain and 30-70% UPT degradation are shown in combination of PDCCH
monitoring reduction. The other source shows 0.65% - 1.9% power saving gain.
### 5.1.3 Adaptation to number of antenna
The UE power saving schemes with UE adaptation to the traffic is to reduce the
maximum number of antenna/panels or MIMO layers indicated by the network semi-
statically or dynamically to achieve the UE power saving. This may be done
with potential UE assistance information. The dynamic approach may also be
associated with a transition time, a timer, etc.
Table 6: Power saving scheme with UE adaptation to the number of antenna/MIMO
layer
Company | Power saving scheme | Power saving gain | Power saving gain for each configuration | UPT/Latency | Estimated Overhead | Evaluation methodology/baseline assumption | Note (include UE throughput) |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Huawei [16][57]** | Dynamic Adaptation to number of antennas, 2Rx for PDCCH only until a PDSCH is scheduled and 4Rx reception for PDCCH and PDSCH; | 18.19%~22.43% | CDRX config of (160, 40, 8): 18.19%, average power: (18.46/15.10); CDRX config of (160, 100, 8): 22.43%, average power: (30.86/23.94) | Almost similar to the baseline | 5.94*10-6~5.99*10-6 | SLS CDRX config: (160, 100, 8), (160, 40, 8) Packet size / arrival rate (Mbytes / ms): 0.5/200 Scheme 2: 2Rx for PDCCH-only slot until a PDSCH is scheduled; Once a PDCCH with grant is detected, a timer starts and the UE starts to use 4 Rx before the timer expires; The timer shall be restarted when a grant DCI is detected; When the timer expires, UE operates with 2Rx; Baseline: 4Rx is always used in different states and cross-slot scheduling is used; | Single UE in a cell Cross-slot scheduling is assumed for all schemes and the baseline; |  |   
| 2Rx is always used for reception and cross-slot scheduling is used | -2.31% ~ 19.40% | -2.31%~ -1.13% for 5%-tile UE for the FTP model-3 traffic | UPT loss: 2.55%~58.66% Latency increment: 1.3%~345% | 9.50*10-4~0.0069 | SLS CDRX config: (160, 100, 8), (160, 40, 8) Packet size / arrival rate (Mbytes / ms): 0.5/200, 0.1/2000 Scheme 1: 2Rx is always used; Baseline: 4Rx is always used in different states and cross-slot scheduling is used; | 10 UEs in a cell; for each configuration, 5%-tile UE and 95%-tile UE are evaluated respectively |  |   
| Dynamic Adaptation to number of antennas, 2Rx for PDCCH only until a PDSCH is scheduled and 4Rx reception for PDCCH and PDSCH; | 2.96% ~18.49% | For the traffic of 0.1Mbyte with 2000 ms mean interval, the gain of 16%~17.8% for 5%-tile UE and 16.28%~18.49% for 95%-tile UE. | Almost similar to the baseline | 1.58*10-5 ~ 1.58*10-4 | Same as above except this is for Scheme 2 Baseline: 4Rx is always used in different states and cross-slot scheduling is used; | 10 UEs in a cell; Same as above |  |   
**Vivo [58]** | Adaptation to number of antenna (UE reports its preferred Rx antenna number), evaluated for gaming application | 6% ~ 30% | 20% for CDRX | Average packet latency: 16.83ms; Latency increase: 0% | Marginal | Numerical simulation Baseline assumption: The Rx number is always 4Rx; Traffic model: gaming CDRX config: (40,10,4) |  |  |   
|  |  | 30% for Fixed PDCCH monitoring periodicity (0.5ms) | Average packet latency: 0.5ms; Latency increase: 0% |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  | 6% for Fixed PDCCH monitoring periodicity (40ms) | Average packet latency: 20.30ms; Latency increase: 0% |  |  |  |  |   
**Mediatek [18][40][59]** | BWP-based adaptation on the maximum MIMO layer number | 14.37% ~ 19.53% | FTP/Video: 14.37% IM: 15.70% VoIP: 19.53% | Latency Increase FTP/Video: 3.36% IM: 1.79% VoIP: -1.78% | RU increase: FTP/Video: -0.43% IM: 1.95% VoIP: -4.08% | SLS CDRX config: FTP/Video (160, 100, 8) IM (320, 80, 10) VoIP (40, 10, 4) | One 4-layer BWP and one 2-layer BWP. DCI and timer based dynamic switching for FTP/Video and IM; Static 2-layer BWP for VoIP |  |   
**Intel [65]** | Number of UE antennas adaptation. Comparison of 2Rx and 4Rx chains with maximum rank 2 | 25.1 ~ 30.2% | 26.06% | 68.42 MBps | 80.49 ms |  | 5% | FTP model 3  
160, 100, 8 | System level simulations  
6%-8% UPT loss for FTP model 3  | | UPT | | Tr | Refe | | | G[46 | DCCH- | (1) | | loss: | | affic | rence | | | ][6 | based | > 11\. | | | | m | sch | | | 2]__| WUS | 45%\~ | | > | | odel: | emes: | | | | s | > 1 | | (1) | | FTP3 | PDCCH | | | | ignal | 4.24% | | > 13\. | | with | monit | | | | trigg | > | | 11%\~ | | file | oring | | | | ering | > | | > 1 | | size | pe | | | | UE | (2) | | 6.59% | | 0.5 | riodi | | | | wake | > 12\. | | > | | Mbps, | city: | | | | up | 41%\~ | | > | | | 1 | | | | | > 2 | | (2) | | CDRX | slot, | | | | | 7.33% | | > 38\. | | c | K0=0 | | | | | > | | 59%\~ | | onfig | | | | | | > | | > 5 | | ( | | | | | | (3) | | 4.49% | | 160,1 | | | | | | > 0\. | | > | | 00,8) | | | | | | 82%\~ | | > | | | | | | | | > | | (3) | | [Case | | | | | | 6.81% | | > 1\. | | s]{.u | | | | | | | | 27%\~ | | nderl | | | | | | | | > | | ine}: | | | | | | | | 4.07% | | | | | | | | | | | | (WUS | | | | | | | | | | occa | | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | | : DRX | | | | | | | | | | cy | | | | | | | | | | cles) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (1) | | | | | | | | | | > 1:1 | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (2) | | | | | | | | | | > 1:4 | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | (3) | | | | | | | | | | > 4:1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | __Sa | 1-bit | 4% \~ | #1: | 23.8M | RS | Nume | S | | | msung | Power | 11.4% | 4% | bps/3 | based | rical | ingle | | | [34 | S | | | 6.5ms | power | simul | UE. | | | ][6 | aving | | #2 | | s | ation | | | | 4]__| s | | :8.4% | 1 | aving | | One | | | | ignal | | | 6.75M | s | C-DRX | PDSCH | | | | trigg | | #3: | bps/5 | ignal | = | over | | | | ering | | 11.4% | 1.8ms | with | (160, | 10 | | | | UE | | | | monit | 100, | sy | | | | w | | | 15.0M | oring | 8) | mbols | | | | akeup | | | bps/5 | p | | in | | | | at | | | 7.8ms | eriod | FTP3 | one | | | | DRX | | | | icity | tr | slot | | | | ON | | | | e | affic | is | | | | | | | | quals | model | ca | | | | | | | | to | | pable | | | | | | | | DRX | [Case | of | | | | | | | | cycle | s]{.u | car | | | | | | | | | nderl | rying | | | | | | | | | ine}: | 8 | | | | | | | | | | 68584 | | | | | | | | | Mean | i | | | | | | | | | of | nform | | | | | | | | | inter | ation | | | | | | | | | p | bits. | | | | | | | | | acket | | | | | | | | | | arr | | | | | | | | | | ivals | | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | #1:1 | | | | | | | | | | 00ms, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | | | 200m, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | #:3 | | | | | | | | | | 300ms | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | Two | 89.4% | #1: | 13.4M | RS | Nume | S | | |_ Sams | l | \~ | 89.4% | bps/6 | based | rical | ingle | | | ung[\ | evels | 91.6% | | 4.7ms | power | simul | UE. | | | []{.u | C | | #2: | | s | ation | | | | nderl | SI-RS | | 91.2% | 6 | aving | | One | | | ine}6 | based | | | .12Mb | s | C-DRX | PDSCH | | | 4]**| power | | #3: | ps/14 | ignal | = | over | | | | s | | 91.6% | 1.8ms | with | (160, | 10 | | | | aving | | | | monit | 100, | sy | | | | s | | | 4 | oring | 8) | mbols | | | | ignal | | | .62Mb | p | | in | | | | prior | | | ps/18 | eriod | FTP3 | one | | | | to | | | 7.8ms | icity | tr | slot | | | | DRX | | | | e | affic | is | | | | ON | | | | quals | model | ca | | | | dur | | | | to | | pable | | | | ation | | | | DRX | [Case | of | | | | for | | | | cycle | s:]{. | car | | | | dy | | | | | under | rying | | | | namic | | | | | line} | 8 | | | | wa | | | | | | 68584 | | | | ke-up | | | | | Mean | i | | | | indic | | | | | of | nform | | | | ation | | | | | inter | ation | | | | and | | | | | p | bits. | | | | sc | | | | | acket | | | | | aling | | | | | arr | | | | | on | | | | | ivals | | | | | CDRX | | | | | = | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | #1:1 | | | | | ation | | | | | 00ms, | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | #2: | | | | | | | | | | 200m, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | #:3 | | | | | | | | | | 300ms | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | Power | 1.6 | 9.89% | 64.3 | | 5% | FTP | S | | Intel | s | \~ | | /62.6 | | | model | ystem | | [45 | aving | 67.5% | | MBps | | | 3\ | level | | ][6 | s | | | ( | | | 160, | simul | | 5]** | ignal | | | 2.6%) | | | 100, | ation | | | trigg | | | / | | | 8 | | | | ering | | | 85.8 | | | | WUS | | | UE | | | /88.0 | | | | dete | | | wake | | | ms | | | | ction | | | up | | | ( | | | | power | | | for | | | 2.5%) | | | | is | | | DRX | | | | | | | as | | | on | | | | | | | sumed | | | dur | | | | | | | to be | | | ation | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nits, | | | | | | | | | | i.e. | | | | | | | | | | PD | | | | | | | | | | CCH-b | | | | | | | | | | ased, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | nergy | | | | | | | | | | redu | | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | | pared | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | deep | | | | | | | | | | sleep | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | | umed. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 87.0 | | 50% | | | | | | | 1.86% | /82.6 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 5.1%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 59.8 | | | | | | | | | | /63.2 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 5.5%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 91.4 | | 95% | | | | | | | 2.65% | /85.1 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 6.8%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 55.7 | | | | | | | | | | /60.4 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 8.5%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 4 | 5.79 | | 5% | In | | | | | | 0.37% | /5.54 | | | stant | | | | | | | MBps | | | Messa | | | | | | | ( | | | ging\ | | | | | | | 4.4%) | | | 320, | | | | | | | / | | | 80, | | | | | | | 1 | | | 10 | | | | | | | 45.9/ | | | | | | | | | | 152.0 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 4.2%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 4 | 6.07 | | 50% | | | | | | | 2.83% | /5.74 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 5.4%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 42.2/ | | | | | | | | | | 149.4 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 5.1%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 4 | 5.90 | | 95% | | | | | | | 2.42% | /5.51 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 6.6%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 44.2/ | | | | | | | | | | 154.3 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 7.0%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 0.0 | | 5% | VoIP\ | | | | | | 8.59% | 286/0 | | | 40, | | | | | | | .0232 | | | 10, 4 | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 8.9%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 10.2 | | | | | | | | | | /12.6 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (2 | | | | | | | | | | 4.4%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 0.0 | | 50% | | | | | | | 9.27% | 279/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0229 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 7.8%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 10.2 | | | | | | | | | | /12.6 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (2 | | | | | | | | | | 2.9%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 0.0 | | 95% | | | | | | | 7.71% | 289/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0241 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 6.8%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 10.1 | | | | | | | | | | /12.3 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (2 | | | | | | | | | | 1.9%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 2.52% | 0.0 | | 5% | Ga | | | | | | | 568/0 | | | ming\ | | | | | | | .0285 | | | 40, | | | | | | | MBps | | | 10, 4 | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 9.8%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 16.8 | | | | | | | | | | /18.4 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 9.4%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1.68% | 0.0 | | 50% | | | | | | | | 531/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0282 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 6.9%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 17.2 | | | | | | | | | | /18.5 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 7.3%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 2.03% | 0.0 | | 95% | | | | | | | | 491/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0303 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (3 | | | | | | | | | | 8.3%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 16.0 | | | | | | | | | | /17.1 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 6.7%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 6 | 2.26 | | 5% | Web | | | | | | 7.49% | /2.16 | | | brow | | | | | | | MBps | | | sing\ | | | | | | | ( | | | 320, | | | | | | | 4.4%) | | | 80, | | | | | | | / | | | 10 | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 32.9/ | | | | | | | | | | 139.9 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 5.2%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 6 | 2.33 | | 50% | | | | | | | 7.57% | /2.25 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 3.7%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 30.9/ | | | | | | | | | | 136.7 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 4.4%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 6 | 2.27 | | 95% | | | | | | | 7.47% | /2.16 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 4.7%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 30.3/ | | | | | | | | | | 137.5 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 5.5%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 0.1 | | 5% | Video | | | | | | 5.86% | 152/0 | | | strea | | | | | | | .1066 | | | ming\ | | | | | | | MBps | | | 40, | | | | | | | ( | | | 10, 4 | | | | | | | 7.4%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 8.58/ | | | | | | | | | | 10.14 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 8.2%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 0.1 | | 50% | | | | | | | 5.13% | 192/0 | | | | | | | | | | .1113 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 6.6%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 8.44 | | | | | | | | | | /9.80 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 6.1%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1 | 0.1 | | 95% | | | | | | | 4.89% | 155/0 | | | | | | | | | | .1084 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 6.2%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 8.74/ | | | | | | | | | | 10.01 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 4.6%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | Wa | 11.5% | FTP: | No | | SLS | 10 | | | Inter | ke-up | \~ | 1 | i | | | UEs | | | digit | s | 88.1% | 1.5%, | mpact | | Case | per | | | al[6 | ignal | | 2 | | | 1 | cell | | | 6]**| trigg | | 4.2%, | | | (160, | | | | | ering | | 27.9% | | | 100, | Av | | | | UE | | | | | 8), | erage | | | | wa | | IM: | | | Case | gain | | | | ke-up | | 8 | | | 2 | | | | | for | | 4.6%, | | | (40, | As | | | | DRX | | 8 | | | 25, | sumes | | | | ON | | 8.1%, | | | 4), | adv | | | | dur | | 36.6% | | | | anced | | | | ation | | | | | Case | know | | | | | | | | | 3(40, | ledge | | | | | | | | | 10, | of | | | | | | | | | 4) | sched | | | | | | | | | | uling | | | | | | | | | Case | s | | | | | | | | | 4 | tatus | | | | | | | | | (320, | for | | | | | | | | | 80, | the | | | | | | | | | 10) | upc | | | | | | | | | | oming | | | | | | | | | FTP | DRX | | | | | | | | | (Case | ON | | | | | | | | | 1, 2, | dur | | | | | | | | | 3) | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | IM | H | | | | | | | | | (Case | igher | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | gain | | | | | | | | | 4) | obs | | | | | | | | | | erved | | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | | sh | | | | | | | | | | orter | | | | | | | | | | DRX | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ycle. | | | | | | | | | | IM | | | | | | | | | | gain | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | | gher. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** E | WUS | 8% | 8 | 10% | One | Sy | Se | | | ricss | +Sh | \~14% | %-14% | gain | WUS | stem- | veral | | | on[6 | orter | | power | for | sent | level | DRX | | | 9]**| DRX | | s | same | in | simul | C | | | | cycle | | aving | power | one | ation | ycles | | | | com | | gain | c | s | | from | | | | pared | | for | onsum | ymbol | CDRX | 20 to | | | | to no | | the | ption | b | | 160 | | | | WUS + | | same | | efore | Tr | ms | | | | L | | UPT | | each | affic | are | | | | onger | | | | tr | model | eval | | | | DRX | | | | affic | is | uated | | | | | | | | burst | FTP3 | with | | | | | | | | | with | On | | | | | | | | | 180 | dur | | | | | | | | | kB | ation | | | | | | | | | p | of | | | | | | | | | acket | 8ms | | | | | | | | | size | and | | | | | | | | | and | 100ms | | | | | | | | | 200 | IAT | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | | er-ar | | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | RU \  | | UPT | | Tr | Refe | | | G[46 | trigg | (1) | | loss: | | affic | rence | | | ][6 | ering | > 44\. | | | | m | sch | | | 2]__| sleep | 12%-7 | | > | | odel: | emes: | | | | | 5.72% | | (1) | | FTP3 | PDCCH | | | | > | > | | > 27\. | | with | monit | | | | (1) | > | | 30%-4 | | file | oring | | | | > Via | (2) | | 1.57% | | size | pe | | | | > MAC | > 45\. | | > | | 0.5 | riodi | | | | > me | 56%-7 | | > | | Mbps, | city: | | | | ssage | 8.43% | | (2) | | | 1 | | | | > | | | > 30\. | | DRX | slot, | | | | > | | | 60%-4 | | con | K0=0 | | | | (2) | | | 3.02% | | figur | | | | | > Via | | | | | ation | | | | | > L1 | | | | | ( | | | | | > | | | | | 160,1 | | | | | sign | | | | | 00,8) | | | | | aling | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | __Sa | Dy | 38.7% | RS | 1.68G | PDCCH | Nume | S | | | msung | namic | | based | bps/0 | DMRS | rical | ingle | | | [34 | PDSCH | | power | .52ms | like | simul | UE. | | | ][6 | rece | | s | | power | ation | | | | 4]__| ption | | aving | | s | | One | | | | wi | | s | | aving | No | PDSCH | | | | thout | | ignal | | s | C | over | | | | PDCCH | | for | | ignal | -DRX, | 10 | | | | | | PDSCH | | is | | sy | | | | | | rece | | consi | FTP3 | mbols | | | | | | ption | | dered | tr | in | | | | | | indic | | for | affic | one | | | | | | ation | | PDSCH | model | slot | | | | | | with | | rece | w/ | is | | | | | | monit | | ption | mean | ca | | | | | | oring | | i | of | pable | | | | | | p | | ndica | in | of | | | | | | eriod | | tion. | ter-p | car | | | | | | icity | | | acket | rying | | | | | | of | | | arr | 8 | | | | | | 1 | | | ivals | 68584 | | | | | | slot/ | | | = 8ms | i | | | | | | 0.5ms | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | bits. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ |__In | Re | 24% - | FTP: | No | | SLS | 10 | | | terdi | duced | 51% | 2 | i | | | UEs | | | gital | PDCCH | | 8.1%, | mpact | | Case | per | | | [6 | monit | | 2 | | | 1 | cell | | | 6]__| oring | | 7.1%, | | | (160, | | | | | by | | 24.2% | | | 100, | Av | | | | info | | | | | 8), | erage | | | | rming | | IM: | | | Case | gain | | | | UE of | | 5 | | | 2 | | | | | sched | | 0.1%, | | | (40, | H | | | | uling | | 5 | | | 25, | igher | | | | pa | | 0.7%, | | | 4), | gain | | | | ttern | | 33.8% | | | | obs | | | | in | | | | | Case | erved | | | | ad | | | | | 3(40, | for | | | | vance | | | | | 10, | IM | | | | | | | | | 4) | tr | | | | | | | | | | affic | | | | | | | | | Case | with | | | | | | | | | 4 | sh | | | | | | | | | (320, | orter | | | | | | | | | 80, | DRX | | | | | | | | | 10) | c | | | | | | | | | | ycle. | | | | | | | | | FTP | | | | | | | | | | (Case | | | | | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | IM | | | | | | | | | | (Case | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | ** | 1) | 37% | 71% | | | Evalu | DRX1 | | | Apple | gNB | \~71% | for | | | ation | =(10, | | | [68 | can | | low | | | M | 10,4) | | | ][8 | send | | load | | | ethod | | | | 4]__| sleep | | when | | | = | DRX2 | | | | indic | | mean | | | Nume | =(40, | | | | ation | | i | | | rical | 10,4) | | | | to UE | | nter- | | | Simul | | | | | to | | grant | | | ation | DRX3 | | | | make | | ar | | | | =(40, | | | | UE | | rival | | | Bas | 25,4) | | | | enter | | T is | | | eline | | | | | sleep | | 20 | | | has | D | | | | state | | s | | | no | RX4=( | | | | ( | | lots. | | | DRX | 160,1 | | | | e.g., | | | | | c | 00,8) | | | | ski | | 55% | | | onsid | | | | | pping | | for | | | ered. | DR | | | | PDCCH | | m | | | | X5=(3 | | | | ) for | | edium | | | | 20,20 | | | | spec | | load | | | | 0,10) | | | | ified | | ( | | | | | | | | a | | T=10) | | | | | | | | mount | | | | | | | | | | of | | 37% | | | | | | | | time. | | for | | | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | 2) | | load | | | | | | | | UE | | (T=5) | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | | nters | | | | | | | | | | sleep | | | | | | | | | | state | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | | ski | | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | onito | | | | | | | | | | ring) | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | mount | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | | once | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eives | | | | | | | | | | sleep | | | | | | | | | | indic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | | gNB. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | 1) | 57 | 69% | 2 | | Evalu | | | | | gNB | \~69% | for | 0Mbps | | ation | | | | | can | | DRX5 | | | M | | | | | send | | | | | ethod | | | | | sleep | | 57% | | | = | | | | | indic | | for | | | Nume | | | | | ation | | DRX4 | | | rical | | | | | ( | | | | | S | | | | | e.g., | | | | | imula | | | | | when | | | | | tion, | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | | queue | | | | | DR | | | | | is | | | | | X5=(3 | | | | | e | | | | | 20,20 | | | | | mpty) | | | | | 0,10) | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | make | | | | | D | | | | | UE | | | | | RX4=( | | | | | enter | | | | | 160,1 | | | | | sleep | | | | | 00,8) | | | | | state | | | | | | | | | | until | | | | | Bas | | | | | next | | | | | eline | | | | | ON | | | | | has | | | | | dura | | | | | no | | | | | tion. | | | | | GTS | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | 2) | | | | | ignal | | | | | If UE | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eives | | | | | | | | | | sleep | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ndica | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | leeps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | | skip | | | | | | | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | onito | | | | | | | | | | ring) | | | | | | | | | | until | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | next | | | | | | | | | | ON | | | | | | | | | | dura | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ |__Qua | PDCCH | Ideal | For | La | | SLS | > \- | | | lcomm | ski | i | PDCCH | tency | | | > | | | [30\ | pping | ndica | p | inc | | * | Gain | | | ][48 | | tion: | eriod | rease | | _FR1, | > in | | | ][7 | | | | for | | no | > av | | | 0]**| | 11.4 | 1 | PDCCH | | DRX** | erage | | | | | \~ | slot: | p | | | > | | | | | 47.3% | 47.3% | eriod | | FTP3, | power | | | | | | | | | $k0 | > c | | | | | | 2 | 1 | | > 0$, | onsum | | | | | | s | slot: | | g | ption | | | | | | lots: | 0.57% | | enie- | > | | | | | | 31.5% | | | aided | > \- | | | | | | | 2 | | PDCCH | > Bas | | | | | | 4 | slot: | | ski | eline | | | | | | s | 0.80% | | pping | > lat | | | | | | lots: | | | indic | ency: | | | | | | 19.3% | 4 | | ation | > 8 | | | | | | | slot: | | | 7.6ms | | | | | | 8 | 1.37% | | | > ( | | | | | | s | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | lots: | 8 | | | > p | | | | | | 11.4% | slot: | | | eriod | | | | | | | 2.50% | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | slot) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | SFI- | For | La | Sign | SLS | | | | | | based | PDCCH | tency | aling | | | | | | | i | p | inc | over | * | | | | | | ndica | eriod | rease | head: | _FR1, | | | | | | tion: | | for | ski | no | | | | | | | 1 | PDCCH | pping | DRX_ _| | | | | | 7.8% | slot: | p | indic | | | | | | | \~ | 44.6% | eriod | ation | FTP3, | | | | | | 44.6% | | | (SFI) | $k0 | | | | | | | 2 | 1 | t | > 0$, | | | | | | | s | slot: | ransm | SFI- | | | | | | | lots: | 0.57% | itted | based | | | | | | | 28.5% | | at | PDCCH | | | | | | | | 2 | rate | ski | | | | | | | 4 | slot: | of | pping | | | | | | | s | 0.80% | 2 | indic | | | | | | | lots: | | 0.75% | ation | | | | | | | 16.0% | 4 | | with | | | | | | | | slot: | | p | | | | | | | 8 | 1.37% | | eriod | | | | | | | s | | | icity | | | | | | | lots: | 8 | | of 8 | | | | | | | 7.8% | slot: | | slots | | | | | | | | 2.50% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | Ideal | For | La | | SLS | > \- | | | | | i | PDCCH | tency | | | > | | | | | ndica | p | inc | | * | Gain | | | | | tion: | eriod | rease | | _FR2, | > in | | | | | | | for | | no | > av | | | | | 21.4 | 1 | PDCCH | | DRX**| erage | | | | | \~ | slot: | p | | | > | | | | | 67% | 67.0% | eriod | | FTP3, | power | | | | | | | | | $k0 | > c | | | | | | 2 | 1 | | > 0$, | onsum | | | | | | s | slot: | | g | ption | | | | | | lots: | 0.46% | | enie- | > | | | | | | 50.7% | | | aided | > \- | | | | | | | 2 | | PDCCH | > Bas | | | | | | 4 | slot: | | ski | eline | | | | | | s | 0.91% | | pping | > lat | | | | | | lots: | | | indic | ency: | | | | | | 34.4% | 4 | | ation | > 2 | | | | | | | slot: | | | 1.9ms | | | | | | 8 | 1.37% | | | > ( | | | | | | s | | | | PDCCH | | | | | | lots: | 8 | | | > p | | | | | | 21.4% | slot: | | | eriod | | | | | | | 2.74% | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | slot) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | SFI- | For | La | Sign | SLS | | | | | | based | PDCCH | tency | aling | | | | | | | i | p | inc | over | * | | | | | | ndica | eriod | rease | head: | *FR2, | | | | | | tion: | | la | ski | no | | | | | | | 1 | tency | pping | DRX** | | | | | | 11.9 | slot: | for | indic | | | | | | | \~ | 62.3% | PDCCH | ation | FTP3, | | | | | | 62.3% | | p | (SFI) | $k0 | | | | | | | 2 | eriod | | > 0$, | | | | | | | s | | t | SFI- | | | | | | | lots: | 1 | ransm | based | | | | | | | 44.4% | slot: | itted | PDCCH | | | | | | | | 0.46% | at | ski | | | | | | | 4 | | rate | pping | | | | | | | s | 2 | of | i | | | | | | | lots: | slot: | 2 | ndica | | | | | | | 26.4% | 0.91% | 0.75% | tions | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | 8 | 4 | | p | | | | | | | s | slot: | | eriod | | | | | | | lots: | 1.37% | | icity | | | | | | | 11.9% | | | of 8 | | | | | | | | 8 | | s | | | | | | | | slot: | | lots. | | | | | | | | 2.74% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | Ideal | For | La | | SLS | > \- | | | | | i | PDCCH | tency | | | > | | | | | ndica | p | inc | | * | Gain | | | | | tion: | eriod | rease | | _FR2, | > in | | | | | | | for | | CDRX | > av | | | | | 15.2 | 1 | PDCCH | | c | erage | | | | | \~ | slot: | p | | onfig | > | | | | | 53.5% | 53.5% | eriod | | = | power | | | | | | | | | (160, | > c | | | | | | 2 | 1 | | 100, | onsum | | | | | | s | slot: | | 4)__| ption | | | | | | lots: | 0.14% | | | > | | | | | | 37.6% | | | FTP3, | > \- | | | | | | | 2 | | $k0 | > Bas | | | | | | 4 | slot: | | > 0$, | eline | | | | | | s | 0.28% | | g | > lat | | | | | | lots: | | | enie- | ency: | | | | | | 24.3% | 4 | | aided | > 71 | | | | | | | slot: | | PDCCH | .85ms | | | | | | 8 | 0.42% | | ski | > ( | | | | | | s | | | pping | PDCCH | | | | | | lots: | 8 | | indic | > p | | | | | | 15.2% | slot: | | ation | eriod | | | | | | | 0.84% | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | slot | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | Ideal | For | La | | SLS | > \- | | | | | i | PDCCH | tency | | | > | | | | | ndica | p | inc | | * | Gain | | | | | tion: | eriod | rease | | _FR2, | > in | | | | | | | for | | CDRX | > av | | | | | 30.9 | 1 | PDCCH | | c | erage | | | | | \~ | slot: | p | | onfig | > | | | | | 61.8% | 61.8% | eriod | | = | power | | | | | | | | | (160, | > c | | | | | | 2 | 1 | | 40, | onsum | | | | | | s | slot: | | 4)**| ption | | | | | | lots: | 0.13% | | | > | | | | | | 49.0% | | | FTP3, | > \- | | | | | | | 2 | | $k0 | > Bas | | | | | | 4 | slot: | | > 0$, | eline | | | | | | s | 0.25% | | g | > lat | | | | | | lots: | | | enie- | ency: | | | | | | 38.2% | 4 | | aided | > 80 | | | | | | | slot: | | PDCCH | .25ms | | | | | | 8 | 0.37% | | ski | > ( | | | | | | s | | | pping | PDCCH | | | | | | lots: | 8 | | indic | > p | | | | | | 30.9% | slot: | | ation | eriod | | | | | | | 0.75% | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | | slot) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | * | PDCCH | 4 | FTP: | | FTP: | S | | | | *OPPO | ski | 5.77% | 4 | | 0.3% | ystem | | | | [20\ | pping | and | 5.77% | | | level | | | | ][42 | | 6 | | | IM: | s | | | | ][7 | | 0.82% | IM: | | 0.3% | imula | | | | 4]** | | | 6 | | | tion. | | | | | | | 0.82% | | | | | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | | affic | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | odel: | | | | | | | | | | FTP3 | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | IM | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CDRX | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | nfig: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | FTP: | | | | | | | | | | (160, | | | | | | | | | | 100, | | | | | | | | | | 8) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | IM: | | | | | | | | | | (320, | | | | | | | | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | | 10) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | ** | Power | 48.5- | 4 | 64.3 | | 5% | S | | | Intel | s | 71.5% | 8.52% | /54.4 | | | ystem | | | [45 | aving | | | MBps | | | level | | | ][6 | s | | | (1 | | | s | | | 5]**| ignal | | | 5.4%) | | | imula | | | | (g | | | / | | | tion. | | | | o-to- | | | 85.8/ | | | | | | | sleep | | | 100.1 | | | FTP | | | | si | | | ms | | | model | | | | gnal) | | | (1 | | | 3\ | | | | trigg | | | 6.6%) | | | 160, | | | | ering | | | | | | 100, | | | | UE go | | | | | | 8 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | sleep | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | mount | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 5 | 87.0 | | 50% | | | | | | | 8.64% | /71.4 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 7.9%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 59.8 | | | | | | | | | | /72.0 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (2 | | | | | | | | | | 0.3%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 91.4 | | 95% | | | | | | | 1.93% | /73.2 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 9.8%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 55.7 | | | | | | | | | | /68.8 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (2 | | | | | | | | | | 3.6%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 5.79 | | 5% | S | | | | | | 6.96% | /5.36 | | | ystem | | | | | | | MBps | | | level | | | | | | | ( | | | simul | | | | | | | 7.4%) | | | ation | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | In | | | | | | | 45.9/ | | | stant | | | | | | | 156.9 | | | Messa | | | | | | | ms | | | ging\ | | | | | | | ( | | | 320, | | | | | | | 7.6%) | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | | 10 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 6.07 | | 50% | | | | | | | 7.74% | /5.59 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 8.0%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 42.2/ | | | | | | | | | | 153.7 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 8.1%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 5.90 | | 95% | | | | | | | 8.35% | /5.36 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 9.1%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 44.2/ | | | | | | | | | | 158.2 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | 9.7%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 5 | 0.0 | | 5% | S | | | | | | 8.93% | 286/0 | | | ystem | | | | | | | .0164 | | | level | | | | | | | MBps | | | s | | | | | | | (4 | | | imula | | | | | | | 2.6%) | | | tion. | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 10.2 | | | VoIP\ | | | | | | | /23.8 | | | 40, | | | | | | | ms | | | 10, 4 | | | | | | | (13 | | | | | | | | | | 4.3%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 5 | 0.0 | | 50% | | | | | | | 9.93% | 279/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0148 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 7.0%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 10.2 | | | | | | | | | | /27.1 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (16 | | | | | | | | | | 5.2%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 0.0 | | 95% | | | | | | | 0.49% | 289/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0154 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 6.6%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 10.1 | | | | | | | | | | /26.8 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (16 | | | | | | | | | | 5.3%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 0.0 | | 5% | S | | | | | | 7.03% | 568/0 | | | ystem | | | | | | | .0252 | | | level | | | | | | | MBps | | | s | | | | | | | (5 | | | imula | | | | | | | 5.7%) | | | tion. | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 16.8 | | | Ga | | | | | | | /23.0 | | | ming\ | | | | | | | ms | | | 40, | | | | | | | (3 | | | 10, 4 | | | | | | | 6.6%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 0.0 | | 50% | | | | | | | 8.82% | 531/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0252 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (5 | | | | | | | | | | 2.5%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 17.2 | | | | | | | | | | /22.7 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (3 | | | | | | | | | | 1.9%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 6 | 0.0 | | 95% | | | | | | | 8.28% | 491/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0289 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 1.2%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 16.0 | | | | | | | | | | /21.9 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (3 | | | | | | | | | | 6.9%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 5 | 2.26 | | 5% | S | | | | | | 9.57% | /1.98 | | | ystem | | | | | | | MBps | | | level | | | | | | | (1 | | | s | | | | | | | 2.5%) | | | imula | | | | | | | / | | | tion. | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 32.9/ | | | Web | | | | | | | 148.8 | | | brow | | | | | | | ms | | | sing\ | | | | | | | (1 | | | 320, | | | | | | | 1.9%) | | | 80, | | | | | | | | | | 10 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 59.6% | 2.33 | | 50% | | | | | | | | /2.05 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 2.2%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 30.9/ | | | | | | | | | | 145.8 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 1.4%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 5 | 2.27 | | 95% | | | | | | | 9.67% | /1.94 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 4.2%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 30.3/ | | | | | | | | | | 148.2 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (1 | | | | | | | | | | 3.7%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 7 | 0.1 | | 5% | S | | | | | | 0.16% | 152/0 | | | ystem | | | | | | | .0613 | | | level | | | | | | | MBps | | | s | | | | | | | (4 | | | imula | | | | | | | 6.8%) | | | tion. | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 8.58/ | | | Video | | | | | | | 19.79 | | | strea | | | | | | | ms | | | ming\ | | | | | | | (13 | | | 40, | | | | | | | 0.7%) | | | 10, 4 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 7 | 0.1 | | 50% | | | | | | | 1.55% | 192/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0625 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 7.6%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 8.44/ | | | | | | | | | | 19.79 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (13 | | | | | | | | | | 4.4%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | | | 7 | 0.1 | | 95% | | | | | | | 1.42% | 155/0 | | | | | | | | | | .0615 | | | | | | | | | | MBps | | | | | | | | | | (4 | | | | | | | | | | 6.7%) | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | 8.74/ | | | | | | | | | | 19.88 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | (12 | | | | | | | | | | 7.6%) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ |** N | G | DRX: | DRX: | DRX: | GTS | Nume | DRX: | | | okia, | o-to- | | | | is | rical | | | | NSB | sleep | 3-44 | Ver | Ver | inc | simul | No | | | [7 | si | % | sion1 | sion1 | luded | ation | GTS: | | | 1]** | gnal. | | | | in | | 1412 | | | | DCI-b | Short | 600 | 600 | the | Re | 72445 | | | | ased, | DRX: | s | s | PDCCH | sults | u | | | | indic | | lots: | lots: | DCI | are | nits, | | | | ating | 7-17 | +3.1 | +1.0 | so | com | | | | | the | % | % | % | minor | pared | Vers | | | | UE | | | | ove | to | ion1: | | | | can | | 400 | 400 | rhead | each | | | | | sleep | | s | s | | DRX | 600 | | | | until | | lots: | lots: | | con | slots | | | | next | | +7.9 | +3.7 | | figur | 1369 | | | | On | | % | % | | ation | 19235 | | | | Dura | | | | | wi | u | | | | tion. | | 200 | 200 | | thout | nits, | | | | Based | | s | s | | GTS. | 400 | | | | on a | | lots: | lots: | | | slots | | | | sl | | +44.2 | +21.9 | | Vers | 1301 | | | | iding | | % | % | | ion1: | 27331 | | | | w | | | | | send | u | | | | indow | | Ver | Ver | | GTS | nits, | | | | che | | sion2 | sion2 | | if | 200 | | | | cking | | | | | w | slots | | | | past | | 600 | 600 | | indow | 787 | | | | x ms | | s | s | | is | 68183 | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | empty | u | | | | | | 0 % | 0 % | | | nits, | | | | | | | | | Vers | | | | | | | 400 | 400 | | ion2: | Ve | | | | | | s | s | | send | rsion | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | GTS | 2 | | | | | | +3.0 | +1.0 | | if | | | | | | | % | % | | w | 600 | | | | | | | | | indow | slots | | | | | | 200 | 200 | | is | 1412 | | | | | | s | s | | empty | 72445 | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | and | u | | | | | | +36.1 | +18.4 | | Inact | nits, | | | | | | % | % | | ivity | 400 | | | | | | | | | Timer | slots | | | | | | Short | Short | | is | 1370 | | | | | | DRX: | DRX: | | ru | 92359 | | | | | | | | | nning | u | | | | | | Ver | Ver | | | nits, | | | | | | sion1 | sion1 | | Long | 200 | | | | | | | | | DRX | slots | | | | | | 600 | 600 | | cycle | 902 | | | | | | s | s | | only | 70831 | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | (as | u | | | | | | +7.2 | +2.8 | | per | nits, | | | | | | % | % | | MAC | | | | | | | | | | spe | No | | | | | | 400 | 400 | | cific | GTS | | | | | | s | s | | ation | 51.1 | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | 38. | ms | | | | | | +11.3 | +4.2 | | 321). | | | | | | | % | % | | | Ve | | | | | | | | | Made | rsion | | | | | | 200 | 200 | | for | 1: | | | | | | s | s | | FTP3 | | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | | 600 | | | | | | +17.4 | +2.8 | | [Case | slots | | | | | | % | % | | s]{.u | 51.6 | | | | | | | | | nderl | ms, | | | | | | Ver | Ver | | ine}: | 400 | | | | | | sion2 | sion2 | | | slots | | | | | | | | | DRX: | 53.0 | | | | | | 600 | 600 | | 160 | ms, | | | | | | s | s | | ms | 200 | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | DRX | slots | | | | | | 0 % | 0 % | | c | 62.3 | | | | | | | | | ycle, | ms | | | | | | 400 | 400 | | 100 | | | | | | | s | s | | ms | Ve | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | inact | rsion | | | | | | 0 % | 0 % | | ivity | 2: | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | 200 | 200 | | imer, | 600 | | | | | | s | s | | 8 ms | slots | | | | | | lots: | lots: | | On | 51.1 | | | | | | 0 % | 0 % | | Dura | ms, | | | | | | | | | tion. | 400 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | Short | 51.6 | | | | | | | | | DRX: | ms, | | | | | | | | | 40 ms | 200 | | | | | | | | | DRX | slots | | | | | | | | | c | 60.5 | | | | | | | | | ycle, | ms | | | | | | | | | 5 ms | | | | | | | | | | inact | Short | | | | | | | | | ivity | DRX: | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | imer, | No | | | | | | | | | 4 ms | GTS: | | | | | | | | | On | 1009 | | | | | | | | | Dura | 34244 | | | | | | | | | tion, | u | | | | | | | | | 20 ms | nits, | | | | | | | | | short | | | | | | | | | | DRX | Vers | | | | | | | | | c | ion1: | | | | | | | | | ycle, | | | | | | | | | | 5 | 600 | | | | | | | | | short | slots | | | | | | | | | c | 936 | | | | | | | | | ycles | 76773 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | GTS | nits, | | | | | | | | | wi | 400 | | | | | | | | | ndows | slots | | | | | | | | | are | 895 | | | | | | | | | 600, | 02438 | | | | | | | | | 400, | u | | | | | | | | | 200 | nits, | | | | | | | | | slots | 200 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 833 | | | | | | | | | | 27871 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nits, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ve | | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 600 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 1009 | | | | | | | | | | 34244 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nits, | | | | | | | | | | 400 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 1009 | | | | | | | | | | 34244 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nits, | | | | | | | | | | 200 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 1009 | | | | | | | | | | 34244 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nits, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | | | GTS | | | | | | | | | | 14.3 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ve | | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 600 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 14.7 | | | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | | | 400 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 14.9 | | | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | | | 200 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 14.7 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ve | | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 600 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 14.3 | | | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | | | 400 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 14.3 | | | | | | | | | | ms, | | | | | | | | | | 200 | | | | | | | | | | slots | | | | | | | | | | 14.3 | | | | | | | | | | ms | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
Table 10-1: Power saving scheme with PDCCH skipping or \"go-to-sleep\" signal
comparing with short DRX
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Co | Power | Power | Power | U | Esti | Evalu | Note | | mpany | s | s | s | PT/La | mated | ation | | | | aving | aving | aving | tency | Ove | metho | (in | | | s | gain | gain | | rhead | dolog | clude | | | cheme | | for | | | y/bas | UE | | | | | each | | | eline | t | | | | | con | | | assum | hroug | | | | | figur | | | ption | hput) | | | | | ation | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ** | Long | 36% | Cast | 41.22 | | CDRX | S | | Intel | DRX | to | 1: | and | | co | ystem | | [10 | oper | 58%\ | Bas | 21.93 | | nfig: | Throu | | 1]**| ation | w.r.t | eline | ms | | | ghput | | | with | C-DRX | | for | | Case | | | | PDCCH | | 36% | Case | | 1(80, | 107.4 | | | ski | | for | 1 | | 5,8 | and | | | pping | | Case | | | or | 108.6 | | | | | 2 | 47.03 | | 40,5, | for | | | inact | | | and | | 4) , | Case1 | | | ivity | | 46% | 26 ms | | | | | | timer | | for | for | | Case | 95.2 | | | adapt | | Case | Case2 | | 2( | and | | | ation | | 3 | | | 80,5, | 161 | | | by | | | 30.57 | | 8 or | for | | | WUS | | 54% | and | | 40,5, | Case2 | | | | | for | 18.92 | | 4) + | | | | Long | | Case | ms | | GTS | 140.8 | | | and | | 4 | for | | | and | | | short | | | Case | | Case | 217.8 | | | DRX | | 24.98 | 3 | | 3( | for | | | | | for | | | 80,5, | Case3 | | | | | Cast | 36.96 | | 8 or | | | | | | 5 | and | | 40, | 118.8 | | | | | | 26.72 | | 5, 4) | and | | | | | 20.73 | ms | | + | 191 | | | | | for | for | | short | for | | | | | Case | Case | | DRX | Case4 | | | | | 6 | 4 | | ( | | | | | | | | | 40,-, | 78.7 | | | | | 18.9 | 63.25 | | 3) | for | | | | | for | ms | | | Case5 | | | | | Case | for | | Case | | | | | | 7 | Case5 | | 3( | 75.6 | | | | | | | | 80,5, | for | | | | | 19.07 | 66.25 | | 8 or | Case6 | | | | | for | ms | | 40, | | | | | | Case | for | | 5, 4) | 72.5 | | | | | 8 | Case6 | | + | for | | | | | | | | short | Case7 | | | | | | 68.58 | | DRX | | | | | | | ms | | (20 | 56.3 | | | | | | for | | ,-,5) | for | | | | | | Case7 | | | Case8 | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | 90.37 | | 5 | | | | | | | ms | | (160, | | | | | | | for | | 100,8 | | | | | | | Case8 | | ) + | | | | | | | | | GTS | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | 6(160 | | | | | | | | | ,100, | | | | | | | | | 8) + | | | | | | | | | GTS | | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | (160, | | | | | | | | | 100,8 | | | | | | | | | ) + | | | | | | | | | GTS | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Case | | | | | | | | | 8(160 | | | | | | | | | ,100, | | | | | | | | | 8) + | | | | | | | | | MAC | | | | | | | | | CE | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** X | Long | 7.69% | 5 | 43 ms | | CDRX | For | | iaomi | DRX | to | 8.97% | for | | co | inact | | [10 | opera | 84 | for | cas 0 | | nfig: | ivity | | 2]** | tion: | .62%\ | Case | | | | timer | | | with | w.r.t | 11 | 51 ms | | Case | = | | | PDCCH | Long | | for | | 0 | 5ms, | | | ski | C-DRX | 3 | Case | | (160, | big | | | pping | | 8.42% | 11 | | 1 | power | | | | | for | | | 00,8) | s | | | Long | | Case | 47 ms | | , | aving | | | and | | 12 | for | | | loss | | | short | | | C | | Case | for | | | inact | | 7 | ase12 | | 1 | all | | | ivity | | 9.49% | | | 1(160 | cases | | | timer | | for | 83 ms | | ,100, | wi | | | adapt | | Case | for | | 8) + | thout | | | ation | | 2 | Case | | PS 10 | WUS | | | | | | 2 | | | were | | | w and | | 7.69% | | | Case | obse | | | w/o | | w/o | 44 ms | | 1 | rved. | | | WUS | | WUS | w/o | | 2(160 | | | | | | and | WUS | | ,100, | The | | | Long | | 6 | and | | 8) + | power | | | and | | 9.29% | 51 ms | | PS 5 | s | | | short | | w WUS | w WUS | | | aving | | | DRX | | for | for | | Case | s | | | | | Cast | C | | 2 | cheme | | | | | 21 | ase21 | | (160 | with | | | | | | | | ,100, | PDCCH | | | | | 3 | 45 ms | | 8) + | skip | | | | | 3.33% | w/o | | MAC | ping, | | | | | w/o | WUS | | CE | WUS | | | | | WUS | and | | | or | | | | | and | 52 ms | | Case | MAC | | | | | 7 | w WUS | | 21 | shows | | | | | 9.49% | for | | (160, | compa | | | | | w WUS | C | | 100,8 | rable | | | | | for | ase22 | | ) | power | | | | | Cast | | | + | co | | | | | 22 | 47 ms | | short | nsump | | | | | | w/o | | D | tion. | | | | | 5 | WUS | | RX10, | | | | | | 1.28% | and | | | The | | | | | w/o | 53 ms | | Case | la | | | | | WUS | w WUS | | 2 | tency | | | | | and | for | | 2(160 | of | | | | | 8 | C | | ,100, | all | | | | | 2.05% | ase23 | | 8) + | power | | | | | w WUS | | | short | s | | | | | for | 55 ms | | DRX | aving | | | | | Cast | w/o | | 20 | s | | | | | 23 | WUS | | | cheme | | | | | | and | | Case | is | | | | | 6 | 61 ms | | 23 | red | | | | | 9.29% | w WUS | | (160, | uced. | | | | | w/o | for | | 100,8 | | | | | | WUS | C | | ) + | | | | | | and | ase24 | | short | | | | | | 8 | | | DRX | | | | | | 4.62% | | | 40, | | | | | | w WUS | | | | | | | | | for | | | Case | | | | | | Cast | | | 2 | | | | | | 24 | | | 4(160 | | | | | | | | | ,100, | | | | | | | | | 8) + | | | | | | | | | short | | | | | | | | | DRX | | | | | | | | | 80 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observation:
Reduction of PDCCH monitoring can also be achieved with explicit/implicit
information for UE to skip monitoring PDCCH. A related approach, such as power
saving signal/channel triggering/enabling PDCCH monitoring or \"go-to-sleep\"
signaling where the gNB can signal the UE to go to the DRX OFF state or skip
the PDCCH monitoring, is considered. Power saving gain in the range of 9%\~83%
is observed, with latency increase in the range of 0.1%\~75% and overhead of
0% - 1% with one source showing 124% latency increase. Generally, the gain is
higher for scenarios with CDRX configuration with larger DRX inactivity timer
duration and for lower traffic load, and higher latency increase is associated
with higher gain.
Table 11: Power saving schemes with CORESET/Search Space/blind decoding
reduction
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | ** | ** | ** | **UPT | * | ** |** N | | _Comp | Power | Power | Power | /Late |_ Esti | Evalu | ote**| | any** | s | s | s | ncy**| mated | ation | | | | aving | aving | aving | | Overh | metho |**(in | | | sch | g | gain | | ead**| dolog | clude | | | eme** | ain**| for | | | y/bas | UE | | | | | each | | | eline | thr | | | | | confi | | | as | oughp | | | | | gurat | | | sumpt | ut)** | | | | | ion**| | | ion** | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | **N | R | 3-24% | 32: | No | | Nume | It is | | okia, | educe | | +2.8 | la | | rical | shown | | NSB | PDCCH | | % | tency | | simul | in | | [37 | blind | | | i | | ation | \ | | ][5 | dec | | 16: | mpact | | | [99] | | 1]** | oding | | +14.1 | eval | | FTP3, | that | | | from | | % | uated | | DRX | ass | | | refe | | | | | con | uming | | | rence | | 8: | | | figur | that | | | (36) | | +19.7 | | | ation | ¼ or | | | to | | % | | | (160, | ½ of | | | {32, | | | | | 40, | the | | | 16, | | 4: | | | 8) | UEs | | | 8, 4, | | +22.5 | | | with | to be | | | 2} | | % | | | # | sche | | | candi | | | | | blind | duled | | | dates | | 2: | | | dec | in a | | | | | +23.9 | | | oding | CO | | | | | % | | | candi | RESET | | | | | | | | dates | op | | | | | | | | = | erate | | | | | | | | [32, | in | | | | | | | | 16, | e | | | | | | | | 8, 4, | nergy | | | | | | | | 2]. | s | | | | | | | | The | aving | | | | | | | | bas | mode | | | | | | | | eline | with | | | | | | | | refe | n | | | | | | | | rence | umber | | | | | | | | has | of | | | | | | | | the | blind | | | | | | | | same | dec | | | | | | | | DRX | oding | | | | | | | | con | candi | | | | | | | | figur | dates | | | | | | | | ation | re | | | | | | | | but | duced | | | | | | | | 36 | by | | | | | | | | blind | 50% | | | | | | | | dec | will | | | | | | | | oding | cause | | | | | | | | c | an | | | | | | | | andid | inc | | | | | | | | ates. | rease | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | av | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | blo | | | | | | | | | cking | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | robab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | 50% | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 100%, | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orres | | | | | | | | | pondi | | | | | | | | | ngly. | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Sa | Redu | /w | w/ | 1 | DCI | Nume | S | | msung | ction | CDRX | CDRX | 9Mbps | based | rical | ingle | | [34 | on | | | / | power | simul | UE. | | ][6 | PDCCH | 26.7% | (26. | 4 | s | ation | | | 4]** | candi | \~ | 7%/26 | 5.6ms | aving | | One | | | dates | 2.7% | %,24. | | s | FTP3 | PDSCH | | | in | | 5%,21 | 1. | ignal | tr | over | | | achi | w/o | .3%,1 | 7Gbps | for | affic | 10 | | | eving | CDRX | 5.1%, | / | trigg | model | sy | | | PDCCH | | 2.7%) | 0.5ms | ering | w/ | mbols | | | blind | 28.9% | | | adapt | mean | in | | | dec | \~ | w/o | | ation | of | one | | | oding | 3.3% | CDRX | | with | in | slot | | | redu | | | | m | ter-p | is | | | ction | | ( | | onito | acket | ca | | | | | 28.9% | | ring, | arr | pable | | | | | /28.1 | | T = | ivals | of | | | | | %/26. | | 1 | = | car | | | | | 5%/23 | | 024ms | 200ms | rying | | | | | .2%/1 | | | | 8 | | | | | 6.5%/ | | | N | 68584 | | | | | 3.3%) | | | umber | i | | | | | | | | of | nform | | | | | | | | BDs | ation | | | | | | | | e | bits. | | | | | | | | quals | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | (1,2, | | | | | | | | | 4,8,1 | | | | | | | | | 6,32) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observation:
PDCCH blind decoding reduction can also be used to potentially reduce the UE
power consumption. Power saving gain of 1.4%-11% is shown when the number of
blind decoding candidates is reduced by half, with system level impact in
terms of higher DL control blocking probability (e.g. assuming that 1/4 of the
UEs are to be scheduled in a CORESET with such reduced blind decoding limit,
the average blocking probability would increase by 50%). One source shows
power saving gain of 29% with single blind decoding candidate without showing
the results of latency and expected high blocking probability.
Observation:
In relation to above power saving schemes aforementioned, some Rel-15 C-DRX
schemes are also evaluated compared to the agreed baseline. In one source,
Rel-15 MAC-CE based DRX command is evaluated, and the gain is observed to be
42%\~56% with latency increase of 10%\~77% across three traffic types. In
another source, short DRX supported in Rel-15 is evaluated and power saving of
30%\~280% is observed with latency increase of 31%\~97%.
### 5.1.6 UE assistance Information
The UE assistance information for any UE power saving scheme is for UE to
provide the assistance information to the network in configuration for UE
adaptation to achieve power saving gain. UE assistance information reported by
UE for power saving is a UE recommendation and the network shall make the
final decision on whether and how to use that information.
The UE assistance information for the power saving schemes for further studies
are as follows,
\- UE assistance information/feedback to assist network in configurations for
UE adaptation
\- UE preferred processing timeline parameters, e.g., K0, K1, K2 values
\- UE preferred BWP information/configuration
\- UE preferred antenna configuration, including MIMO layers, antenna panel
awareness information
\- UE assistance/feedback on the DRX configurations/parameters
\- UE preferred BWP provided to assist network in BWP switching
\- UE request on SCell/SCG activation/de-activation/configuration
\- UE preferred PDCCH monitoring parameters/search space configuration/maximum
number of blind decoding
Observation:
Some UE assistance information has been used by the power saving schemes to
adapt to the traffic resulting in power saving gain. Power saving schemes
including UE assistance information in the evaluation show power saving gain
of 9%-45% for UE adaptation to BWP switching, 4%-80% for UE adaptation to DRX
operation, and 5%-43% for SCell operation.
## 5.2 Power saving signal/channel/procedure for triggering adaptation to UE
power consumption
### 5.2.1 Power saving signal/channel
The power saving signal/channel for UE adaptation includes the following
signals/channels for further study
\- Existing signal/channel based power saving signal/channel
\- PDCCH channel
\- TRS, CSI-RS type RS, SSS-like and DMRS
\- PDSCH channel carried MAC CE and/or RRC signaling
\- New power saving signal/channel -- sequence based
The aspects of the power saving signal/channel used for the UE adaptation to
the traffic used for further evaluation of power saving signal design in
addition to its triggering to the power saving gain.
\- Network resource overhead
\- Resource and/or periodicity of power saving signal/channel
\- Multiplexing capability - include total number of UEs supported
\- Usage of resource
\- Coexistence/multiplexing with existed signal/channel of Rel-15
\- UE-specific, group-specific, cell-specific power saving signal/channel
\- Detection performance
\- Complexity
\- Power consumption of the power saving signal/channel
\- The behaviour when miss detection/false alarm happens
\- Multiplexing with other signals/channels
\- Number of information bits
The performance evaluation of the power saving signal/channel should target
the miss detection at X% and the false alarm rate at Y% with the following
aspects identified for the proposed power saving signal/channel
\- The target of miss detection X% and the false alarm rate at Y% as baseline
for evaluation
\- For power saving signal/channel for wake-up purpose, X=0.1 and Y=1
\- For power saving signal/channel for go-to-sleep purpose, X=1 and Y=0.1
\- Additional X and Y values are not precluded for the proposed power saving
signal/channel based on the use cases and scenarios
\- For any other purpose(s) of power saving signal/channel, companies to
report X & Y values
\- The target of miss detection would be different depending on the behaviour
of miss detection of power saving signal/channel.
\- If miss detection behaviour is defined as no subsequent PDCCH reception,
low miss detection rate is required in order to avoid increased latency of
missed chance of the scheduling.
\- If miss detection behaviour is defined as subsequent PDCCH reception, low
miss detection rate is not required.
\- The miss detection performance when multiple power saving signal/channel
are multiplexed on the same resource, when applicable
\- The performance of the power saving signal/channel should assume realistic
implementation limitations, e.g., by using realistic channel estimation and
time/frequency offset estimation, etc.
The UE miss detection performance results of UE power saving signal/channels,
such as PDCCH based GC-PDCCH based, CSI-RS, TRS, SSS, and single-stage or
multi-stage new sequences, are shown in Table 12.
Table 12: Miss detection performance of power saving signal/channel
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | ** | **Req | ** |** Mu | **T | ** |** N | | _Comp | Power | uired | False | ltipl | rans. | Evalu | ote_ _| | any_ _| s | SNR | alarm | exing | in | ation | | | | aving | at | r | capac | form. | metho | | | | s | miss | ate_ _| ity_ _| B | dolog | | | | ignal | detec | | | its_ _| y/bas | | | | /chan | tion= | | | | eline | | | | nel_ _| 0 | | | | as | | | | | .1%__| | | | sumpt | | | | | | | | | ion_ _| | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | * | PDCCH | About | | 1 | 1, 2, | TDL-C | | |_ vivo | based | [3, | | | 12 | Low | | | _[73 | | 6.1] | | | | 100ns | | | ]_**| | dB | | | | 10Hz; | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AL | | | | 1TX | | | | | =[2, | | | | /2RX; | | | | | 4], | | | | | | | | | in | | | | SCS=3 | | | | | form. | | | | 0KHz; | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | s=12; | | | | CS | | | | | | | | | I-RS: | | | | | About | | | | 51 | | | | | \ | | | | RBs, | | | | | [2.3, | | | | 1 OS | | | | | 3.3] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | SSS: | | | | | for | | | | 127 | | | | | AL=2, | | | | REs | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | =[1, | | | | | | | | | 2] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | C | About | 1% | 1 | 1 | | | | | SI-RS | 2.5 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | dens | | | | | | | | | ity=3 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | SSS | About | 1% | 1 | 1-2 | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [0.4, | | | | | | | | | 1.2] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | s=[1 | | | | | | | | | 2] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** M | PDCCH | \ | 1% | 1 | 1 | TDL-C | | | TK[7 | based | [5.7, | | | | 3 | | | 4]**| | 2.2, | | | | km/hr | | | | | -2.4, | | | | with | | | | | -5.4, | | | | delay | | | | | -9] | | | | sp | | | | | dB | | | | read: | | | | | for | | | | 30 | | | | | AL | | | | ns, | | | | | =[1, | | | | 100 | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | ns or | | | | | 8, | | | | 300 | | | | | 16] | | | | ns; | | | | | and | | | | 2TX | | | | | delay | | | | /2RX; | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | PDCCH | | | | | 30 ns | | | | /GC-P | | | | | | | | | DCCH: | | | | | \ | | | | 54/ | | | | | [6.5, | | | | 108/2 | | | | | -0.3, | | | | 16/43 | | | | | -3.6, | | | | 2/864 | | | | | -7.5, | | | | REs | | | | | \ 3dB | 1% | 1 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | PDCCH | About | | 1 | 12 | AWGN; | | | _CATT | based | [- | | | | | | | *[75 | | 9.15, | | | | 2TX | | | ]_** | | - | | | | /1RX; | | | | | 12.5, | | | | | | | | | -15. | | | | SCS=1 | | | | | 2]dB | | | | 5KHz; | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AL=[ | | | | CS | | | | | 4，8, | | | | I-RS: | | | | | 16] | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 50REs | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | C | -1 | 1% | 1 | | | | | | SI-RS | 3.3dB | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | M | About | 1% | M, | Log | | | | | ulti- | [- | | e.g., | ~2~(N | | | | | stage | 15.1, | | 16 | ^2^), | | | | | sequ | -18, | | | N=25 | | | | | ences | -20 | | | 6,512 | | | | | | .97] | | | ,1024 | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [256, | | | | | | | | | 512, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 024] | | | | | | | | | REs | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | S | About | 1% | M, | Log~2 | | | | | ingle | [- | | e.g., | ~(N), | | | | | stage | 15.1, | | 16 | N=25 | | | | | seq | -18, | | | 6,512 | | | | | uence | -20 | | | ,1024 | | | | | | .97] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [256, | | | | | | | | | 512, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 024] | | | | | | | | | REs | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **E | PDCCH | About | | 1 | 4, 30 | TDL-C | | | ricss | based | [-3, | | | | 3 | | | on[8 | | - | | | | 00ns; | | | 5]** | | 6.5] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | SCS=3 | | | | | for | | | | 0KHz; | | | | | AL | | | | | | | | | =[8, | | | | | | | | | 16], | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | = 4; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | About | | | | | | | | | [-2, | | | | | | | | | -5] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | AL | | | | | | | | | =[8, | | | | | | | | | 16], | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | = 30 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | O | 3 dB | | | | TDL-C | | | | n-off | | | | | | | | | k | | | | | SCS=1 | | | | eying | | | | | 5KHz; | | | | seq | | | | | | | | | uence | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Int | PDCCH | About | | 1 | 12 | TDL-C | | | el[8 | based | [ | | | | 30ns; | | | 1]** | | -1.4, | | | | | | | | | -3.8, | | | | 2TX | | | | | - | | | | /2RX; | | | | | 6.2] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | TRS: | | | | | for | | | | 288 | | | | | AL | | | | REs | | | | | =[4, | | | | (48 | | | | | 8, | | | | RBs, | | | | | 16] | | | | 2 OS; | | | | | | | | | 96 | | | | | | | | | RBs; | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | OS), | | | | | | | | | 576 | | | | | | | | | REs | | | | | | | | | (96 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | OS), | | | | | | | | | RS | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | = 3 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | TRS | About | 1% | 1 | 2, 6 | | | | | | [0, | | | | | | | | | -1, | | | | | | | | | -4] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | [48 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | 2 OS; | | | | | | | | | 96 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | 1 OS; | | | | | | | | | 96 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | OS], | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bi | | | | | | | | | ts=2; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | About | | | | | | | | | -3 dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 96 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | 2 OS, | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | its=6 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **OP | C | -6 dB | 1% | 1 | | Simul | | | PO[8 | SI-RS | | | | | ation | | | 3]** | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | 1.5-1 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | TR3 | | | | | | | | | 8.802 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2TX | | | | | | | | | /2RX; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | CS | | | | | | | | | I-RS: | | | | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | | | | RBs | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | RS | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | = 3 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | PDCCH | About | | 1 | 4 | CDL-C | | | HW[7 | based | [3, | | | | 1 | | | 2]**| | 0, | | | | 00ns; | | | | | -2, | | | | | | | | | -4, | | | | 2TX | | | | | -6] | | | | /2RX; | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | SCS = | | | | | AL | | | | 30KHz | | | | | =[1, | | | | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 16] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | DMRS | About | 1% | 1 | | TDL-A | | | Samsu | | [6, | | | | 30ns; | | | ng[7 | | 0, | | | | | | | 9]** | | - | | | | 1T | | | | | 4.5] | | | | X/2RX | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | C | | | | | [48 | | | | SI-RS | | | | | RBs, | | | | co | | | | | 1 OS; | | | | nfig. | | | | | 24 | | | | [ | | | | | RBs, | | | | 63]: | | | | | 2 OS; | | | | | | | | | 48 | | | | con | | | | | RBs, | | | | fig2: | | | | | 2 | | | | RS | | | | | OS] | | | | densi | | | | | to | | | | ty=2, | | | | | reach | | | | 2 OS | | | | | 1% | | | | | | | | | MDR | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fig3: | | | | | | | | | RS | | | | | | | | | densi | | | | | | | | | ty=2, | | | | | | | | | 4OS | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | C | About | 1% | 1 | | | | | | SI-RS | [0, | | | | | | | | | -3, | | | | | | | | | -6] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | [48 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fig2; | | | | | | | | | 24 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fig3; | | | | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | | | | RBs, | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | ig3] | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | reach | | | | | | | | | 1% | | | | | | | | | MDR | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | S | About | | 1 | 1\~4 | | | | | econd | [1, | | | | | | | | level | 0, | | | | | | | | DMRS | -2, | | | | | | | | | -3] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | =[4, | | | | | | | | | 3, 2, | | | | | | | | | 1] | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | reach | | | | | | | | | 0.1% | | | | | | | | | ER | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | S | About | | 1 | 1\~4 | | | | | econd | [6, | | | | | | | | level | 4.5, | | | | | | | | C | 2.5, | | | | | | | | SI-RS | 0] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | form. | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | =[4, | | | | | | | | | 3, 2, | | | | | | | | | 1], | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | nfig2 | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | reach | | | | | | | | | 0.1% | | | | | | | | | ER | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Z | PDCCH | About | | 1 | 12 | TDL-C | | | TE[6 | based | [2, | | | | 3 | | | 1]** | | -3] | | | | 00ns; | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | 2T | | | | | AL | | | | X/2RX | | | | | =[2, | | | | | | | | | 4] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | C | About | 1% | 1 | | | | | | RI-RS | [1, | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 3.5] | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | SI-RS | | | | | | | | | seq | | | | | | | | | uence | | | | | | | | | len | | | | | | | | | gth=\ | | | | | | | | | [108, | | | | | | | | | 216] | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **So | O | [At | 1% | | | AWGN; | | | ny[7 | n-off | BER = | | | | | | | 8]** | k | 0 | | | | WUS | | | | eying | .15] | | | | le | | | | seq | | | | | ngth: | | | | uence | | | | | 63 | | | | | | | | | bits; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | SCS = | | | | | | | | | 15KHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Observations:
\- Power saving signal/channel used as the UE wakeup in triggering UE
adaptation to the DRX operation shows the power saving gains 4%-97% with some
overheads 0% -3.5%.
\- Power saving signal/channel triggering to assist the BWP switching shows
the power saving gain 25% - 55% with the overhead of 7%-21% from the
additional RS.
\- Power saving signal/channel triggering/enabling PDCCH monitoring reduction
achieves the power saving gain 50%-66% with 1.7% overhead.
\- The 0.1% miss detection performance of different power saving
signal/channel, such as PDCCH-based, TRS, CSI-RS, DMRS, SSS-like, new sequence
type, such as OOK, Gold sequence, had been shown with the required SINR range
-6 dB to 5.7 dB with false alarm probability at 1%. Fewer resource used by
power saving signal/channel or beam degradation would require higher SINR
operating point. The power saving signal/channel also has the multiplexing
capability ranged 1-16 UEs in the evaluation depending on the power saving
signal/channel type. The power saving signal/channel may carry additional
information bits in addition to the triggering for UE adaptation. The power
saving signal/channel detection performance shows that it is adequate for
triggering the UE adaption to the power consumption.
### 5.2.2 Power saving procedure
The power saving signal/channel in triggering UE adaptation to DRX operation
for further study is that the power saving signal/channel can be configured
along the DRX configuration as the indication for UE to wake up from the sleep
state. RS resources can be considered to assist UE in performing RRM/CSI
measurement and channel time/frequency and/or beam tracking.
The power saving signal/channel candidate in triggering UE to achieve reducing
PDCCH monitoring for further study is that the power saving signal/channel can
be used to trigger UE to skip the PDCCH monitoring and/or to go to sleep for a
period of time.
The power saving signal/channel in triggering UE frequency domain processing
adaptation for further study is the power saving signal/channel can be used to
trigger the indication of RS configuration for channel tracking, CSI
measurements, and beam management for the additional assistance of dynamic
switching of BWP or activation of SCell in achieving the power saving gain.
The power saving signal/channel can be used for BWP switching,
activation/deactivation of SCell or adaptation of PDCCH monitoring and/or
CORESET/search space of PCell/SCell.
For further study, the power saving signal/channel in triggering adaption to
the UE processing, such as MIMO configuration/layers, antenna configuration,
UE processing time, and background processing can be used as the indication
for UE adaptation. The power saving signal/channel in triggering UE adaptation
to the processing is to allow UE in reducing the power consumption by
indication of the processing time, such as PDCCH/PDSCH/PUSCH/PUCCH processing
or the essential background processing, such as periodic CSI and RRM
measurements.
### 5.2.3 Additional RS
Additional RS is the RS provided by gNB to assist UE in performing e.g., fine
synchronization, channel/beam tracking, and/or CSI/RRM measurements in
addition to the existing RS in Rel-15. The additional RS was proposed for
study for power saving schemes for e.g,, UE adaptation to the DRX operation,
BWP switching, fast SCell activation, reducing PDCCH monitoring, and/or RRM
measurements. RS design is assumed to reuse Rel-15 waveform. Power saving
signal could be used to meet the purpose of additional RS.
## 5.3 Power consumption reduction in RRM measurements
The RRM power saving study should consider RRC IDLE, INACTIVE and CONNECTED
states. The deployment scenarios for further studies of RRM power saving focus
on the stationary (e.g., 0km/h), pedestrian (e.g., 3km/h) and vehicular (e.g.,
30km/h) scenarios when considering UE power saving techniques for RRM
measurements,
\- For IDLE/INACTIVE state, at least the following power components are
recommended to be considered for RRM measurement power saving evaluation
\- Loop convergence (AGC, TTL & FTL) / time-frequency tracking
\- How many SSB bursts are used for Loop convergence, with consideration of
being potentially confined in the same SSB burst or different SSB bursts for
serving cells and neighboring cells measurement/ time-frequency tracing
\- FFS: The power value for loop convergence /time-frequency tracking is as
the same as SSB processing.
\- Paging
\- SIB1 decoding (PDCCH+PDSCH)
\- Neighboring cell search (within SMTC), if any
\- SSB measurement (serving cell only / severing cell and neighboring cells,
if any)
\- Sleep
\- For CONNECTED state, at least the following power components are
recommended to be considered for RRM measurement power saving evaluation,
\- Loop convergence (AGC, TTL & FTL) / time-frequency tracking
\- How many SSB bursts are used for Loop convergence, with consideration of
being potentially confined in the same SSB burst or different SSB bursts for
serving cells and neighboring cells measurement/ time-frequency tracing
\- Based on SSB and/or TRS(if configured)
\- PDCCH-only monitoring during active time
\- SSB measurement (serving cell only / severing cell and neighboring cells,
if any)
\- Neighboring cell search (within SMTC), if any
\- Sleep
The following adaption mechanism of RRM measurement activities for UE power
saving:
\- gNB controlled RRM measurement operation with UE assistance information
reported to gNB, e.g.,
\- mobility related information (e.g., mobility state, history of mobility
state, UE\'s visited cells and cells not reselected due to the ping-pong
effect, the number of handovers for certain period, etc.)
\- channel condition (e.g. change in serving RS/signal)
\- gNB controlled RRM measurement operation without UE assistance information
reported to gNB based on certain conditions, e.g.,
\- Doppler estimation for RRC CONNECTED states
\- cell type (e.g., small cell/macro cell)
\- gNB controlled threshold to support UE autonomous RRM measurement
adaptation _based on_ e.g.,
\- signal measurements (e.g., RSRP)
\- UE mobility state (e.g., low/medium/high mobility)
\- UE location in the cell (e.g., cell-center/cell-edge)
\- S-measure enhancement (e.g. S-measure for SCell, CSI-RS)
\- Other mechanisms/approaches are not precluded
### 5.3.1 Adapting/Relaxing RRM measurement in time domain
\- It is observed that the following
\- For certain conditions (e.g., low mobility deployment/UE speed/favorable
RSRP conditions), the number of RSRP measurement samples for a given duration
(e.g., measurement period / evaluation period) can be relaxed with negligible
impact on accuracy achieved by existing Rel-15 measurement.
\- For certain conditions (e.g., favorable RSRP conditions, etc.), reducing
RRM measurement activities (e.g., measurement, reporting) for a given time
period is beneficial from UE power saving perspective for RRC
IDLE/INACTIVE/CONNECTED states.
\- For intra frequency and/or inter frequency measurement, the following
approaches are to be studied for UE power saving in time domain, including
impact on mobility performance
\- Increasing measurement period
\- Reducing number of samples (e.g., OFDM symbols / slots) within a
measurement period (e.g., SMTC window)
\- Confining RRM measurements within a measurement window and increasing the
periodicity of the measurement window for intra frequency and/or inter
frequency measurement
\- Other approaches are not precluded
\- Note: this does not necessarily mean that the techniques studied will have
spec impact
**\- For UE autonomous** RRM measurement adaptation in time domain with **gNB
controlled threshold, the following thresholds and corresponding adaptation
schemes can be considered,**
\- A RSRP threshold for UE adapting RRM measurement period,
\- A RSRP threshold for UE adapting RRM number of samples within a measurement
period,
\- A RSRP threshold and a RSRP variation threshold within a period of time,
and based on that, UE can adapt the measurement or report period
\- A RSRP variation threshold within a period of time, and based on that, UE
can adapt the measurement or report period
\- A threshold for UE adapting RRM measurement period and the threshold can be
at least one of the followings,
\- The amount of time during which the UE stays with a specific cell or beam
(for RRM measurement)
\- UE\'s active TCI state for PDCCH does not change for specific time period.
\- The number of handovers/reselections for certain period.
\- A threshold which includes UE mobility status, serving cell quality, and
based on that, UE can adapt the SMTC window, number of CSI-RS resources sets
per target cell, periodicity of CSI-RS resources.
Table 13: Evaluation of relaxed RRM measurement in time-domain
| (0) | (1) | (2) | (3) | (4) | (5) | (6) | (7) | (8) | (9) | (10)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| (0) Power saving schemes description  
(1) Average power consumption  
(2) Power reduction compared to baseline [%] | (3) RRC Idle/RRC Inactive (i) or RRC Connected (c)  
(4)Measurement period [ms]  
(5)number of samples(e.g., SSB bursts) in each MP  
(6) UE speed and channel model  
(7) system impact, e.g., overhead  
(8) Performance impact  
(9)Additional assumption, e.g., PO and SSB offset, | Note |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Source 1 Huawei  
[88] | If the RSRP of the serving cell is less than X, the MPs of serving cell and neighbour cells are according to RAN4's requirement; otherwise the MPs are N times of RAN4's requirement. | DRX cycle length = 0.32s 7.22(baseline) 5.21(N=4) _4.87(N=8)_ | 27.9% (N=4) 32.5% _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 | 3km/h and 30km/h NLOS | - | Little impact on RSRP accuracy, which can be seen in Fig. 1 in [88]. RSRP difference increases, which can be seen in Fig. 2 in [88]. | The periodicity of SSB is 20ms, and the gap length between PO and SSB are randomly distributed | FR1 8 neighboring cells for intra-frequency measurement; 8 neighboring cells in each layer for inter-frequency measurement and totally 3 layers. Cell search is performed every three measurements. Group paging rate is 10%, and paging rate is 0%. 1 SSB burst set with 2 SSB is used for loop convergence, with periodicity of max (160ms, DRX cycle).  
|  | DRX cycle length = 0.64s 4.11(baseline) 3.11(N=4) _2.94(N=8)_ | 24.75% (N=4) 28.6 _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 |  | - |  |  |   
|  | DRX cycle length = 1.28s 2.56(baseline) 2.05(N=4) _1.97(N=8)_ | 19.7% (N=4) 23.0% _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 |  | - |  |  |   
|  | DRX cycle length = 2.56s 1.78(baseline) 1.53(N=4) 1.48(N=8) | 14.2% (N=4) 16.5% _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 |  | - |  |  |   
|  | DRX cycle length = 0.32s 3.35(baseline) 2.21(N=4) 2.02(N=8) | 34.0% (N=4) 39.7 _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 | 3km/h and 30km/h LOS | - |  |  |   
|  | DRX cycle length = 0.64s 2.17(baseline) 1.60(N=4) 1.51(N=8) | 26.2% (N=4) 30.6% _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 |  | - |  |  |   
|  | DRX cycle length = 1.28s 1.59(baseline) 1.30(N=4) 1.25(N=8) | 17.9% (N=4) 20.9% _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 |  | - |  |  |   
|  | DRX cycle length = 2.56s 1.29(baseline) 1.15(N=4) 1.13(N=8) | 11.0% (N=4) 12.8% _(N=8)_ | IDLE | - | 1 |  | - |  |  |   
Source 2 Vivo [89] | Only SSB is used for RRM (2 samples per DRX cycle) | 4.17 | Baseline1 | Idle | 320 | 2 | TDL-C 3km/h 30km/h | Low | RSRP accuracy impact are captured in Figure 2-3 in [89] | The power saving gain is average gain of [0-10] ms SSB/CSI-RS and PO offset. Additional assumptions: 1\. The duration of SSB/CSI-RS measurement occasion per paging cycle is 2ms. 2\. Periodicity of SSB is 20ms and SSB is transmitted in the 1st slot of each 20ms period. 3\. Periodicity of CSI-RS is 10ms and CSI-RS is transmitted in the 6th slot of each radio frame. 4\. Paging cycle (DRX cycle) is 320ms, and the paging is monitored in one slot in first 2 radio frames of each paging cycle by different UEs with equal probability (random paging occasion). 5\. Assuming no cell reselection. Thus no SIB1 energy consumption is included. 6\. Assuming no additional resource for AGC tuning. The slot duration is based on 30 kHz SCS for FR1 and 120kHz for FR2. | FR1  
| The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on SSB | 2.84 | 31.9% | Idle | 320 | 1 |  | Low |  |  |   
| The measurement periodicity is extended to 2 paging cycle, 2 measurements sample per paging cycle. | 3.02 | 27.6% | Idle | 640 | 2 |  | Low |  |  |   
| Only SSB is used for RRM (2 samples per DRX cycle) | 2.97 | Baseline2 | Idle | 320 | 2 |  | Low |  |  | FR2  
| The number of measurement samples is reduced to 1 per paging cycle in idle state. Measurement is still based on SSB | 2.173 | 26.8% | Idle | 320 | 1 |  | Low |  |  |   
| The measurement periodicity is extended to 2 paging cycle, 2 measurements sample per paging cycle. | 2.11 | 29% | Idle | 640 | 2 |  | Low |  |  |   
| Reduce RRM measurement in RRC connected state. with short DRX InactivityTimer | 40.45 | Baseline1 | Con | 200 | 5 |  | Low |  | Long DRXCycle = 160ms, onDurationTimer = 8ms, data_rate=300Mbps FTP Model 3, packet size =0.5MByte Periodic activities is not modeled, e.g., AGC | FR1, 200 ms measurement period is considered as the baseline. DRX InactivityTimer = 40ms  
|  | 35.80 | 11.5% | Con | 400 | 5 |  | Low |  |  |   
|  | 31.38 | 22.4% | Con | 800 | 5 |  | Low |  |  |   
| Reduce RRM measurement in RRC connected state. With long DRX InactivityTimer | 73.65 | Baseline2 | Con | 200 | 5 |  | Low |  |  | FR1, 200 ms measurement period is considered as the baseline. DRX InactivityTimer = 100ms  
|  | 69.98 | 5.2% | Con | 400 | 5 |  | Low |  |  |   
|  | 69.15 | 6.2% | Con | 800 | 5 |  | Low |  |  |   
Source 3 MediaTek [90] | UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell | 28.28 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II) | 21.34% (55.64% RRM measurement is saved) | Con | 200/400/800 | 5 | 30km/h, 3D UMa with 200m ISD | Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed | handover fail rate 2.08% 2.81% | CDRX-cycle=40ms DRX-on=4ms SMTC window=2ms SMTC period=20ms, Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms FR1 | Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.  
| UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell. UE keeps default measurement period when the variation between two serving cell RSRP measurements is larger than 0.3dB. | 29.45 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II) | 18.08% (47.42% RRM measurement is saved) | Con | 200/400/800 | 5 | 30km/h, 3D UMa with 200m ISD | Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed | handover fail rate 2.08% 2.43% | CDRX-cycle=40ms DRX-on=4ms SMTC window=2ms SMTC period=20ms, Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms FR1 | Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.  
| UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell | 29.49 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II) | 17.97% (46.76% RRM measurement is saved) | Con | 200/400/800 | 2 | 120km/h, 3D UMa with 500m ISD | Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed | handover fail rate 9.03% 10.07% | CDRX-cycle=40ms DRX-on=4ms SMTC window=2ms SMTC period=20ms, Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms FR1 | Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.  
| UE adapts the measurement period to be 2 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 2dB better than the best neighbor cell and 4 times default measurement period when PCell RSRP is 4dB better than the best neighbour cell. UE keeps default measurement period when the variation between two serving cell RSRP measurements is larger than 1dB. | 30.78 (baseline is 35.95 according to Table II) | 14.38% (37.38% RRM measurement is saved) | Con | 200/400/800 | 2 | 120km/h, 3D UMa with 500m ISD | Near negligible, only simple comparison is needed | handover fail rate 9.03% 9.59% | CDRX-cycle=40ms DRX-on=4ms SMTC window=2ms SMTC period=20ms, Light sleep time for Case 2=8ms FR1 | Periodic activities, e.g. time/frequency, channel or beam tracking, and loop convergence, are performed every 160ms during the SMTC window. Periodic activities will align with RRM measurement if possible.  
Source 4 CATT [91] | UE performs 5 measurement in one measurement period. | 30.24 | baseline | Con | 200 | 5 | 3km/h | - | - Fulfilling the RSRP accuracy requirement in RAN4 RSRP accuracy impact are captured in [91] | DRX-cycle=40ms, DRX-on=4ms, SMTC period = 20ms | Relaxing samples in MP  
| UE reduces the number of measurement samples in one measurement period from 5 to 3. | 27 | 10.71% | Con | 200 | 3 | 3km/h | - |  | DRX-cycle=40ms, DRX-on=4ms, SMTC period = 20ms |   
| UE performs 5 measurement in one measurement period. | 10.08 | baseline | Con | 800 | 5 |  | - |  | DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 20ms |   
| UE reduces the number of measurement samples in one measurement period from 5 to 3. | 9.55 | 5.26% | Con | 800 | 3 |  | - |  | DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 20ms |   
| UE performs 5 measurement in one measurement period. | 5.88 | baseline | Con | 1600 | 5 |  | - |  | DRX-cycle=320ms, DRX-on=10ms, SMTC period = 20ms |   
| UE reduces the number of measurement samples in one measurement period from 5 to 3. | 5.35 | 2.57% | Con | 1600 | 3 |  | - |  | DRX-cycle=320ms, DRX-on=10ms, SMTC period = 20ms |   
| The measurement period is 800ms. | 11.5 | baseline | RRC Connected | 800 | 5 | - | - |  | DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 40ms | Relaxing measurement period  
| The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 1600ms | 10.13 | 11.91% | RRC Connected | 1600 | 5 | - | - |  | DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 40ms |   
| The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 3200ms | 9.45 | 17.83% | RRC Connected | 3200 | 5 |  | - |  | DRX-cycle=160ms, DRX-on=8ms, SMTC period = 40ms |   
Source 5 Sony[93] | Reduced number of samples per measurement period | 32.28 | 24% | Conn | 80 | 2/slot | N/A | None | - |  | Baseline power is 42.4 units  
| Reduced number of samples per measurement period | 27.21 | 36% | Conn | 160 | 2/slot | N/A | none | - |  |   
Source 6 DoCoMo [94] | Normal case | 31 | baseline | Conn | 320 | 5 | 3km/h |  |  | FR1 | C-DRX cycle = 40ms, C-DRX on duration = 4ms 3km/h pedestrian, PDCCH-only monitoring during active time  
| Relaxed RRM in time domain | 26.63 | 14.1% | Conn | 640 | 5 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 25.75 | 16.9% | Conn | 800 | 5 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 24.44 | 21.2% | Conn | 1280 | 5 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 24 | 22.6% | Conn | 1600 | 5 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 23.34 | 24.7% | Conn | 2560 | 5 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
Source 7 Qualcomm [96] | L = 1, R = 1/2 | 2.06 | baseline | Idle/Inactive | 1280 | 2 | stationary |  |  | FR1 | The considered adaptation skips the measurement in one or more I-DRX cycles which is defined by variable R (e.g., R = 1/2 means RRM measurement is skipped once every 2 DRXs). L denotes the number of SSBs in a SSB set Notes: (3) I-DRX/paging cycle (4) The number of SSB burst sets are used for RRM and AGC/T-F tracking loops (5) UE speed (km/h) or stationary  
|  | 2.04 | 0.71% |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 4, R = 1/2 | 2.11 | baseline |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.07 | 1.85% |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 8, R = 1/2 | 2.19 | baseline |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.11 | 3.57% |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 1, R = 1/4 | 2.06 | baseline |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.04 | 1.07% |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 4, R = 1/4 | 2.11 | baseline |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.05 | 2.78% |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 8, R = 1/4 | 2.19 | baseline |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.07 | 5.36% |  | 1280 | 2 |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 1, R = 1/2 | 2.48 | baseline |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.47 | 0.59% |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 4, R = 1/2 | 2.53 | baseline |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.49 | 1.54% |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 8, R = 1/2 | 2.61 | baseline |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.53 | 3.00% |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 1, R = 1/4 | 2.48 | baseline |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.46 | 0.89% |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 4, R = 1/4 | 2.53 | baseline |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.47 | 2.32% |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  |  |   
| L = 8, R = 1/4 | 2.61 | baseline |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  | FR1 |   
|  | 2.49 | 4.49% |  | 1280 | 3 |  |  |  |  |   
Source 8 ZTE [92][61] | The measurement period is 800ms. | 20.28 | baseline | Connect | 800 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX:160-40-10 (cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration) offset：U(0, measurement period) | Cell number to be measurement is 8.  
| The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 1600ms | 18.78 | 7.4% | Connect | 1600 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |   
| The measurement period is extended from 800ms to 3200ms | 18.03 | 11.1% | Connect | 3200 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |   
| The measurement period is 200ms. | 31.15 | baseline | Connect | 200 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX:40-10-4 (cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration) offset：U(0, measurement period) |   
| The measurement period is extended from 200ms to 400ms | 25.61 | 17.8% | Connect | 400 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |   
| The measurement period is extended from 200ms to 800ms | 22.85 | 26.6% | Connect | 800 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A |  |   
| The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is subject to uniform distribution U(0, measurement period). | 6.53 | baseline | Idle/Inactive | 320 | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX cycle is 320ms , PO：10% | Cell number to be measurement is 8.  
| The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is 0 | 5.65 | 13.5% | Idle/Inactive | 320 | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX cycle is 320ms , PO：10% |   
| The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is subject to uniform distribution U(0, measurement period). | 2.42 | baseline | Idle/Inactive | 1280 | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX cycle is 1280ms , PO：10% |   
| The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is 0 | 2.19 | 9.5% | Idle/Inactive | 1280 | 1 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX cycle is 1280ms , PO：10% |   
| The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is subject to uniform distribution U(0, measurement period). | 20.28 | baseline | Connect | 800 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX:160-40-10 (cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration) Baseline offset：U(0, measurement period) |   
| The offset between SMTC window and DRX ON duration is 0 | 18.83 | 7.1% | Connect | 800 | 5 | N/A | N/A | N/A | DRX:160-40-10 (cycle-inactivity timer-ON duration) Baseline offset：U(0, measurement period) |   
Source 9 Nokia [97] | System level evaluation of the impact of increasing measurement period. No power consumption analysis. | - | - | c | (a) 200ms (b) 400ms (c) 800ms (d) 1600ms (e) 3200ms | 5 samples | 3 km/h | N/A | Handover failure rate (%) (a) 0 (b) 0 (c) 0,26 (d) 0,14 (e) 0,49 | System level assumptions given in[97] |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  | 30 km/h | N/A | Handover failure rate (%) (a) 0 (b) 0,08 (c) 0,41 (d) 1,57 (e) 11,33 |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  | 60 km/h | N/A | Handover failure rate (%) (a) 0 (b) 0,33 (c) 1,00 (d) 3,68 (e) 25,89 |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  | 120 km/h | N/A | Handover failure rate (%) (a) 0,17 (b) 0,86 (c) 3,14 (d) 15,59 (e) 56,74 |  |   
{width="1.553079615048119in"
height="1.1641655730533684in"}{width="1.5443842957130358in"
height="1.1576443569553805in"}{width="1.5791666666666666in"
height="1.1837171916010498in"}{width="1.5009055118110237in"
height="1.1250524934383201in"}
* * *
(1) AWGN RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr [88] (2) AWGN RSRP accuracy at 30 km/hr [88]
(3) CDL-C RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr [88] (4) CDL-C RSRP accuracy at 30 km/hr
[88]
* * *
{width="1.3458005249343832in"
height="1.113378171478565in"}{width="1.3389752843394576in"
height="1.1126968503937007in"}{width="1.4695658355205599in"
height="1.1064960629921259in"}{width="1.4720089676290464in"
height="1.107244094488189in"}
* * *
(1) L1 RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr [89] (2) L3 filtered RSRP accuracy at 3
km/hr[89] (1) RSRP accuracy at 3 km/hr [91] (2) RSRP accuracy at 30 km/hr[91]
* * *
For adapting/relaxing RRM measurement in time domain, the followings are
observed from simulation results,
\- For RRC CONNECTED state,
\- Among the results, 11.1% - 26.6% power saving gain is shown for extending
measurement period 4 times, and 7.4% - 17.8% power saving gain is shown for
extending measurement period 2 times, comparing with the baseline assumption.
\- For RRC IDLE/INACTIVE state,
\- By increasing measurement period, the UE power saving gain at least depends
on the number of I-DRX/paging cycles to be skipped for measurement and the
number of SSB burst sets to be used for measurement and periodic activities.
When measurement is performed once every 4 paging cycles, the gain is
17.9%-19.7% (one SSB burst set for measurement and periodic activities),
0.89%-5.36% (two or three SSB burst sets for measurement and periodic
activities).
\- While at the same time, for stationary or low mobility case, the mobility
performance impact of increasing measurement period (e.g., handover failure
rate, RSRP difference between two adjacent samples) is shown as follow,
\- The handover failure rate for RRC CONNECTED state is
\- with 4 times relaxing the measurement period, changed as follows:
\- 0% -> 0.26% for 3km/h, 0% ->0.41% and 2.08% ->2.81% for 30km/h, 0% ->1% for
60km/h, 0.17% ->3.14% and 9.03% -> 10.07% for 120km/h
\- with 16 times relaxing the measurement period, changed as follows:
\- 0% -> 0.5% for 3km/h, 0% -> 11.33% for 30km/h，0% -> 25.89% for 60km/h,
0.17% -> 56.74% for 120km/h
\- the (5%-tile, 95%-tile) of the RSRP measurement error is within the range
of (-4dB, 4dB) .
\- It is shown that relaxing the number of samples within measurement period
provides 2.57% - 36% power saving gain for RRC CONNECTED. For stationary or
low mobility case, 1 source results show the (5%-tile, 95%-tile) of the RSRP
measurement error is within the range of (-2dB, 3dB) for both 3km/h and 30km/h
.
UE mobility/handover model and mobility performance metric follows TR36.839,
where the handover is initiated based on an A3 RSRP measurement event (A3
event is also the major event for handover triggering from practical
deployment) with detailed simulation model in [103].
For RRM measurement relaxation for all UEs in a cell, it is observed that:
\- For 3km/h UE speed, relaxing the measurement period by 4 times, i.e. from
200ms to 800ms, impact on handover failure rate is negligible (i.e.,\ PDCCH-only | > No PDSCH and | > 100 | > 175 | | | > same-slot | | | | | > scheduling; | | | | | > this | | | | | > includes | | | | | > time for | | | | | > PDCCH | | | | | > decoding and | | | | | > any | | | | | > micro-sleep | | | | | > within the | | | | | > slot. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | > SSB or\ | > SSB can be | > 100 | > 175 | | > CSI-RS proc. | > used for | | | | | > fine | | | | | > | | | | | time-frequency | | | | | > sync. and | | | | | > RSRP | | | | | > measurement | | | | | > of the | | | | | > s | | | | | erving/camping | | | | | > cell.. TRS | | | | | > is the | | | | | > considered | | | | | > CSI-RS for | | | | | > sync. FFS | | | | | > the power | | | | | > scaling for | | | | | > processing | | | | | > other | | | | | > | | | | | configurations | | | | | > of CSI-RS. | | | | | > | | | | | > (Note 2 SSBs | | | | | > in a slot | | | | | > for the ref. | | | | | > config.) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | > PDCCH + | > PDCCH + | > 300 | > 350 | | > PDSCH | > PDSCH. | | | | | > ACK/NACK in | | | | | > long PUCCH | | | | | > is modeled | | | | | > by UL power | | | | | > state. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | > UL | > Long PUCCH | > 250 (0 dBm) | > 350 | | | > or PUSCH. | > | > | | | | > 700 (23 dBm) | > (FFS Tx | | | | | > power level) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
\- Sleep states power level, energy overhead, and transitions are same as FR1.
### 8.1.3 UE power consumption scaling for adaptation
The power scaling scheme for FR1 and FR2 power states are in Table 4.
Table 21: UE power consumption scaling for adaptation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Scaling for FR1 | Proposal | Comment | +======================+======================+======================+ | BWP Bandwidth (DL) | Scaling of X MHz = | For 10MHz BW, only | | | 0.4 + 0.6 * (X - | AL up to 8 can be | | | 20) / 80. Linear | used for PDCCH | | | interpolation for | | | | intermediate | The transition time | | | bandwidths. Valid | is the same as | | | only for X = 10, 20, | DCI-based BWP | | | 40, 80, and 100. | switching delay for | | | | Rel-15. | | | Above scaling is | | | | applicable for FR1 | If the power after | | | only. | scaling is smaller | | | | than the BWP | | | In case scaling is | transition power, | | | needed for FR2, | assume the BWP | | | companies can report | transition power as | | | the assumed scaling | the output of | | | factor. | scaling unless | | | | otherwise justified. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BWP Bandwidth (UL) | No scaling at 0dBm | | | | or 23dBm | | | | | | | | Above scaling is | | | | applicable for FR1 | | | | only. | | | | | | | | In case scaling is | | | | needed for FR2, | | | | companies can report | | | | the assumed scaling | | | | factor. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CA (DL) | 2CC is 1.7x1CC | Act | | | | ivation/deactivation | | | 4CC is 3.4x1CC (i.e. | delay follows RAN4 | | | 2x 2CC) | specification; FFS | | | | transition energy | | | Above refers to the | | | | worst case CA | Applicable for FR1 | | | configuration in | and FR2 | | | terms of power | | | | consumption. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CA (UL) | Same as downlink at | Applicable for FR1 | | | 0dBm. No scaling at | and FR2 | | | 23dBm | | | | | | | | 2CC is 1.2x1CC at | | | | 23dBm | | | | | | | | Limit scaling up to | | | | 2CC. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna scaling (DL) | 2Rx power is 0.7x | Assume same number | | | 4Rx power for FR1 | of antenna elements | | | | per Rx chain | | | 1Rx power is 0.7x | | | | 2Rx power for FR2 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Antenna scaling (UL) | 2Tx power is 1.4x | 2Tx support is not | | | 1Tx power at 0dBm. | considered for FR2. | | | 1.2x.at 23dBm FR1 | | | | only | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDCCH-only | Power of cross-slot | Applicable for FR1 | | | scheduling is 0.7x | and FR2 | | | same-slot scheduling | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SSB | One SSB power is | | | | 0.75 of two SSB | | | | power, i.e. 75 power | | | | units | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PDSCH-only slot | 280 for FR1 | This assumes the | | | | same number of PDSCH | | | 325 for FR2 | symbols as in the | | | | PDCCH+PDSCH case. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CSI-RS | FFS for scaling | | | | w.r.t. # of symbols | | | | for CSI-RS | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Short PUCCH | Short PUCCH power = | Applicable for FR1 | | | 0.3 x uplink power | and FR2. | | | | | | | Reference config | | | | consists of 1-symbol | | | | PUCCH | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SRS | SRS power = 0.3 x | Applicable for FR1 | | | uplink power | and FR2. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
\- Note: Scaling applies only to non-sleep power states.
\- Note: latency involved in antenna scaling is FFS
\- For evaluation, when BWP transition duration is one slot or longer, the
slot-average power level is 50 power units
\- In case when BWP transition duration is \0). Pt is the PDCCH-only power
for same-slot scheduling.
For UE power modelling, the following power scaling relationship is assumed:
\- For simplicity,
\- The slot-averaged power for \"PDCCH+PDSCH+PUCCH\" is same as
\"PDCCH+PDSCH\"
\- The slot-averaged power for \"PDSCH+PUCCH\" is same as \"PDSCH-only\"
\- The slot-averaged power for \"PDCCH+PUCCH\" is the sum of \"PDCCH-only\"
power and \"short PUCCH\" power.
\- Note: PDCCH-only with cross-slot scheduling scaling is also applicable
\- Note: it is observed via evaluations (where 0dBm PUCCH Tx power is assumed)
that the difference is not significant
\- For non-RRM evaluation, for \"PDCCH+PDSCH\" concurrent in the same slot as
\"SSB or CSI-RS processing\", assume \"PDCCH+PDSCH\" power
\- For non-RRM evaluation, for \"PDSCH only\" concurrent in the same slot as
\"SSB or CSI-RS processing\", assume \"PDSCH only\" power
\- For \"PDCCH-only\" and \"SSB or CSI-RS processing\" concurrent in a slot,
the slot-averaged power is 0.85x the sum of the respective power, at least for
FR1
\- For FR1, 0.85*(100+100) = 170
\- For FR2, 0.85*(175+175) = 300
\- For \"SSB processing\" and \"CSI-RS processing\" concurrent in a slot, the
slot-averaged power is 0.85x the sum of the respective power, at least for FR1
\- For FR1, 0.85*(100+100) = 170
\- For FR2, 0.85*(175+175) = 300
\- 2-SSB within a slot is assumed
### 8.1.4 UE power consumption model for RRM measurements
**Reference configuration and assumptions for RRM measurements:**
\- SSB periodicity is 20msec
\- 2 SSBs per slot are measured
\- SMTC periodicity is 20msec
\- For inter-band
\- Up to 2 frequency layers and
\- Gap pattern ID = 0 defined in TS 38.133 (i.e., measurement gap length of
6msec and measurement gap periodicity of 40msec)
Use the following as a reference for RRM power evaluation:
\- Assume SMTC window duration of 2ms (corresponding to 30kHz SCS) for
synchronised FR1 scenario.
\- Assume SMTC window duration of 5ms for all other cases
\- Note: other values are not precluded
#### 8.1.4.1 For intra-frequency measurements
Table 22: UE power consumption for the RRM measurements
N: Number of cells for intra-frequency measurement Synchronous case
Asynchronous case
* * *
                                                       FR1                FR2                 FR1   FR2
N=8 150 225- 170 285 N=4 120 195 140 255
\- All above values are slot-averaged power (_P~fr1~_ or _P~fr2~_ for FR1 or
FR2 respectively).
\- Synchronous case means actual SSB transmissions from cells are time-aligned
e.g., timing of SSB~i~ from cell~i~ is aligned with timing of SSB~i~ from
cell~j~.
\- Asynchronous case means actual SSB transmissions from cells are not time-
aligned e.g., timing of SSB~i~ from cell~i~ is not aligned with timing of
SSB~i~ from cell~j~
\- The following maximum number of cells for intra-frequency measurement
within a slot:
Table 23: Maximun numer of cells for intra-frequency measurements
FR1 FR2
* * *
Nmax = 19 Nmax = 9
[For combined measurement and search:]{.underline}
To obtain combined neighboring cell measurement and search power, add the
difference between full neighboring cell search state power and SSB/CSI-RS
proc. state power to the neighboring cell measurement power, as shown below:
Table 24: UE power consumption of the combined neighbor cell measurements and
cell search
N: Number of cells for intra-frequency measurement & search Synchronous case
Asynchronous case
* * *
                                                                FR1                FR2                 FR1   FR2
N=8 200 320 220 380 N=4 170 290 190 350
#### 8.1.4.2 For inter-frequency measurement
The inter-frequency measurement is represented as function of the number of
frequency layers:
UE needs to monitor _Nf_ frequency layers within a measurement gap.
$E3 = \left( \sum_{i = 0}^{\text{Nf} - 1}E_{i} \right) + \text{Et} \bullet
\left( \text{Nf} + 1 \right)$
Where
_\- Ei_ is either P~fr1~*Ns (for FR1) or P~fr2~*Ns (for FR2) for each
frequency layer _i_
_\- Ns_ is the number of slot over which measurements (for each frequency
layer _i_) are carried out
_\- Nf_ is the number of frequency layers measured
_\- Et = Pt * Tt_ , where
_\- Pt_ is the switching power consumption
\- Assume micro sleep power for Pt
\- Tt is 0.5ms for FR1 and 0.25ms for FR2 (from RAN4)
It can be simplified to the following if Ei is same across frequency layers
(i.e. _Ei = E_ for all i).
E3 = E*Nf + Et*(Nf+1)
Note: RAN4 requirement assumes only one frequency layer per measurement gap.
**For full neighboring cell search:**
The baseline neighbor cell search power is independent of the number of cells
on the first order and can be approximated as:
Table 8: UE power consumption of neighboring cell search
FR1 FR2
* * *
150 270
\- It is expressed as the power averaged over a slot during which search is
performed.
## 8.2 Simulation assumptions
**Deployment scenarios**
\- Dense urban
\- Single layer
\- Additional deployment scenarios to be considered
\- Indoor hotspot
\- Rural macro
\- Note: For RRM measurement evaluation, UE power consumption contributed by
inter-frequency and/or inter-RAT measurement can be considered.
**Performance metrics**
\- UE power saving gain - percentage of power consumption reduction of the
proposed power saving scheme from the baseline scheme
\- FFS: For the case multiple applications are evaluated, whether power
consumption is the overall DoU power across the applications
\- System performance
\- Latency
\- Scheduling delay
\- User throughput
\- System throughput and/or resource utilization/overhead (if applicable)
should be reported as the result of the evaluation, in addition to power
saving gain.
\- If a new signal/channel is introduced, the performance metrics include
\- Performance
\- Complexity
\- Overhead for reception of the signal/channel
\- If the new signal is used for detection, the performance metrics include
\- False alarm rate
\- Miss-detection rate
**Link level simulation assumptions:**
\- Simulation assumptions as specified in Table A1.5-1 in TR38.802 [4] should
be the basis for link-level simulation evaluation.
\- Antenna configuration may use IMT-2020 as reference. The evaluation results
should also include the antenna configuration if it is different from the
reference antenna configuration,
\- For LLS simulation on power saving signal detection performance, at least
the following SINR values should be evaluated: -6dB, 3dB, 20dB.
**System level simulation assumptions:**
\- Simulation assumptions as specified in Table A2.1-1 in TR38.802 [4] should
be the basis for system-level simulation evaluation.
\- Antenna configuration may use IMT-2020 as reference. The evaluation results
should also include the antenna configuration if it is different from the
reference antenna configuration,
\- It is clarified that user throughput measured from system level simulation
does not preclude user perceived throughput taking into account TCP slow start
if applicable
\- For system level impact evaluation, IMT-2020 simulation assumptions can be
adopted.
\- For system level simulation, whether to apply DRX depends on the particular
power saving proposal being evaluated and the purpose of the simulation.
Whether DRX is not applied in the simulation should be identified along with
the evaluation results
\- For reducing simulation time for system level simulation, scaling of the
bandwidth and packet size of the traffic model can be considered (e.g. factor
of 1/5). Companies to report the scale factor used, if any.
\- For system level simulation, at least assume that the traffic model is FTP
model 3 with 0.5Mbyte payload and mean inter-arrival time of 200 milliseconds
\- The mean inter-arrival time can be adjusted to achieve different cell
loading scenarios.
\- Note: Other variations including different traffic models are not precluded
\- The same traffic model settings should be used across all users.
**System Configurations:**
**Reference DRX configurations:**
\- C-DRX cycle 320msec, inactivity timer {200, 80} msec
\- FR1 On duration: 10 msec
\- FR2 On duration: 5 msec
\- C-DRX cycle 160msec, inactivity timer {100, 40} msec
\- FR1 On duration: 8 msec
\- FR2 On duration: 4 msec
\- C-DRX cycle 40msec, inactivity timer {25, 10} msec
\- FR1 On duration: 4 msec
\- FR2 On duration: 2 msec
\- I-DRX cycle 1.28 sec
\- Group paging rate (for a PO): 10%
\- P-RNTI is detected but PDSCH decoding results in no match
\- Note: Statistics for the matching case may be further considered based on
use case
\- Note: The selection and reporting of the settings for short DRX cycle,
short DRX cycle timer, drx-RetransmissionTimerDL, drx-RetransmissionTimerUL,
drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerDL, and/or drx-HARQ-RTT-TimerUL should be included in the
results of the UE power saving scheme
**Traffic model used for the UE power saving scheme evaluation**
\- Applications with the traffic model for the evaluation of the UE power
saving scheme
\- FTP - FTP model 3
\- Other bursty traffic arrival models can be considered
\- Web-browsing
\- Video streaming
\- Instant messaging
\- VoIP
\- Gaming
\- Background app sync
For FTP, instant messaging, and VoIP application, the following traffic models
and DRX configuration should be included for evaluation:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | FTP traffic | Instant | VoIP | | | | messaging | | +================+================+================+================+ | Model | FTP model 3 | FTP model 3 | As defined in | | | | | R1-070674. | | | | | | | | | | Assume max two | | | | | packets | | | | | bundled. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Packet size | 0.5 Mbytes | 0.1 Mbytes | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Mean | 200 ms | 2 sec | | | inter-arrival | | | | | time | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | DRX setting | Period = 160 | Period = 320 | Period = 40 ms | | | ms | ms | | | | | | Inactivity | | | Inactivity | Inactivity | timer = 10 ms | | | timer = 100 ms | timer = 80 ms | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Note: For ON duration setting, following reference DRX configurations as
previously agreed.
\- For web-browsing, video streaming, and gaming applications, the traffic
models and the delay requirements defined in R1-070674 can be used in the
evaluation. The parameters (e.g. packet size) may be updated to be in line
with EMBB traffic requirements.
\- For background app sync application, for power consumption evaluation
purpose, it can be assumed that idle mode operations (inclusive of page
detection, RRM, deep sleep and transition overhead) contributes to X% of the
use case power. The remaining portion is contributed by intermittent RRC
connections due to background activities (FFS: value of X)
\- Companies should report the assumptions made in the evaluation
**Evaluation methodology of the UE power saving schemes:**
\- Numerical analysis, system level simulation, and link level simulation are
included as evaluation methods for power saving proposals. At least one of the
methods should be selected and used for evaluation of a specific power saving
proposal.
\- FFS: The criteria for selection of the methods
For power evaluation,
\- For evaluation of DRX scenarios, the RRC release timer is set to infinity
to ensure C-DRX and I-DRX cases are treated separately.
\- Power consumption for channel/time/frequency and beam tracking operations
should be taken into account.
**Calibrations:**
For the purpose of basic calibration of traffic modeling, FTP model 3 (use 0.1
Mbytes packet size, mean inter-arrival time 200msec) and VoIP model (as
defined in R1-070674) should be used to generate time distribution for
different power states, for the following scenarios
1) No C-DRX configured
\- For both VoIP and FTP
2) C-DRX cycle 40msec for VoIP
\- 10 msec inactivity timer
\- Assume max two packets bundled
3) C-DRX cycle 160msec for FTP
\- 100 msec inactivity timer
The time distribution for different power states shall be reported (e.g. x% in
PDCCH-only, y% in PDCCH+PDSCH, z% in micro sleep, etc), as a result of the
calibration exercise.
The following simplifying assumptions can be made:
\- Power modelling reference configuration for FR1
\- Peak throughput. 100MHz
\- DL BWP. 10-symbol PDSCH (one symbol occupied by DMRS)
\- Capable of carrying 868584 information bits per slot (Note: a packet can
fit within a PDSCH transmission)
\- All packets can be successfully decoded on the first transmission
\- No HARQ retransmission
\- No UL slot
\- Single user
\- Short DRX is not configured.
Calibration results
Traffic & configuration Power States HW [6] [98] Vivo [7] MTK [8] ZTE [15]
Intel [14] LGE [9] CATT [10] SS [11] E/// [12] [50] QCOM [13] OPPO [42]
Sony[44] Nokia [51] Apple [68]
* * *
FTP, w/o C-DRX PDCCH only 99.79% 99.75% 99.75% 99.73% 99.75% 99.75% 99.71%
99.75% 99.80% 99.75% 99.74% 99.75% 99.75% 99.75% PDCCH+PDSCH 0.21% 0.25% 0.25%
0.27% 0.25% 0.25% 0.29% 0.25% 0.20% 0.25% 0.26% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% Micro sleep
0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
0.00% Light sleep 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Deep sleep 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% FTP, w/ C-DRX PDCCH only 34.96%
34.68% 34.62% 35% 34.96% 35.27% 37.92% 32.85% 38.20% 35.01% 35.65% 34.50%
34.95% 35.44% PDCCH+PDSCH 0.21% 0.25% 0.20% 0.27% 0.25% 0.26% 0.29% 0.20%
0.20% 0.25% 0.293% 0.25% 0.25% 0.21% Micro sleep 0.02% 0.01% 0.02% 0.03% 0.02%
0.02% 0.00% 0.01% 0% 0.01% 0.0248% 0.02% 0.02% 0.04% Light sleep 0.15% 0.13%
0.17% 0% 0.15% 0.17% 0.00% 0.14% 0% 0.15% 0.124% 0.15% 0.14% 0.07% Deep sleep
64.66% 64.94% 64.99% 65% 64.62% 64.28% 61.85% 66.80% 61.60% 64.58% 63.9%
65.09% 64.64% 64.57% VoIP, w/o C-DRX PDCCH only 98.92% 98.59% 98.56% 98.43%
98.75% 98.70% 98.46% 98.50% 98.60% 98.73% 98.7% PDCCH+PDSCH 1.08% 1.41% 1.44%
1.57% 1.25% 1.31% 1.54% 1.50% 1.40% 1.27% 1.3% Micro sleep 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Light sleep 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Deep sleep 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% VoIP, w/ C-DRX PDCCH only
22.09% 22.40% 21.46% 19.31% 18.72% 14.43% 20.16% 32.40% 22.31% 20.20% 20.36%
PDCCH+PDSCH 1.08% 1.09% 1.09% 0.78% 1.25% 0.40% 1.96% 1.50% 1.08% 0.96% 0.84%
Micro sleep 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
Light sleep 1.37% 0.61% 0.41% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.34% 26.50% 0.54% 0.83% 0.00%
Deep sleep 75.45% 75.90% 77.04% 79.92% 80.03% 85.16% 77.54% 39.60% 76.07%
78.02% 78.78%
#