# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
A new SI \"Study on local NR positioning in NG-RAN\" was approved for Release
16 at the 3GPP TSG RAN #83 meeting in [2]. The study aims to the feasibility
and specification impact for supporting local LMF and/or LCS client in NG-RAN.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the studies on the feasibility and specification
impact of local location management functionality and of the NG RAN acting as
LCS client.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-191460: \"Revised SID: Study on local NR positioning in NG-RAN\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.273: \"5G System (5GS) Location Services (LCS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.305: \"NG-RAN; Stage 2 functional specification of User
Equipment (UE) positioning in NG-RAN\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.572: \"5G System; Location Management Services; Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); LTE
Positioning Protocol (LPP)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains; Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3: supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**LMC:** The Location Management Component comprises all or part of the
location management function, as defined in clause 4.3.8 of TS 23.273 [3]. The
LMC resides in the NG-RAN.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Centre
LCS LoCation Services
LMF Location Management Function
MO-LR Mobile Originated Location Request
MT-LR Mobile Terminated Location Request
TRP Transmission and Reception Point
# 4 General
Void
# 5 Local LMF in NG-RAN
## 5.1 Architecture
### 5.1.1 Alternative 1
In architecture alternative 1, the LMC is an internal function of the NG-RAN
node. In case of split gNB, the LMC is located in the gNB-CU-CP.
The interface between the LMC and the serving NG-RAN node is internal, and
therefore minimizes the latency between the LMC and serving NG-RAN node.
Functions of the NLs interface could be specified also for the NG-C interface.
Characteristics:
\- No new interfaces.
\- When UE positioning involves only TRPs within the NG-RAN node, positioning-
related signalling is internal to the gNB.
\- To support location continuity in case of handover, LMC relocation to the
target NG-RAN node can be enabled via enhancements to the XnAP Handover
Preparation procedure. Further study is needed.
Figure 5.1.1-1: Alternative 1 -- LMC as internal gNB function
### 5.1.2 Alternative 2
In architecture alternative #2, the LMC is a logical node within the split gNB
connected to the gNB-CU-CP via a new interface.
This alternative requires a dedicated interface between the LMC and the
serving NG-RAN node. The impacts to the NG-C interface are the same as
alternative 1.
Characteristics:
\- New interface between the LMC and the gNB-CU-CP.
\- Allows LMC and gNB-CU-CP to be provided by different vendors.
\- Allows offloading of positioning support from a gNB-CU.
\- To support location continuity in case of handover, further study is
needed.
Figure 5.1.2-1: Alternative 2 -- LMC as logical node within split gNB
### 5.1.3 Alternative 3
In architecture alternative #3, the LMC is a new logical node in the NG-RAN,
connected to NG-RAN nodes (gNBs and/or ng-eNBs) via a new interface.
This alternative requires a dedicated interface between the LMC and the
serving NG-RAN node. The impacts to the NG-C interface are the same as
alternative 1 and could be supported also by the new interface.
Characteristics:
\- New interface between the LMC and the NG-RAN node.
\- Allows LMC and NG-RAN nodes to be provided by different vendors.
\- Allows a single LMC to support multiple NG-RAN nodes (i.e. avoid
introducing LMC in each individual NG-RAN node).
\- Allows offloading of positioning support from a gNB-CU.
\- To support location continuity in case of handover when both source and
target NG-RAN nodes are served by the same LMC, LMC relocation is not needed.
However, when source and target NG-RAN nodes are served by different LMCs,
support for location continuity requires further study.
Figure 5.1.3-1: Alternative 3 -- LMC as logical node in NG-RAN
### 5.1.4 Function supported by LMC
The LMC can support all the location request types defined for the LMF in
clause 4.1a of TS 23.273 [3].
In order to manage the various location services for target UEs, the LMC can
be expected to have capabilities similar to an LMF.
In addition, the LMC can be expected to:
\- interact with other internal functions of the serving NG-RAN node (e.g.
TMF) in order to e.g. obtain position measurements for the UE;
\- interact with neighboring NG-RAN nodes in order to e.g. obtain position
measurements for the UE.
The LMC support of possible new functions, not supported by the LMF, are
described in Annex A.
## 5.2 Impact on existing protocols and interfaces
### 5.2.1 Location Service procedures involving LMC
#### 5.2.1.1 5GC Mobile Terminated Location Request (5GC-MT-LR)
NOTE 1: Flows are intended to show common operation for all architectures with
LMC. Specific architectures may require further details
Figure 5.2.1.1-1 illustrates the steps applicable to the UE and NG-RAN node in
case of 5GC-MT-LR involving LMC. In this scenario, the UE is assumed to be in
connected mode prior to step 1.
Figure 5.2.1.1-1: 5GC-MT-LR involving LMC
The steps of Figure 5.2.1.1-1 are as follows:
1\. Some LCS entity in the 5GC (e.g. GMLC) requests some location service
(e.g. positioning) for a target UE to the serving AMF (see step 4 of Figure
6.1.1-1 in TS 23.273 [3]).
2\. The AMF selects the serving NG-RAN node (LMC) to perform the positioning,
based on e.g. knowledge of the NG-RAN node\'s location management
capabilities, Requested Quality of Service information, etc.
Note 2: The details of whether to select LMC are SA2 scope, including whether
it is part of the LMF Selection function or a new function of the AMF.
3\. The AMF sends a location service request to the NG-RAN node (LMC) via
NGAP, instructing it to perform the UE positioning.
4\. Same as steps 4a/4b of the RI-LR procedure in Annex A.
5\. The NG-RAN node (LMC) provides a location service response to the AMF via
NGAP and includes any needed results -- e.g. success or failure indication
and, if requested and obtained, a location estimate for the UE.
6\. The AMF returns a location service response to the 5GC entity of step 1
and includes any needed results -- e.g. a location estimate for the UE (see
step 10 of Figure 6.1.1-1 in TS.23.273 [3]).
### 5.2.2 Impacts on Signalling protocols and interfaces
#### 5.2.2.1 Signalling between an AMF and gNB/LMC
The NL1 interface between AMF and LMF supports location requests for a target
UE sent from a serving AMF for the target UE to an LMF as specified in TS
29.572 [5] (Nlmf_Location_DetermineLocation Request/Response). The Request
operation can include the following parameter (at least one of these
parameters should be present):
\- externalClientType, correlationID, amfId, locationQoS, supportedGADShapes,
supi, pei, gpsi, ecgi, ncgi, priority, velocityRequested;
and the Response operation may include (where the parameter locationEstimate
should be present):
\- locationEstimate, accuracyFulfilmentIndicator, ageOfLocationEstimate,
velocityEstimate, civicAddress, positioningDataList, gnssPositioningDataList,
ecgi, ncgi, altitude, barometricPressure.
An Nlmf_Location_DetermineLocation Request/Response message could be
transported between the serving gNB and serving AMF for a target UE in an NGAP
transport container, which could be defined as a new NGAP UL/DL transport
message.
This has several advantages, including the following:
\- An AMF can use the same message/operation towards an LMF and LMC.
\- Better functional alignment between an LMC and LMF.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1 below shows an example procedure for a basic MT-LR. Steps 5
are the procedures which would be performed if the AMF at Step 4 selects an
LMF; steps 6 would be performed if the AMF at step 4 selects a LMC. From an
AMF point of view, the same message would be used in both cases; only the
transport (container) would be different. Similarly, an LMC would see the same
\"input/output\" data as an LMF.
NOTE 1: Whether to reuse AMF/LMF service operations in an NGAP message
container or extend/introduce NGAP message with explicit IEs could be decided
in a potential work item phase by RAN3.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Example of MT-LR Location Service Support using 5GC LMF
(Steps 5) and using a NG-RAN LMC (steps 6).
NOTE 2: Triggered/periodic MT-LR with LMF/LMC in NG-RAN requires further study
by SA2.
#### 5.2.2.2 Signalling between a gNB/LMC and UE
The LPP protocol TS 36.355 [6] is used for the positioning procedures between
an LMF and target UE, as specified in TS 38.305 [4]. For an LMF, LPP messages
are carried as transparent PDUs across intermediate network interfaces using
the appropriate protocols (e.g. NAS/NGAP over the NG-C interface, NAS/RRC over
the Uu interface).
LPP can be reused for the positioning signalling between an LMC and target UE
and transported in an RRC message container. The DL and UL Information
Transfer messages (TS 38.331 [7]) may be extended to support a non-NAS message
container, or a new UL/DL RRC Transfer container message can be defined. The
reuse of LPP has the lowest overall impact, which also makes UE positioning
procedures agnostic to where the LMF is located (i.e., 5GCN LMF or NG-RAN LMC)
(similar to the reuse of NL1 messages (clause 5.2.2.1)). The Step 6b in Figure
5.2.2.1-1 can then be extended as shown in Figure 5.2.2.2-1.
NOTE 1: Whether to reuse LPP in an RRC message container or extend/introduce
RRC message with explicit IEs should be decided in the work item phase by
RAN2.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: LPP signalling between LMC and UE.
For Location Services operation, the Supplementary Services (SS) Protocol (TS
24.080 [10]) is also used for 5GC Location Services, as specified in TS 23.273
[3]. The MT-LR and MO-LR Services messages are exchanged between an AMF and a
UE and can also be used in the same way as currently defined for 5GC LMF
location services (see subclause 5.2.1). The Supplementary Services messages
for support of periodic and triggered location services are exchanged between
a 5GC LMF and UE (TS 23.273 [3]. For an NG-RAN LMC these messages can be
transported in the same RRC container message as for the LPP messages and is
shown in Figure 5.2.2.2-2.
NOTE 2: Whether to reuse SS Protocol in an RRC message container or
extend/introduce RRC message with explicit IEs should be decided in the work
item phase by RAN2.
Figure 5.2.2.2-2: Supplementary Services (SS) signalling between LMC and UE.
#### 5.2.2.3 Signalling between gNBs/LMCs
Location procedures between pairs of gNBs/LMCs are required to support one or
more of the following functions:
a) Request UL measurements for a target UE by one gNB (e.g. a serving gNB with
an LMC) from another gNB (TRP).
b) Provide assistance data for a target UE by one gNB (e.g. a serving gNB with
an LMC) to another gNB to assist UL measurements of the target UE by the other
gNB/TRP.
c) Request a change in DL PRS broadcast scheduling and configuration by one
gNB to a neighbour gNB.
d) Request a change in scheduling and resources for broadcast of location
information by one gNB to a neighbour gNB.
Items a) to d) are the same functionality as required between a 5GC LMF and an
NG-RAN Node which can be supported using NRPPa.
#### 5.2.2.4 Signalling between gNB-CU and LMC
This subclause is applicable only to architecture alternatives #2 and #3.
A new interface is needed between gNB-CU and LMC to support the following
functions:
\- Interface management function(s) to allow for initial setup of the
interface, exchange/update of application level data, etc.
\- Error handling function to allow the reporting of general error situations
on application level.
\- Message transfer function(s) to allow transfer of location-related
messages.
\- Other functions, if needed, to be decided by RAN3 in the work item phase.
The location procedures between a gNB-CU and LMC comprise all location related
procedures on NG, Xn, and NR-Uu interfaces:
\- location procedures between AMF and gNB/LMC (using
Nlmf_Location_DetermineLocation), as described in subclause 5.2.2.1;
\- location procedures between gNB/LMC and UE (using LPP and SS), as described
in subclause 5.2.2.2;
\- location procedures between gNBs/LMCs (using NRPPa), as described in
subclause 5.2.2.3.
Essentially, a gNB-CU would forward any location related messages received on
NG, Xn and Uu interfaces to the LMC.
## 5.3 Coordination and coexistence with LMF in the 5GC
In the Rel-15 LCS architecture, the AMF initiates (in case of NI-LR) or
receives (in case of MO-LR and MT-LR) a location request, and then selects an
LMF to perform the location estimation of the target UE. For LMF selection,
the AMF may consider various factors as described in TS 23.273 including
Requested Quality of Service information (e.g. LCS accuracy, latency), LMF
capabilities, LMF load, LMF location and AMF local configuration. For a given
target UE, only one LMF is \"in use\" to manage the overall coordination and
scheduling of resources required for the location of the UE. The AMF also
supports LMF re-selection e.g. when the LMF currently \"in use\" cannot be
used for a newly initiated/received location request.
In order to integrate the LMC into the LCS architecture, the AMF should be
aware that the NG-RAN node supports LMC and may also need to be aware of some
of its capabilities.
NOTE: Whether this is explicitly signaled by the NG-RAN node to the AMF or
configured to the AMF via OAM should be decided in the work item phase.
TS 22.261 [8] defines positioning service levels with corresponding
performance requirements. The two positioning service levels requiring the
most stringent QoS from a latency perspective are levels 4 and 6 which are
only applicable to a _5G enhanced positioning service area_ , i.e. positioning
service levels available in only a subset of the area where 5G is present. TS
22.104 [9] provides typical scenarios which require positioning service levels
4 and 6. It is a working assumption that the AMF should be able to select the
LMC for only certain location requests (e.g. those requiring stringent QoS
such as low latency and/or high accuracy corresponding to positioning service
levels 4 and 6) while selecting an LMF for all other location requests (e.g.
those requiring normal QoS).
In case there are concurrent location requests for the same target UE where at
least one requires stringent QoS, there are two possible solutions:
**_Solution 1: The concurrent location requests are all handled by a single
entity, i.e. the LMC._**
\- **Description** : This solution is consistent with the Rel-16 LMF selection
functionality as described in clause 5.1 of TS 23.273 where concurrent
location requests are preferably handled by the same location management
entity, i.e. in Rel-16 a new LCS Request is transferred to the LMF handling an
ongoing location session if an LMF ID is available in the UE location context
stored in the AMF. In the case of LMC, the UE location context indicates that
there is an LMC handling an ongoing location session, and therefore concurrent
location requests are transferred by the AMF to the LMC.
\- **Potential benefit(s)** : Alignment with Rel-16 LMF selection principles,
enabling the LMC to handle concurrent location requests in a coordinated and
efficient way.
\- **Potential drawback(s)** : The LMC may end up handling non-latency-
sensitive location requests. In some deployments, it may be desirable to use
the LMC only for location requests that require stringent QoS (e.g. low
latency and/or high accuracy), while less demanding location requests continue
to be served by LMF in the core network. This could be due to the more limited
resources (e.g. processing power) at the NG-RAN node. Also, if there is an
ongoing location session being handled by an LMF when a concurrent location
request (requiring stringent QoS) is triggered for the same target UE, one of
the location requests should fail unless a complex mechanism is introduced to
move the ongoing location session from LMF to LMC.
**_Solution 2: The concurrent location request(s) requiring stringent QoS is
handled by the LMC, while the other location request(s) is handled in parallel
by an LMF._**
\- **Description** : This solution allows different location requests for the
same target UE to be handled concurrently by up to two location management
entities: the LMC and an LMF. The AMF provides information about the location
request(s) being handled by the LMC to the LMF which is \"enhanced\" (compared
to legacy LMF functionality) to take the information into account when
handling concurrent location requests for the same target UE. For example:
a) The LMF may \"fetch\" the latest available UE location information from the
LMC, if the ongoing location session has appropriate attributes in terms of
e.g. accuracy, expected age, etc.; or
b) The LMF may handle the concurrent location request in an independent way
that does not conflict with the LMC. This may make sense if the concurrent
location request does not require high accuracy, and thus the LMF is able to
handle the request using E-CID that does not conflict with radio
configurations being used by the LMC.
\- **Potential benefit(s)** : Enables a deployment to use the LMC only for
location requests that require stringent QoS, while less demanding location
requests continue to be served by LMFs in the core network.
\- **Potential drawbacks(s)** : Requires some new functionality in the LMF.
Comparing the two solutions, Solution 1 has little to no specification impact
and could be acceptable in certain deployment scenarios (e.g. certain private
networks and/or certain device types). However, Solution 2 seems to provide
more flexibility for diversity of deployments and device types.
# 6 LCS client in NG-RAN
## 6.1 Architecture
Void
## 6.2 Impact on existing protocols and interfaces
Void
# 7 Conclusion
## 7.1 LMC in NG-RAN
RAN3 has studied the feasibility and specification impact of local LMF (i.e.,
LMC) in NG-RAN.
Three architecture alternatives have been studied. It is concluded that
support of LMC in NG-RAN is feasible
Architecture 3 seems like the most promising option among the ones studied.
RAN3 did not evaluate the benefits of any of the architecture options in terms
of latency towards the core network, RAN3 also did not fully evaluate, e.g.,
mobility issues associated with the introduction of the LMC.
RAN3 could not reach consensus on any recommendation for normative work.
## 7.2 NG-RAN as a LCS client
The NG-RAN as a LCS client has received no discussion in RAN3, so no
recommendations can be made from the current status of studies.
###### ## Annex A (informative): New LMC functions
# A.1
This annex describes LMC functions discussed during the study item that are
not supported by the LMF.
# A.1 RAN Induced Location Request (RI-LR)
The LMC should be able to support location service requests from functions
internal to the NG-RAN node, this type of location request can be called _RAN
Induced Location Request_ (RI-LR). The LMC is ideally suited to handle RI-LR
since the necessary operations are internal to the RAN and can therefore be
handled locally.
Note: whether service request can come from an internal function of the
serving NG-RAN node should be check with SA groups.
Figure A.1 illustrates the steps applicable to the UE and NG-RAN node in case
of RI-LR involving LMC.
In this scenario, the UE is assumed to be in connected mode prior to step 1.
The procedure assumes that the NG-RAN node is authorized to use the LCS
service to obtain the target UE location estimation, and that notification
and/or verification of location by the UE is not needed, e.g. which may be
indicated in UDM privacy subscription for the UE and signaled to the serving
gNB by the serving AMF as part of signaling connection establishment.
Figure A.1: RI-LR involving LMC
The steps of Figure A.1 are as follows: The steps of Figure 5.2.1.1-1 are as
follows:
1\. Some function in the NG-RAN node (e.g. RRM, MDT) requests some location
service (e.g. positioning) for a target UE to the LMC using signaling internal
to the NG-RAN node.
2\. The NG-RAN node (LMC) sends an LCS Indication message to the AMF,
indicating that UE positioning is being performed locally (LCS session start).
The LCS Indication message includes information about the \"local\" LCS
Request that may be useful for the AMF (location management information), e.g.
the same or subset of information contained in a \"normal\" location service
request (e.g. MT-LR) such as Location Quality of Service information.
3\. The AMF stores the relevant location management information in the UE
location context, to be used for coordination of concurrent LCS requests, e.g.
if the AMF receives an MT-LR while there is an active location session at the
LMC for the same UE.
4a. The LMC may instigate location procedures internal to the NG-RAN node --
e.g. to obtain positioning measurements or assistance data. The LMC may also
instigate location procedures with neighbor NG-RAN nodes -- e.g. to obtain
assistance data such as PRS configuration of TPs served by the neighbor NG-RAN
node(s).
4b. The LMC may instigate location procedures with the UE -- e.g. to obtain a
location estimate or positioning measurements or to transfer location
assistance data to the UE.
5\. The LMC responds to the requesting function in the NG-RAN node and
includes any needed results -- e.g. success or failure indication and, if
requested and obtained, a location estimate for the UE.
6\. If the response in step 5 ends the local LCS session, the NG-RAN node
(LMC) sends an LCS Indication message to the AMF indicating that positioning
is no longer being performed locally for the target UE (LCS session stop).
Note: Steps 2 and 6 assume that AMF awareness of RI-LR is needed to enable
coordination and coexistence with LMF as described in subclause 5.3. SA2
involvement may be needed.
#