# Foreword {#foreword .list-paragraph}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction {#introduction .list-paragraph}
In the 3GPP TSG RAN #80 meeting, a new SI \"Study on remote interference
management for NR\" was agreed for Release 16 [2]. The study aims to
investigate possible mechanisms for mitigating the impact of remote base
station interference in unpaired spectrum focusing on synchronized macro cells
with semi-static DL/UL configuration in co-channel.
# 1 Scope {#scope .list-paragraph}
The present document captures the findings and results from the study item
\"Study on remote interference management for NR\" [2]. The objective of this
SI is to investigate possible mechanisms for mitigating the impact of remote
base station interference in unpaired spectrum focusing on synchronized macro
cells with semi-static DL/UL configuration in co-channel, including:
\- Study mechanisms for improving network robustness and addressing strong
remote base station interference, including potential UE side\'s enhancement
[RAN1]
\- Study mechanisms for identifying which gNB(s) generate strong remote
interference, including the following aspects:
\- Potential Reference signal design for gNB to identify that it creates
strong inter-gNB interference to some victim gNB [RAN1]
\- Existing reference signals are starting points of discussion.
\- Mechanism for gNB to start and terminate the transmission/detection of the
reference signal(s) [RAN1, RAN3]
\- Study the potential additional coordination among gNBs for mitigating
remote interference [RAN3]
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References {#references .list-paragraph}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-181430: \" New SI proposal: Study on remote interference
management for NR \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations {#definitions-symbols-and-
abbreviations .list-paragraph}
## 3.1 Definitions {#definitions .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols {#symbols .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations {#abbreviations .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
RIM Remote Interference Management
# 4 Introduction on atmospheric ducting phenomenon and remote interference in
TDD network {#introduction-on-atmospheric-ducting-phenomenon-and-remote-
interference-in-tdd-network .list-paragraph}
## 4.1 Atmospheric ducting phenomenon {#atmospheric-ducting-phenomenon .list-
paragraph}
Under certain weather conditions, lower densities at higher altitudes in the
Earth\'s atmosphere causes reduced refractive index, bending signals back
towards the earth. Under such circumstances, signals can propagate in a higher
refractive index layer, i.e., the atmospheric duct, since the reflection and
refraction are encountered at the boundary with a lower refractive index
material. In this mode of propagation, which is dubbed as the atmospheric
ducting, radio signals experience less attenuation, and are being guided over
distances far greater than the normal radiate range. This phenomenon usually
happens during the transition periods between spring and summer and between
summer and autumn for inland areas, and during winter seasons for coastal
areas. The frequency range which is usually influenced by this phenomenon is
around 0.3 GHz - 30 GHz.
In a TDD network with the same configuration of uplink-downlink transmission
direction, a gap is used to avoid the cross-link interference. However, when
the atmospheric ducting phenomenon happens, radio signals can travel a
relatively long distance, and the propagation delay goes beyond the gap. In
this case, the downlink signals of an aggressor base station can travel a long
distance and interfere with the uplink signals of a victim base station that
is far away from the aggressor, as shown in Figure 4-1. Such interference is
termed as \'remote interference\' herein. The further the aggressor is to the
victim, the more uplink symbols of the victim will be impacted.
{width="6.241666666666666in" height="3.015972222222222in"}
Figure 4-1: An illustration of how remote interference happens in TD-LTE
network.
## 4.2 Characteristics of the remote interference {#characteristics-of-the-
remote-interference .list-paragraph}
### 4.2.1 Characteristics of the IoT increase caused by remote interference
{#characteristics-of-the-iot-increase-caused-by-remote-interference .list-
paragraph}
When atmospheric ducting phenomenon happens, the IoT of the victim base
station demonstrates a \"sloping\" characteristic as shown in Figure 4-2. It
can be seen that, the closer the uplink symbol is to gap, the higher
interference it experienced.
{width="3.8006944444444444in" height="1.5715277777777779in"}
Figure 4-2: Illustration of IoT experienced at a victim base station in TD-LTE
network.
The reason behind this is that, the remote interference is caused by
accumulated signals from a number of remote base stations with different
distances. Specifically, as illustrated in Figure 4-3, Aggressor 1, which is
the closest aggressor to the victim, will only cause interference to the first
uplink symbol after the gap of the victim. While for Aggressor 4, which is far
away from the victim, its downlink signals will propagate over a much longer
distance and impact more uplink symbols of the victim.
1) As seen in Figure 4-3, the first uplink symbol of the victim suffers from
interference caused by Aggressor 1\~4, while the 5^th^ symbol only suffers
from interference caused by Aggressor 4. Therefore, compared to the uplink
symbols far away from the gap, those symbols close to the gap suffer from
accumulated interference caused by more aggressors, resulting a sloping IoT in
time domain.
2) Since Aggressor 1 is closer to the victim, the downlink signals of
Aggressor1 will arrive at the victim with higher power compared to those of
Aggressor 2\~4. Therefore, the interference at uplink symbols closer to the
gap should be higher than that at uplink symbols that are far away from the
gap.
{width="6.696527777777778in" height="2.3673611111111112in"}
Figure 4-3: An illustration of why the victim of remote interference suffers
from \"sloping\" IoT increase.
### 4.2.2 The distance that the remote interference impacts {#the-distance-
that-the-remote-interference-impacts .list-paragraph}
Based on the field trial results in TD-LTE networks, a probability density
function (PDF) of the distance that the remote interference can impact in the
inland area is obtained and illustrated in Figure 4-4. It is seen that the
distance between the victim and aggressor ranges from 64 km to 400 km, where a
large percentage of samples are within 150 km.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="1.6027777777777779in"}
Figure 4-4: PDF of distance that the remote interference can impact in inland
cities.
For coastal cities, the distance between the victim and aggressor can be as
far as 300 km, or even farther.
# 5 Deployment Scenarios for RIM {#deployment-scenarios-for-rim .list-
paragraph}
In terms of the IoT (interference over thermal) increase between two sets of
gNBs causing remote interference to each other, two scenarios should be
considered for NR-RIM,
1) Scenario #1: IoT increases are detectable by one or more gNBs in both sets,
2) Scenario #2: IoT increase is detectable by one or more gNBs in only one
set.
As shown in Figure 5-1, it is assumed in the RIM study that the whole network
with synchronized macro cells has a common understanding on a DL transmission
boundary (denoted as the 1st reference point) which indicates the ending
boundary of the DL transmission, and an UL reception boundary (denoted as the
2nd reference point) which denotes the starting boundary of the first allowed
UL reception within a DL-UL transmission periodicity.
\- The boundary may be considered for RS design
\- The 1st reference point locates before the 2nd reference point.
Figure 5-1. Illustration of DL and UL transmission boundaries within a DL-UL
transmission periodicity
The gNB is not expected to receive RS before the DL transmission boundary, and
not expected to transmit RS after the UL reception boundary.
# 6 Study on framework and mechanisms for RIM {#study-on-framework-and-
mechanisms-for-rim .list-paragraph}
Based on the study of different mechanisms, RIM is classified into two
categories, i.e., static RIM and adaptive RIM.
\- Static RIM rely on planning the network so that is inherently robust
against RI
\- Adaptive RIM rely on detecting that RI is present and adapting the
configuration, which can be further classified into _centralized_ ,
_distributed_ or _localized_.
\- Centralized RIM rely on a centralized coordinator to gather input from
aggressor and victim gNBs, and based on the aggregate input, decide on
appropriate RIM actions for each gNB and instruct the gNBs to apply this
action.
\- In a distributed RIM, the aggressor and victim exchange information /
coordinate without the involvement of a centralized node, i.e., each pair of
gNBs decides on the RI mitigation scheme based on only information exchange
between each-other.
\- Localized RIM do not involve transmission of reference signals or any form
of coordination.
## 6.1 RIM framework in current TD-LTE systems {#rim-framework-in-current-td-
lte-systems .list-paragraph}
In current TD-LTE network, atmospheric duct phenomenon happens during certain
period of time. A remote interference management depicted in Figure 6-1 has
been used to cope with the remote interference.
{width="6.767361111111111in" height="2.1493055555555554in"}
Figure 6-1: Current RIM framework in TD-LTE systems
As shown in Figure 6-1, current RIM framework is not self-adaptive. The stop
of RS transmission, the triggering and stop of RS monitoring, the triggering
and stop of applications of the remote interference mitigation solutions are
all rely on manual intervention through OAM. Under this framework, the start
and stop of the RIM and corresponding remote interference mitigation schemes
cannot happen in time, causing degradation of both network performance and
efficiency.
In order to minimize or eliminate manual intervention during the RIM process,
and increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the RIM, as stated in the
objective of the SI, mechanisms for gNB to start and terminate the
transmission/detection of the reference signal(s) should be studied for NR-RIM
framework. The functionalities and requirements of the corresponding reference
signal should be clarified for the framework, so that the analysis and design
of the reference signal can be carried out accordingly. Moreover, as mentioned
in Section 5, the NR-RIM framework should be able to solve the remote
interference issues for both Scenarios #1 and #2.
## 6.2 Potential frameworks and workflows for NR RIM {#potential-frameworks-
and-workflows-for-nr-rim .list-paragraph}
Framework-1, Framework-2.1, Framework-2.2 below are used as starting point for
further study, using Framework-0 as basis for comparison.
Note that not all the steps need to be included when making use of a given
framework. An aggressor may also be a victim (and vice versa) at least for
Scenario #1. Information reporting to OAM from both aggressor and victim gNB
is supported from RAN1 perspective.
**Framework-0**
{width="5.222916666666666in" height="1.9993055555555554in"}
Figure 6-2: RIM Framework-0
Workflow of Framework-0
Step 0: Atmospheric ducting phenomenon happens and the remote interference
appears
Step 1:
\- Victim experiences \"sloping\" like IoT increase and start RS transmission
\- Aggressor starts monitoring RS as configured by OAM
Step 2: Upon reception of RS, Aggressor reports the detected RS to OAM
Step 3: OAM sends remote interference mitigation scheme to Aggressor
Step 4: Aggressor applies remote interference mitigation scheme
Step 5: OAM stops RS monitoring and restores original config. at aggressor
side and stop RS transmission at victim side.
**Framework-1**
{width="6.475in" height="1.6236111111111111in"}
Figure 6-3: RIM Framework-1
Workflow of Framework-1 is described as follows:
Step 0: Atmospheric ducting phenomenon happens and the remote interference
appears
Step 1:
\- Victim experiences \"sloping\" like IoT increase and start RS
transmission/monitoring
\- This RS marked as RS-1 is used to assist aggressor(s) to recognize that
they are causing remote interference to the victim and to detect/deduce how
many UL resources of the victim are impacted by the aggressors.
\- Aggressor starts monitoring RS as configured by OAM or when it experiences
remote interference with \"sloping\" IoT increase.
Step 2: Upon reception of RS-1, Aggressor starts remote interference
mitigation solutions such as muting some DL transmission symbols and transmits
RS to inform victim that the atmospheric ducting phenomenon still exist
\- This RS marked as RS-2 is used to assist the victim to decide whether the
atmospheric ducting phenomenon still exist.
\- It does not preclude the possibility of using RS-2 for other purposes,
pending on further study.
Step 3: Victim continues RS-1 transmission if RS-2 is detected. Victim may
stop RS-1 transmission if RS-2 is not detected and the IoT going back to
certain level.
Step 4: Aggressor continue remote interference mitigation while receiving
RS-1. Upon \"disappearance\" of RS-1, Aggressor restores original
configuration when \"disappearance\" of RS-1.
Note: Although RS-1 and RS-2 carry different functionalities, it might be
beneficial to achieve a common design for RS-1 and RS-2.
**Framework-2.1**
{width="6.473611111111111in" height="1.7625in"}
Figure 6-4: RIM Framework-2.1
Workflow of Framework-2.1
Step 0: Atmospheric ducting phenomenon happens and the remote interference
appears
Step 1:
\- Victim experiences \"sloping\" like IoT increase and start RS transmission
\- A set of gNBs might use the same RS, which may carry the set ID.
\- Aggressor starts monitoring RS as configured by OAM or when it experiences
remote interference with \"sloping\" IoT increase.
Step 2: Upon reception of RS, Aggressor informs the set of victim gNB(s) the
reception of RS through backhaul and apply interference mitigation scheme
\- Message exchange in Step 2 could include other information, pending on
further study.
Step 3: Upon \"disappearance\" of RS, Aggressor informs the set of Victim
gNB(s) the \"disappearance\" of RS through backhaul and restore original
configuration.
Step 4: Victim stop RS transmission upon the reception of the \"disappearance
of RS\" info through backhaul
**Framework-2.2**
{width="6.463888888888889in" height="1.9159722222222222in"}
Figure 6-5: RIM Framework-2.2
Workflow of Framework-2.2 is described as follows:
Step 0: Atmospheric ducting phenomenon happens and the remote interference
appears
Step 1:
\- Victim experiences \"sloping\" like IoT increase and start RS transmission
\- A set of gNBs might use the same RS, which may carry the set ID.
\- Aggressor starts monitoring RS as configured by OAM or when it experiences
remote interference with \"sloping\" IoT increase.
Step 2: Upon reception of RS, Aggressor informs the set of victim gNB(s) the
reception of RS through backhaul
Step 3: Upon reception of the \"reception of RS\" info received in the
backhaul, victim sends info to assist RIM coordination
Step 4: Aggressor applies remote interference mitigation scheme
Step 5: Upon \"disappearance\" of RS, Aggressor informs Victim the
\"disappearance\" of RS through backhaul.
Step 6: Victim stop RS transmission upon the reception of the \"disappearance
of RS\" info through backhaul
## 6.3 Potential Reference signal designs for NR RIM {#potential-reference-
signal-designs-for-nr-rim .list-paragraph}
### 6.3.1 General requirement {#general-requirement .list-paragraph}
From the descriptions in section 6.2, in Framework 0, Framework 1, Framework
2.1 and 2.2, RIM RS(s) should be sent where the functionalities are summarized
in Table 1.
Table 6-1. Basic functions of NR-RIM RS
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Framework | RS type | Functions | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Framework 0 | RS sent by victim | 1/ Being able to | | | | provide information | | | | whether the | | | | atmospheric ducting | | | | phenomenon exists | | | | | | | | 2/ Being able to | | | | assist the aggressor | | | | to identify how many | | | | UL OFDM symbols at | | | | victim it impacted. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Framework 1 | RS-1 sent by victim | 1/ Being able to | | | | provide information | | | | whether the | | | | atmospheric ducting | | | | phenomenon exists | | | | | | | | 2/ Being able to | | | | assist the aggressor | | | | to identify how many | | | | UL OFDM symbols at | | | | victim it impacted. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | RS-2 sent by | 1/ Being able to | | | aggressor | provide information | | | | whether the | | | | atmospheric ducting | | | | phenomenon exists | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Framework 2.1 and | RS sent by victim | 1/ Being able to | | 2.2 | | assist the aggressor | | | | to identify how many | | | | UL OFDM symbols at | | | | victim it impacted. | | | | | | | | 2/ Being able to | | | | carry enough | | | | information to | | | | enable the | | | | information exchange | | | | through backhaul | | | | (e.g.: set ID). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
In remote interference scenarios, the RIM RS(s) will experience extremely
large propagation delay from transmitter side to receiver side. Therefore, RIM
RS(s) should be well designed to handle large path delay.
Since the purpose and use case of RIM RS is quite different from existing RSs
which are originally designed for UE demodulation and measurements, in order
to avoid potential backward compatibility problem, the RIM RS should be
distinguished from existing RSs used for other purposes, by resource
configurations and/or RS sequence design.
The above RIM RS(s) can be designed in a unified way in terms of sequence
type, time and frequency transmission pattern, irrespective of framework
chosen, to convey information for gNB (or gNB group) identification, at the
same time, victim gNB can also use RIM RS to convey information, e.g. either
\"Enough mitigation, no further actions needed\" or \"Not enough mitigation,
further actions needed\". However, the information conveyed in different
frameworks does not need to be the same. For example, in framework 1, although
it is not necessary to convey exactly the same gNB ID or set ID information as
in framework 2.1 and 2.2, it is still beneficial if the RS resources can be
distinguished so that different gNB(s) can transmit on different resources,
e.g. to avoid causing too much interference at the aggressor side.
For all time occasion, the sequence candidates for detection should be the
same, under unified design, and if RS-2 is configured, RS-1 and RS-2 are
differentiable and are separately configured with respect to time occasion and
RS sequence. The max number of sequences that one gNB needs to detect in one
DL-UL period for interference identification is 8.
### 6.3.2 RS sequence type and structure {#rs-sequence-type-and-structure
.list-paragraph}
The pseudo-random sequence (length-31 Gold sequence) specified in NR is
adopted as the RIM RS sequence. The RIM RS sequence $r(m)$ is defined by
where the pseudo-random sequence $c(i)$ is defined in TS38.211 clause 5.2.1.
Regarding the RS structure, time-domain circular characteristics should be
satisfied for NR-RIM design to handle the large path delay. The following RS
structures are considered for evaluation.
\- Alt 1: 1 symbol RS, where existing CSI-RS with comb-like structure in
frequency-domain is used. The comb factor is 2 and 4.
\- Alt 2: 2 symbol RS, where two copies of the RS sequence are concatenated
and one CP is attached at the beginning the concatenated sequences;
\- Alt 3: 2 symbol RS, where the CP is separately added to the front of each
OFDM symbol, but in frequency domain, the RIM-RS in different OFDM symbols
need to be multiplied with different linear phase rotation factors.
Note that Alt 2 and Alt 3 may be identical in terms of performance. Alt 3 can
share the same FFT module with concurrent PDSCH generation. Under proper CP
design, Alt 2 can also share the same FFT module with concurrent PDSCH
generation.
Jointly considering the implementation complexity and evaluation results based
on implementation assumption, the 2OS RS with comb-1 is recommended as the
basic RIM RS resource, wherein, the 2OS is corresponding to the RIM RS SCS.
Furthermore, time-domain circular RS with 2 OFDM symbols is supported for RIM
RS. Note that for Alt 2, the length of CP plus the length of the concatenated
sequences equal to the length of 2 OFDM symbols. Comparing Alt 2 and Alt 3,
Alt 2 is recommended as the basic RIM RS resource.
### 6.3.3 RS resource pattern {#rs-resource-pattern .list-paragraph}
To convey information for gNB or gNB group identification (set ID), the RIM RS
transmission resources should be distinguishable. At least one of the
following methods is supported to distinguish RIM-RS resources:
\- TDM method: different time-domain occasions are used to distinguish RIM-RS
resource;
\- FDM method: different frequency positions are used to distinguish RIM-RS
resource;
\- CDM method: different RS sequences are used to distinguish RIM-RS resource.
Regarding the time-domain pattern for RIM RS, an RS transmission periodicity
is defined. The transmission periodicity can be semi-statically configured per
network. Within the transmission periodicity, multiple time-domain RIM RS
transmission occasions are defined. One or multiple transmission occasions can
be semi-statically configured to distinguish one RIM-RS resource or convey set
ID information per network.
A gNB can be configured with multiple RIM RS configurations in a configured
periodicity, where, each RIM-RS configuration is referring to the
configuration of the resource (including time and frequency resource,
sequence) for transmission of a basic RIM RS resource. And, the RIM-RS
transmission periodicity should be a multiple of the periodicity of the TDD
DL/UL pattern, or a multiple of the combined periodicity, if two TDD DL/UL
patterns are configured.
For each gNB, multiple configurations of RIM RS-1 share the same frequency
resource and sequence; and also multiple configurations of RIM RS-2 share the
same frequency resource and sequence, while the maximum number of
configurations is to be decided in WI stage.
Furthermore, for all gNB, the configured RIM RS periodicity should be same.
Regarding the transmission position of each transmission occasion, for RIM
RS-1 in framework 1 and RS in framework 2, the transmission position is fixed
in the last X symbols before the DL transmission boundary, i.e., the ending
boundary of the transmitted RIM-RS aligns with the 1st reference point,
wherein, X is the number of symbols that RIM RS(s) are mapped to.
Regarding the frequency-domain pattern, RIM RS for a given functionality
transmitted by a gNB or a gNB set are configured with frequency location(s)
known to the receiving gNB.
If the carrier bandwidth is larger than 20MHz, the minimum bandwidth of the
configured frequency resource is 20MHz, otherwise, the minimum bandwidth is
equal to the carrier bandwidth. The maximum bandwidth is to be decided in WI
stage
For different gNB, it is to be decided in WI stage that different frequency
resource for RIM RS-1/RS-2 is allowed or not.
For each gNB, if the carrier bandwidth is smaller than 40MHz, the number of
candidate frequency resource for RIM-RS detection is 1, otherwise, the number
is up to Y, where, Y is to be decided in WI stage dependent on assumption in
WI of the number of ID to be conveyed in a given duration.
Only one SCS is configured for RIM RS per carrier per network to reduce the
gNB detection complexity, the candidate of SCS can be {15KHz,30KHz, [60KHz]}.
## 6.4 Potential mechanisms for improving network robustness {#potential-
mechanisms-for-improving-network-robustness .list-paragraph}
In this section, potential mechanism for improving network robustness are
presented. In the RIM frameworks presented in section 6.2, remote interference
mitigation schemes can be applied at aggressor after detecting RS(s) sent by
the victim. Meanwhile, a victim cell may also take actions applying remote
interference mitigation schemes.
### 6.4.1 Solutions by network implementation {#solutions-by-network-
implementation .list-paragraph}
#### 6.4.1.1 Time-domain based solutions {#time-domain-based-solutions .list-
paragraph}
Time-domain RIM mitigation solutions may be applied at Aggressor-side, Victim-
side or at both sides.
Solutions with network implementation:
\- At Victim side, the victim can avoid scheduling on UL symbols suffering
from remote interference or reconfigure slot format to reduce the number of UL
symbols. The uplink throughput is sacrificed in this method. This solution
does not have specification impact.
\- At Aggressor side, the aggressor can mute/backoff or avoid scheduling on DL
symbols that cause remote interference to the victim, or backs off DL symbols
by reconfiguring the slot format. The downlink throughput is sacrificed in
this method. In this solution, the mitigation scheme can be achieved through
network implementation. However, the aggressor needs to know how many UL
symbols it causes interference to at the victim gNBs, this can be estimated
through the RIM-RS transmitted by the victim.
\- Note that there is a chance that the DL symbols causing interference to
victim would overlap with SSB (or other measurement RSs) at the aggressor,
however, it can be up to network implementation to handle the case that DL
symbols causing interference overlap with SSB (or other measurement RSs)
symbols at the aggressor-side.
\- Time-domain solution can also be in a static manner. The victim and the
aggressor can be statically configured with a TDD pattern with long enough
guard period to provide robustness against RI, instead of dynamic DL muting.
This solution increases the overhead due to the guard period and therefore the
throughput is sacrificed. The overhead of GP can be reduced by minimizing the
number of DL/UL switching by using TDD DL/UL configuration with longer period.
This solution does not have spec impact.
#### 6.4.1.2 Frequency-domain based solutions {#frequency-domain-based-
solutions .list-paragraph}
Frequency-domain RIM mitigation solutions may be applied at Aggressor-side,
Victim-side or at both sides.
Solutions by network implementation:
\- Victim gNB can avoid scheduling in frequency resources that are interfered.
In this solution, the victim can measure the interference per resource block
and avoid use the frequency resources suffering from high interference. Note
that if the uplink reception in the full bandwidth is interfered, frequency-
domain based solutions only applied at the victim side cannot work. This
solution does not have specification impact.
\- The aggressor DL and the victim UL can be statically or semi-statically
configured of orthogonal frequency resources. This can be achieved without
specification impact:
\- The victim UL and the aggressor DL can be statically configured to use non-
overlapping bandwidth all the time. This solution sacrifices the spectral
efficiency, even in absence of remote interference.
\- The OAM can pre-configure the valid frequency-domain resource used for DL
and UL to gNBs for the situation when remote interference is present. In this
way, some UL resources can be protected for victim gNB, where critical UL
resources, such as resources for initial access can be configured on.
Based on the detection of the RIM RS, the aggressor gNB can perform muting in
partial frequency for bandwidth larger or equal to 40MHz.
#### 6.4.1.3 Spatial-domain based solutions {#spatial-domain-based-solutions
.list-paragraph}
Spatial-domain RIM mitigation solutions may be applied at Aggressor-side,
Victim-side or at both sides.
Solutions by network implementation:
\- Mounting antennas at lower height. This is a static solution and it may
sacrifice corresponding cell coverage, even in absence of remote interference.
\- The victim gNB performs receive beam nulling or apply interference
rejection combining receiver or beam selection to suppress the remote
interference in the spatial domain.
\- The victim gNB schedules UE transmission that will be received in spatial
directions that are less interfered at the victim gNB.
\- The victim gNB adjusts the down-tilt so that the remote interference level
is tolerable. In this solution, the cell coverage at the victim may be
sacrificed.
\- The aggressor gNB adjusts the down-tilt in a pre-determined way. In this
solution, the cell coverage at the aggressor may be sacrificed.
The aggressor uses beam directions that would cause minimal remote
interference at the victim gNB in the resource adjacent to GP. This beam
direction can be obtained according to reciprocity by choosing the beam
direction which experiences minimal interference.
#### 6.4.1.4 Power-domain based solutions {#power-domain-based-solutions
.list-paragraph}
Power-domain RIM mitigation solutions may be applied at Aggressor-side,
Victim-side or at both sides.
Solutions by network implementation:
\- The victim gNB increases the UE transmission power by increasing target
receiver power P0, or fractional path-loss compensation factor α or using TPC
command. This may cause more interference to neighbor cells and increase UE
power consumption.
\- The aggressor gNB reduces the DL transmission power on DL symbols
potentially causing remote interference by a fixed step. This will impact on
the cell coverage and may not ensure that remote interference is completely
eliminated at the victim.
#### 6.4.1.5 Random access procedure enhancement {#random-access-procedure-
enhancement .list-paragraph}
\- For PRACH transmission, the configured PRACH resource in the victim cell
may collide with UL time duration suffering from remote interference. To
improve the PRACH robustness, the following network implementation solutions
can be considered:
\- RI mitigation solutions for improved PRACH robustness can be applied at the
victim-side by zeroing out the interfered part of the received signal and only
perform detection steps on the non-interfered part of the receive signal.
\- Victim gNB can configure an appropriate PRACH configuration index to ensure
that the valid PRACH occasions are always on the UL symbols with enough gaps
to the GP. This is a static solution and it may sacrifice initial access
latency, even in absence of remote interference.
\- Victim gNB can reconfigure the PRACH configuration index to ensure that the
valid PRACH occasions are on the UL symbols within a TDD DL/UL periodicity
that are less interfered by remote interference when detecting the presence of
RI. The PRACH reconfiguration is performed by network in SIB1. This may
sacrifice initial access latency.
\- Victim gNB can reconfigure the PRACH preamble target received power or
power ramping step to ones that are more robust towards RI when detecting the
presence of RI. The PRACH reconfiguration is performed by network in SIB1.
This may sacrifice initial access latency and may cause more interference to
neighbor cells.
It is identified that networking implementation, e.g., network reconfiguration
of the parameters for random access, can improve the robustness of the random
access of UEs, including legacy UEs.
\- For PRACH part, PRACH robustness improvement for RIM can be achieved by
network implementation only.
\- It is also identified that some new proposals for random access mechanism
can be beneficial for new UE with the cost of additional RACH resource
\- It is recommended that no UE side\'s enhancement is to be introduced for
RIM of R16.
### 6.4.2 Solutions with specification impact {#solutions-with-specification-
impact .list-paragraph}
#### 6.4.2.1 Time-domain based solutions {#time-domain-based-solutions-1
.list-paragraph}
Null
#### 6.4.2.2 Frequency-domain based solutions {#frequency-domain-based-
solutions-1 .list-paragraph}
Null
#### 6.4.2.3 Spatial-domain based solutions {#spatial-domain-based-solutions-1
.list-paragraph}
Null
#### 6.4.2.4 Power-domain based solutions {#power-domain-based-solutions-1
.list-paragraph}
Null
## 6.5 Backhaul-based coordination mechanisms for remote interference
mitigation {#backhaul-based-coordination-mechanisms-for-remote-interference-
mitigation .list-paragraph}
This section captures the studies, agreements and recommendations in RAN3 for
mechanisms on coordination among gNBs for RIM frameworks.
### 6.5.1 gNB set configuration {#gnb-set-configuration .list-paragraph}
A gNB participating in an RI scenario may be a victim, an aggressor or both.
The gNBs involved in an RI scenario can be grouped into sets. Each set is
assigned a set ID, and is configured with a RIM Reference Signal (RIM-RS) and
the radio resources to send and receive the RIM-RS. The grouping of gNBs into
sets, the set ID, the RIM-RS configuration and the associated RIM-RS radio
resources for sending and/or receiving the RIM-RS are performed by the OAM
system, and these resources may be assigned in static or a non-static manner.
A gNB may be assigned several set IDs and RIM-RS configurations
simultaneously. Every gNB may have pre-configured set ID(s).
Depending on the RI scenario and network deployment, a set can comprise one or
more gNBs. The design of RIM-RS, the set IDs and the mechanism for grouping of
gNBs into sets should be common for all RIM frameworks. A set ID is encoded
inside the RIM-RS and sent over the air. The length of set ID is pending to
RAN1 progress. A gNB set ID may be reused inside a PLMN.
Every gNB set ID is mapped to backhaul address for routing within the core
network, which is used as the destination address for routing of RIM backhaul
messages.
### 6.5.2 Intra-set coordination in RIM {#intra-set-coordination-in-rim .list-
paragraph}
RAN3 analysed the need for intra-set coordination based on the following
assumptions:
\- Victim gNB sets: A TDD network is synchronized, where RIM reference signals
(RIM-RS) are sent at predefined symbol positions, as configured by the OAM
system. Victims in a set individually decide whether to transmit the RS-1. The
judgement on whether or not the remote interference (RI) has stopped should be
per-cell and there is no need to coordinate in this case either.
\- Aggressor gNB sets: Each aggressor cell individually concludes whether or
not the applied RIM scheme has led to the cessation of RI, based on the RS-1
it receives.
For the normative phase, intra-set gNB-to-gNB coordination inside victim and
aggressor gNB sets is not recommended by RAN3.
### 6.5.3 Inter-set coordination for RIM {#inter-set-coordination-for-rim
.list-paragraph}
#### 6.5.3.1 Solutions for inter-set coordination {#solutions-for-inter-set-
coordination .list-paragraph}
The main options for inter-set backhaul signalling are via Xn interface or via
the core network. Signalling through the core network is preferred for the
following reasons:
\- RI aggressor and victim nodes are per definition not direct neighbours, but
located at distances up to 300 km apart, which could create issues for routing
in Xn transport networks designed for local connections;
\- RI aggressor and victim nodes may belong to different operators using the
same frequency in e.g. different countries;
\- In RI scenarios there is a high number of potential aggressor-victim
combinations. Xn signalling requires the setup of an SCTP connection and may
therefore not be scalable, while routing through the core network is performed
in a connection-less manner.
RAN3 recommends to start the normative work on inter-set RIM backhaul
signalling via the core network (CN). An end-to-end RIM backhaul communication
path between an aggressor and a victim gNB consists of three segments:
\- Source gNB set to Source gNB set AMF,
\- Source gNB set AMF to destination gNB set AMF,
\- Destination gNB set AMF to the destination gNB set.
For the RIM normative phase, RAN3 recommends the inter-set RIM backhaul
signalling framework with the following properties:
\- The RIM backhaul messages have the following content:
\- Source ID,
\- Destination ID,
\- Information about the detection of the RIM-RS, or disappearance of the RIM-
RS:
\- If the AMF performs aggregation of outgoing messages from the gNBs in the
set, the aggregated RIM backhaul message may contain the list of sending gNBs.
\- The RIM backhaul messages can be sent by aggressors or victims.
The level of impact in the 5GC (AMF) and core network OAM system depends on
the level of required functionality. Two alternative solutions are identified.
[Solution 1:]{.underline}
The solution involves gNBs registering to the AMF using Set IDs configured by
the OAM system. An AMF collects the outgoing RIM backhaul messages from the
gNBs in the Source gNB set, aggregates these messages into a single RIM
backhaul message, and forwards the aggregated message towards the AMF of the
Destination gNB set. The aggregated RIM backhaul message contains the list of
all the source gNBs whose messages were merged into the aggregated RIM
message. Upon receiving a RIM backhaul message destined to its affiliated gNB
set, the Destination AMF distributes the incoming RIM backhaul message to the
gNBs constituting the receiving set.
The mapping between the gNB set IDs and their corresponding AMF IDs can be
e.g. in the form of a mapping table stored at the CN. The mapping could be
retrieved by the AMF from a database located in e.g. the core network (CN)
(other methods are not precluded).
[Solution 2:]{.underline}
An alternative solution avoiding CN impact uses routing functionality
introduced for transfer of SON configuration information, where containers
defined in NGAP are transparently transferred through the CN (including inter-
AMF signalling). Specific information for NR RIM can be defined within this
container without AMF impact. Routing in the CN is based on TAI and Global gNB
ID. In this solution, some mechanism would have to enable mapping in gNBs from
gNB set ID received in RIM-RS to one or more TAI / Global gNB ID pairs. In
order to allow for \"dynamically\" updated gNB sets, the local RAN OAM system
enables mapping in gNBs from received RIM-RS to a globally unique set ID, and
a DNS solution (out of 3GPP scope) is used to retrieve TAI / Global gNB ID of
one or more gNBs of the set.
#### 6.5.3.2 Conclusions for inter-set coordination {#conclusions-for-inter-
set-coordination .list-paragraph}
RAN3 recommends to specify inter-set RIM backhaul signalling via the core
network for framework 2.1 in the normative work.
# 7 Evaluation of reference signals {#evaluation-of-reference-signals .list-
paragraph}
## 7.1 Evaluation methodology {#evaluation-methodology .list-paragraph}
For RIM SI, the evaluation is to be carried out via link-level simulation to
evaluate the performance of the reference signals in the NR-RIM frameworks.
**For simulation evaluation of** reference signals in the NR-RIM frameworks,
following descriptions of the RS should be provided,
\- RS sequence
\- Length of RS sequence
\- Time/frequency pattern of RS
\- Time pattern (number of symbols)
\- Frequency pattern
and the following analytical metrics of the RS should be provided,
\- The complexity of reference signal detection at gNB
\- Overhead
\- Impact on UEs
\- Others
### 7.1.1 Evaluation cases {#evaluation-cases .list-paragraph}
To comprehensively evaluate the RS design in the NR-RIM frameworks, the
following cases are examined.
**Case 1: Single sequence and single RS:** The number of total sequences in
the network is only 1 and the number of RSs arriving within the window is also
1. This case is mainly used to compare and calibrate performance of same RS
design.
**Case 2: Multiple RSs**
**\- Case 2-1 (Single sequence and multiple RSs):** All RSs received within
the detection window correspond to the same sequence. Number of total RS
sequences is only 1.
**\- Case 2-2A (Multiple sequences and single RS):** Each RS received within
the detection window by the detector corresponds to a different sequence.
Number of total RS sequences is more than 1.
**\- Case 2-2B (Multiple sequences and multiple RSs):** The number of
distinctive sequences received within the window is smaller than the number of
RS copies. Multiple RSs copies may use the same sequence. Number of total RS
sequences is more than 1.
The following table summarizes the simulation cases.
Table 7.1.1-1 Simulation cases for RIM RS design
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Total | Number of | Number of | Number of | | | number of | sequences | RS copies | total RSs | | | sequences | arriving | using the | arriving | | | used same | within the | same | within the | | | tim | window | sequence | window | | | e-frequency | | | | | | resources | (n) | (m) | (S) | | | (N~seq~) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case 1 | **1** | 1 | 1 | 1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case 2-1 | 1 | 1 | 10 as | m*n | | | | | starting | | | | | | point , | | | | | | other | | | | | | values are | | | | | | encouraged | | | | | | to be | | | | | | provided | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case 2-2A | 8 as | 1,2,4,8 ^1^ | 1 | m*n | | | starting | | | | | | point | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Case 2-2B | 8 as | 1,2,4,8 ^1^ | 10 as | m*n | | | starting | | starting | | | | point | | point , | | | | | | other | | | | | | values are | | | | | | encouraged | | | | | | to be | | | | | | provided | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Separate | | | | | | simulation | | | | | | runs | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: the meaning of \"arriving within the detection window\" is arrival time
of the RIM RS, is in [-L symbol, L symbol] with respect to the start of the
detection window.
**For the evaluation of** reference signals in the NR-RIM frameworks, the
following simulation parameters are also applied.
Table 7.1.1-2 Simulation parameters
+----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | SCS | 30 kHz (mandatory) / 15 kHz (optional) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 20 MHz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | gNB MIMO configuration | 1T1R (mandatory) / 1T2R (optional) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Frequency offset | 0 Hz | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | RS sequence | pseudo random sequence in 38.211 | | | section 5.2.1 | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Length of RS sequence | to be provided | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | FFT size | to be provided | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | RS time-frequency pattern | Alt 1: 1OS CSI-RS | | | | | | - Time pattern: 1 OFDM symbol, comb | | | factor = 2 and 4 | | | | | | - Frequency pattern: RS sequence maps | | | to frequency resources every 2 and 4 | | | REs | | | | | | Alt 2: 2OS RS | | | | | | - Time pattern: 2 OFDM symbols, two | | | copies of the RS sequence are | | | concatenated and one CP is attached at | | | the beginning the concatenated | | | sequences | | | | | | - Frequency pattern: RS sequence | | | fully located at the centre of | | | subcarriers | | | | | | Alt 3: 2OS RS | | | | | | - Time pattern: 2 OFDM symbols, where | | | the CP is separately added to the | | | front of each OFDM symbol, but in | | | frequency domain, the RIM-RS in | | | different OFDM symbols need to be | | | multiplied with different linear phase | | | rotation factors. | | | | | | - Frequency pattern: RS sequence | | | fully located at the centre of | | | subcarriers | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Length of detection window | to be provided | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Detection algorithm | to be provided (symbol-level or | | | sample-level detector) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Decision variable | to be provided | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Channel model | Option 1: AWGN with random complex | | | phase (mandatory) | | | | | | Option 2: TDL-E with K-factor = [22] | | | dB, DS = [30] ns, Doppler [0] Hz | | | (optional) | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Delay of received RS | **When one or multiple RSs arrive in | | | the detection window, the arrival time | | | of the _i_ th RS respect to the start | | | of the detection window, △~i~ , is | | | uniformly distributed within | | | [-L~symbol~, L~symbol~], where | | | L~symbol~ is the length of UL symbol | | | based on the numerology of RS.** | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Power of received RS | For the single RS case **(Case 1)** , | | | **the power of the received RS is set | | | to the reference power P~0~ and hence | | | is not varying over time.** | | | | | | **For multiple RS case (Cases 2-1, | | | 2-2A and 2-2B), the power of the _i_ th | | | received RS** P _~i~_ has a power | | | offset with respect to the reference | | | power P~0~, where the power offset is | | | randomly selected from [-0.5 dB, 0.5 | | | dB]. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+ | Definition of SNR | Performance metrics are evaluated at | | | reference SNR, the reference SNR is | | | defined as follows: | | | | | | _SNR~ref~(dB)=P~0~(dBm)-N(dBm)_ | | | | | | where _P_ ~0~ is the reference receiver | | | power and _N_ is the noise power both | | | within the length of 1 OFDM symbol. | +----------------------------+----------------------------------------+
### 7.1.2 Detection algorithms {#detection-algorithms .list-paragraph}
The detection algorithms used in contributions [ref] are summarized as
follows.
Table 7.1.2-1 Detection algorithms
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source | Length of | Length of | Detector | Decision | | | RS sequence | detection | | variable | | | | window | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 1 | 600, 150 | N-1 OFDM | s | PAPR | | ( | | symbols, | ymbol-level | | | R1-1812218) | | where N is | detector | | | | | the number | | | | | | of | | | | | | repetitions | | | | | | in time | | | | | | domain. ^1^ | | | | | | | | | | | | ^1^ Note: | | | | | | For fair | | | | | | comparison, | | | | | | we only | | | | | | evaluate | | | | | | the | | | | | | one-shot | | | | | | detection | | | | | | performance | | | | | | of the 1st | | | | | | detection | | | | | | window. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 2 | 612, 306, | The length | s | PAPR | | ( | 153 | of the | ymbol-level | | | R1-1812439) | | detection | detector | | | | | window is | | | | | | ^2^ | | | | | | | | | | | | - 1 OFDM | | | | | | symbol for | | | | | | Alt 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | - 2 OFDM | | | | | | symbols for | | | | | | 2OS RS for | | | | | | Alt 2 | | | | | | | | | | | | ^2^ Note: 3 | | | | | | detection | | | | | | windows are | | | | | | used in | | | | | | detection. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 3 | 600 | 1 OFDM | s | Maximum | | ( | | symbol | ymbol-level | peak | | R1-1812498) | | | detector | assuming | | | | | | the | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | -plus-noise | | | | | | power is | | | | | | known at | | | | | | the | | | | | | receiver | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 4 | 612, 306, | The length | s | Maximum | | (R1- | 153 | of the | ymbol-level | peak | | 1813990) | | detection | detector | | | | | window is 2 | | ^3^ Note: | | | | | | Estimating | | | | - 1 OFDM | | the | | | | symbol for | | variance of | | | | Alt 1 | | the noise | | | | | | plus | | | | - 2 OFDM | | i | | | | symbols for | | nterference | | | | Alt 2 | | to scale | | | | | | the | | | | | | threshold | | | | | | to obtain | | | | | | the desired | | | | | | probability | | | | | | of false | | | | | | alarm for | | | | | | all SNRs | | | | | | assuming | | | | | | the | | | | | | detection | | | | | | window of | | | | | | length | | | | | | _W_ ~det~. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 5 | 612, 306 | 1 OFDM | s | PAPR | | ( | | symbol | ymbol-level | | | R1-1812625) | | | detector | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 6 | 612, 153 | 1 OFDM | s | - PAPR for | | ( | | symbol | ymbol-level | all cases | | R1-1812882) | | | detector | | | | | | | - Maximum | | | | | | peak for | | | | | | Case 2-1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 7 | 600 | 2 OFDM | s | Maximum | | ( | | symbols | ymbol-level | peak ^3^ | | R1-1813889) | | | detector | | | | | | | ^3^ Note: | | | | | | Estimating | | | | | | the | | | | | | variance of | | | | | | the noise | | | | | | plus | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterference | | | | | | to scale | | | | | | the | | | | | | threshold | | | | | | to obtain | | | | | | the desired | | | | | | probability | | | | | | of false | | | | | | alarm for | | | | | | all SNRs | | | | | | assuming | | | | | | the | | | | | | detection | | | | | | window of | | | | | | length | | | | | | _W_ ~det~. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 8 | 512 | 1 OFDM | s | Maximum | | ( | | symbol | ymbol-level | peak | | R1-1813879) | | | detector | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 9 | 612 | 1 OFDM | s | PAPR | | ( | | symbol | ymbol-level | | | R1-1813429) | | | detector | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Source 10 | 600, 300, | The length | s | Maximum | | ( | 150 | of the | ymbol-level | peak | | R1-1813465) | | detection | detector | | | | | window is | | | | | | 1OFDM | | | | | | symbol, and | | | | | | the | | | | | | simulation | | | | | | window of | | | | | | 3-OFDM-sy | | | | | | mbol-length | | | | | | is used. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 7.2 Performance metric {#performance-metric .list-paragraph}
### 7.2.1 False alarm probability {#false-alarm-probability .list-paragraph}
False alarm is defined based on detecting any sequences transmitted in the
same time-frequency resource in the network with only AWGN input, i.e. only
thermal noise is input to the receiver, and should be limited under [1]% over
2 symbols.
For evaluation, the detector (window length and sliding granularity) should be
consistent when calculating the false alarm and detection probability. Note
that for different detectors, the false alarm probability will be scaled
proportionally over the detection duration:
\- For the symbol-level detector, the detection duration is the length of the
detection window
e. g., for the 1 OS symbol-level detection window, the false alarm rate is
[0.5]%.
\- For the sample-level detector, the detection duration is the number of
symbols that the detection window is sliding over
e.g., for the 1 OS sample-level detection window sliding from symbol 0 to 1,
the false alarm rate is [1]%.
### 7.2.2 Detection probability {#detection-probability .list-paragraph}
The detection probability is defined as the probability of detecting a
sequence in a detection window given that the sequence is present in the
detection window, i.e,
P _~d,k~_ = Prob{sequence k is detected in a detection window \| sequence k is
**present in** the detection window}.
\- For symbol-level detection, only sequences present in the detection window
are counted for detection probability. \"Sequence k is present in the
detection window\" means that the power of at least one RS copy using sequence
k captured in the detection window is no less than that captured in other
detection windows.
\- For sample-level sliding detection, all sequences arrived should be
counted.
Two options of detection probability should be evaluated:
\- Option 1: Worst case detection probability of all sequences, i.e.,
{width="0.3125in" height="0.2604166666666667in"} _P~d,k~_ .
\- Option 2: Average detection probability of all the sequences _P~d,k\ ~_.
### 7.2.3 Error detection probability {#error-detection-probability .list-
paragraph}
The error detection probability is defined as the probability that the
detected sequence IDs do not match with the sequence IDs actually arrived
within the detection window. The metric is counted as
P~e~ = {width="0.9791666666666666in" height="0.17708333333333334in"}
where P~err,n~ is the probability of detecting at least one sequence different
from all the one(s) that actually **arrived** within the detection window,
when then number of sequence actually arriving within the detection window is
n as indicated in Table 7.1.1-1.
### 7.2.4 Minimum SNR {#minimum-snr .list-paragraph}
For Case 1, the metric is the minimum SNR required for one-shot detection with
[90]% detection probability under [1]% false alarm requirement.
For Case 2-1, the metric is the minimum SNR required for one-shot detection
with [90]% detection probability under [1]% false alarm requirement.
For Cases 2-2A and 2-2B, the metric is the minimum SNR required for one-shot
detection with [90]% detection probability under [1]% false alarm and [1]%
error detection requirement. For the case where [90]% detection probability
cannot be achieved, the detection probability at [-10] dB should be
provided.{width="0.3125in" height="0.2604166666666667in"}
## 7.3 Evaluation results and observations {#evaluation-results-and-
observations .list-paragraph}
The simulation results are taken manually from the contributions shown below
[1] -- [10]
### 7.3.1 Case 1: Single sequence and single RS {#case-1-single-sequence-and-
single-rs .list-paragraph}
Table 7.3.1-1 Minimum SNR (in dB) required for one-shot detection with [90]%
detection probability under [1]% false alarm rate.
* * *
Source Alt 1: 1OS CSI-RS, comb factor = 1 Alt 1: 1OS CSI-RS, comb factor = 2
Alt 1: 1OS CSI-RS, comb factor = 4 Alt 2/Alt 3^Note\ 1^: 2OS RS, comb factor =
1 Alt 2: 2OS RS, comb factor = 2 Alt 2: 2OS RS, comb factor = 4 Source 1
(R1-1812218) - - - -17.0 - - Source 2 ^Note\ 2^ (R1-1812439) -10.6 -7.8 -4.6
-14.5 -11.5 -8.5 Source 3 (R1-1812498) - - - -13.6 - - Source 4 (R1-1813990)
-10.56 -10.38 -14.6  
Source 5 (R1-1814358) - -8.6 - -15.0 - - Source 6 (R1-1812882) - - -12 -14.8 -
- Source 7 (R1-1813889) -10.6 -10.6 -10.6 -14.3 - - Source 8 (R1-1814348) - -
- -14 / -14 - - Source 9 (R1-1813429) - -12.6 -12.6 -15 - - Source 10 ^Note\
2^ (R1-1813465) -13.3 -9.8 -6.5 -14.6 -11.3 -8.0
* * *
Note 1: Alt 2 and Alt 3 are identical in terms of performance in all cases.
Note 2: For Case-1 evaluation results of source 2 and source 10, no power
boosting is considered for 1OS CSI-RS with comb factor 2 and 4, which is the
main reason for the differentiation of the detection SNR. However, this does
not follow the definition of reference SNR in Table 7.1.1-2.
Observations:
\- For the 2OS RS (Alt 2 and Alt 3) with comb factor = 1, the
requ[i]{.underline}red SNRs to attain [90]% detection probability are [-13.6,
-17] dB.
\- The detection performance of the 2OS RS is better than that of the 1OS CSI-
RS, no matter power boosting is used by the 1OS CSI-RS or not.
### 7.3.2 Case 2-1: Single sequence and multiple RSs {#case-2-1-single-
sequence-and-multiple-rss .list-paragraph}
Table 7.3.2-1 Minimum SNR (in dB) required for one-shot detection with [90]%
detection probability under [1]% false alarm rate. For the case when [90]%
detection probability cannot be attained, the detection probability at [-10]
dB is provided.
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | N | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | | ource | umber | 1: | 1: | 1: | 2/Alt | 2: | 2: | | | of | 1OS | 1OS | 1OS | 3: | 2OS | 2OS | | | c | CS | CS | CS | 2OS | RS, | RS, | | | opies | I-RS, | I-RS, | I-RS, | RS, | comb | comb | | | | comb | comb | comb | comb | f | f | | | (S) | f | f | f | f | actor | actor | | | | actor | actor | actor | actor | = 2 | = 4 | | | | = 1 | = 2 | = 4 | = 1 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | - | - | -23.5 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2218) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | -15.0 | -11.9 | -8.5 | -17.2 | -13.8 | -9.6 | | ource | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^Not | | | | | | | | | e\ 3^ | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2439) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | -16.0 | -12.6 | -8.5 | -18.0 | -14.2 | -9.4 | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | -16.9 | -13.6 | -7.8 | -19.5 | -16.0 | -8.9 | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | - | - | -17.1 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2498) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -18.3 | - | - | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -20.1 | - | - | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | [ | - | - | - | -21.6 | - | - | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | | - | - | - | | | | ource | | | 15.12 | 15.08 | 17.01 | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 3990) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | -11.5 | - | -17.4 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 4358) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | -11.3 | - | -18.0 | - | - | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | NA, | - | -18.2 | - | - | | | [50] | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | 66.3% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | [ | - | NA, | - | -18.8 | - | - | | | 100] | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | 44.2% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | - | -14.5 | -17.0 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2882) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -18.0 | - | - | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -18.0 | - | - | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | [ | - | - | - | -16.5 | - | - | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | - | - | -17.2 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 3889) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -17.6 | - | - | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -19.0 | - | - | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | [ | - | - | - | -20.3 | - | - | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | - | - | -20 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 4348) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 10 | - | - | - | -17.0 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 9 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 3429) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -17.7 | - | - | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | \ | - | - | - | -18.2 | - | - | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | [ | - | - | - | -19.2 | - | - | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note 3: For Case 2-1 evaluation results of source 2, no power boosting is
considered for 1OS CSI-RS with comb factor 2 and 4, which is the main reason
for the differentiation of the detection SNR. However, this does not follow
the definition of reference SNR in Table 7.1.1-2.
Observations:
\- When the number of copies per sequence increases from 1 to 50, the required
SNR to achieve [90]% detection probability decreases.
\- When the number of copies per sequence is 10, for the 2OS RS (Alt 2 and Alt
3) with comb factor = 1, the required SNRs to achieve [90]% detection
probability are [-17, -23.5] dB.
### 7.3.3 Case 2-2A: Multiple sequences and single RS {#case-2-2a-multiple-
sequences-and-single-rs .list-paragraph}
^Table\ 7.3.3-1\ Minimum\ SNR\ required\ for\ one-shot\ detection\ with\
[90]%\ detection\ probability\ under\ [1]%\ false\ alarm\ probability\ and\
[1]%\ error\ detection\ probability.\ For\ the\ case\ when\ [90]%\ detection\
probability\ cannot\ be\ attained,\ the\ detection\ probability\ at\ [-10]\
dB\ is\ provided.\ Note\ 4^
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | N | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | | ource | umber | 1: | 1: | 1: | 2/Alt | 2: | 2: | | | of | 1OS | 1OS | 1OS | 3: | 2OS | 2OS | | | sequ | CS | CS | CS | 2OS | RS, | RS, | | | ences | I-RS, | I-RS, | I-RS, | RS, | comb | comb | | | | comb | comb | comb | comb | f | f | | | arr | f | f | f | f | actor | actor | | | iving | actor | actor | actor | actor | = 2 | = 4 | | | w | = 1 | = 2 | = 4 | = 1 | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | indow | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (n) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | - | - | - | -15.2 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2218) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | - | - | - | -15.0 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | - | - | - | -14.7 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | - | - | - | -14.1 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | -10.6 | -7.8 | -4.6 | -14.5 | -11.5 | -8.5 | | ource | | | | | | | | | 2^Not | | | | | | | | | e\ 5^ | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2439) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | -10.5 | -7.6 | -4.2 | -14.4 | -11.2 | NA, | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | d=58% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | -10.3 | -6.8 | -3.2 | -14.2 | -10.9 | NA, | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | d=48% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | -9.4 | -5.7 | NA, | -13.8 | -9.7 | NA, | | | | | | P | | | P | | | | | | d=14% | | | d=30% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | - | - | - | -12.8 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2498) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | - | - | - | 0 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | 72.9% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | - | - | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | NA, | | | | | | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | 69.7% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | | -7.8 | -4.6 | - | | | | ource | | | | | 14.01 | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 3990) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | | -7.6 | -4.18 | - | | | | | | | | | 13.95 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | | -6.8 | -2.92 | - | | | | | | | | | 13.84 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | - | -7.8 | - | -14.5 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 4358) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | - | -7.2 | - | -14.3 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | - | -5.6 | - | -14.1 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | - | NA, | - | -13.5 | - | - | | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | 42.0% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | - | - | -4.8 | -14.2 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 2882) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | - | - | -4.2 | -14.1 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | - | - | -2.8 | -14.0 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | - | - | 3.8 | -13.6 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | - | - | - | -14.3 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 3889) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | - | - | - | -14.2 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | - | - | - | -14.0 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | - | - | - | -13.3 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | | | | -14 | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | 4348) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | - | - | - | -13.4 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | - | - | - | -12 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | - | - | - | -11 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note 4: Without otherwise noted, the average detection probability is
summarized in Table 7.3.3-1 and Table 7.3.4-1, which shows little difference
with the worst case detection probability.
Note 5: Resource 2 provides the worst case detection probability in Table
7.3.3-1 and Table 7.3.4-1.
Note that for Case 2-2A evaluation results, no power boosting is considered
for 1OS CSI-RS with comb factor 2 and 4, which is the main reason for the
differentiation of the detection SNR. However, this does not follow the
definition of reference SNR in Table 7.1.1-2.
Observations:
\- With the number of arrived sequences increases, the required SNR to achieve
[90]% detection probability increases.
\- When the number of sequences arrived within the detection window increases,
the detection performance degradation of the 1OS CSI-RS is more severe than
that of the 2OS RS.
### 7.3.4 Case 2-2B: Multiple sequences and multiple RSs {#case-2-2b-multiple-
sequences-and-multiple-rss .list-paragraph}
Table 7.3.4-1 Minimum SNR required for one-shot detection with [90]% detection
probability under [1]% false alarm probability and [1]% error detection
probability when the number of copies per sequence is 10\. For the case when
[90]% detection probability cannot be attained, the detection probability at
[-10] dB is provided.
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | N | N | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | Alt | | ource | umber | umber | 1: | 1: | 1: | 2/Alt | 2: | 2: | | | of | of | 1OS | 1OS | 1OS | 3: | 2OS | 2OS | | | sequ | c | CS | CS | CS | 2OS | RS, | RS, | | | ences | opies | I-RS, | I-RS, | I-RS, | RS, | comb | comb | | | arr | (S) | comb | comb | comb | comb | f | f | | | iving | | f | f | f | f | actor | actor | | | w | | actor | actor | actor | actor | = 2 | = 4 | | | ithin | | = 1 | = 2 | = 4 | = 1 | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | indow | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (n) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | - | - | - | -18.8 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 2218) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | - | - | -18.1 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | - | - | - | -16.6 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=87% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | -15.0 | -11.9 | -8.5 | -17.2 | -13.8 | -9.6 | | ource | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 2439) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | -16.0 | -12.6 | -8.5 | -18.0 | - | -9.4 | | | | [20] | | | | | 14.17 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | -16.9 | -13.6 | -7.8 | -19.5 | -16.0 | -8.9 | | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | -11.2 | -6.9 | -16.8 | -12.6 | NA, | | | | | 14.66 | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=64% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | -15 | -11.5 | -5.3 | -17 | -12.3 | NA, | | | | [20] | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=58% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | -15.1 | -10 | NA, | -18 | -11.2 | NA, | | | | [50] | | | P | | | Pd= | | | | | | | d=42% | | | 45.9% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | -13.5 | -8.9 | NA, | - | -9.6 | NA, | | | | | | | P | 15.66 | | P | | | | | | | d=28% | | | d=32% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | -13.2 | -5.5 | NA, | -14.5 | -9.0 | NA, | | | | [20] | | | P | | | Pd= | | | | | | | d=22% | | | 24.8% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | -8.5 | NA, | NA, | -9.0 | NA, | NA, | | | | [50] | | P | P | | P | Pd= | | | | | | d=31% | d=14% | | d=48% | 14.2% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | -10.6 | NA, | NA, | - | NA, | NA, | | | | | | P | P | 11.54 | P | P | | | | | | d=42% | d=12% | | d=49% | d=11% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | NA, | NA, | NA, | NA, | NA, | NA, | | | | [20] | P | P | Pd=8% | P | P | Pd=6% | | | | | d=72% | d=20% | | d=74% | d=27% | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | NA, | NA, | NA, | NA, | NA, | NA, | | | | [50] | P | Pd=6% | Pd=3% | Pd= | Pd= | Pd | | | | | d=34% | | | 32.7% | 11.6% | =2.8% | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | - | - | - | -15.5 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 2498) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -15.7 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -14.0 | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 86.5% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | - | - | -14.2 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -13.7 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=69% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 34.5% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | - | - | - | -10.3 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 56.9% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 13.7% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =4.4% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 39.4% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 18.3% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =4.4% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =1.5% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | | -11.4 | -7.91 | - | | | | ource | | | | | | 16.93 | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 3990) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | | - | -3.32 | - | | | | | | | | 11.12 | | 16.45 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | | -8.76 | @-10 | - | | | | | | | | | dB,Pd | 15.26 | | | | | | | | | =0.23 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | - | -10.2 | - | -16.5 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 4358) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | -9.0 | - | -16.9 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | -16.2 | - | - | | | | [50] | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 40.6% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | NA; | - | -16.3 | - | - | | | | 100] | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 24.7% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | -3.94 | - | -15.8 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | -15.3 | - | - | | | | [20] | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 31.1% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | -5.3 | - | - | | | | [50] | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 10.4% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | Pd | | Pd= | | | | | | | | =4.1% | | 71.9% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | - | NA; | - | -13.4 | - | - | | | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 17.1% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | -4.1 | - | - | | | | [20] | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =6.3% | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | Pd | | Pd= | | | | | | | | =1.6% | | 32.6% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | Pd | | Pd= | | | | | | | | =0.6% | | 15.8% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | | | Pd | | Pd= | | | | | | | | =3.1% | | 56.4% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [20] | | Pd | | Pd= | | | | | | | | =1.0% | | 19.0% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | Pd= | | Pd | | | | | | | | 0.27% | | =5.6% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | NA; | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | Pd= | | Pd | | | | | | | | 0.16% | | =1.7% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | - | - | -7.5 | -16.4 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 2882) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -16.4 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -16.0 | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | -12.6 | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | - | -3.0 | -15.5 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -15.0 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | 0.0 | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 44.8% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | - | - | NA, | -13.2 | - | - | | | | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 10.6% | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -4.0 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | dB | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 20.9% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =6.4% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | - | - | NA, | NA, | - | - | | | | | | | Pd | Pd= | | | | | | | | | =2.4% | 56.1% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | Pd= | | | | | | | | | | 15.4% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =2.6% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd | | | | | | | | | | =0.8% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | - | - | - | -17.2 | - | - | | ource | | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 3889) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -17.6 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -19.1 | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | -20.2 | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | - | - | -16.4 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -16.2 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -15.5 | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | -12.0 | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | - | - | - | -14.2 | - | - | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | -4.5 | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=45% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=17% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=60% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [20] | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | d=23% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | \ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | [50] | | | | Pd=5% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | [ | - | - | - | NA, | - | - | | | | 100] | | | | Pd=1% | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 1 | 10 | | | | -20 / | | | | ource | | | | | | -20 | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | | | 1-181 | | | | | | | | | | 4348) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 2 | 10 | - | - | - | -18 / | - | - | | | | | | | | -18 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 4 | 10 | - | - | - | -17 / | - | - | | | | | | | | -17 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 8 | 10 | - | - | - | -12 / | - | - | | | | | | | | -12 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Note that for Case 2-2B evaluation results, no power boosting is considered
for 1OS CSI-RS with comb factor 2 and 4, which is the main reason for the
differentiation of the detection SNR. However, this does not follow the
definition of reference SNR in Table 7.1.1-2.
Observations:
\- Increasing the number of copies does not necessarily improve the detection
performance.
\- For different number of arrived sequences, there exists optimal number of
copies per sequences:
\- When 1 sequence is arrived, the optimal number of copies per sequence is
between 20 and 50 (source 3, 5, 6); the optimal number of copies per sequence
is larger than 50 (source 2, 7). ^6^
\- When 2 sequences are arrived, the optimal number of copies per sequence is
between 10 and 20 (source 3, 5, 6, 7); the optimal number of copies per
sequence is larger than 50 (source 2).
\- When 4 sequences are arrived, the optimal number of copies per sequence is
between 10 and 20 (source 2, 3, 7); the optimal number of copies per sequence
is between 1 and 10 (source 5, 6).
\- When 8 sequences are arrived, the optimal number of copies per sequence is
between 1 and 10 (source 2, 3, 5, 6, 7).
\- When 8 sequences arrived within the detection window and each sequence
contains 10 copies, the detection probability barely attains [90]%.
\- When 4 sequences with 20 copies per sequence are arrived within the
detection (i.e., total 80 sequences are arrived), the detection probability is
better than that when 8 sequences with 10 copies per sequence are arrived.
Note: The evaluation results of source 2 and source 7 are generally better
than that from other sources. The possible reason may lie in that they use
longer detection windows. For source 2, 3 detection windows are used to detect
the 2OS RS, where each symbol within the window is detected separately, and
each detection window is 2OS-length; source 7 uses a 2OS-length detection
window, the detection is implemented twice, and a 1OS-length detection window
is used for each time.
## 7.4 Conclusions based on evaluations {#conclusions-based-on-evaluations
.list-paragraph}
Based on the above evaluations, the following conclusions are drawn:
1) To ensure high detection probability, the number of RSs sharing the same
sequence within a detection window should not be too large, i.e., the number
of gNBs that share the same set ID should not be too large.
2) The detection probability of the 2OS RS outperforms that of the 1OS CSI-RS
for Cases 1, 2-1, 2-2A, and 2-2B, which can be adopted as the RIM RS.
# 8 Conclusions {#conclusions .list-paragraph}
The following features and solutions are recommended to be specified as part
of a Rel.16 RIM WI from a RAN1 perspective:
\- Unified design on RIM RS-1/2 and RIM RS in terms of sequence type, time and
frequency transmission pattern, applicable for all frameworks
\- RS-1 and RS-2 are differentiable
\- Each RIM-RS can convey information on gNB (or gNB set) identification,
\- RIM RS can assist the aggressor to identify how many UL OFDM symbols at
victim it impacted and/or provide information whether the atmospheric ducting
phenomenon exists
\- It is beneficial for RIM RS-1 or RIM RS-2 to be used by victim gNB to
convey information that \"Enough mitigation, no further actions needed\" &
\"Not enough mitigation, further actions needed\"
\- Basic RIM-RS resource is recommended be designed based on the following
\- Pseudo-random sequence (length-31 Gold sequence) as in NR Rel-15
\- 2OS RS with comb-1, and time-domain circular RS with 2 OS
\- Support candidate SCS set {15kHz, 30kHz, [60kHz]}
\- Support max number of sequences in one DL-UL periodicity for interference
identification is 8
RAN3 recommends to specify inter-cluster RIM backhaul signalling via the core
network for framework 2.1 in the normative work.
#