# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures finding of the study on support of NR DL 256QAM
for FR2. The purpose of this TR is to study the feasibility and performance
benefits for NR DL 256QAM for FR2 as defined in Work Item "Add support of NR
DL 256QAM for FR2" [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-190760, "Add support of NR DL 256QAM for FR2", China Telecom
[3] 3GPP TR 38.803: \"Study on new radio access technology: RF and co-
existence aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.306: \"User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[5] R4-1911087, "Updated link level simulation results for the feasibility
study of FR2 DL 256QAM", China Telecom
[6] R4-1909269, "Initial FR2 DL 256QAM link level simulation results", Nokia
[7] R4-1913050, "Feasibility evaluation for NR FR2 DL256QAM", NTT DOCOMO
[8] R4-1909186, "Simulation results on DL 256QAM", Huawei
[9] R4-1909401, "Initial Link Simulation Results on DL 256 QAM FR2", Ericsson
[10] R4-1908391, "Discussion on 256QAM for FR2", CATT
[11] R4-1908211, "Discussion on feasibility of DL 256QAM in FR2 scenarios",
Intel
[12] R4-1911227, "Views on feasibility of 256QAM for FR2", Qualcomm
[13] Staffan Ek et al., A 28-nm FD-SOI 115-fs Jitter PLL-Based LO System for
24-30-GHz Sliding-IF 5G Transceivers, IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits (
Volume: 53 , Issue: 7 , July 2018 )
[14] R4-1909403, "Feasibility of UE demodulation testing", Ericsson
[15] R4-1912892 "TP to TR: 38.883 FR2 DL 256QAM link level simulation
results", Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell
[5.2.2.1-1] R4-1713125, "Evaluation on BS Tx EVM for mmWave", Huawei,
HiSilicon
[5.2.2.2-2] R4-1906014, "System level simulation for 256QAM DL in FR2", Nokia,
Nokia Shanghai Bell
[5.2.2.2-3] T. Tuominen, N. Tervo, A.Pärssinen; Analyzing 5G RF System
Performance and Relation to Link Budget for Directive MIMO, IEEE Transactions
on Antennas and Propagation ( Volume: 65 , Issue: 12 , Dec. 2017 )
[5.2.2.3-4] R4-1908211, "Discussion on feasibility of DL 256QAM in FR2
scenarios", Intel
[A-1] R4-1711777, WF on simulation assumption for NR BS EVM requirement,
Huawei, HiSilicon
[A-2] R4-1709666, Simulation assumptions on UE Tx EVM for mmWave, Huawei,
HiSilicon
[A-3] 3GPP Radio Access Network Working Group. 2016. "E-UTRA and UTRA Radio
Frequency (RF) requirement background for Active Antenna System (AAS) Base
Station (BS) (Release 13)". 3GPP TR 37.842 V13.0.0.
[A-4] Du Jinfeng, Chizhik Dmitry, Rodriguez Rodolfo Feick, Mauricio, Castro
Guillermo, Valenzuela Reinaldo. A. 2018. "Suburban Fixed Wireless Access
Channel Measurements and Models at 28 GHz for 90% Outdoor Coverage", arXiv:
1807:03763.
[A-5] 3GPP Radio Access Network Working Group. 2018. "Study on channel model
for frequencies from 0.5 to 100 GHz (Release 15)". 3GPP TR 38.901 V15.0.0.
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
This clause and its three subclauses are mandatory. The contents shall be
shown as \"void\" if the TS/TR does not define any terms, symbols, or
abbreviations.
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Background
At the 3GPP RAN #83 meeting, the Work Item on "Add support of NR DL 256QAM for
FR2" was approved for Rel-16. The objectives of the core part in the Work Item
are as follows:
> Phase 1: Continue and complete the feasibility and performance benefit study
> to identify applicable scenarios
1) Both system and link simulations as well as RF and baseband >
implementation need to be considered in the Rel-16 evaluation to > study the
benefits of FR2 DL 256QAM.
2) This phase is planned from RAN4#91 and should end by RAN4#93.
> Phase 2: Specify BS and UE requirements for NR DL 256QAM for FR2 if
> applicable scenarios and feasible requirements are identified
1) The requirements for BS include Tx modulation quality, Tx power > dynamic
range etc.
2) The requirements for UE include Rx maximum input power level, FRC > etc.
This TR aims to study the Phase 1 in the objectives and further capture the
impact on the specification if applicable.
# 5 Feasibility study for DL 256QAM
## 5.1 General
The feasibility study for FR2 DL 256QAM will be carried out based on two
following parts:
  * Simulation based feasibility study
```{=html}
``` \- Implementation based feasibility study
## 5.2 Simulation based feasibility study
For the simulation study, the methods shall be same as the usual ways we have
adopted in the earlier times for modulation orders feasibility evaluation in
LTE or in NR. Throughput performance is compared among different modulation
orders with EVM variable to verify the benefit for higher order modulation and
then define the minimum EVM requirement. However, for NR FR2 simulation study,
the impact due to phase noise is no longer negligible comparing to FR1, for
higher order modulations. The phase noise impairment is frequency dependent as
stated in 6.1.9.5 of [3] _PN could increase by 6 dB every time when f~0~
doubles_. Therefore, the phase noise impairment shall be considered and
emphasized in the feasibility study for FR2 DL 256QAM. As in [3] different PN
models and impacts were studied as part of the overall system and not just as
part of the effect at the transmitter.
The impact of phase noise will induce two main effects which include
  * Rotate the phases of constellation points in the transmitted/received signal by a common value as termed as common phase error (CPE)
  * Break the orthogonal in the OFDM signal, each subcarrier is interfered by every other adjacent subcarrier as termed as inter-carrier interference (ICI)
The CPE impacts can be compensated based on the phase offset estimates
obtained from the dedicated phase tracking reference signals (PTRS). Although
the PTRS is mandatory with UE capability signalling [4], but it is necessary
for transmitter/receiver to apply PTRS to remove the CPE, which will not only
benefit for 256QAM but also for lower order modulation. On the other side,
256QAM is an optional feature for FR2, but it shall be more applicable with
PTRS supporting.
### 5.2.1 Link level simulation
Link level simulation is targeted as mainstream way to evaluate if FR2 256QAM
can achieve benefit by comparing to 64QAM. The simulation results from
companies are listed as below.
#### 5.2.1.1 Simulation assumptions
The link level simulation assumptions are listed as in table 5.2.1.1-1, based
on which, to evaluate the throughput difference between 64QAM and 256QAM. The
study aims to identify conditions where DL 256QAM provides performance
benefits.
**Table 5.2.1.1-1 link level simulation assumptions**
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | +==================================+==================================+ | Carrier frequency | 29 GHz (n257) and 39 GHz (n260) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CBW | 50 MHz, 100MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SCS | 60kHz, 120 kHz; | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Allocated RBs | Full allocation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation | TDL-A 30ns delay spread, 35Hz | | | Doppler frequency | | | | | | TDL-D 30ns delay spread, 35Hz | | | Doppler frequency | | | | | | Static (AWGN) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MCS | 64QAM: MCS 23, 24, 26, 28 in TS | | | 38.214 Table 5.1.3.1-1, and | | | other MCSs are not precluded | | | | | | 256QAM: MCS 21, 23, 25, 27 in TS | | | 38.214 Table 5.1.3.1-2, and | | | other MCSs are not precluded | | | | | | Baseline: fixed MCSs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Precoding | Precoding configuration defined | | | in 38.101-4 Section 7.2 for | | | fading channels and Section 7.5 | | | for static channel; follow PMI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Symbol type | CP-OFDM | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HARQ | 8, None | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration | Fading channel: 2x2 for Rank1 | | | and Rank2, Low correlation | | | | | | Static channel: 1x2 for Rank1, | | | 2x2 for Rank2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel estimation | Practical | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Receiver type | MMSE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PDSCH configuration | Type A mapping, Start symbol 1, | | | Duration 13 (for D slots) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | Type 1, Single symbol, 1 | | | additional DMRS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PTRS configuration | KPTRS : 2 (every 2 RBs), LPTRS : | | | 1 (every 1 symbol) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Phase noise compensation | Practical based on PTRS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Phase noise model | TR 38.803 model (in section | | | 6.1.10 and section 6.1.11) | | | | | | modelled Phase noise for TX and | | | RX | | | | | | Option a): example1 (BS) + | | | example1(UE) | | | | | | Option b): example2 (BS) + | | | example2(UE) | | | | | | Option c): example2 (BS) + | | | example2(BS) | | | | | | Option d):example2 (BS) + PN | | | model config1: example1(UE) | | | | | | Option e): Other phase noise | | | models, e.g. ones extracted from | | | commercially available | | | components or published results, | | | are not excluded | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | txEVM + rxEVM excluding phase | txEVM: [1.0%-5.0%], rxEVM: | | noise for 256QAM | [1.0%-5.0%] | | | | | | Option 1: txEVM \ The key parameter of EVM is constructed of two values dependent on different
> kinds of distortions. One is fixed EVM which reflects the impairment by the
> component non-linearity attribute contributed from the full transmitter
> chain and the other one is derived EVM based on the phase noise of
> transmitter/receiver. So in the simulation, the EVM variable is defined as
> fixed EVM + explicit derived EVM by PN model, and then we evaluate the SE
> performance with 0%, 3% and 4% EVM values to find if any performance benefit
> for 256QAM by comparing to 64 QAM, in which the case for 0% EVM is as
> baseline for reference.
>
> Figure 5.2.1.2-1 to 5.2.1.2-3 depict the spectrum efficiency performance by
> comparing 256QAM to 64QAM for TDL-A, TDL-D and AWGN channel correspondingly.
The curve with red colour represents the performance for 256QAM without PTRS.
The curve with blue colour represents the performance for 64QAM without PTRS.
{width="5.823611111111111in" height="4.364583333333333in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.2-1: Spectrum efficiency performance by comparing 256QAM to
64QAM for TDL-A**
{width="5.821527777777778in" height="4.364583333333333in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.2-2: Spectrum efficiency performance by comparing 256QAM to
64QAM for TDL-D**
{width="5.821527777777778in" height="4.364583333333333in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.2-3: Spectrum efficiency performance by comparing 256QAM to
64QAM for AWGN**
It is worth to note that all the EVM values in the figure have included the
impact due to the phase noise which will contribute the -35dBc EVM in
typically. Based on the figure above, we can observe that the phase noise will
cause the SE performance degradation, the higher modulation order the more
severe degradation. Although the PTRS is mandatory with UE capability
signalling, but it is necessary for transmitter/receiver to apply PTRS to
remove the CPE, which will not only benefit for 256QAM but also for lower
order modulation. On the other side, 256QAM is an optional feature for FR2,
but it shall be more applicable with PTRS supporting.
On the other side, even without PTRS which means no phase noise compensation,
256QAM still can achieve higher spectrum efficiency than 64QAM when SINR is
larger than 25dB for TDL-A channel, 24dB for TDL-D channel, 20dB for AWGN
channel with the total EVM is less than 4%.
#### 5.2.1.3 Results from Nokia [6][15]
Simulation results obtained with parameters in table 5.2.1.1-2 are shown in
Figure 5.2.1.3-1.
{width="5.069444444444445in" height="3.736111111111111in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-1: Link level simulation results**
In figure 5.2.1.3-1 it can be seen that the throughput with 256QAM exceeds
throughput with 64QAM approximately at 28 dB SNR.
One important aspect to be taken into account when analysing the results is
the used phase noise model. As shown in Figure 5.2.1.3-2, the phase noise
performance is significantly worse that what is actually achievable with
reasonable silicon area and power consumption [13]. On average the phase noise
model is 6.5 dB worse than performance in [13]. Therefore with realistic phase
noise assumptions more gains are expected.
One should also note that it may be overly optimistic to compare 64QAM and
256QAM with the same baseline EVM on Tx side, as 64QAM EVM budget is more
relaxed and this can be utilized by heavier crest factor reduction.
{width="5.1194444444444445in" height="4.01875in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-2: Comparison of the used phase noise model and published
results**
In addition, the results in Figure 5.2.1.3-1 are obtained using 3% Tx EVM,
excluding the EVM impact from the phase noise. It should be noted the gain is
observed with total EVM of the Tx chain of approximately 5.3 %, excluding the
benefits from PT-RS based equalization. Further gains would be observed using
EVM contribution which keeps the total EVM similar to FR1 requirement.
Based on the results and analysis the following observation is made.
**Observation 1:** Even with the used pessimistic phase noise and EVM
assumptions throughput gains over 64QAM can be observed with 256QAM.
**Observation 2:** TR 38.803 config 1 PN model is too pessimistic compared to
currently achievable performance. Therefore a [6.5] dB downscaling of the
corresponding PN model should be considered.
After providing the results above new simulations were done and reported in
[15].
Results in [6] were for rank-1 transmissions using the phase noise model from
38.803, section 6.1.10. These results have now been updated with the phase
noise model from [13]. The updated results have been reported in Figures
5.2.1.3-3 and 5.2.1.3-4. Figure 5.2.1.3-3 shows rank-1 results with 2.0% EVM
for Tx and Rx excluding the impact of phase noise. When the phase noise is
calculated in, the total Tx EVM equals 3.0%. Figure 5.2.1.3-4 shows rank-1
results with 3.0% EVM for Tx and Rx excluding the impact of phase noise. When
the phase noise is calculated in, the total Tx EVM equals 3.7%.
{width="5.090972222222222in" height="3.636111111111111in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-3: Link level simulation results for rank-1 with 2% EVM for
Tx and Rx excluding EVM from phase noise**
{width="5.074305555555555in" height="3.313888888888889in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-4: Link level simulation results for rank-1 with 3% EVM for
Tx and Rx excluding EVM from phase noise**
It can be seen that throughput with 256QAM exceeds throughput with 64 QAM at
23 dB SNR in Figure 5.2.1.3-3 and 24 dB SNR in Figure 5.2.1.3-4. It can also
be seen that the very highest coding rate which theoretically should achieve
highest throughput fails to improve the performance in Figure 2. This means
that in the field link adaption needs to work properly to maximise the
throughput.
**Observation 3: With Rank-1 transmissions 256QAM provides performance gain
over 64 QAM when SNR is better than 23..24 dB depending on Tx and Rx EVM.**
To complete the evaluation using simulations were done also using rank-2
transmissions. It was also decided to use link adaptation instead of fixed MCS
to observe whether Tx and Rx EVM impact link adaptation. The results are
reported in Figures 5.2.1.3-5 and 5.2.1.3-6. Figure 5.2.1.3-5 shows rank-2
results with 2.0% EVM for Tx and Rx excluding the impact of phase noise. When
the phase noise is calculated in, the total Tx EVM equals 3.0%. Figure
5.2.1.3-6 shows rank-2 results with 3.0% EVM for Tx and Rx excluding the
impact of phase noise. When the phase noise is calculated in, the total Tx EVM
equals 3.7%.
{width="4.917361111111111in" height="3.3881944444444443in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-5: Throughput for rank-2 transmissions with 2% EVM for Tx and
Rx excluding EVM from phase noise**
{width="4.909027777777778in" height="4.025in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-6: Throughput for rank-2 transmissions with 3% EVM for Tx and
Rx excluding EVM from phase noise**
It can be seen that throughput with 256QAM exceeds throughput with 64 QAM at
25 dB SNR in Figure 5.2.1.3-5 and 28 dB SNR in Figure 5.2.1.3-5. It can also
be seen that link adaptation works properly and similar effect as with fixed
MCS is not observed.
**Observation 4: With Rank-2 transmissions 256QAM provides performance gain
over 64 QAM when SNR is better than 25..28 dB when Tx and Rx EVM vary from 2%
to 3% excluding the impact of phase noise.**
Finally we did also simulations to see the impact of varying Rx EVM when the
Tx EVM is kept constant. The Tx EVM was kept at 2.0% excluding phase noise and
total Tx EVM was therefore 3.0%. The results are shown in Figure 5.2.1.3-7.
{width="4.966666666666667in" height="3.7354166666666666in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.3-7: Throughput for rank-2 transmissions with total Tx EVM of
3% and varying Rx EVM.**
It can be seen in Figure 5.2.1.3-7 that when Rx EVM is 5%, throughput gains
are obtained only at SNRs above 30 dB, and overall Rx EVM has significant
impact on the SNR level where 256QAM starts to provide gain over 64QAM. For
this reason it is important that sufficiently strict Rx EVM needs to be
assumed when setting the requirements.
**Observation 5: Rx EVM has significant impact on SNR level where 256QAM start
to provide gain over 64QAM, preferably 2% Rx EVM excluding phase noise needs
to be assumed when setting the requirements.**
#### 5.2.1.4 Results from NTT DOCOMO [7]
Figure 5.2.1.4-1 and 5.2.1.4-2 show link level simulation results compared
between 64QAM and 256QAM. On static channel and TDL-D with antenna
configuration 2x2 and Rank 2, with 3% Tx EVM and 3% Rx EVM, the performance
gain compared to 64QAM modulation is obtained over 21dB and 25dB SNR ,
respectively.
{width="3.2430555555555554in"
height="2.7930555555555556in"}{width="3.2430555555555554in"
height="2.7930555555555556in"}
> **a) Tx EVM 0% and Rx EVM 0% b) Tx EVM 2% and Rx EVM 2%**
>
> {width="3.2430555555555554in" height="2.7930555555555556in"}
>
> **c) Tx EVM 3% and Rx EVM 3%**
**Figure 5.2.1.4-1: Simulation results on static channel**
{width="3.2430555555555554in"
height="2.7930555555555556in"}{width="3.2430555555555554in"
height="2.7930555555555556in"}
> **a) Tx EVM 0% and Rx EVM 0% b) Tx EVM 2% and Rx EVM 2%**
>
> {width="3.185416666666667in" height="2.7569444444444446in"}
>
> **c) Tx EVM 3% and Rx EVM 3%**
**Figure 5.2.1.4-2: Simulation results on TDL-D channel**
#### 5.2.1.5 Results from Huawei [8]
Results for TDL-D channel with option d PN model are shown in Figure
5.2.1.5-1.
{width="3.263888888888889in"
height="2.6034722222222224in"}{width="3.0944444444444446in"
height="2.629166666666667in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.5-1: simulation results (Option d PN model)**
Results for TDL-D channel with option a PN model are shown in Figure
5.2.1.5-2.
{width="3.3833333333333333in"
height="2.609722222222222in"}{width="3.245138888888889in"
height="2.547222222222222in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.5-2: simulation results (Option a PN model)**
Results for AWGN channel with option d PN model are shown in Figure 5.2.1.5-3.
{width="3.115972222222222in"
height="2.5868055555555554in"}{width="3.3555555555555556in"
height="2.6034722222222224in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.5-3: simulation results (Option d PN model)**
Results for AWGN channel with option a PN model are shown in Figure 5.2.1.5-4.
{width="3.3055555555555554in" height="2.76875in"}{width="3.247916666666667in"
height="2.6118055555555557in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.5-4: simulation results (Option a PN model)**
From the simulation results, it is shown that support 256 QAM can provide
significant performance gain over 64QAM where the UE is in good propagation
condition. It is also found that the performance is more sensitive to RF
impairment for 256 QAM
**Observation 1:** Support 256QAM can provide significant performance gain
over 64QAM where the UE is in good propagation condition.
#### 5.2.1.6 Results from Ericsson [9]
As part of the study a companion paper [14] discusses further the
complications on testability for this feature when it comes to receiver
demodulation and the required SINR. Looking at the parameters, the higher
order MCS (256 QAM MCS 25 and 27) are not presented here as initial results
yielded little to no throughput. Although to keep ease in simulation time,
HARQ was not applied and it may be possible to see more tangible throughput
numbers.
The following results show the throughput performance at 256 QAM in a TDL-A
channel.
{width="6.503472222222222in" height="4.503472222222222in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.6-1: SCS 60 kHz, MCS 23**
Comparably, when looking at 64 QAM throughput performance is better than 256
QAM when the expected EVM at transmitter and receiver is 5%. The overall
performance of 256 QAM at low SNR is rather sensitive to any added receiver
and/or transmitter noise. The fading channel conditions also provide some
aspects to the results below. Further simulations using HARQ could help this
aspect; no link adaptation was simulated for this scenario.
{width="6.496527777777778in" height="4.540972222222222in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.6-2: 256 QAM and 64 QAM throughput performance comparison**
The following are results simulated at 29 GHz with TDL-D channel model with
256 QAM link adaptation with CPE compensation. The link adaptation adjusted
different MCS specified in the simulation assumptions and HARQ of 8. On the
left is 64 QAM with 8% while figure on the right hand side is 256 QAM with 3%
EVM. To observe a gain in throughput towards a single user, a SNR of >22 dB is
needed for the case of studying TLD-D channel conditions; a slightly lower
expected SNR needed compared to that of TDL-A as shown in previous 2
figures.{width="5.106944444444444in" height="3.9069444444444446in"}
**Figure 5.2.1.6-3: 64 QAM and 256 QAM throughput performance comparison in
LOS scenario (TDL-D)**
#### 5.2.1.7 Results from CATT [10]
From the Figure 5.2.1.7-1(a) and 5.2.1.7-1(b), the achievable throughput for
256QAM is worse than 64QAM at 3.5% TX EVM and 3.5% RX EVM at SNR 40dB under
TDL-A and TDL-D fading channel. The results for TDL-A and TDL-D fading channel
indicate that the FR2 256QAM is hard to be deployed in scenarios include
Homes, Roof-above or indoor, Commercial centre or official building. From the
Figure 5.2.1.7-1(c), the achievable throughput for 256QAM is better than 64QAM
at 3.5% TX EVM and 3.5% RX EVM in the SNR range from 30dB to 40dB in static
channel. However there may be very limited scenarios with static channel
condition in practice.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.0in" | eg){width="3.1444444444444444in" | | height="2.036111111111111in"} | height="2.036111111111111in"} | | | | | **a) TDL-A** | **b) TDL-D** | +==================================+==================================+ | {width="3.2527777777777778in" | | | height="2.3493055555555555in"} | | | | | | **c) Static channel** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
**Figure 5.2.1.7-1: performance comparison of 64QAM and 256QAM in TDL-A in
option b phase noise model**
**The performance improvement of 256QAM realative to 64QAM at 30 and 35 dB SNR
point for all Tx EVM + Rx EVM cases are summaried and shown in Table
5.2.1.7-1.**
**Table 5.2.1.7-1 Performance improvement of 256QAM relative to 64QAM at 29
GHz**
**Channel model** **Tx EVM+Rx EVM** **Total EVM** **SNR required to achieve
gains for 256QAM [dB]** **Performance improvement 256QAM relative to 64QAM at
same Tx EVM + Rx EVM**
* * *
                                                                                                                                               **\@30dB**                                                                     **\@35dB**
TDL-A 1.5%+1.5% 2.1% 26 9% 14% 2.5%+2.5% 3.5% 32 x[Note1] 4% 3.5%+3.5% 5% NO x
x 4.5%+4.5% 6.4% NO x x TDL-D 1.5%+1.5% 2.1% 25 15% 20% 2.5%+2.5% 3.5% 27 6%
11% 3.5%+3.5% 5% NO x x 4.5%+4.5% 6.4% NO x x Static channel 1.5%+1.5% 2.1% 20
33% 33% 2.5%+2.5% 3.5% 21 33% 33% 3.5%+3.5% 5% 22 30% 33% 4.5%+4.5% 6.4% 25
27% 30% **Note 1: x denote no performance improvement.**
#### 5.2.1.8 Results from Intel [11]
**In** **Table 5.2.1.8-1 andTable 5.2.1.8-2 we provide summary of simulation
results and compare performance of 64QAM and 256QAM for 25, 30 and 35 dB SNR
point. The table shows the relative throughput improvement in case of using
256QAM comparing to 64QAM.**
**Table 5.2.1.8-1: Performance improvement of 256QAM over 64QAM for CF 29
GHz**
**CF, GHz** **Rank configuration** **Channel model** **Tx/ Rx EVM** **Phase
noise model C** **Phase noise model D**
* * *
                                                                              **25 dB**                 **30 dB**                 **35 dB**   **25 dB**   **30 dB**   **35 dB**
29 GHz Rank 1 Static 1% **19%** **21%** **24%** **19%** **19%** **21%** 2%
**15%** **19%** **20%** **11%** **19%** **20%** 3% **11%** **19%** **19%**
**11%** **18%** **19%** TDL-A 1% **5%** **11%** **19%** **5%** **10%** **18%**
2% **5%** **9%** **16%** **4%** **9%** **13%** 3% **3%** **7%** **11%** **1%**
**5%** **10%** TDL-D 1% **4%** **13%** **17%** **2%** **9%** **16%** 2% **2%**
**9%** **15%** **2%** **8%** **12%** 3% **1%** **7%** **10%** **2%** **5%**
**9%** Rank 2 Static 1% **10%** **19%** **19%** **10%** **19%** **19%** 2%
**8%** **15%** **19%** **4%** **12%** **19%** 3% **0%** **11%** **17%** **0%**
**11%** **15%** TDL-A 1% **-2%** **-9%** **5%** **-2%** **-10%** **0%** 2%
**-1%** **-8%** **0%** **-1%** **-6%** **-10%** 3% **0%** **-6%** **-11%**
**0%** **-5%** **-14%** TDL-D 1% **-7%** **3%** **9%** **-13%** **3%** **6%**
2% **-12%** **2%** **6%** **-12%** **0%** **2%** 3% **-12%** **-3%** **3%**
**-12%** **-9%** **2%** Adaptive Rank Static 1% **10%** **19%** **19%**
**10%** **19%** **19%** 2% **8%** **15%** **19%** **4%** **12%** **19%** 3%
**0%** **11%** **17%** **0%** **11%** **15%** TDL-A 1% **-2%** **-9%** **5%**
**-2%** **-10%** **0%** 2% **-1%** **-8%** **0%** **-1%** **-6%** **-10%** 3%
**0%** **-6%** **-11%** **0%** **-5%** **-14%** TDL-D 1% **-7%** **3%** **9%**
**-13%** **3%** **6%** 2% **-12%** **2%** **6%** **-12%** **0%** **2%** 3%
**-12%** **-3%** **3%** **-12%** **-9%** **2%**
**Table 5.2.1.8-2: Performance improvement of 256QAM over 64QAM for CF 39
GHz**
**CF, GHz** **Rank configuration** **Channel model** **Tx/ Rx EVM** **Phase
noise model C** **Phase noise model D**
* * *
                                                                              **25 dB**                 **30 dB**                 **35 dB**   **25 dB**   **30 dB**   **35 dB**
39 GHz Rank 1 Static 1% **11%** **16%** **16%** **11%** **11%** **11%** 2%
**11%** **11%** **14%** **10%** **11%** **11%** 3% **9%** **11%** **11%**
**1%** **11%** **11%** TDL-A 1% **5%** **9%** **11%** **3%** **6%** **11%** 2%
**3%** **6%** **10%** **1%** **6%** **9%** 3% **0%** **2%** **8%** **-4%**
**3%** **4%** TDL-D 1% **1%** **8%** **10%** **2%** **6%** **9%** 2% **1%**
**2%** **9%** **2%** **1%** **7%** 3% **1%** **2%** **7%** **-2%** **1%**
**2%** Rank 2 Static 1% **0%** **10%** **10%** **0%** **10%** **10%** 2%
**0%** **10%** **10%** **0%** **9%** **10%** 3% **0%** **4%** **8%** **0%**
**0%** **9%** TDL-A 1% **-3%** **-12%** **-2%** **-1%** **-7%** **-18%** 2%
**-1%** **-7%** **-10%** **0%** **-5%** **-14%** 3% **0%** **-6%** **-16%**
**0%** **-6%** **-8%** TDL-D 1% **-14%** **1%** **2%** **-12%** **-6%** **1%**
2% **-12%** **-3%** **2%** **-12%** **-16%** **-2%** 3% **-11%** **-14%**
**1%** **-11%** **-15%** **-14%** Adaptive Rank Static 1% **0%** **10%**
**10%** **0%** **10%** **10%** 2% **0%** **10%** **10%** **0%** **9%** **10%**
3% **0%** **4%** **8%** **0%** **0%** **9%** TDL-A 1% **-3%** **-12%** **-2%**
**-1%** **-7%** **-18%** 2% **-1%** **-7%** **-10%** **0%** **-5%** **-14%**
3% **0%** **-6%** **-16%** **0%** **-6%** **-8%** TDL-D 1% **-14%** **1%**
**2%** **-12%** **-6%** **1%** 2% **-12%** **-3%** **2%** **-12%** **-16%**
**-2%** 3% **-11%** **-14%** **1%** **-11%** **-15%** **-14%**
**Observations:** From link level results we can conclude
  * Static channel model
    * 29 GHz carrier frequency:
      * Sufficient performance improvement of 256QAM over 64QAM (> > 5%) is observed for MIMO Rank 1 and 2 transmissions and > all considered SNR operating points for most of considered > scenarios.
    * 39 GHz carrier frequency
      * MIMO rank 1: sufficient performance improvement is observed > for almost all considered SNR points.
      * MIMO rank 2: sufficient performance improvement is observed > for SNR > 30 dB only
  * Fading channel models
    * Sufficient performance improvement of 256QAM over 64QAM (> 5%) is observed for scenarios with Rank 1 transmission and high SNR conditions (i.e. ≥ 30dB)
    * Limited or no performance improvement of 256QAM over 64QAM is observed for Rank 2 transmission
    * For phase noise model (i.e. model D), significant performance improvement of 256QAM over 64QAM (> 10%) is observed only for scenarios with 29 GHz carrier frequency, Rank 1 transmission and 35dB SNR
#### 5.2.1.9 Results from Qualcomm [12]
Table 5.2.1.9-1 compares the SNR points at 90% of peak throughput for two
cases under AWGN conditions.
**Table 5.2.1.9-1: Comparison of RAN4 and Internal IPN models under AWGN
channel condition**
**Test Cases** **SNR (dB) at 90% of peak throughput using RAN4 Example1 BS +
Example 2 UE IPN model** **SNR (dB) at 90% of peak throughput using internal
IPN model** **SNR (dB) at 90% of peak throughput using RAN4 Example2 BS +
Example 2 BS IPN model** **Peak Throughput (Mbps)**
* * *
64QAM, MCS 26, 2x2, Rank2 20.51 19.30 19.31 700.72 64QAM, MCS 27, 2x2, Rank2
21.93 20.27 20.31 731.60 64QAM, MCS 28, 2x2, Rank2 24.10 21.30 21.38 762.95
256QAM, MCS 21, 2x2, Rank2 23.38 20.94 21.25 762.95 256QAM, MCS 22, 2x2, Rank2
27.03 22.27 22.50 809.97
Based on above results, we have following observations:
**Observation 1:** Peak Throughput for 64QAM MCS28 is exactly equal to that
for 256QAM MCS21.
**Observation 2:** RAN4 IPN model with example 2 BS on both gNB and UE side is
the closest to practical implementation.
**Observation 3:** SNR needed to achieve 90% of peak throughput for 64QAM
MCS28 is slightly higher than that for 256QAM MCS21 under AWGN conditions.
As RAN4 **Example1 BS + Example 2 UE** IPN model is very pessimistic, we now
focus on our internal IPN model and RAN4 **Example2 BS + Example 2 BS IPN
model** for the rest of the simulations.
**_[Simulation Results without EVM]{.underline}_**
In this section, we compare the 64QAM and 256QAM performance under different
channel conditions and carrier frequencies to determine whether 256QAM can
provide gains over 64QAM under FR2. Here, we look at 70% and 90% of peak
throughput since most of the RAN4 fixed MCS requirements are defined at 70% of
peak throughput. For all simulations, we assumed our internal IPN model.
Table 5.2.1.9-2 and Table 5.2.1.9-3 list the SNRs required to achieve 70% and
90% of peak throughput under different channel conditions with carrier
frequency of 29GHz and 39GHz, respectively without considering any Tx/Rx EVM
for internal IPN model. Table 5.2.1.9-4 and Table 5.2.1.9-5 list the same for
RAN4 Example2 BS + Example2 BS IPN model.
**Table 5.2.1.9-2: SNR required to achieve 70% and 90% of peak throughput
without EVM, carrier frequency = 29GHz for internal IPN model**
**Test Cases** **AWGN SNR (dB)** **TDL-D 30ns 35Hz SNR (dB)** **TDL-A 30ns
35Hz SNR (dB)**
* * *
**% of Peak Throughput** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%**
64QAM, MCS 26, 2x2, Rank2 18.90 19.30 20.72 22.15 25.49 28.03 64QAM, MCS 27,
2x2, Rank2 19.81 20.27 21.53 23.18 27.00 29.60 64QAM, MCS 28, 2x2, Rank2 20.90
21.30 22.90 24.28 28.93 32.15 256QAM, MCS 20, 2x2, Rank2 19.89 20.30 21.56
23.25 26.30 28.59 256QAM, MCS 21, 2x2, Rank2 20.12 20.94 22.34 24.00 27.22
29.72 256QAM, MCS 22, 2x2, Rank2 21.78 22.27 23.72 25.58 28.77 31.50
**Table 5.2.1.9-3: SNR required to achieve 70% and 90% of peak throughput
without EVM, carrier frequency = 39GHz for internal IPN model**
**Test Cases** **AWGN SNR (dB)** **TDL-D 30ns 35Hz SNR (dB)** **TDL-A 30ns
35Hz SNR (dB)**
* * *
**% of Peak Throughput** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%**
64QAM, MCS 26, 2x2, Rank2 18.90 19.30 21.01 22.34 26.01 28.59 64QAM, MCS 27,
2x2, Rank2 19.90 20.30 21.80 23.62 27.55 30.33 64QAM, MCS 28, 2x2, Rank2 20.94
21.37 23.32 24.91 29.87 - 256QAM, MCS 20, 2x2, Rank2 19.91 20.32 21.80 23.65
26.88 29.42 256QAM, MCS 21, 2x2, Rank2 20.87 21.31 22.87 24.29 27.87 30.43
256QAM, MCS 22, 2x2, Rank2 22.00 22.53 24.41 26.18 29.79 -
**Table 5.2.1.9-4: SNR required to achieve 70% and 90% of peak throughput
without EVM, carrier frequency = 29GHz for RAN4 Example2 BS + Example2 BS IPN
model**
**Test Cases** **AWGN SNR (dB)** **TDL-D 30ns 35Hz SNR (dB)** **TDL-A 30ns
35Hz SNR (dB)**
* * *
**% of Peak Throughput** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%**
64QAM, MCS 26, 2x2, Rank2 18.90 19.31 20.78 22.12 26.04 28.77 64QAM, MCS 27,
2x2, Rank2 19.88 20.31 21.60 23.29 27.58 30.51 64QAM, MCS 28, 2x2, Rank2 20.94
21.38 23.14 24.46 30.00 - 256QAM, MCS 20, 2x2, Rank2 19.91 20.32 21.71 23.49
26.94 29.65 256QAM, MCS 21, 2x2, Rank2 20.70 21.25 22.81 24.24 28.00 30.99
256QAM, MCS 22, 2x2, Rank2 21.98 22.50 24.44 26.17 30.11 -
**Table 5.2.1.9-5: SNR required to achieve 70% and 90% of peak throughput
without EVM, carrier frequency = 39GHz for RAN4 Example2 BS + Example2 BS IPN
model**
**Test Cases** **AWGN SNR (dB)** **TDL-D 30ns 35Hz SNR (dB)** **TDL-A 30ns
35Hz SNR (dB)**
* * *
**% of Peak Throughput** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%** **70%** **90%**
64QAM, MCS 26, 2x2, Rank2 19.05 19.80 21.26 22.63 27.06 30.22 64QAM, MCS 27,
2x2, Rank2 20.09 20.91 22.27 24.06 28.88 - 64QAM, MCS 28, 2x2, Rank2 21.55
22.37 23.98 26.09 - - 256QAM, MCS 20, 2x2, Rank2 20.17 21.07 22.54 24.22 28.09
- 256QAM, MCS 21, 2x2, Rank2 21.11 22.03 23.62 25.75 29.58 - 256QAM, MCS 22,
2x2, Rank2 22.93 24.30 26.07 - - -
Based on above results, we have following observations:
**Observation 5:** SNR needed to achieve high throughput regime using 64QAM or
256QAM is very high for TDL-A channel model.
**Observation 6:** For AWGN, 256QAM shows gains for SNR > \~20dB and for
TDL-D, 256QAM shows gains for SNR > \~22dB over 64QAM without considering EVM
for internal IPN model.
**Observation 7:** There is \ \~21dB and for
TDL-D, 256QAM shows gains for SNR > \~23dB over 64QAM with EVM consideration
for internal IPN model.
#### 5.2.1.10 Conclusion
Based on the simulation results and observations provided above, the following
table summarizes the minimum required SNR in which 256QAM shows benefit by
comparing to 64QAM below in table 5.2.1.10-1. Also, Table 5.2.1.10-2 provides
information about performance benefit of 256QAM over 64QAM proposed by
companies.
**Table 5.2.1.10-1: SNR required to achieve gains for 256QAM**
**Contributor** **AWGN SNR (dB)** **TDL-D SNR (dB)** **TDL-A SNR (dB)**
* * *
China Telecom > 20dB > 24dB > 25dB Nokia > 23dB  
DoCoMo > 21dB > 25dB  
Huawei > 23dB > 24dB  
Ericsson > 24dB No benefit CATT > 21dB > 27dB > 32dB Intel > 25dB > 30dB >
35dB Qualcomm > 21dB > 23dB  
Average > 22dB > 25dB
**Table 5.2.1.10-2: Performance benefit of 256QAM over 64QAM based on company-
specific SNR, EVM, phase noise and channel rank**
**Contributor** **AWGN channel** **TDL-D channel** **TDL-A channel**
* * *
China Telecom 12% 12% 10% Nokia 14%  
DoCoMo  
Huawei  
Ericsson 10% No benefit CATT  
Intel 12% 2% No benefit Qualcomm 17% 4% No benefit
It can be concluded that from link level simulation point, FR2 DL 256QAM is
feasible at line of sight channel condition including at static channel with
SNR> 22dB and at TDL-D channel with SNR> 25dB. The proposed performance
benefits of 256QAM over 64QAM can be observed in Table 5.2.1.10-2.
### 5.2.2 System level simulation
System simulation is targeted as supplementary for link level simulation to
further confirm the scenario that FR2 256QAM is applicable. The simulation
results from companies are listed as below and corresponding assumptions are
captured in Annex A.
#### 5.2.2.1 Results from Huawei
The simulation results and proposals are based on contribution [5.2.2.1-1]
Figure 5.2.2.1-1 to 5.2.2.1-4 show the SINR CDF by a range of tx EVM for
different modulation orders. On the right of SINR CDF are the corresponding
curves for throughput loss versus tx EVM values.
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.1-1: SINR CDF and throughput loss versus BS tx EVM for QPSK**
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.1-2: SINR CDF and throughput loss versus BS tx EVM for 16QAM**
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.1-3: SINR CDF and throughput loss versus BS tx EVM for 64QAM**
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
{width="3.214583333333333in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.1-4: SINR CDF and throughput loss versus BS tx EVM for 256QAM**
It can be observed from the SINR CDF that the receiving SINR will be improved
when the tx EVM requirement becomes more tighter. However it seems difficult
to find a trade-off Tx EVM value since the SINR improvement looks like being
averaged across the tx EVM values. Thus we map the SINR CDF to throughput to
quantize the improvement to SINR for different tx EVM values. It is worth to
note that there is little difference for the throughput loss baseline when EVM
is lowest value in the certain given range or 0%.
For the series of modulation orders, the figures show more stringent
requirement is needed to meet the 5% throughput loss threshold, however by
considering the feasibility and LTE requirement as baseline, and also a little
margin for degradation due to phase noise, it is proposed to reuse LTE UE BS
EVM requirement for QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM modulation orders for NR.
#### 5.2.2.2 Results from Nokia
The simulation results and proposals are based on contribution [5.2.2.2-2]
Figure 5.2.2.2-1 presents CDF of DL SINR results for two configurations:
  * BS with 16x8 antenna array and total Tx power of 31dBm; UE with 1x1 antenna (blue curve),
  * BS with 16x8 antenna array and total Tx power of 31dBm; UE with 2x2 antenna array (red curve).
{width="5.809722222222222in" height="4.347222222222222in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.2-1: CDF of DL SINR for 256QAM**
It can be observed that for the first configuration (UE 1x1) the SINR equal or
higher than 25dB is obtained for 15% of the best DL links, whereas SINR equal
or higher than 28dB is obtained for 10% of the best DL links. In case of
second configuration (UE 2x2) the same levels of SINR are accessible for 24%
and 16% of the best DL links, respectively.
According to studies presented in [5.2.2.2-3] the SINR of 25dB at the receiver
is required to ensure sufficent link quality for 256QAM modulation, the
results of presented simulation study indicate that up to 25 % of users in
assumed scenario will benefit from higher DL data rate, given that other Tx
and Rx impairments have limited impact.
It was observed that in fixed wireless access scenario up to 25% of the users
are in propagation conditions which enable benefits from 256 QAM.
#### 5.2.2.3 Results from Intel
The simulation results and proposals are based on contribution [5.2.2.3-4]
Figure 5.2.2.3-1 shows large scale SINR distribution for considered scenarios.
{width="2.9916666666666667in" height="2.297222222222222in"}
{width="3.057638888888889in" height="2.297222222222222in"}
* * *
**Figure 5.2.2.3-1: System-level large scale SINR distribution**
_**Observations:** From system-level simulation results we can observe that:_
  * _Indoor office scenario: 5% of users have SINR ≥ 25 dB_
  * _Urban micro scenario: 20% of users have SINR ≥ 25 dB_
5.2.2.4 Results from Ericsson
The following results are based upon the assumptions outlined in Section A.4
It has been discussed that there are two scenarios that should focus the study
for indoor and urban micro where both scenarios are LOS between UE and BS. The
rationale for studying only these two edge case scenarios is that these are
the only possible scenarios for deployment for millimeter wave that may
experience benefit of higher MCS.
With an observed user data rates higher than 170 Mbps, there is a 30% benefit
due to higher modulation. For UEs utilizing 256 QAM an SINR upwards of 25 dB
is needed. For higher modulation a small power back off 3dB is applied.
* * *
{width="3.6868055555555554in" height="2.7708333333333335in"}
{width="3.6868055555555554in" height="2.7708333333333335in"}
* * *
**Figure 5.2.2.4-1: System-level macro base station scenario SINR distribution
and observed user bitrates**
For the above simulation results, the average user throughput for users with
64 QAM is 77.2 Mbps and for 256 QAM is 83.7 Mbps this gives an overall system
gain of 8% for those users utilizing the higher modulation. The average user
throughput considered is calculated by sum(all observed user
throughput)/(total number of users observed). Additionally, user throughput
distributions are also estimated for each user node and is taken into account
whilst in Figure 5.2.2.4.-1 the bitrate map is considered does not consider
any post-processing.
{width="4.024305555555555in" height="3.0243055555555554in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.4-1: User throughput considering simple traffic assumptions**
The simulation results below come from the indoor scenario where the results
yield no benefit of 256 QAM over 64 QAM. Both user throughput and SINR
distributions are equal.
* * *
{width="3.7in" height="2.7715277777777776in"} {width="3.685416666666667in"
height="2.7715277777777776in"}
* * *
**Figure 5.2.2.4-2: System-level indoor base station scenario SINR
distribution and average user throughput**
The overall average cell throughput gains in the above simulations are 6% and
3% for macro and indoor solutions respectively. Although the capacity gains
are modest, there are limited circumstances that during peak data rates
#### 5.2.2.5 Results from NTT DOCOMO
Figure 5.2.2.5-1 shows the system level simulation result [7]. From the
result, around 30% of UEs can achieve more than 25dB SINR.
{width="4.664583333333334in" height="3.1354166666666665in"}
> **Figure 5.2.2.5-1: System level simulation results**
#### 5.2.2.6 Conclusion
Based on the simulation results and observations provided above, it can be
concluded that from system level simulation point:
  * For fixed wireless access scenario, up to 25% users operate in SINR greater than 25dB region required for 256QAM (TDL-D).
  * For urban micro scenario in LOS (TDL-D), 8% to 20% users operate whose SINR is greater than 25dB region required for 256QAM.
  * For indoor office environments, 5% users to no user can be observed to see benefits of 256 QAM.
The analysis herein shows that cell capacity gain by comparing with 256QAM to
without 256QAM will depend on network scheduling.
## 5.3 Implementation based feasibility study
5.3.1 BS implementation
The BS EVM consists of several contributing impairments such as phase noise,
peak reduction distortion, PA non-linearities, digital impairments etc. For
example consider 3.5% EVM as a target limit, the following analysis was made
for these impacts especially for one dominant aspect ACLR or Tx non-linearity,
and EVM budget was given as an example. It is worth to note that examples of
improved ACLR and/or TX non-linearity are compiled from two vendors' inputs,
which reflect different implementations. Actually, in a practical
implementation process the impact of each of the EVM contributors need to be
traded off with each other to meet the final EVM requirement.
Figure 5.3.1-1 presents a simulated relationship between the ACLR achieved at
the output of a 30GHz CMOS PA and a GaN PA, respectively, and EVM from one
vendor's perspective. The figure indicates the PA must be dimensioned such
that it would be capable to meet an ACLR of around 7dB greater than the SNR
implied by the EVM. For 3.5% EVM (256QAM), the corresponding SNR is \~29dB,
implying a PA operating with an ACLR of around 36dB.
{width="4.382638888888889in" height="3.2840277777777778in"}
**Figure 5.3.1-1: A relationship between ACLR achieved at 30GHz CMOS PA and
GaN PA, respectively and EVM.**
In another example for 256 QAM 3.5% EVM is an example target limit, and the
corresponding SNR is \~29 dB. In order to achieve the target EVM limit, some
power back-off is needed in the given example from one vendor. It should be
noted that power back-off would also be needed to support for high MCS 64QAM.
Table 5.3.1-1 shows one example of EVM budget on BS Tx. From the EVM budget it
can be found that less than 3% EVM is achievable for BS Tx with 34.9dBc Tx
non-linearity contribution to EVM. The presented result is an example and
should not be considered as minimum requirements.
**Table 5.3.1-1: Example of EVM budget**
**Tx EVM contributor** **EVM** (%) **SNR(dBc)**
* * *
Tx non-linearity 1.80% 34.9 Digital part 1.50% 36.5 Phase noise 1.60% 35.9 IQ
imbalance 0.80% 41.9 Total 2.95% 30.6
Although the above analysis from individual vendors shows improved ACLR, the
exact impact to the implementation cannot be generalized as it depends on the
implementation specific trade-offs between different EVM contributors,
including ACLR. For example, in case the EVM performance is limited by PA non-
linearity, then it follows that the logical way to improve the performance is
to improve the PA, or back-off transmission power. Power back-off will have
also negative impact on the efficiency of the PA. One example of of PAE from a
single vendor is shown in Figure 5.3.1-2.
{width="4.549305555555556in" height="3.402083333333333in"}
Figure 5.3.1-2 Simulation of 30 GHz CMOS and GaN power amplifier models
showing PAE as a function of EVM.
Lower PA efficiency has only limited impact to the efficiency of the whole BS,
as other aspects such as digital processing also consume significant
percentage of the total power. On the other hand, if EVM performance is
limited by phase noise, one design option to improve performance can be by
selecting a better PLL. In this case impact to maximum output power and BS
efficiency is negligible.
Based on the analysis it can be said that there are cases where the Tx chain
which can be used for BS supporting modulations up to 64QAM cannot be fully
re-used for a base station supporting 256QAM. However, based on the analysis
it can be also said that commercial components exist which enable support of
256QAM. Therefore BS Tx impairments or other implementation considerations do
not preclude feasibility of 256QAM or performance benefit from 256QAM.
As a conclusion support of FR2 DL 256QAM is feasible from BS implementation
perspective.
## 5.4 Conclusion
The feasibility of FR2 DL 256QAM has been evaluated, including link level
simulation, system level simulation and implementation study. Based on the
study output, it can be concluded that FR2 DL 256QAM is feasible and
beneficial as concluded in section 5.2.1.10, 5.2.2.6 and 5.3, and
corresponding requirements shall be discussed and specified afterwards.
# 6 Specification impact for DL 256QAM
## 6.1 BS part
The specification impacts for BS part include EVM and OTA RE power control
dynamic range.
The EVM requirement for FR2 DL 256QAM is listed in table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: EVM requirements for _BS type 2-O_ carrier
Modulation scheme for PDSCH Required EVM (%)
* * *
QPSK 17.5 16QAM 12.5 64QAM 8 256QAM 3.5%
For OTA RE power control dynamic range, since no request to do power
boosting/de-boosting for especially 256QAM for FR2, by following the same
story with other modulation order, there is no need to define RE power control
dynamic range for FR2 DL 256QAM.
## 6.2 UE part
The specification impacts for UE part include maximum input level and
reference measurement channel.
The maximum input level is UE Rx requirement which reflects the UE receiver
linearity capability. If the maximum input level for 256QAM share the same
requirement as for QPSK, then the linearity of the receiver need to be
improved. Thus, considering the same story with FR1, it is proposed to also
relax 2dB by comparing with QPSK to define maximum input power level for
256QAM as -27dBm. The corresponding modifications for single carrier and
intra-band CA are shown in the table 6.2-1 and table 6.2-2. The Reference
measurement channels for 256QAM are shown in the table 6.2-3 and 6.2-4.
Table 6.2-1: Maximum input level
+-----------------+-------+-----------------+------+------+------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +=================+=======+=================+======+======+======+ | | | 50\ | 100\ | 200\ | 400\ | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+------+------+------+ | Power in | dBm | -25 (NOTE 2) | | | | | transmission | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+------+------+------+ | | | -27 (NOTE 3) | | | | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+------+------+------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | shall be set to | | | | | | | 4 dB below the | | | | | | | lower limit of | | | | | | | the P~UMAX,f,c~ | | | | | | | inequality | | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | 6.2.4, with | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | Table 7.3.2.1-2 | | | | | | | in 38101-2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | Annex A.3.3.2: | | | | | | | QPSK, R=1/3 | | | | | | | variant with | | | | | | | one sided | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | Pattern as | | | | | | | described in | | | | | | | Annex A in | | | | | | | 38101-2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | Annex table | | | | | | | 6.2-3: 256QAM, | | | | | | | R=4/5 variant | | | | | | | with one sided | | | | | | | dynamic OCNG | | | | | | | Pattern as | | | | | | | described in | | | | | | | Annex A in | | | | | | | 38101-2. | | | | | | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+------+------+------+
Table 6.2-2: Maximum input level for CA
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | All CA configurations | | | | included in BCS 0 | +=============================+=======+=============================+ | Power summed over | dBm | -25 (NOTE 2) | | transmission bandwidth | | | | configurations of all | | | | active DL CCs | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | | | -27 (NOTE 3) | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The transmitter | | | | shall be set to 4 dB below | | | | the lower limit of the | | | | P~UMAX,f,c~ inequality | | | | defined in subclause 6.2.4, | | | | with uplink configuration | | | | specified in Table | | | | 7.3.2.1-2 | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Reference | | | | measurement channel in each | | | | CC is specified in Annex | | | | A.3.3.2: QPSK, R=1/3 | | | | variant with one sided | | | | dynamic OCNG Pattern as | | | | described in Annex A. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Reference | | | | measurement channel is | | | | specified in Annex table | | | | 6.2-4: 256QAM, R=4/5 | | | | variant with one sided | | | | dynamic OCNG Pattern as | | | | described in Annex A in | | | | 38101-2. | | | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
Table 6.2-3: Fixed Reference Channel for Receiver Requirements (SCS 60 kHz,
TDD)
+--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | | | +================================+======+=========+=========+=========+ | Channel bandwidth | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Subcarrier spacing | | 2 | 2 | 2 | | configuration | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Allocated resource blocks | | 66 | 132 | 264 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Subcarriers per resource block | | 12 | 12 | 12 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Allocated slots per Frame | | 23 | 23 | 23 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCS index | | 24 | 24 | 24 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Modulation | | 256QAM | 256QAM | 256QAM | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Target Coding Rate | | 4/5 | 4/5 | 4/5 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Maximum number of HARQ | | 1 | 1 | 1 | | transmissions | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Information Bit Payload per | | | | | | Slot | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slots 0 and Slot i, if | Bits | N/A | N/A | N/A | | mod(i, 5) = {3,4} for i from | | | | | | {0,...,39} | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slot i, if mod(i, 5) = | Bits | 44040 | 88064 | 176208 | | {0,1,2} for i from {1,...,39} | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Transport block CRC | Bits | 24 | 24 | 24 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | LDPC base graph | | 1 | 1 | 1 | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number of Code Blocks per Slot | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slots 0 and Slot i, if | CBs | N/A | N/A | N/A | | mod(i, 5) = {3,4} for i from | | | | | | {0,...,39} | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slot i, if mod(i, 5) = | CBs | 6 | 11 | 21 | | {0,1,2} for i from {1,...,39} | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Binary Channel Bits Per Slot | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slots 0 and Slot i, if | Bits | N/A | N/A | N/A | | mod(i, 5) = {3,4} for i from | | | | | | {0,...,39} | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slot i, if mod(i, 5) = | Bits | 54648 | 109296 | 218592 | | {0,1,2} for i from {1,...,39} | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | Max. Throughput averaged over | Mbps | 101.292 | 202.547 | 405.278 | | 1 frame | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: Additional parameters | | | | | | are specified in Table A.3.1-1 | | | | | | and Table A.3.3.1-1 in | | | | | | 38.101-2. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If more than one Code | | | | | | Block is present, an | | | | | | additional CRC sequence of L = | | | | | | 24 Bits is attached to each | | | | | | Code Block (otherwise L = 0 | | | | | | Bit). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: SS/PBCH block is | | | | | | transmitted in slot 0 of each | | | | | | frame | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Slot i is slot index | | | | | | per frame | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: PTRS is configured on | | | | | | symbols containing PDSCH with | | | | | | 1 port, per 2PRB in frequency | | | | | | domain, per symbol in time | | | | | | domain. Overhead for TBS | | | | | | calculation is assumed to be | | | | | | 6. | | | | | +--------------------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 6.2-4: Fixed Reference Channel for Receiver Requirements (SCS 120 kHz,
TDD)
+------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | | | | +==================+======+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | Channel | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | bandwidth | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Subcarrier | | 3 | 3 | 3 | 3 | | spacing | | | | | | | configuration | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Allocated | | 32 | 66 | 132 | 264 | | resource blocks | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Subcarriers per | | 12 | 12 | 12 | 12 | | resource block | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Allocated slots | | 47 | 47 | 47 | 47 | | per Frame | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MCS index | | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Modulation | | 256QAM | 256QAM | 256QAM | 256QAM | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Target Coding | | 4/5 | 4/5 | 4/5 | 4/5 | | Rate | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Maximum number | | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | of HARQ | | | | | | | transmissions | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Information Bit | | | | | | | Payload per Slot | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slots 0 and | Bits | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | Slot i, if | | | | | | | mod(i, 5) = | | | | | | | {3,4} for i from | | | | | | | {0,...,79} | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slot i, if | Bits | 21504 | 44040 | 88064 | 176208 | | mod(i, 5) = | | | | | | | {0,1,2} for i | | | | | | | from {1,...,79} | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Transport block | Bits | 24 | 24 | 24 | 24 | | CRC | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | LDPC base graph | | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number of Code | | | | | | | Blocks per Slot | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slots 0 and | CBs | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | Slot i, if | | | | | | | mod(i, 5) = | | | | | | | {3,4} for i from | | | | | | | {0,...,79} | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slot i, if | CBs | 3 | 6 | 11 | 21 | | mod(i, 5) = | | | | | | | {0,1,2} for i | | | | | | | from {1,...,79} | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Binary Channel | | | | | | | Bits Per Slot | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slots 0 and | Bits | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | Slot i, if | | | | | | | mod(i, 5) = | | | | | | | {3,4} for i from | | | | | | | {0,...,79} | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | For Slot i, if | Bits | 26496 | 54648 | 109296 | 218592 | | mod(i, 5) = | | | | | | | {0,1,2} for i | | | | | | | from {1,...,79} | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Max. Throughput | Mbps | 101.069 | 206.988 | 413.901 | 828.178 | | averaged over 1 | | | | | | | frame | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Additional | | | | | | | parameters are | | | | | | | specified in | | | | | | | Table A.3.1-1 | | | | | | | and Table | | | | | | | A.3.3.1-1 in | | | | | | | 38.101-2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If more | | | | | | | than one Code | | | | | | | Block is | | | | | | | present, an | | | | | | | additional CRC | | | | | | | sequence of L = | | | | | | | 24 Bits is | | | | | | | attached to each | | | | | | | Code Block | | | | | | | (otherwise L = 0 | | | | | | | Bit). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: SS/PBCH | | | | | | | block is | | | | | | | transmitted in | | | | | | | slot 0 of each | | | | | | | frame | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Slot i | | | | | | | is slot index | | | | | | | per frame | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: PTRS is | | | | | | | configured on | | | | | | | symbols | | | | | | | containing PDSCH | | | | | | | with 1 port, per | | | | | | | 2PRB in | | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | | domain, per | | | | | | | symbol in time | | | | | | | domain. Overhead | | | | | | | for TBS | | | | | | | calculation is | | | | | | | assumed to be 6. | | | | | | +------------------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# Annex A (informative): System level simulation assumptions
# A.1 Assumptions from Huawei
According to the approved WF in [A-1], the system simulation assumptions for
mmWave were agreed as following
  * _The assumptions agreed for UE in [A-2] can be used as a reference for urban macro scenario_
The simulation methodology for EVM model and simulation metrics are as
follows.
**_[EVM model]{.underline}_**
  * The tx EVM is modeled corresponding to the MCS by adding a certain white noise to the transmitter, and the white noise follows the distribution as.
**_[Simulation metrics]{.underline}_**
The simulation results are for SINR statistics at the UE side, of which the
interference is consisted by own system co-channel interference. Considering
the co-channel interference variation with tx EVM, the tx EVM requirement
shall be determined by comparing SINR degradation across a range of EVM
values. Further, the SINR degradation for the certain EVM can be quantized by
mapping to the corresponding throughput loss to evaluate the system
performance more directly.
# A.2 Assumptions from Nokia
Figure A.2-1 presents simulation layout in suburban area with single-storey or
double-storey buildings and vegetation with area of 700m x 600m, consist of 16
blocks with 20 buildings each. For each block two sectors BS is used, with one
sector per 10 buildings. There is assumption that 90% of buildings have
outside CPEs, and 10% of buildings closest to BS use inside CPEs. Geometry and
details are presented in figure A.2-1. Table A.2-1 provides parameters used in
simulations for BS and CPE.
{width="4.872222222222222in" height="8.082638888888889in"}
**Figure A.2-1: Simulation layout**
**Table A.2-1: Simulation parameters**
**BS**
* * *
Carrier frequency 28 GHz Channel Bandwidth 800 MHz Antenna pattern According
to [A-3] Gain of antenna element 6 dBi Antenna array (H × V) 16x8 Tx power
(without loss) / polarization 31 dBm Height of antenna 8 m **CPE**  
UE density 1 UE / sector Antenna pattern According to [A-3] Gain of antenna
element 6 dBi Antenna array (H × V) 1x1 / 2x2 Height of antenna 1,5 m
Orientation in horizontal plane Towards BS Orientation in vertical plane
Towards BS Noise Factor 9 dB
As 3GPP TR 38.901 does not specify channel model for suburban area, the 3GPP
UMi Street Canyon model has been used, with modification of path loss and
angular spread characteristics according to measurement campaign performed in
real suburban campaign in 28 GHz frequency band [A-4].
Propagation conditions that are assumed in simulations are described in table
A.2-2. Path loss channel models used in simulations are described in table
A.2-3.
+-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | > **BS -- CPE |** Conditions**|** Note**| | > separation in 2D** | | | +=========================+================+=========================+ | _Up to 20 m_ | LOS/Indoor | BS and CPE on the same | | | | street. All LOS CPEs | | | | are Indoor | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | _Beyond 20 m_ | VLOS/Outdoor | BS and CPE on the same | | | | street. LOS with | | | | Vegetation (VLOS) | | | | [A-4] | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+ | _Different street_ | NLOS/Outdoor | BS and CPE on different | | | | streets. | +-------------------------+----------------+-------------------------+
**Table A.2-2: Assumed propagation conditions**
**Table A.2-3: Path loss channel model according to [A-4]**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Propagation |** Path loss [dB]**|** Standard deviation | | conditions**| | [dB]** | | | **(d [m]: distance | | | | between BS and | | | | CPE)** | | +======================+======================+======================+ | _LOS_ | 61,4 + 24,0 · | 4,2 | | | log~10~(d) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _VLOS_ | 45,1 + 40,6 · | 6,4 | | | log~10~(d) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _NLOS_ | 80,3 + 31,3 · | 4,8 | | | log~10~(d) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | _O2I_ | 15,1 | 2,5 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Angular spread models for departure and arrival (Azimuth Spread of Departure
(ASD); Zenith Spread of Departure (ZSD); Azimuth Spread of Arrival (ASA);
Zenith Spread of Arrival (ZSA)) used in simulations are presented in table
A.2-4.
**Table A.2-4: Angular spread model for departure and arrival**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | **log~10~** | **log~10~** | **log~10~** | **log~10~** | | Propagation | | | | | | c | * | * | * | * | | onditions**| *(ASD/1º)** | _(ZSD/1º)__|_(ASA/1º)**| *(ZSA/1º)** | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | _LOS_ | 3GPP | 3GPP | _μ_ = 1,21 | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | UMi SC | UMi SC | _σ_ = 0,12 | UMi SC | | | [A-5] | [A-5] | | [A-5] | | | | | [A-4] | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | _VLOS_ | _μ_ = 0,82 | 3GPP | _μ_ = 1,21 | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | _σ_ = 0,24 | UMi SC | _σ_ = 0,12 | UMi SC | | | | [A-5] | | [A-5] | | | [A-4] | | [A-4] | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | _NLOS_ | _μ_ = 0,82 | 3GPP | _μ_ = 1,21 | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | _σ_ = 0,24 | UMi SC | _σ_ = 0,12 | UMi SC | | | | [A-5] | | [A-5] | | | [A-4] | | [A-4] | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# A.3 Assumptions from Intel
The simulation assumptions are from TR 38.802 and TR 38.855. Table A.3-1
provides information on the main simulation assumptions.
**Table A.3-1: System level simulation assumptions**
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | **Indoor |** Urban | | | | Hotspot**| Micro** | | +================+================+================+================+ | Layout | Indoor floor: | Hexagonal | | | | (12BSs per | grid, 19 macro | | | | 120m x 50m), | sites, 3 | | | | TRP number per | sectors per | | | | floor:12, | site, ISD = | | | | Inter-gNB | 200m | | | | distance = 20m | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE drop | 100% indoors,\ | 100% | | | procedure | uniformly | outdoors,\ | | | | distributed | uniformly | | | | | distributed | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel model | Indoor open | UMi Street | | | | office from TR | Canyon from TR | | | | 38.901 | 38.901 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | gNB parameters | Antenna | (M, N, P, | (M, N, P, | | | configuration | M~g~, N~g~) = | M~g~, N~g~) = | | | | (4, 8, 2, 1, | (4, 8, 2, 2, | | | | 1) | 2) | | | | | | | | | d~H~=d~V~=0.5λ | d~H~=d~V~=0.5λ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Antenna | TR 38.802 | TR 38.802 | | | radiation | Table A.2.1-7 | Table A.2.1-6 | | | pattern | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Number of | 8 | 16 | | | beams | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Beam selection | Optimal beam | | | | | for Serving | | | | | cell, random | | | | | for | | | | | neighboring | | | | | cells | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Antenna height | 3 m | 10 m | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | TX power | 24dBm | 37dBm (per | | | | | panel) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | UE parameters | Antenna | 4 antenna | | | | configuration | elements, 2 | | | (FR2 PC3 UE , | | panels | | | Handheld) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Antenna | Omni, 0dBi | | | | radiation | | | | | pattern | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Antenna height | 1.5 m | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Avg. element | 5 dBi | | | | gain | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Implementation | 10 dB | | | | loss | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Noise figure | 10 dB | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# A.4 Assumptions from Ericsson
Macro scenario:
+------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | **Parameters** | | +==============================+======================================+ | Macro site distance | 200 m | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of sites | 19 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Frequency range | 30GHz | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Beamforming | Yes | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Simulation bandwidth | 200MHz | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Number of UEs in the network | 1 active UE/sector | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Traffic Model | Full buffer | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Channel Model | nr-uma from TR 38.900 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | Propagation conditions | LOS | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | gNB Tx power | 33 dBm for macro. | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | gNB antenna height | 25m for macro cells | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | gNB receiver noise figure | 10 dB | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | BS antenna configuration | (Mg, Ng, M, N, P) = (1, 1, 8, 16, 1) | | | | | | | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | UE Tx power (dBm) | 22.4 dBm | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+ | UE noise figure (dB) | 10 | +------------------------------+--------------------------------------+
Indoor:
**Parameters**
* * *
Indoor layout Open office 50x120m Number of sites 6 Frequency range 30GHz
Simulation bandwidth 200MHz Number of UEs in the network 1 active UE/sector
Traffic Model Full buffer Channel Model nr-inh-open from TR 38.900 Propagation
conditions LOS gNB Tx power 23 dBm gNB receiver noise figure 10 dB UE Tx power
(dBm) 22.4 dBm UE noise figure (dB) 10
# A.5 Assumptions from NTT DOCOMO
Table A.5-1 shows the simulation assumption for system level simulation, which
is based on TR 38.802 and modified for the feasibility study.
**Table A.5-1: Simulation assumption for system level simulation**
+-------------------+------------------------------------+ | **Parameter** | **Value** | +===================+====================================+ | Deployment | Single macro layer, Hex. Grid | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | ISD | 200m | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 28GHz (n257) | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | CBW | 100MHz | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | SCS | 120kHz | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | Channel model | TR38.901 UMi-Street canyon | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS Tx power | 33 dBm | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | Num. of beams | 64 | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS antenna config | (M,N,P,Mg,Ng) = (8,16,2,1,1) | | | | | | (dH,dV,dHg,dVg) = (0.5,0.5,NA,NA)λ | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | BS antenna height | 10m | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE antenna height | 1.5m (all outdoor) | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE receiver NF | 13dB | +-------------------+------------------------------------+ | UE distribution | 3 users per TRP | +-------------------+------------------------------------+
# Annex B (informative): Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-19 | | | | TR | 0.0.1 | | 19-08 | 4#92 | 10478 | | | | skel | | | | | | | | | eton: | | | | | | | | | Study | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | of NR | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | Quadr | | | | | | | | | ature | | | | | | | | | Ampl | | | | | | | | | itude | | | | | | | | | Modul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | (QAM) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | (FR2) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | R | R4-19 | | | | I | 0.1.0 | | 19-10 | AN4# | 11086 | | | | mplem | | | | 92bis | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #92: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 0591, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .8xx: | | | | | | | | | Simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ssump | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | easib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 0480, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .8xx: | | | | | | | | | Link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | easib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 0479, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .8xx: | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | easib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | R4-19 | | | | I | 0.2.0 | | 19-11 | 4#93 | 13902 | | | | mplem | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #9 | | | | | | | | | 2bis: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 0847, | | | | | | | | | " | | | | | | | | | Addit | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | on DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | Hu | | | | | | | | | awei, | | | | | | | | | HiSi | | | | | | | | | licon | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 2892, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 56QAM | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | resu | | | | | | | | | lts", | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | okia, | | | | | | | | | Nokia | | | | | | | | | Sha | | | | | | | | | nghai | | | | | | | | | Bell | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 2893, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | | | Link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | mulat | | | | | | | | | ion", | | | | | | | | | Eri | | | | | | | | | csson | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 1088, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 3051, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.883 | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 56QAM | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | resu | | | | | | | | | lts", | | | | | | | | | NTT | | | | | | | | | DO | | | | | | | | | COMO, | | | | | | | | | INC | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 2894, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | mulat | | | | | | | | | ion", | | | | | | | | | Eri | | | | | | | | | csson | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 2895, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | TR: | | | | | | | | | BS | | | | | | | | | Impl | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | aspe | | | | | | | | | cts", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 2896, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | Concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | easib | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-1 | | | | U | 1.0.0 | | 19-12 | #86 | 92727 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | story | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-20 | | | | I | 1.1.0 | | 20-02 | #94-e | 00909 | | | | mplem | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | #93: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 3493, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.883 | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | Qua | | | | | | | | | lcomm | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | corpo | | | | | | | | | rated | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 3734, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 56QAM | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR2", | | | | | | | | | CATT | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 4081, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.883 | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 56QAM | | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | simul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | resu | | | | | | | | | lts", | | | | | | | | | NTT | | | | | | | | | DO | | | | | | | | | COMO, | | | | | | | | | INC. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-191 | | | | | | | | | 4568, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | to TR | | | | | | | | | 38 | | | | | | | | | .883: | | | | | | | | | Up | | | | | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | | | | mulat | | | | | | | | | ion", | | | | | | | | | Eri | | | | | | | | | csson | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4 | R4-20 | | | | I | 1.2.0 | | 20-04 | #94- | 03656 | | | | mplem | | | | e-Bis | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | | 94-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-200 | | | | | | | | | 0910, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.883 | | | | | | | | | BS RF | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-20 | | | | I | 1.3.0 | | 20-05 | #95-e | 06927 | | | | mplem | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | #94-e | | | | | | | | | -Bis: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-200 | | | | | | | | | 3658, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.883 | | | | | | | | | UE RF | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | 256 | | | | | | | | | QAM", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN4\ | R4-20 | | | | I | 1.4.0 | | 20-05 | #95-e | 08968 | | | | mplem | | | | | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | TPs | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | RAN4 | | | | | | | | | # | | | | | | | | | 95-e: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | 4-200 | | | | | | | | | 6928, | | | | | | | | | "TP | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8.883 | | | | | | | | | Edi | | | | | | | | | toral | | | | | | | | | cor | | | | | | | | | recti | | | | | | | | | ons", | | | | | | | | | China | | | | | | | | | Te | | | | | | | | | lecom | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | RAN | RP-2 | | | | U | 2.0.0 | | 20-06 | \ | 00862 | | | | pdate | | | | #88-e | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hi | | | | | | | | | story | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+