# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for NR V2X services with sidelink
operation in Rel-16. The purpose is to specify radio solutions that are
necessary for NR to support advanced V2X services (except the remote driving
use case which was studied in TR 38.824) based on the study outcome captured
in TR 38.885.
1\. NR sidelink: Specify NR sidelink solutions necessary to support sidelink
unicast, sidelink groupcast, and sidelink broadcast for V2X services,
considering **in-network coverage, out-of-network coverage, and partial
network coverage**.
The solutions should cover both the operating scenario where the carrier(s)
is/are dedicated to V2X services and the operating scenario where the
carrier(s) is/are licensed spectrum and also used for NR Uu/LTE Uu operation.
NR sidelink design starts with frequencies in FR1, and NR sidelink in FR2 is
supported by applying the design for FR1 and PT-RS to the numerologies agreed
for FR2. No FR2 specific optimization is supported in this WI except PT-RS. No
beam management is supported in this work.
For the scenarios of NR sidelink carrier, this work will consider a single
carrier for the NR sidelink transmission and reception.
In this work, 2Rx antennas as well as 4Rx antennas are supported. The full
range of speeds defined in SA1 (TS 22.186) needs to be supported in FR1.
2\. Specify support for NR Uu to provide control for LTE sidelink
3\. Specify UE report to assist gNB scheduling
**4\. Specify support for QoS management**
This Technical Report focus on NR sidelink UE Tx/Rx RF requirements and
contains the adjacent channel coexistence evaluation results for NR sidelink
operation at both licensed bands and the dedicated ITS spectrum for V2X
service.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.101-3: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking operation with other
radios\".
[6] R4-1910400, "TP on adjacent channel co-existence scenarios and parameters
for NR V2X service on FR1"
[7] R4-1911489, " [V2X] NR V2X coexistence simulation results for ITS spectrum
case1 and case3"
[8] R4-1911490, " [V2X] NR V2X coexistence simulation results for ITS spectrum
case2 and case4"
[9] R4-1910402, "Initial coexistence simulation results of NR V2X for ITS
band"
[10] R4-1912473, "NR V2X RF Coex Simulation results"
[11] R4-1911491, "[V2X] NR V2X coexistence simulation results for licensed
band"
[12] R4-1912865, "Coexistence simulation results in licensed bands"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
AGC Automatic Gain Control
A-MPR Additional Maximum Power Reduction
BLER BLock Error Rate
BS Base Station
CBW Channel Bandwidth
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CP-OFDM Cyclic Prefix-OFDM
DMRS Demodulation Reference Signal
DSRC Dedicated Short-Range Communications
EIRP Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
FR1 Frequency Range 1
FR2 Frequency Range 2
ITS Intelligent Transportation System
LDPC Low Density Parity Check
LTE Long Term Evolution
LOS Line-Of-Sight
MPR Maximum Power Reduction
NF Noise Figure
NLOS Non-Line-Of-Sight
NR New Radio
OLPC Open Loop Power Control
PC Power Control
PRB Physical Resource Block
PRR Package Reception Ratio
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
SINR Signal to Interference plus Noise Ratio
SL Sidelink
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDM Time Division Multiplexing
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
V2X Vehicle to Everything
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
To expand the 3GPP platform to the automotive industry, the initial standard
on support of V2V services was completed in September 2016. Enhancements that
focusing on additional V2X operation scenarios leveraging the cellular
infrastructure, are completed in March 2017 as 3GPP V2X phase 1 for inclusion
in Release 14 LTE. In Rel-14 LTE V2X, a basic set of requirements for V2X
service in TS 22.185 derived from TR 22.885 has been supported, which are
considered sufficient for basic road safety service. Vehicles (i.e., UEs
supporting V2X applications) can exchange their own status information through
sidelink, such as position, speed and heading, with other nearby vehicles,
infrastructure nodes and/or pedestrians.
3GPP V2X phase 2 in Rel-15 introduces a number of new features in sidelink,
including: carrier aggregation, high order modulation, latency reduction, and
feasibility study on both transmission diversity and short TTI in sidelink.
All these enhanced features in 3GPP V2X phase 2 are primary base on LTE and
require co-existing with Rel-14 UE in same resource pool.
SA1 has completed enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X services (eV2X services)
in Rel-15. The consolidated requirements for each use case group (see below)
are captured in TR 22.886, and a set of the normative requirements are defined
in TS 22.186 in Rel-15.
SA1 has identified 25 use cases for advanced V2X services and they are
categorized into four use case groups: vehicles platooning, extended sensors,
advanced driving and remote driving. The detailed description of each use case
group is provided as below.
**Vehicles Platooning** enables the vehicles to dynamically form a group
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon receive periodic data
from the leading vehicle, in order to carry on platoon operations. This
information allows the distance between vehicles to become extremely small,
i.e., the gap distance translated to time can be very low (sub second).
Platooning applications may allow the vehicles following to be autonomously
driven.
**Extended Sensors** enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video data among vehicles, RSUs, devices of
pedestrians and V2X application servers. The vehicles can enhance the
perception of their environment beyond what their own sensors can detect and
have a more holistic view of the local situation.
**Advanced Driving** enables semi-automated or fully-automated driving. Longer
inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares data
obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity, thus allowing
vehicles to coordinate their trajectories or maneuvers. In addition, each
vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in proximity. The benefits
of this use case group are safer traveling, collision avoidance, and improved
traffic efficiency.
**Remote Driving** enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive themselves or a remote
vehicle located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. In addition, access to cloud-based back-
end service platform can be considered for this use case group.
SA1 has considered both LTE and NR for the candidates of 3GPP RATs in
supporting eV2X.
The SA2 study has been progressed to identify and evaluate potential
architecture enhancements of EPS and 5G System design needed to support
advanced V2X services identified in TR 22.886, based on vehicular services
requirements defined in SA1 V2X (TS 22.185) and eV2X (TS 22.186) and determine
which of the solutions can proceed to normative specifications. SA2 has
completed the study and started the normative work on the architecture
solutions for V2X.
TSG RAN has already agreed in TR 38.913 that it is not intended for NR V2X to
replace the services offered by LTE V2X. Instead, the NR V2X shall complement
LTE V2X for advanced V2X services and support interworking with LTE V2X. At
least from 3GPP RAN technology development standpoint, the focus and scope of
NR V2X is to target advanced V2X use cases. However, this does not imply that
NR V2X cannot support basic safety use cases. It is clearly up to the regional
regulators and the stakeholders involved (i.e. Car OEMs and automotive
ecosystem in general) to decide on the technology of choice for any service
and any use case.
NR V2X is destined as 3GPP V2X phase 3 and would support advanced V2X services
beyond services supported in LTE Rel-15 V2X. The advanced V2X services would
require enhanced NR system and new NR sidelink to meet the stringent
requirements. NR V2X system is expected have a flexible design in support of
services with low latency and high reliability requirements. NR system also
expects to have higher system capacity and better coverage. The flexibility of
NR sidelink framework would allow easy extension of NR system to support the
future development of further advanced V2X services and other services. RAN
WGs have conducted the feasibility study on NR V2X, and it was concluded in TR
38.885 that it is feasible to support advanced V2X services using the
technical solutions identified during the study. It is noted that the study on
the remote driving use case was conducted in TR 38.824. Meanwhile, it was
noted that solutions defined for V2X can also be used for public safety when
the service requirement can be met.
## 4.2 Objective
The objective of this work item is to specify radio solutions that are
necessary for NR to support advanced V2X services (except the remote driving
use case which was studied in TR 38.824) based on the study outcome captured
in TR 38.885. RAN4 should focus on the RAN WG4 work scope in the approved WID
[1] as below
1\. NR sidelink: Specify NR sidelink solutions necessary to support sidelink
unicast, sidelink groupcast, and sidelink broadcast for V2X services,
considering **in-network coverage, out-of-network coverage, and partial
network coverage**.
Solutions for 'not co-channel' in-device coexistence between LTE and NR
sidelinks
TDM-based solutions as per the study outcome [RAN1, RAN2, RAN4]
FDM-based solutions with static power allocation as per the study outcome
[RAN4]
This will not consider the case where LTE and NR sidelinks are in the same
frequency band.
No impact to LTE specifications at least from RAN1 and RAN2 perspective.
UE Tx and Rx RF requirement [RAN4]
This requirement should ensure
coexistence between sidelink and Uu interface in the same and adjacent
channels in licensed spectrum
coexistence with other V2X technologies in the adjacent channel in ITS
spectrum in 5.9 GHz, without assuming that 5.9 GHz spectrum will be
universally available nor that it will be universally available in sufficient
quantity to support NR V2X advanced use cases
RRM core requirement [RAN4]
The solutions should cover both the operating scenario where the carrier(s)
is/are dedicated to V2X services and the operating scenario where the
carrier(s) is/are licensed spectrum and also used for NR Uu/LTE Uu operation.
NR sidelink design starts with frequencies in FR1, and NR sidelink in FR2 is
supported by applying the design for FR1 and PT-RS to the numerologies agreed
for FR2. No FR2 specific optimization is supported in this WI except PT-RS. No
beam management is supported in this work.
For the scenarios of NR sidelink carrier, this work will consider a single
carrier for the NR sidelink transmission and reception.
In this work, 2Rx antennas as well as 4Rx antennas are supported. The full
range of speeds defined in SA1 (TS 22.186) needs to be supported in FR1.
It is assumed that any co-channel coexistence requirements and mechanisms of
NR sidelink with non-3GPP technologies will not be defined by 3GPP.
## 4.3 V2X operating scenarios
### 4.3.1 Operation Aspects
Scenarios considered by RAN4 for NR V2X sidelink operation are as follows:
\- (Aspect 1) Operation bands used as test points for evaluation
\- Case 1A: 5.9 GHz (for ITS spectrum)
\- Case 1B: 3.5 GHz (TDD) or 2GHz (FDD) (for licensed bands operation at FR1)
\- Case 1C: 28 GHz (for licensed bands operation at FR2)
\- (Aspect 2) gNB deployment including the possibility of network control
\- Case 2A: UE autonomous resource allocation, at least mode 2, based on semi-
statically network-configured/pre-configured radio parameters including no gNB
coverage case.
\- Case 2B: gNB providing more UE specific or/and more dynamic resource
allocation including Mode 1 compared to case 2A.
Within RAN4 for this NR V2X WI, analysis and specification of single carrier
operation is defined as a first priority compare to con-current operation in
Aspect3. (E.g. specify transmission and reception requirements for ITS
spectrum and licensed bands).
> **RAN4 should focus on the 5G V2X UE RF core requirements as 1^st^
> priority**
\- Specify RF core requirements in the ITS spectrum,
\- Specify RF core requirements for NR SL (at n47) and LTE SL (at B47) as TDM
for Tx transmission and simultaneous receptions,
\- Specify RF core requirements for licensed bands in which the entire band is
allocated for SL operation in a region.
\- Sidelink operation in partial bandwidth in licensed band is not precluded
in WI
\- (Aspect 3) Con-current operation
In 5G V2X WI, the multi-carrier V2X with sidelink operation is excluded in
rel-16. Only possible to support the con-current operation for V2X service
between 5G V2X sidelink and LTE/NR Uu operation.
After the single carrier 5G V2X operation with sidelink, RAN4 support the con-
current NR V2X operation will be defined as second priority in the NR V2X WI.
The expected con-current operation for V2X service support a number of
configurations including the following example band combinations:
\- Inter-band con-current operation:
\- NR V2X SL (at n47) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed bands)
\- LTE V2X SL (at B47) + NR Uu (at licensed bands)
\- NR V2X SL (at licensed band A) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed band B)
\- Intra-band con-current operation
\- NR V2X SL (at n47) + LTE V2X SL (at B47): only TDM operation is allowed
\- NR V2X SL (at licensed bands) + NR/LTE V2X Uu (at licensed bands)
Based on these operating scenarios, following Cases are decribed as below
Table 4.3.1-1 Con-current operation for NR V2X service
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | CC1 (NR PC5) | NR/LTE Band | NR/LTE | | | | (n47/B47) | Licensed Band | | | CC2 (NR or | | X (Uu V2X) | | | LTE) | (PC5 V2X) | | | | | | e.g.) B3/B8... | +================+================+================+================+ | Inter-band | NR/LTE Band | - N/A | - Case 3A: NR | | Con-current | (n47/B47) | | n47 (PC5) +NR | | operation | | | Band X(Uu) | | | (PC5 V2X) | | | | | | | - Case 3A: NR | | | | | n47 (PC5) +LTE | | | | | Band X(Uu) | | | | | | | | | | - Case 3B: | | | | | LTE Band 47 | | | | | (PC5) + NR | | | | | Band X(Uu) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | NR Licensed | - N/A in | - Case 3C: NR | | | band Y | rel-16: NR | Band Y(PC5) + | | | | Band Y(PC5) + | NR Band X(Uu) | | | (PC5 V2X) | NR n47 (PC5) | | | | | | - Case 3C: NR | | | | - N/A in | Band Y(PC5) + | | | | rel-16: NR | LTE Band X(Uu) | | | | Band Y(PC5) + | | | | | LTE B47 (PC5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Intra-band | NR Band (n47) | - N/A in | N/A | | Con-current | | rel-16: NR n47 | | | operation | (PC5 V2X) | (PC5) + NR n47 | | | | | (PC5) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | NR Licensed | - N/A | - Case 3E: NR | | | band X | | Band X(PC5) | | | | | +NR Band X(Uu) | | | (PC5 V2X) | | | | | | | - Case 3E: NR | | | | | Band X(PC5) + | | | | | LTE Band X(Uu) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Based on the Table 4.3.1-1, RAN4 analyze on the con-current operations with
multi-carrier as 2^nd^ priority in V2X WI since the single carrier SL
operation should be specified for NR V2X service with sidelink or licensed
band in rel-16. The con-current operation of V2X service will be reflected the
request of preferred band combinations from interested operator.
The con-current operation between 5G NR V2X SL and other system can be treated
as 2^nd^ priority. And 2^nd^ & 3^rd^ priority are proposed as following for
con-current operation.
\- 2^nd^ priority in con-current operation:
\- Case 3A: NR V2X PC5 (at n47) + NR/LTE Uu (at licensed bands) on inter-band
con-current operation
NR V2X PC5 (at n47) + NR Uu(at licensed bands)
NR V2X PC5 (at n47) + LTE Uu(at licensed bands)
\- Case 3C: NR V2X SL (at licensed band Y) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed band X) on
inter-band con-current operation
NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band Y) + NR Uu(at licensed band X)
NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band Y) + LTE Uu(at licensed band X)
\- 3^rd^ Priority for con-current operation (without ITS spectrum):
\- Case 3B: LTE Band 47 PC5 + NR Uu (at licensed bands) : need to study on
RAN4 impact when NR Uu control the LTE sidelink operation since the agreed WID
did not reflect RAN4 impact
\- Case 3E: NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band) + LTE/NR Uu (at licensed band) on
intra-band combination
\- NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band X) + LTE Uu (at licensed band X)
\- NR V2X PC5 (at licensed band X) + NR Uu (at licensed band X)
# 5 Evaluation of adjacent channel co-existence
## 5.1 General
In this section, the adjacent channel system coexistence evaluation was
studied for NR V2X services. The operating scenarios include both the cases
where the carrier is dedicated to NR V2X service in ITS spectrum (e.g. 5.9GHz)
and cases where the carrier is deployed for NR V2X service in licensed
spectrum. For the ITS spectrum (e.g. 5.9GHz), the coexistence evaluation
include LTE based V2V operation and/or DSRC/IEEE 802.11p operation on the
adjacent carrier of NR V2X. For the licensed carrier, the coexistence
evaluation include LTE or NR Uu on the adjacent carrier of NR V2X.
### 5.1.1 Adjacent channel coexistence scenarios
The adjacent channel coexistence evaluation scenarios for NR V2X service are
shown in Table 5.1.1-1
Table 5.1.1-1: The adjacent channel coexistence scenarios for NR V2X service
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NR V2X operating | Deployment scenarios | | | frequency | | | | | ( | | | | Aggressor-to-Victim) | | +======================+======================+======================+ | FR1 | V2X service at ITS | Case1: NR V2X | | | spectrum | UE-to-DSRC UE | | | | | | | (sidelink: 5.9GHz) | Case2: DSRC UE-to-NR | | | | V2X UE | | | | | | | | Case3: NR V2X | | | | UE-to-LTE V2X UE | | | | | | | | Case4: LTE V2X | | | | UE-to-NR V2X UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | V2X service at | Case5: NR V2X | | | licensed bands | UE-to-NR Uu BS | | | | | | | (TDD: 3.5GHz) | Case6: NR Uu | | | | UE-to-NR V2X UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | V2X service at | Case7: NR V2X | | | licensed bands | UE-to-LTE Uu BS | | | | | | | (FDD: 2GHz) | Case8: LTE Uu | | | | UE-to-NR V2X UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | FR2 | V2X service at | Case9: NR V2X | | | licensed bands | UE-to-NR Uu BS | | | | | | | | Case10: NR Uu | | | | UE-to-NR V2X UE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
> Basic simulation parameters are below
\- Deployment scenarios: Urban Manhattan grid model
\- Simulation Block Size :
\- Urban : Manhattan grid model: 3*433m, 3*250m
\- RAN1 dependent parameter
\- Power control scheme, RAN4 can revisit the PC according to RAN1 decision,
but following is initial
\- In licensed spectrum, OLPC in TR36.786 is used or no power control is used
\- In ITS spectrum, worst case of no power control is used
\- For licensed band, NR SL operation in Uplink band in FDD, UL opportunity in
TDD is considered.
\- For SINR calculation in partial overlapping between aggressor and victim,
worst case SINR should be considered.
The details of the deployment scenarios are presented in the following
clauses.
## 5.2 Co-existence simulation assumptions
### 5.2.1 Co-existence simulation parameters in ITS spectrum
#### 5.2.1.1 Layout model
{width="5.86956583552056in" height="6.477635608048994in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1-1 Network layout model for NR V2X coexistence simulation in ITS
spectrum
Table 5.2.1-1: Simulation layout model in ITS spectrum
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | carrier frequency | 5.9GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Deployment scenarios | Urban Mahathan grid model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation Block Size | 3*433m, 3*250m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Velocity of vehicles | 15km/h or 60km/h | | | | | | Note1: Fixed location will be | | | considered for adjacent channel | | | coexistence evaluation. | | | | | | Note2: Velocity is only used to | | | decide the UE's density. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model for | +--------+--------+--------+ | | | | LO | Pa | Shadow | | | - DSRC UE-to-DSRC UE | | S/NLOS | thloss | fading | | | | | /NLOSv | [dB] | std | | | - LTE V2X UE-to-LTE V2X UE | | | | [dB] | | | | +========+========+========+ | | - NR V2X UE-to-DSRC UE | | LOS, | For | σ~SF~ | | | | | NLOSv | H | = 3 | | | - DSRC UE-to-NR V2X UE | | | ighway | | | | | | | case, | | | | - NR V2X UE-to-LTE V2X UE | | | | | | | | | | PL = | | | | - LTE V2X UE-to-NR V2X UE | | | 32.4 + | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | g~10~( | | | | | | | d~3D~) | | | | | | | + 20 | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | og~10~ | | | | | | | (f~c~) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | Urban | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | PL= | | | | | | | 38.77 | | | | | | | + 16.7 | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | g~10~( | | | | | | | d~3D~) | | | | | | | + 18.2 | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | og~10~ | | | | | | | (f~c~) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+ | | | | NLOS | PL= | σ~SF~ | | | | | | 36.85 | = 4 | | | | | | + 30 | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | g~10~( | | | | | | | d~3D~) | | | | | | | + 18.9 | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | og~10~ | | | | | | | (f~c~) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+ | | | | Note | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | f~c~ | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | enotes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | in GHz | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | d~3D~ | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | enotes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Euc | | | | | | | lidean | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | stance | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | etween | | | | | | | TX and | | | | | | | RX in | | | | | | | 3D | | | | | | | space | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | eters. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | 2: The | | | | | | | model | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | patial | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | lation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | shadow | | | | | | | fading | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | efined | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | 36.885 | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plies. | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Dropping vehicles (based on | Vehicles are dropped according | | clause 6.1.2 from TR 37.885) | to the following process: | | | | | | - The distance between the rear | | | bumper of a vehicle and the | | | front bumper of the following | | | vehicle in the same lane is max | | | {2 meter, an exponential random | | | variable with the average of the | | | speed * 2 sec}. | | | | | | - All the vehicles in the same | | | lane have the same speed. | | | | | | - Vehicle type distribution is | | | not dependent of the lane. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total number of vehicles | It depends on vehicle UE density | | | and block size. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | vehicle UE activation rate for | 1% of total number of UEs | | aggressor and victim | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | vehicle type (based on clause | > \- Type 2 (passenger vehicle | | 6.1.2 from TR 37.885) | > with higher antenna position): | | | > length 5 meters, width 2.0 | | | > meters, height 1.6 meters, | | | > antenna height 1.6 meters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Simulation parameters
Table 5.2.1.2-1: Simulation parameters in ITS spectrum
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | DSRC UE | LTE V2X UE | NR V2X UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Tx power | 23dBm | 23dBm | 23dBm | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel | 10MHz | 20MHz | 40MHz | | Bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Packet size | 1) 190 byte | 1)14 PRB (190 | 1)[70] PRB | | | packet | byte packet) | (1100 byte | | | | | packet) for | | | 2) 300 byte | 2)20 PRB (300 | 15kHz SCS | | | packet | byte packet) | | | | | | 2)Other | | | | | options are | | | | | not precluded | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic model | 1 transmission | | | | | every 100ms | | | | | | | | | | 100ms message | | | | | generation | | | | | period | | | | | | | | | | Time instance | | | | | of message | | | | | generation is | | | | | randomized | | | | | among vehicles | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Noise figure | 10dB | 9dB | 9dB | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Antenna | Om | | | | pattern | ni-directional | | | | | with gain of | | | | | 0 dBi | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Sidelink Power | In ITS | | | | control | spectrum, | | | | | worst case of | | | | | no power | | | | | control is | | | | | used | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SINR-to-BLER | As per link | As per link | As per link | | mapping | level | level | level | | | performance | performance | performance | | | model in TR | model in TR | model in TR | | | 36.785 | 36.785 | 38.886 | | | | | | | | Table A-4 for | Table A-3 for | Table A-2 for | | | 5.9GHz | 5.9GHz | 5.9GHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 5.2.1.2-2: Additional simulation assumptions for DSRC UE
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | DSRC MCS | QPSK with r=1/2 | | | | | | Transmit duration of 341us | | | (190bytes) and 488 (300bytes) | | | without header | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC MAC | Coordination : DL+UL coexistence | | | evaluation : EDCA | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | Detection : Energy detection & | | | preamble detection | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Slot time | 13us (Note specified for 10MHz | | | [802.11 -2012]) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC DIFS | 58us (SIFS + 2*slot_time) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC SIFS | 32us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Physical header size | 40us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC Threshold triggering | -98dBm | | physical header decoding | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC CCA-CS | -85dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DSRC CCA-ED | -65dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | OFDM symbol duration | 8us | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.1.3 ACLR and ACS
1 Option 1 (as baseline) : 1 step ACLR/ACS model
Table 5.2.1.3-1: ACLR and ACS in ITS spectrum
+-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +===========+==========================================+============+===========+ | | DSRC UE | LTE V2X UE | NR V2X UE | +-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+ | ACLR | 26dB | 30dB | 30 + X dB | +-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+ | ACS | Use three candidate ACS level for DSRC : | 27dB | 24+ X dB | | | | | | | | 22/25/29dB | | | +-----------+------------------------------------------+------------+-----------+
Details for modelling:
2\. Option 2: 2 steps ACLR/ACS model.
ACLR:
\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and receiving
RB (victim) is smaller than the transmitter (aggressor) allocated transmission
bandwidth bandwidth then ACLR1 applies.
\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and receiving
RB (victim) is larger than the transmitter (aggressor) allocated transmission
bandwidth bandwidth then ACLR2 applies
ACS
\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and receiving
channel edge (victim) is smaller than 10MHz then ACS1 applies.
\- If the frequency offset between transmitting RB (aggressor) and receiving
channel edge (victim) is larger than 10MHz then ACS2 applies.
\- NOTE: 10MHz offset velue is derived from LTE V2X definition of ACS and
inband blocking requirement, as will as DSRC adjacent and alternate adjacent
channel rejection requirement definition
Table 5.2.1.3-2: ACLR1/2 and ACS1/2 in ITS spectrum
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +================+================+===============+================+ | | DSRC UE | LTE V2X UE | NR V2X UE | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | ACLR1 | 26dB | 30dB | 30 + X dB | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | ACLR2 | [39]dB | [43]dB | [43]dB | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | ACS1 | Use three | 27dB | 24+ X dB | | | candidate ACS | | | | | level for DSRC | | | | | : | | | | | | | | | | 22/25/29dB | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | ACS2 | > ACS1 + 16 | 43dB (NOTE 2) | [40]dB + | | | > (NOTE 1) | | X(NOTE 3) | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | following | | | | | definition of | | | | | alternate | | | | | adjacent | | | | | channel | | | | | rejection | | | | | requirement of | | | | | DSRC [EN 302 | | | | | 571] | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | following | | | | | definition of | | | | | in band | | | | | blocking | | | | | requirement, | | | | | case 1 of LTE | | | | | CV2X [TS | | | | | 36.101] | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | following | | | | | definition of | | | | | in band | | | | | blocking | | | | | requirement, | | | | | case 2 of NR | | | | | and apply same | | | | | tightening as | | | | | for LTE V2X. | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
### 5.2.2 Coexistence simulation parameters in FR1 FDD licensed spectrum
#### 5.2.2.1 Network layout model
{width="5.736340769903762in" height="5.673912948381452in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1-1 Network layout model for NR V2X coexistence simulation for
case7 and case8
Table 5.2.2-1: Simulation network layout model for case7 and case8
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +==================================+==================================+ | carrier frequency | 2GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The first layout for LTE WAN | [layer with 7 hexagonal cell | | | with wrap around]{.underline} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-BS distance | [500m]{.underline} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | LTE WAN UL scheduler algorithm | Round robin with full buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RBs allocated per active WAN UE | For LTE UE-to-LTE Uu BS: 32 PRBs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of active WAN UEs | 3UEs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of LTE WAN UEs | 20UEs/Cell, 100% outdoor | | | | | | (UEs are dropped with the equal | | | inter-UE distance in the middle | | | of the sidewalk) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Minimum coupling loss (for | As per clause 4.5.1 in TR | | V2X/WAN UEs from BS) | 36.942: | | | | | | MCL : 70dB for Urban area | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model for | Follow TR 37.885 for FR1 | | | | | - LTE UE-to-LTE Uu BS | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | FR1 | | | | - NR V2X UE-to-LTE Uu BS | +=============+=============+ | | | | LOS | NLOS | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | | | | [Urban:]{ | [Urban:]{ | | | | | .underline} | .underline} | | | | | | | | | | | TR 38.901 | TR 38.901 | | | | | UMa LOS | UMa NLOS | | | | | | | | | | | [Highway:]{ | [Highway:]{ | | | | | .underline} | .underline} | | | | | | | | | | | TR 38.901 | N/A | | | | | RMa LOS | | | | | +-------------+-------------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The second layout for NR V2X | Urban Mahathan grid model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Simulation Block Size | 433m, 250m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Velocity of vehicles | 15km/h or 60km/h | | | | | | Note1: Fixed location will be | | | considered for adjacent | | | coexistence evaluation. | | | | | | Note2: Velocity only used to | | | decide the UE density. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model for | +--------+--------+--------+ | | | | LO | Pa | Shadow | | | - LTE Uu UE-to-NR V2X UE | | S/NLOS | thloss | fading | | | | | /NLOSv | [dB] | std | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | +========+========+========+ | | | | LOS, | For | σ~SF~ | | | | | NLOSv | H | = 3 | | | | | | ighway | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | PL = | | | | | | | 32.4 + | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | g~10~( | | | | | | | d~3D~) | | | | | | | + 20 | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | og~10~ | | | | | | | (f~c~) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | Urban | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | PL= | | | | | | | 38.77 | | | | | | | + 16.7 | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | g~10~( | | | | | | | d~3D~) | | | | | | | + 18.2 | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | og~10~ | | | | | | | (f~c~) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+ | | | | NLOS | PL= | σ~SF~ | | | | | | 36.85 | = 4 | | | | | | + 30 | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | g~10~( | | | | | | | d~3D~) | | | | | | | + 18.9 | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | og~10~ | | | | | | | (f~c~) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+ | | | | Note | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | f~c~ | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | enotes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | center | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | in GHz | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | d~3D~ | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | enotes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Euc | | | | | | | lidean | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | stance | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | etween | | | | | | | TX and | | | | | | | RX in | | | | | | | 3D | | | | | | | space | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | eters. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | 2: The | | | | | | | model | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | patial | | | | | | | corre | | | | | | | lation | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | shadow | | | | | | | fading | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | efined | | | | | | | in TR | | | | | | | 36.885 | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plies. | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Dropping vehicles (based on | Vehicles are dropped according | | clause 6.1.2 from TR 37.885) | to the following process: | | | | | | - The distance between the rear | | | bumper of a vehicle and the | | | front bumper of the following | | | vehicle in the same lane is max | | | {2 meter, an exponential random | | | variable with the average of the | | | speed * 2 sec}. | | | | | | - All the vehicles in the same | | | lane have the same speed. | | | | | | - Vehicle type distribution is | | | not dependent of the lane. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total number of vehicles | It depends on UE density and | | | block size. All vehicles are NR | | | V2X UEs. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Vehicle UE activation rate | 1% of total number of vehicles | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | vehicle type (based on clause | - Type 2 (passenger vehicle | | 6.1.2 from TR 37.885) | with higher antenna position): | | | length 5 meters, width 2.0 | | | meters, height 1.6 meters, | | | antenna height 1.6 meters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.2.2 Simulation parameters
Table 5.2.2.2-1: Simulation parameters for case7 and case8
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parameter | Value | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | LTE UE | LTE BS | NR V2X UE | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Max Tx power | 23dBm | NA | 23dBm | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Channel | 10MHz | 10MHz | 40MHz | | Bandwidth | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Packet size | 1)[16] PRB | | 1)[70] PRB | | | for 15kHz SCS | | (1100 byte | | | | | packet) for | | | 2)Other | | 15kHz SCS | | | options are | | | | | not precluded | | 2)Other | | | | | options are | | | | | not precluded | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | Full buffer | Reference | | | | | table | | | | | 5.2.1.2-1 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Noise figure | NA | 5dB | 9dB | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Antenna | Om | From clause | Om | | pattern | ni-directional | 4.2.1.1 of TR | ni-directional | | | with gain of | 36.942 | with gain of | | | 0 dBi | | 0 dBi | | | | degrees, and | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SINR-to-BLER | NA | NA | As per link | | mapping for NR | | | level | | V2X | | | performance | | | | | model in TR | | | | | 38.886 | | | | | | | | | | Table A-2 for | | | | | 2GHz | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | SINR-to-rate | NA | As per link | NA | | mapping for | | level | | | LTE | | performance | | | | | model in TR | | | | | 36.942 (Table | | | | | A.2) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.2.2.3 ACLR and ACS
Table 5.2.2.3-1: ACLR and ACS for case7 and case8
Parameter Value
* * *
              LTE UE   LTE BS   NR V2X UE
ACLR 30 dB NA 30 + X dB ACS NA 46 dB 24+ X dB
#### 5.2.2.4 Power control
For LTE WAN UE transmit power control, the following power control equation
shall be used for the initial uplink coexistence simulations:
where _P_ ~max~ is the maximum transmit power, _R_ ~min~ is the minimum power
reduction ratio to prevent UEs with good channels to transmit at very low
power level, _CL_ is the path coupling loss defined as max{path loss-G_Tx-
G_Rx, MCL}, where path loss is propagation loss plus shadowfading, G_TX is the
transmitter antenna gain in the direction of the receiver, G_RX is the
receiver antenna gain in the direction of the transmitter and _CL~x-~_ ~ile~
is the _x_ -percentile _CL_ value. With this power control equation, the _x_
percent of UEs that have the highest coupling loss will transmit at _P_ ~max~.
Finally, 0\ Δ~shift~ = 0 kHz or 7.5 kHz indicated in IE (_frequencyShift7p5khz_), and
>
> N can be set as one of following values {-1, 0, 1}, are signalled by the
> network in higher layer parameters or configured by pre-configuration
> parameters.
##### 7.3.1.1.2 Channel raster to resource element mapping
Channel raster to resource element mapping defined in subclause 5.4.2.2 in
TS38.101-1 are applied for NR V2X.
##### 7.3.1.1.3 Channel raster entries for each operating band
The channel raster entries for each operating band defined in subclause
5.4.2.3 in TS38.101-1 are applied for NR V2X. The RF channel positions on the
channel raster in each NR V2X operating band are given through the applicable
NR-ARFCN in Table 7.3.1.1-1, using the channel raster to resource element
mapping in subclause 7.3.1.1.2.
For NR V2X operating band n47, ΔF~Raster~ = _I_ × ΔF~Global~, where _I ϵ {1}._
Every _I^th^_ NR‑ARFCN within the operating band are applicable for the
channel raster within the operating band and the step size for the channel
raster in table 7.3.1.1-1 is given as \.
Table 7.3.1.1-1: Applicable NR-ARFCN for NR V2X operating band
+-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NR operating | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink range of | Downlink range | | band | | N~REF~ | of N~REF~ | | | (kHz) | | | | | | (First -- | (First -- | | | | \ | \ | | | | -- Last) | -- Last) | +=================+============+=================+=================+ | n47 | 15 | 790334 -- \ | 790334 -- \ | | | | -- 795000 | -- 795000 | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | | | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | | | | +-----------------+------------+-----------------+-----------------+
#### 7.3.1.2 Synchronization raster
There is no synchronization raster definition for NR V2X for both licensed
bands and unlicensed bands.
### 7.3.2 Channel arrangement in FR2
# 8 Transmitter characteristics
## 8.1 NR V2X UE Tx requirements in FR1
When a NR V2X UE is TDM operating between NR SL and LTE SL at n47, the NR V2X
UE need to satisfy the individual V2X Tx requirements of each RAT. For V2X
applications the transmitter characteristics are specified at UE antenna
connector without any external components that may be used to relocate the
antenna away from the UE as shown in Figure 8.1-1.
Figure 8.1-1 shows a V2X integration block diagram with an example set of
components external to the UE such as cables and compensator devices.
{width="5.03076990376203in" height="1.1075109361329833in"}
Figure 8.1-1 An Example of V2X UE intergrataion block diagram
### 8.1.1 Maximum output power for NR V2X UE
The following V2X UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 8.1-1: V2X UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | ... | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n38 | | | | | 23 | +2/-3 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | n47 | | | | | 23 | +2/-3 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: NR | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | n47 | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 8.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction
The following assumption can serve as a starting point for MPR simulation
assumptions as shown in Table 8.1.2-1 and Table 8.1.2-2.
Table 8.1.2-1: MPR simulation assumption for NR V2X
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | parameter | Assumption | +======================+==============================================+ | center frequency | 2.7GHz/5.9GHz | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 10/20/30/40MHz | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Maximum output power | 23dBm | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | numerology | 15 kHz/30kHz/60kHz | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Modulation | QPSK/16QAM/64QAM/256QAM | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Waveform | CP-OFDM | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Carrier leakage | 25dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | IQ image | 25dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | CIM3 | 45dBc or 60dBc | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | PA calibration | PA calibrated to deliver -30dBc ACLR for a | | | fully allocated RBs in 20MHz QPSK DFT- | | | S-OFDM waveform at 1 dB MPR. | | | | | | This is based to share PA between LTE V2X | | | and NR V2X at 5.9GHz as worst case. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
For NR V2X, simultaneous transmission of PSCCH and PSSCH in the same subframe
is supported. The following constraints in table 8.1.2-2 can be assumed based
on current RAN1's agreement.
Table 8.1.2-2: MPR simulation assumption based on RAN1's agreement
Items Assumption
* * *
Allowed sub-channel sizes • Support {10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100} PRBs for
possible sub-channel size. Allowed L~CRB~ allocation
10,15,20,25,30,40,45,50,60,70,75,80,90,100,105,110,120,130,135,140,150,160,165,170,175,180,190,195,200,210
Regarding PSCCH / PSSCH multiplexing {width="2.2534722222222223in"
height="0.8069444444444445in"} PSCCH size 10RB*3 Symbols PSD offset of X dB
between PSCCH and PSSCH 0dB
For simultaneous transmission of PSFCH, RAN4 assumed as follow
The baseline MPR simulation assumptions for multiple PSFCH transmission
1 RB per user
Both Non-contiguous PSFCH RB allocation and contiguous PSFCH allocation are
allowed
MPR will be derived by non-contiguous PSFCH RB allocation
Total power of all users equals 23dBm
All users have the same power per RB
Simulation parameters as per Table 8.1.2-1 and Table 8.1.2-2
Feedback sequences are per Section 5.2 TS 38.211
The MPR will be specified as a formula or table based on number of allocated
RBs.
PSFCH generation shall be based on existing RAN1 agreements
Assumption of N in RAN4 is only for MPR simulation purpose, the final number
is up to RAN1 decision
Based on the simulation, RAN4 specify MPR requirements as follow
> When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent with
> NR uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands specified in Table 8.1-1,
> this subclause specifies the allowed Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) power for
> NR V2X physical channels and signals due to PSCCH and PSSCH simultaneous
> transmission.
#### 8.1.2.1 MPR for Power class 3 V2X UE
> For contiguous allocation of PSCCH and PSSCH simultaneous transmission, the
> allowed MPR for the maximum output power for NR V2X physical channels PSCCH
> and PSSCH shall be specified as inner/outer RB allocations in Table
> 8.1.2.1-1 for power class 3.
>
> Table 8.1.2.1-1: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for power class 3 V2X
> (Contiguous PSCCH and PSSCH transmission)
**Modulation** **Channel bandwidth/MPR (dB)**
* * *
                   **Outer RB allocations**         **Inner RB allocations**
CP-OFDM QPSK ≤ 4.5 ≤ 2.5 16QAM ≤ 4.5 ≤ 2.5 64 QAM ≤ 4.5  
256 QAM ≤ 7.0
> Where the following parameters are defined to specify valid RB allocation
> ranges for Outer and Inner RB allocations:
>
> N~RB~ is the maximum number of RBs for a given Channel bandwidth and sub-
> carrier spacing defined in Table 5.3.2-1 in TS38.101-1.
>
> RB~Start,Low~ = max(1, floor(L~CRB~/2))
>
> where max() indicates the largest value of all arguments and floor(x) is the
> greatest integer less than or equal to x.
RB~Start,High~ = N~RB~ -- RB~Start,Low~ -- L~CRB~
> The RB allocation is an Inner RB allocation if the following conditions are
> met
RB~Start,Low~ ≤ RB~Start~ ≤ RB~Start,High~, and
L~CRB~ ≤ ceil(N~RB~/2)
> where ceil(x) is the smallest integer greater than or equal to x.
>
> The RB allocation is an Outer RB allocation for all other allocations which
> are not an Inner RB allocation.
>
> For single V2X UE's PSFCH transmission for PC3 NR V2X UE, the required MPR
> is defined as follow
>
> MPR_~PSFCH~ = 3.5 dB
>
> For contiguous and non-contiguous allocation for simultaneous PSFCH
> transmission for PC3 NR V2X UE, the required MPR are specified as follow
>
> MPR_~PSFCH~ = CEIL {M~A_PSFCH~, 0.5}
>
> Where M~A~ is defined as follows
>
> M~A_PSFCH~ = 7.5 ; 0.00 \
> = 12.0 ; 0.55 \
> Where
>
> N~Gap~ is the gap RB amount between RB~start~ and RB~end~ for contiguous and
> non-contiguous allocation simultaneous PSFCH transmission. (N~Gap~ = RB~end~
> - RB~start~)
>
> CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.
>
> The allowed MPR for the maximum output power for V2X physical channels on
> S-SSB transmission are specified as follow
>
> Table 8.1.2.1-2: Maximum Power Reduction (MPR) for S-SSB transmission for
> power class 3 V2X
**Channel** **MPR (dB)**
* * *
                                                                          **Outer RB allocations^1^**   **Inner RB allocations^1^**
S-SSB ≤ 6.0 ≤ 2.5 NOTE 1: Inner and Outer RB allocations are defined in
section 8.1.2.1
### 8.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
To comply the EN 302 571 standard emission mask, RAN4 need to derive A-MPR
requirements considering with the additional A-SEM and A-SE requirements in EN
302 571 standard as shown in Table 8.1.3-1 and Table 8.1.3-2.
NR V2X UE shall satisfy the additional SEM and additional SE requirements when
NS_33 is configured from pre-configured radio parameters or the cell and the
indication from upper layers has indicated was informed.
Table 8.1.3-1: Additional SEM requirements for 10MHz channel bandwidth
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spectrum emission | | | | limit (dBm EIRP)/ | | | | Channel bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 10 MHz | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0-0.5 | [$- 13 - | 100 kHz | | | 12\left( \frac{\left | | | | | \mathrm{\Delta}\te | | | | xt{fOOB} \right|}{\t | | | | ext{MHz}} \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0.5-5 | [$- 1 | 100 kHz | | | 9 - \frac{16}{9}\lef | | | | t( \frac{\left| \mat | | | | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO | | | | B} \right|}{\text{MH | | | | z}} - 0.5 \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 5-10 | [$- 27 - 2\lef | 100 kHz | | | t( \frac{\left| \mat | | | | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO | | | | B} \right|}{\text{MH | | | | z}} - 5.0 \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
NOTE 1: As a general rule, the resolution bandwidth of the measuring equipment
should be equal to the measurement bandwidth. However, to improve measurement
accuracy, sensitivity and efficiency, the resolution bandwidth may be smaller
than the measurement bandwidth. When the resolution bandwidth is smaller than
the measurement bandwidth, the result should be integrated over the
measurement bandwidth in order to obtain the equivalent noise bandwidth of the
measurement bandwidth.
NOTE 2: Additional SEM for V2X overrides any other requirements in frequency
range 5855-5950MHz.
NOTE 3: The EIRP requirement is converted to conducted requirement depend on
the supported post antenna connector gain G~post\ connector~ declared by the
UE following the principle described in annex G in TS38.101-1.
Table 8.1.3-2: Additional SE requirements
+--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+ | n47 | E-UTRA | FD | - | FDL | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | L_low | | _high | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 72, 73 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 , | | | | | | | | | n79 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+ | | Fre | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 38, | | | quency | | | | EIRP | | 40, 43 | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+ | | Fre | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 38, 43 | | | quency | | | | EIRP | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 38: | | | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | NS_33 | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | NS_34 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | e-conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 40: In | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | x-59 | | | | | | | | | 50MHz, | | | | | | | | | SE | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -30d | | | | | | | | | Bm/MHz | | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plied; | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | x = | | | | | | | | | max | | | | | | | | | (5925, | | | | | | | | | fc + | | | | | | | | | 15), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | fc is | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | centre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 43: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | EIRP | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | verted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | ducted | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | depend | | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | | ported | | | | | | | | | post | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ntenna | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | nector | | | | | | | | | gain | | | | | | | | | G~post | | | | | | | | | \ conn | | | | | | | | | ector~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | clared | | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | fol | | | | | | | | | lowing | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pri | | | | | | | | | nciple | | | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | | | cribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | annex | | | | | | | | | I. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+----+--------+--------+---+--------+
Also, FCC had regulatory requirements for 40MHz in ITS spectrum as shown in
Table 8.1.3-3
Table 8.1.3-3: Additional SEM requirements for 40MHz channel bandwidth (fc
=5885 MHz)
Δf~OOB~ (MHz) Emission Limit (dBm) Measurement Bandwidth
* * *
±0 - 2 -32 100kHz ±2-10 -36 100kHz ±10-20 -38 100kHz ±20-40 -43 100kHz ±40 -
100 -50 100kHz
To comply the regional regulatory requirements, RAN4 specify the A-MPR
requirements according to different network signalling by pre-configured radio
parameters or the cell and the indication from upper layers has indicated to
NR V2X UE.
The allowed additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum output
power due to higher order modulation and transmit bandwidth configuration
(resource blocks) will be specified in TS38.101-1 as below.
Table 8.1.3-4: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for NR V2X
+----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | Network | Requ | NR Band | Channel | R | A-MPR | | Si | irements | | b | esources | (dB) | | gnalling | (su | | andwidth | Blocks | | | value | bclause) | | (MHz) | ( | | | | | | | _N_ ~RB~) | | +==========+==========+=========+==========+==========+==========+ | NS_33 | Table | n47 | 10 | Table | | | | 8.1.3-1 | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.1-1 | | | | (A-SEM) | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | Table | | | 8 | | | | 8.1.3-2 | | | .1.3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | | (A-SE) | | | Table | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.1-3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.1-4 | | +----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_52 | Table | n47 | 40 | Table | | | | 8.1.3-3 | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.2-1 | | | | (A-SEM) | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.2-2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.2-3 | | +----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+ | NS_XX | Table | n47 | 10 | Table | | | | 8.1.3-1 | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.3-1 | | | | (A-SEM) | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.3-2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | .1.3.3-3 | | +----------+----------+---------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 8.1.3.1 AMPR for NS_33
When NS_33 is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for
NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction specified as
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
M~A~ = A-MPR~Base~ + G~post\ connector~* A-MPRStep
CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.
A-MPR~Base~ which is specified for PSCCH and PSSCH transmission\S-SSB\PSFCH
below is allowed when network signalling value is provided _._ A-MPR~Base~ is
the default A-MPR value when no G~post\ connector~ is declared. The supported
post antenna connector gain G~post\ connector~ is declared by the UE following
the principle described in 38.101-1.
For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS_33 is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements.
Table 8.1.3.1-1: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS_33 (at Fc =5860MHz)
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | **R |** Start | **A-M | | | | *Carrier | esources | Re | PR~base~ | | | | frequenc | Blocks | source** | (dB)**| | | | y(MHz)** | (_L_ | | | | | | | ~CRB~)**| * | | | | | | | *Block** | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | **QPSK | * | ** | | | | | /16QAM** | _64QAM_ _| 256QAM_ * | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5860 | ≥ 10 and | 0 | ≤ 24 | | | | | ≤ 15 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 1 and | ≤19 | | | | | | ≤ 3 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ≥ 10 and | ≥ 26 and | ≤6 | | | | | ≤ 15 | ≤ 38 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ≥ 10 and | ≥ 12 and | ≤11 | | | | | ≤ 20 | ≤ 14 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 15 and | ≤9.5 | | | | | | ≤ 19 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 20 and | ≤8.0 | | | | | | ≤ 25 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ≥ 10 and | ≥ 4 and | ≤ 16 | | | | | ≤ 30 | ≤7 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 8 and | ≤ 13.5 | | | | | | ≤ 11 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ≥ 20 and | ≥ 0 and | ≤ 22 | | | | | ≤ 30 | ≤ 3 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 25 and | ≥ 16 and | ≤ 9.5 | | | | | 30 | ≤ 21 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 22 and | ≤ 8.0 | | | | | | ≤ 27 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ≥ 25 and | ≥ 12 and | ≤ 12 | | | | | ≤ 40 | ≤ 15 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | 40 and | 0 and 1 | ≤ 19 | | | | | 45 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 2 and | ≤ 16 | | | | | | ≤ 5 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | ≥ 6 and | ≤ 13.5 | | | | | | ≤ 11 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | ≥ 50 | ≥ 0 | ≤ 16 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | A-M | | | | | | | PR~step~ | | | | | | | =1.2 dB | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | B~start~ | | | | | | | 0 and 1 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | A-M | | | | | | | PR~step~ | | | | | | | =0.7 dB | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | B~start~ | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 8.1.3.1-2: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS_33 at other carrier frequency
**Carrier frequency(MHz)** **RB allocations** **A-MPR~base~ (dB)**
**A-MPR~step~ (dB)**
* * *
                                                                                               **QPSK**               **16QAM**              **64QAM**   **256QAM**
5870, 5880, 5890, 5900, 5910, 5920 Inner ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 6.0 0.5  
Outer ≤ 4.5  
NOTE 1: Inner and Outer RB allocations are defined in section 8.1.2.1
For the simultaneous PSFCH transmission when NS_33 is indicated by the network
or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the follow
A-MPR requirements
Table 8.1.3.1-3: A-MPR for simultaneous PSFCH by NS_33
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | * | **Center |** RB | **A-M |** A-M | | | | _Channel | Fre | allo | PR~Base~ | PR~step~ | | | | Ban | quency_ _| cation_ _| (dB)__| (dB)__| | | | dwidth_ _| | | | | | | | |__\ | | | | | | |__\ | [MHz]__| | | | | | | [MHz]__| | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+ | | | | 0 ≤ | 0.15≤ | 0.3≤ | | | | | | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / | | | | | | N~RB~ \  | 22.0 | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | | 5870, | N~RB~ =1 | 5 | 0.8 | | | | | 5880, | | | | | | | | 5890, | | | | | | | | 5900, | | | | | | | | 5910, | | | | | | | | 5920 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | | | N~RB~ > | 14 | 7 | 18.5 | | | | | 1 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | N~Gap~ | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | | gap RB | | | | | | | | amount | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | B~start~ | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | | simu | | | | | | | | ltaneous | | | | | | | | PSFCH | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission. | | | | | | | | (N~Gap~ | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | ~start~) | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
For the S-SSB transmission when NS_33 is indicated by the network or pre-
configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the follow A-MPR
requirements
Table 8.1.3.1-4: A-MPR for S-SSB transmission by NS_33
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Carrier |** RBStart * | **A-MPR~Base~ |** AMPR~Step~ | | Frequency | 12*SCS**| (dB)** | (dB)**| | (MHz)** | | | | | | **[MHz]** | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 5860 | ≤1.0 | ≤ 25 | 0.6 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >1.0 and ≤2.0 | ≤ 19 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >2.0 and | ≤ 12 | | | | ≤3.24 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >3.24 and | ≤ 10 | | | | ≤3.6 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >3.6 | ≤ 9 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5870, 5880, | ≤1.0 | ≤ 7.0 | 0.85 | | 5890, 5900, | | | | | 5910, 5920 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >1.0 and ≤1.6 | ≤ 6.5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >1.6 and ≤2.6 | ≤ 5.8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >2.6 and | ≤ 4.5 | | | | ≤3.24 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >3.24 and | ≤ 5.5 | | | | ≤4.32 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >4.32 | ≤ 6.5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 8.1.3.2 AMPR for NS_52
When NS_52 is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for
NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction specified as
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
M~A~ = A-MPR
CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.
For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS_52 is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements.
Table 8.1.3.2-1: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS_52
Carrier frequency(MHz) Modulation A-MPR(dB)
* * *
                                        Region 1    Region 2   Region 3
5885 QPSK ≤ 13.5 ≤ 8.0 ≤ 5.5 16QAM ≤ 8.0 ≤ 5.5 64QAM ≤ 8.5 ≤ 5.5 256QAM ≤ 8.5
≤ 6.0
**Where the following parameters are defined to specify valid RB allocation
ranges for Region1, Region2 and Region3 according to RB allocations:**
Table 8.1.3.2-1a: A-MPR Region definitions for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS_52
**Channel Bandwidth, MHz** **Carrier frequency(MHz)** **A-MPR parameters for
region definitions** **A-MPR**
* * *
                                                            **RB~start~ or RB~end~**                                                                                               **L~CRB~**
40 5885 **RB~start~ ≤ floor(N~RB~*0.2) or RB~end~ ≥ N~RB~ - floor(N~RB~*0.2)**
**L~CRB~ ≤floor(N~RB~*0.2)** Region 1 The RB allocation is in Region 2
allocation for all other allocations which are not a Region1 or Region3
allocation. Region 2  
**floor(N~RB~ /3.5) ≤ RB~start~ ≤ N~RB~ --floor(N~RB~ /3.5) -- L~CRB\ ~**
**L~CRB~ ≤ceil(N~RB~/3.5)** Region 3
> **N~RB~ is the maximum number of RBs for a given Channel bandwidth and sub-
> carrier spacing defined in Table 5.3.2-1 [3].**
For the simultaneous PSFCH transmission when NS_52 is indicated by the network
or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the follow
A-MPR requirements.
Table 8.1.3.2-2: A-MPR for simultaneous PSFCH by NS_52
**Channel Bandwidth [MHz]** **Carrier frequency [MHz]** **A-MPR (dB)**
* * *
40 MHz 5885 **≤** 23.5
For the S-SSB transmission when NS_52 is indicated by the network or pre-
configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the follow A-MPR
requirements
Table 8.1.3.2-3: A-MPR for S-SSB transmission by NS_52
+-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+ | **Carrier Frequency (MHz)** | **RB~Start~ * 12*SCS** | **A-MPR (dB)** | | | | | | | **[MHz]** | | +=============================+==========================+================+ | 5885 | ≤ 7 | **≤** 16.0 | +-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+ | | > 7 and ≤ 12 | **≤** 10.5 | +-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+ | | > 12 and ≤ 19 | **≤** 4.0 | +-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+ | | > 19 and ≤ 25 | **≤** 10.5 | +-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+ | | > 25 | **≤** 16.0 | +-----------------------------+--------------------------+----------------+
#### 8.1.3.3 AMPR for NS_xx
When NS_xx is indicated by the network or pre-configured radio parameters for
NR V2X UE, the additional maximum output power reduction specified as
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A~, 0.5}
Where M~A~ is defined as follows
M~A~ = A-MPR
CEIL{M~A,~ 0.5} means rounding upwards to closest 0.5dB.
For the contiguous PSSCH and PSCCH transmission when NS_xx is indicated by the
network or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the
follow A-MPR requirements.
Table 8.1.3.3-1: A-MPR for PSSCH/PSCCH by NS_xx
**Carrier frequency(MHz)** **RB allocations** **A-MPR (dB)**
* * *
                                                                                               **QPSK**         **16QAM**   **64QAM**   **256QAM**
5860, 5870, 5880, 5890, 5900, 5910, 5920 Inner ≤ 3.0 ≤ 5.0 ≤ 6.0  
Outer ≤ 4.5  
NOTE 1: Inner and Outer RB allocations are defined in section 8.1.2.1
For the simultaneous PSFCH transmission when NS_xx is indicated by the network
or pre-configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the follow
A-MPR requirements
Table 8.1.3.3-2: A-MPR for simultaneous PSFCH by NS_xx
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | * | **Center |** RB | **A-M |** A-M | | | | _Channel | Fre | allo | PR~Base~ | PR~step~ | | | | Ban | quency_ _| cation_ _| (dB)__| (dB)__| | | | dwidth_ _| | | | | | | | |__\ | | | | | | |__\ | [MHz]__| | | | | | | [MHz]_ * | | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+===+ | | | | 0 ≤ | 0.15≤ | 0.3≤ | | | | | | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / | N~Gap~ / | | | | | | N~RB~ \ | 14 | 7 | 18.5 | | | | | 1 | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | N~Gap~ | | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | | gap RB | | | | | | | | amount | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | B~start~ | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | non-co | | | | | | | | ntiguous | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | | simu | | | | | | | | ltaneous | | | | | | | | PSFCH | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission. | | | | | | | | (N~Gap~ | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | ~start~) | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---+
For the S-SSB transmission when NS_xx is indicated by the network or pre-
configured radio parameters for NR V2X UE, the NR UE allow the follow A-MPR
requirements
Table 8.1.3.3-3: A-MPR for S-SSB transmission by NS_xx
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Carrier |** RBStart * | **A-MPR~Base~ |** AMPR~Step~ | | Frequency | 12*SCS**| (dB)** | (dB)**| | (MHz)** | | | | | | **[MHz]** | | | +================+================+================+================+ | 5860, 5870, | ≤1.0 | ≤ 7.0 | 0.85 | | 5880, 5890, | | | | | 5900, 5910, | | | | | 5920 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >1.0 and ≤1.6 | ≤ 6.5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >1.6 and ≤2.6 | ≤ 5.8 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >2.6 and | ≤ 4.5 | | | | ≤3.24 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >3.24 and | ≤ 5.5 | | | | ≤4.32 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | >4.32 | ≤ 6.5 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 8.1.4 Configured transmitted power for NR V2X UE
[The NR V2X UE is allowed to set its configured maximum output power
P~CMAX,_c_ ~ for carrier f of serving cell _c_ in each slot. The configured
maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ~ is set within the following bounds:
P~CMAX_L,f,_c_ ~ ≤ P~CMAX,f,_c_ ~ ≤ P~CMAX_H,f,_c_ ~ with
P~CMAX_L,f,\ _c_ ~ = MIN {P~EMAX,_c_ ~ -- ∆T~C,_c_ ~, (P~PowerClass~ --
ΔP~PowerClass~) ---- MAX(MAX(MPR _~c~_ , A-MPR _~c~_)+ ΔT~IB,c~ + ∆T~C,_c_ ~ +
∆T~RxSRS~, P-MPR _~c~_), P~Regulatory,c~ }
P~CMAX_H,f,\ _c_ ~ = MIN {P~EMAX,_c_ ~, (P~PowerClass~-- ΔP~PowerClass~),
P~Regulatory,c~ }
where
> \- P~CMAX,f,_c\_ ~is configured for PSSCH\PSCCH, S-SSB and PSFCH,
> respectively;
>
> \- For the total transmitted P~CMAX,PSSCH\PSCCH~, P~CMAX,S-SSB~ and
> P~CMAX,PSFCH~, P~EMAX,c~ is the value given by IE _maxTxPower_ , defined by
> [TS 38.331], when the UE is not associated with a serving cell on the NR V2X
> carrier .
>
> \- P~PowerClass~ is the maximum UE power specified in Table 6.2.1-1 in
> TS38.101-1 without taking into account the tolerance specified in the Table
> 6.2.1-1 in TS38.101-1;
>
> \- MPR _~c~_ and A-MPR _~c~_ for serving cell _c_ are specified in subclause
> 6.2E.2 and subclause 6.2E.3 for PSSCH\PSCCH, S-SSB and PSFCH in TS38.101-1,
> respectively;
>
> \- ∆ _T~IB,c~_ , ∆T~C,_c_ ~, ∆T~RxSRS~, ∆P~Poweclass~ and P-MPR _~c~_ are
> specified in subclause 6.2.4 in TS38.101-1
>
> \- P~Regulatory,c~ = 10 - G~post\ connector~ dBm the V2X UE is within the
> protected zone in EN 102. 792 of CEN DSRC tolling system and operating in
> Band n47; P~Regulatory,c~ = 33 - G~post\ connector~ dBm otherwise.
The maximum output power P _~CMAX,PSSCH~_ and P _~CMAX,PSCCH~_ are derived
from P~CMAX,c~ based on 0dB offset between PSSCH and PSCCH.
For the measured configured maximum output power P~UMAX,_c_ ~ for NR V2X
sidelink transmissions non-concurrent with NR uplink transmissions, the same
requirement as in subclause 6.2.4 in TS38.101-1 shall be applied.]
### 8.1.5 Minimum output power for NR V2X UE
The minimum controlled output power of the NR V2X UE is defined as the
broadband transmit power of the UE, i.e. the power in the channel bandwidth
for all transmit bandwidth configurations (resource blocks), when the power is
set to a minimum value.
When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent with NR
uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1, it is proposed
that the existing requirements as specified for legacy NR UE shall apply. The
minimum output power is defined as the mean power in at least one sub-frame 1
ms.
Table 8.1.5-1: Minimum output power
+-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | Minimum output power | Measurement bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | (MHz) | +===================+======================+=======================+ | 10 | -30 | 9.375 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | 20 | -30 | 19.095 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | 30 | -28.2 | 28.815 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+ | 40 | -27 | 38.895 | +-------------------+----------------------+-----------------------+
### 8.1.6 Transmit OFF power NR V2X UE
Transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power when the transmitter is OFF.
The transmitter is considered to be OFF when the UE is not allowed to transmit
or during periods when the UE is not transmitting a sub-frame. During DTX and
measurements gaps, the UE is not considered to be OFF.
When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent with NR
uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1, it is proposed
that the existing requirements as specified for legacy NR UE shall apply.
Transmit off power is defined as the mean power in at least one sub-frame 1
ms.
Table 8.1.6-1: Transmit OFF power
+-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | Transmit OFF power | Measurement bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | (MHz) | +===================+====================+=======================+ | 10 | -50 | 9.375 | +-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+ | 20 | -50 | 19.095 | +-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+ | 30 | -50 | 28.815 | +-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+ | 40 | -50 | 38.895 | +-------------------+--------------------+-----------------------+
### 8.1.7 ON/OFF time mask for NR V2X UE
For NR V2X service, additional requirements on ON/OFF time masks for V2X
physical channels and signals are specified in this clause.
#### 8.1.7.1 General time mask for NR V2X UE
The General ON/OFF time mask defines the observation period between the
Transmit OFF and ON power and between Transmit ON and OFF power for PSCCH, and
PSSCH transmissions in a subframe wherein the last symbol is punctured to
create a guard period.
{width="6.666666666666667in" height="2.030217629046369in"}
Figure 8.1.7.1-1: General PSCCH/PSSCH time mask for NR V2X UE
#### 8.1.7.2 S-SSB time mask
The S-SSB time mask is for NR V2X UE defines the observation period between
transmit OFF and ON S-PSS power and between transmit ON PSBCH and OFF power in
a slot, with last symbol punctured to create a guard period.
{width="6.396237970253718in" height="1.9478258967629047in"}
**Figure 8.1.7.2-1: S-SSB time mask for NR V2X UE**
#### 8.1.7.3 Additional Time mask for TDM operation between NR SL and LTE SL
at n47
When a NR V2X UE is operated with TDM between NR SL and LTE SL at n47 without
dual PA capability, the maximum SL switching time is defined as 150 us and the
following SL interruption is allowed as specified in TS 38.133 clause 12.9.1:
When switch from E-UTRA V2X sidelink to NR V2X sidelink occurs in NR slot 'n',
\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive on NR V2X sidelink on the slot
'n'.
When switch from NR V2X sidelink to E-UTRA V2X sidelink occurs in NR slot
'n-1',
\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive on NR V2X sidelink on the slot
'n-1'.
When switch from NR V2X sidelink to E-UTRA V2X sidelink occurs in E-UTRA
subframe 'n',
\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive on E-UTRA V2X sidelink on the
subframe 'n'.
When switch from E-UTRA V2X sidelink to NR V2X sidelink occurs in E-UTRA
subframe 'n-1',
\- UE is not expected to transmit or receive E-UTRA on V2X sidelink on the
subframe 'n-1'.
So RAN4 will not specify the specific RF switching time requirements during
the switched period and also no RF test to verify the maximum SL switching
time is needed.
### 8.1.8 Power control for NR V2X UE
When UE is configured for NR V2X sidelink transmissions non-concurrent with NR
uplink transmissions for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1, the
requirements in sub-clause 8.1.8.1 apply for NR V2X transmission.
#### 8.1.8.1 Absolute power tolerance
The existing absolute power tolerance requirements of legacy NR UE shall apply
for V2X transmission.
Table 8.1.8.1-1: Absolute power tolerance
Conditions Tolerance
* * *
Normal ± 9.0 dB
### 8.1.9 Transmit signal quality for NR V2X UE
#### 8.1.9.1 Frequency error
The UE modulated carrier frequency for NR V2X sidelink transmissions in Table
8.1-1 shall be accurate to within ±0.1 PPM observed over a period of 1 ms
compared to the absolute frequency in case of using GNSS synchronization
source. The same requirements applied over a period of 1 ms compared to the
carrier frequency received from the gNB or V2X synchronization reference UE in
case of using the gNB or V2X synchronization reference UE sidelink
synchronization signals.
#### 8.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality
##### 8.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude
For V2X sidelink physical channels PSCCH and PSSCH, the Error Vector Magnitude
requirements shall be as specified for PUSCH in Table 8.1.9.2.1-1 for the
corresponding modulation and transmission bandwidth for NR V2X operating bands
in Table 8.1-1. When sidelink transmissions are shortened due to transmission
gap of 1 symbol at the end of the slot, the EVM measurement interval is
reduced by one symbol, accordingly.
Table 8.1.9.2.1-1: Minimum requirements for Error Vector Magnitude
* * *
Parameter Unit Average EVM Level Reference Signal EVM Level QPSK \% 17.5 17.5
16QAM \% 12.5 12.5 64QAM \% 8 8 256QAM \% 3.5 3.5
* * *
Table 8.1.9.2.1-2: Parameters for Error Vector Magnitude
* * *
Parameter Unit Level UE Output Power dBm ≥Table 8.1.5-1 UE Output Power for
256QAM dBm ≥ Table 8.1.5-1 + 10dB Operating conditions Normal conditions
* * *
##### 8.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage
It is proposed that no changes to the existing NR requirements for carrier
leakage are required for NR V2X UE for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.
##### 8.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions
For V2X sidelink physical channels PSCCH and PSSCH, In-band emissions
requirements of legacy NR UE in sub-clause 6.4.2.3 shall apply according to
the corresponding modulation and transmission bandwidth for NR V2X operating
bands in Table 8.1-1. When V2X transmissions are shortened due to transmission
gap of 1 symbol at the end of the slot, the In-band emissions measurement
interval is reduced by one symbol, accordingly.
##### 8.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness
The existing requirements for EVM equalizer spectrum flatness for NR UE in
sub-clause 6.4.2.4 in TS38.101-1 shall apply for NR V2X transmissions for NR
V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.
### 8.1.10 spectrum emission mask for V2X UE
For V2X, the existing NR general spectrum emission mask can be reused for all
10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz channel bandwidth. The spectrum emission mask of
the UE applies to frequencies (Δf~OOB~) starting from the ± edge of the
assigned NR channel bandwidth. For frequencies greater than (Δf~OOB~), the
power of any UE emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table
6.5.2.2-1in TS 38.101-1 for the specified channel bandwidth for NR V2X
operating bands in Table 8.1-1.
#### 8.1.10.1 Additional spectrum emission mask for V2X UE
In LTE V2X WI, RAN4 already studied the additional spectrum emission mask in
ITS band. So RAN4 reuse the additional spectrum emission mask in session
6.6.2.2.4 and 6.6.2.2.7 in TS36.101 for LTE V2X UE at n47.
When \"NS_33\" or "NS_34" is indicated in the cell, the power of any V2X UE
emission shall not exceed the levels specified in Table 8.1.10.1-1.
Table 8.1.10.1-1: Additional spectrum mask requirements for 10MHz channel
bandwidth
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spectrum emission | | | | limit (dBm EIRP)/ | | | | Channel bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 10 MHz | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0-0.5 | [$- 13 - | 100 kHz | | | 12\left( \frac{\left | | | | | \mathrm{\Delta}\te | | | | xt{fOOB} \right|}{\t | | | | ext{MHz}} \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 0.5-5 | [$- 1 | 100 kHz | | | 9 - \frac{16}{9}\lef | | | | t( \frac{\left| \mat | | | | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO | | | | B} \right|}{\text{MH | | | | z}} - 0.5 \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ± 5-10 | [$- 27 - 2\lef | 100 kHz | | | t( \frac{\left| \mat | | | | hrm{\Delta}\text{fOO | | | | B} \right|}{\text{MH | | | | z}} - 5.0 \right)$] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
When \"NS_48" is indicated in the cell, the power of any V2X UE emission shall
not exceed the levels specified in Table 8.1.10.1-2.
Table 8.1.10.1-2: Additional spectrum mask requirements for 40MHz channel
bandwidth (fc =5885 MHz)
Δf~OOB~ (MHz) Emission Limit (dBm) Measurement Bandwidth
* * *
±0 - 2 -32 100kHz ±2-10 -36 100kHz ±10-20 -38 100kHz ±20-40 -43 100kHz ±40 -
100 -50 100kHz
### 8.1.11 ACLR requirements for V2X UE
Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR) is the ratio of the filtered mean
power centred on the assigned channel frequency to the filtered mean power
centred on an adjacent channel frequency.
Based on co-existence simulation results, a 30dB ACLR can guarantee that V2X
co-exists well with DSRC, i.e. the PRR degradation of V2X to DSRC is
comparable with that of DSRC to DSRC. Hence the existing ACLR requirement for
licensed bands can be reused for NR V2X for NR V2X operating bands in Table
8.1-1.
Table 8.1.11-1: ACLR for NR V2X
+--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | | C | | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | | /ACLR1 | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | Measu | | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | +========+========+=====+=====+========+=====+========+========+========+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 30 | 40 | | | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ACLR1 | | | | 30 dB | | 30 dB | 30 dB | 30 dB | +--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | NR V2X | | | | 9.375 | | 19.095 | 28.815 | 38.895 | | c | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | MHz | | hannel | | | | | | | | | | Measu | | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | Ad | | | | +10 | | +20 | +30 | +40 | | jacent | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | / | | / | / | / | | hannel | | | | | | | | | | centre | | | | -10 | | -20 | -30 | -40 | | fre | | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+--------+-----+--------+--------+--------+
### 8.1.12 Spurious emission for V2X UE
General spurious emission requirement for V2X operation should be extended to
26GHz same with that in LAA BS. In addition, UE should also meet regional
requirement which defined in ETSI EN 302 571 as additional spurious emission
requirement for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.
Table 8.1.12-1: Spurious emissions limits
+---------------------+---------------+---------------------+------+ | Frequency Range | Maximum Level | Measurement | NOTE | | | | bandwidth | | +=====================+===============+=====================+======+ | 9 kHz ≤ f \= 3GHz (e.g B42, n77, n78,
n79...) at licensed bands at FR1.
_-_ IM: 2.5 dB is assumed. When the number of RB size equal to or less than
24RBs, 0.5dB additional relaxation is allowed.
\- Target SNR: -0.5 dB
\- Diversity gain: 3dB
The REFSENS requirements for NR V2X Bands (PC5) are in Table 9.1.1-1.
Table 9.1.1-1: Reference sensitivity for V2X Band (PC5)
+---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | NR Operating | | | | | | | | band / SCS / | | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth / | | | | | | | | Duplex-mode | | | | | | | +===============+=====+=======+=======+=======+=======+=============+ | V2X Band | SCS | 10MHz | 20MHz | 30MHz | 40MHz | Duplex Mode | | | | | | | | | | | kHz | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | n38 | 15 | -96.5 | -93.2 | -91.4 | -90.1 | HD | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | | 30 | -96.1 | -93.4 | -91.7 | -90.2 | | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | | 60 | -96.9 | -93.1 | -91.9 | -90.4 | | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | n47 | 15 | -92.5 | -89.2 | -87.4 | -86.1 | HD | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | | 30 | -92.1 | -89.4 | -87.7 | -86.2 | | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+ | | 60 | -92.9 | -89.1 | -87.9 | -86.4 | | +---------------+-----+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------------+
Table 9.1.1-2: Sidelink TX configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X
Bands (PC5)
* * *
NR operating Band / SCS/ Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode
V2X Band SCS (kHz) 10 MHz\ 20 MHz\ 30 MHz\ 40 MHz\ Duplex Mode (dBm) (dBm)
(dBm) (dBm)
n38 15 50 105 160 216 HD
                                                                     30          24        50        75        105
                                                                     60          10        24        36        50
n47 15 50 105 160 216 HD
                                                                     30          24        50        75        105
                                                                     60          10        24        36        50
* * *
### 9.1.2 Maximum input level
Maximum input level is defined as the maximum mean power received at the UE
antenna port, at which the specified relative throughput shall meet or exceed
the minimum requirements for the specified reference measurement channel.
For V2X, the requirement are defined for 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz. The
parameters of reference measurement channel shall be changed according to the
physical layer design specific to NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.
Table 9.1.2-1: Maximum input level for V2X
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+ | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +==============+=======+==============+========+========+========+ | | | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+ | Power in | dBm | -25^1^ | -25^1^ | -23^1^ | -22^1^ | | Transmission | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | onfiguration | | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+ | | | -27^2^ | -27^2^ | -25^2^ | -24^2^ | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | A.7 for 64 | | | | | | | QAM in | | | | | | | TS38.101-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | | A.7 for 256 | | | | | | | QAM in | | | | | | | TS38.101-1 | | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------+--------+--------+
### 9.1.3 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive an NR signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency
of the assigned channel.
ACS reflects the digital domain filter attenuation capability, which is model
together with ACLR in ACIR. Based on PRR metric. In co-existence study, the
existing NR ACS requirement reuse for both NR UE to V2X UE and DSRC UE to V2X
UE urban interference scenarios, PRR loss is less than 5%. Therefore, it is
proposed that the same ACS values shall be kept unchanged for V2X UE at n47.
In licensed band, RAN4 shall reuse the same ACS values since there was legacy
NR or LTE system.
As 10MHz is typical channel bandwidth used in the V2X band, the interferer
bandwidth shall be used with 10MHz for NR V2X operating bands in Table 8.1-1.
Table 9.1.3-1: Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X
* * *
                         Channel bandwidth
* * *
Rx Parameter Units 1.4\ 3\ 5\ 10\ 15\ 20\ 30 MHz 40 MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz MHz
MHz
ACS dB 33.0 27.0 25.5 24.0
* * *
Table 9.1.3-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X, Case
1
Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz  
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | PREFSENS_V2X \+ 14 dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
**P Interferer** | dBm |  |  |  | REFSENS +45.5dB |  | REFSENS +39.5dB | REFSENS +38.0 dB | REFSENS +36.5dB  
**BW Interferer ** | MHz |  |  |  | 10 |  | 10 | 10 | 10  
**F Interferer (offset)** | MHz |  |  |  | 10 / -10 |  | 15 / -15 | 20 / -20 | 25 / -25  
NOTE 1: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. NOTE 2: The absolute value of the interferer offset Finterferer (offset) shall be further adjusted to MHz with SCS the sub-carrier spacing of the wanted signal in MHz. The interferer is an NR signal with 15 kHz SCS. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 9.1.3-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity for V2X, Case
2
Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz  
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm |  |  |  | -56.5 |  | -50.5 | -49.0 | -47.5  
PInterferer | dBm | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
BWInterferer | MHz |  |  |  | 10 |  | 10 | 10 | 10  
FInterferer (offset) | MHz |  |  |  | 10 / -10 |  | 15 / -15 | 20 / -20 | 25 / -25  
NOTE 1: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. NOTE 2: The absolute value of the interferer offset Finterferer (offset) shall be further adjusted to MHz with SCS the sub-carrier spacing of the wanted signal in MHz. The interferer is an NR signal with 15 kHz SCS. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 9.1.4 Blocking characteristics
#### 9.1.4.1 In-band blocking
In EN 302 571, the blocking level shall not be less than -30 dBm. And the
blocking is tested at ± 50 MHz, ± 100 MHz, and ± 200 MHz frequency offset.
Blocking testing shall be performed at least at 6 different frequency offset
positions. The blocking level is larger than exiting case 2 blocking
interferer in the specification, which is in the second alternate channel
offset from the wanted signal. Considering the total 70MHz band width of the
V2X band, ± 50 MHz is already outside the operating band or close at the band
edge depends on the placement of the carrier.
RAN4 reuse the In-band blocking requirements in LTE V2X UE as shown in Table
9.1.4.1-1 and Table 9.1.4.1-2 NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.
Table 9.1.4.1-1: In band blocking parameters for V2X
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                                                                                                1.4 MHz                                                    3 MHz   5 MHz   10 MHz   15 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40MHz
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel
bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 11 12 **BW~Interferer\ ~** MHz 10 10 10 10 **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 1\ ~** MHz
15 15 15 15 **F~Ioffset,\ case\ 2\ ~** MHz 25 25 25 25 NOTE 1: The interferer
is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic
prefix is used.
Table 9.1.4.1-2: In-band blocking for V2X
+--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NR | Parameter | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | | | | | | | | band | | | | | +==============+==============+======+==============+==============+ | n47, n38 | P | dBm | -44 | -44 | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | =-BW/2 -- | ≤-BW/2 -- | | | ~Interferer~ | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | (offset) | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | =+BW/2 + | ≥+BW/2 + | | | | | F~Ioff | F~Ioff | | | | | set,case\ 1~ | set,case\ 2~ | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | | F | MHz | (NOTE 2) | F~DL_low~ | | | ~Interferer~ | | | -- 30 | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 30 | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | certain | | | | | | bands, the | | | | | | unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal may | | | | | | not fall | | | | | | inside the | | | | | | UE receive | | | | | | band, but | | | | | | within the | | | | | | first 15 MHz | | | | | | below or | | | | | | above the UE | | | | | | receive | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | each carrier | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | is valid for | | | | | | two | | | | | | frequencies: | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > -BW/2 - | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | > and | | | | | | > | | | | | | > b. the | | | | | | > carrier | | | | | | > frequency | | | | | | > +BW/2 + | | | | | | > F~Ioffse | | | | | | t,\ case\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | range values | | | | | | for unwanted | | | | | | modulated | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | absolute | | | | | | value of the | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | offset | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (offset) | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | further | | | | | | adjusted to | | | | | | MHz with SCS | | | | | | the | | | | | | sub-carrier | | | | | | spacing of | | | | | | the wanted | | | | | | signal in | | | | | | MHz. The | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | is an NR | | | | | | signal with | | | | | | 15 kHz SCS. | | | | | +--------------+--------------+------+--------------+--------------+
#### 9.1.4.2 Out-of-band blocking
Out-of-band band blocking in existing specification for licensed bands is
defined for an unwanted CW interfering signal falling more than 30 MHz below
or above the UE receive band. For the first 15 MHz below or above the UE
receive band the appropriate in-band blocking or adjacent channel selectivity
shall be applied.
RAN4 reuse the Out-of- band blocking of LTE V2X UE as shown in Table 9.1.4.2-1
and Table 9.1.4.2-2 for NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.
Table 9.1.4.2-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters
Rx Parameter Units Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                          1.4 MHz                                                    3 MHz   5 MHz   10 MHz   15 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel
bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 11 12 NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is FFS
Table 9.1.4.2-2: Out of band blocking
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NR | P | Units | F | Range 2 | Range 3 | | | arameter | | requency | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | Range 1 | | | +==========+==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+ | n47 | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | F~Int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -30 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | | +30 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~D | F~D | +12750 | | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | n38 | P~int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | F~int | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | | | erferer~ | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | (CW) | | -30 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | F~ | F~ | 1 MHz | | | | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | | | | | -60 | -85 | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | (PInt | | | | | | | erferer) | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | modified | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | FIn | | | | | | | terferer | | | | | | | > 4400 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
### 9.1.5 Spurious response
Spurious response is a measure of the receiver\'s ability to receive a wanted
signal on its assigned channel frequency without exceeding a given degradation
due to the presence of an unwanted CW interfering signal at any other
frequency at which a response is obtained.
For V2X, 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz channel bandwidths are considered. RAN4
reuse the spurious response of LTE V2X UE as shown in Table 9.1.5-1 and Table
9.1.5-2 for NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.
Table 9.1.5-1: Spurious response parameters for V2X
Rx parameter Units Channel bandwidth
* * *
                                                          1.4 MHz                                                    3 MHz   5 MHz   10 MHz   15 MHz   20 MHz   30 MHz   40 MHz
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration dBm P~REFSENS_V2X~ + channel
bandwidth specific value below  
6 9 11 12 NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is FFS
Table 9.1.5-2: Spurious response for V2X
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
### 9.1.6 Intermodulation characteristics
Intermodulation response rejection is a measure of the capability of the
receiver to receive a wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the
presence of two or more interfering signals which have a specific frequency
relationship to the wanted signal.
The wide band intermodulation requirement is defined using modulated NR
carrier and CW signal as interferer. 10MHz channel bandwidth will be chosen as
the modulated interfering signal for 10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz channel
bandwidth.
RAN4 reuse the intermodulation characteristics of LTE V2X UE as shown in Table
9.1.6-1 for NR V2X UE in Table 8.1-1.
Table 9.1.6-1: Wide band intermodulation
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz  
n47 | Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | PREFSENS_V2X \+ channel bandwidth specific value below |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  | 6 |  | 9 | 11 | 12  
| **P Interferer 1** **(CW)** | dBm | -46 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **P Interferer 2** **(Modulated)** | dBm | -46 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| **BW Interferer 2** |  |  |  |  | 10 |  | 10 | 10 | 10  
| **F Interferer 1** **(Offset)** | MHz |  |  |  | -BW/2 – 15 / +BW/2 + 15 |  | -BW/2 – 15 / +BW/2 + 15 | -BW/2 – 15 / +BW/2 + 15 | -BW/2 – 15 / +BW/2 + 15  
| **F Interferer 2** **(Offset)** | MHz | 2*FInterferer 1 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
NOTE 1: Reference measurement channel is FFS NOTE 2: The interferer is QPSK modulated PUSCH containing data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 9.2 (Void)
# 10 Tx/Rx characteristics of concurrent operation
## 10.1 NR V2X SL operation in 5.9GHz or other potential ITS spectrum and
LTE/NR Uu operation in licensed band for FR1
### 10.1.1 Tx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation
#### 10.1.1.1 Maximum output power
For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the following NR V2X UE Power
Classes define the maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within
the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement shall be at least one sub
frame (1ms).
Table 10.1.1.1-1: Con-current NR V2X UE Power Class for uplink inter-band
combination (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NR | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | V2X | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | c | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | V2X\ | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | _n71A | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | -n47A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | | | onent | | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | | (per | | | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | (F | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 10.1.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction
For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the allowed maximum power
reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per each
component carrier. The legacy MPR requirements for NR Uu operation shall be
applied on the CC of licensed band, the MPR requirements for NR sidelink
operation shall be applied on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the allowed additional
maximum power reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied
per each component carrier. The legacy A-MPR requirements for NR Uu operation
shall be applied on CC of licensed band, the A-MPR requirements for NR
sidelink operation shall be applied on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.4 Configured transmitted power
For the inter-band con-current NR V2X operation, the configured transmitted
power requirements for NR V2X UE shall be applied per each component carrier.
The legacy NR configured transmitted power for inter-band NR CA shall be
decided by MPR _~c~_ and A-MPR _~c~_ of each CC _._
If the total transmitted power is over the power class of the NR V2X UE or
given P~EMAX~,_c_ for NR V2X service, the UE shall compare the priority
between the legacy NR service on licensed band and NR V2X service at n47.
Based on the priority, the configured transmitted power will be decided which
transmission will be applied on power scale down or dropping between the
legacy NR Uu transmission and NR V2X SL transmission.
When a UE is configured for simultaneous NR V2X sidelink and NR uplink
transmissions for inter-band con-current operation, the UE is allowed to set
its configured maximum output power P~CMAX,_c_ ,_NR_ ~ and P~CMAX,_c_ ,_V2X_ ~
for the configured NR uplink carrier and the configured NR V2X carrier,
respectively, and its total configured maximum output power P~CMAX,c~.
The configured maximum output power P~CMAX\ _c_ ,_NR_ ~_(p)_ in slot _p_ for
the configured NR uplink carrier shall be set within the bounds:
P~CMAX_L,_c,NR_ ~ (_p_) ≤ P~CMAX,_c,NR\_ ~(_p_) ≤ P~CMAX_H,_c,NR_ ~ (_p_)
where P~CMAX_L,_c,NR\_ ~and P~CMAX_H,_c,NR_ ~ are the limits for a serving
cell c as specified in subclause 6.2.4.
The configured maximum output power P~CMAX\ _c_ ,_V2X\_ ~_(q)_ in slot _q_ for
the configured NR V2X carrier shall be set within the bounds:
P~CMAX,_c,V2X\_ ~(_q_) ≤ P~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ (_q_)
where P~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ is the limit as specified in subclause 6.2E.4.
The total UE configured maximum output power P~CMAX~ (_p,q_) in a slot _p_ of
NR uplink carrier and a slot _q_ of NR V2X sidelink that overlap in time shall
be set within the following bounds for synchronous and asynchronous operation
unless stated otherwise:
P~CMAX_L~ (_p,q_) ≤ P~CMAX~ (_p,q_) ≤ P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_)
with
P~CMAX_L~ (_p,q_) = P~CMAX_L,_c,NR_ ~ (_p_)
P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_) = 10 log~10~ [p~CMAX_H,_c,NR_ ~ (_p_) + p~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~
(_q_)]
where p~CMAX_H _,c,V2X_ ~ and p~CMAX_H,_c,NR_ ~ are the limits
P~CMAX_H,_c,V2X_ ~ (_q_) and P~CMAX_H,_c,NR_ ~ (_p_) expressed in linear
scale.
The measured total maximum output power P~UMAX~ over both the NR uplink and NR
V2X carriers is
P~UMAX~ = 10 log~10~ [p~UMAX,_c,NR_ ~ + p~UMAX,_c,V2X_ ~],
where p~UMAX,_c,NR\_ ~ denotes the measured output power of serving cell _c_
for the configured NR uplink carrier, and p~UMAX,_c,V2X\_ ~denotes the
measured output power for the configured NR V2X carrier expressed in linear
scale.
When a UE is configured for synchronous V2X sidelink and uplink transmissions,
P~CMAX_L~(_p, q_) -- T~LOW~ (P~CMAX_L~(_p, q_)) ≤ P~UMAX~ ≤ P~CMAX_H~(_p, q_)
+ T~HIGH~ (P~CMAX_H~(_p, q_))
where P~CMAX_L~ (_p,q_) and P~CMAX_H~ (_p,q_) are the limits for the pair
(_p,q_) and with the tolerances T~LOW~(P~CMAX~) and T~HIGH~(P~CMAX~) for
applicable values of P~CMAX~ specified in Table 6.2E.4-1. P~CMAX_L~ may be
modified for any overlapping portion of slots _(p, q)_ and _(p +1, q+1)._
#### 10.1.1.5 UE Minimum output power
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy minimum output power requirements will be applied on CC of NR
licensed band and the NR V2X minimum output power requirements will be applied
on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.6 Transmit OFF power
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy transmit OFF power requirements will be applied on CC of NR
licensed band and the NR V2X transmit off power requirements will be applied
on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.7 ON/OFF time mask
When UE support inter-band con-current NR V2X operation in Table 10.1-1, the
existing general time mask for NR UE will be applied on CC of NR licensed
band. Also the existing general time mask for NR UE and additional
requirements on ON/OFF time mask will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.8 Power control
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy power control requirements will be applied on CC of NR licensed
band and the NR V2X power control requirements will be applied on CC of NR
Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.9 Transmit signal quality
##### 10.1.1.9.1 Frequency error
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR
> V2X UE. The legacy frequency error requirements will be applied on CC of NR
> licensed band and NR V2X frequency error requirements will be applied on CC
> of NR Band n47.
##### 10.1.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality
##### 10.1.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude {#error-vector-magnitude-1 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR
> V2X UE. The legacy EVM requirements will be applied on CC of NR licensed
> band and the NR V2X EVM requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.
##### 10.1.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage {#carrier-leakage-1 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR
> V2X UE. The legacy carrier leakage requirements will be applied on CC of NR
> licensed band and the NR V2X carrier leakage requirements will be applied on
> CC of NR Band n47.
##### 10.1.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions {#in-band-emissions-1 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR
> V2X UE. The legacy in-band emission requirements will be applied on CC of NR
> licensed band and the NR V2X in-band emission requirements will be applied
> on CC of NR Band n47.
##### 10.1.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness {#evm-equalizer-spectrum-
flatness-1 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR
> V2X UE. The legacy spectrum flatness requirements will be applied per
> carrier for inter-band con-current V2X operation.
#### 10.1.1.10 Spectrum emission mask
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy general/additional SEM requirements will be applied on CC of NR
licensed band and NR V2X general/additional SEM requirements will be applied
on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.11 ACLR requirements
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy ACLR requirements will be applied on CC of NR licensed band and
NR V2X ACLR requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.12 Spurious emission requirements
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy general spurious emission requirements will be applied on CC of
NR licensed band and NR V2X general spurious emission requirements will be
applied on CC of NR Band n47.
#### 10.1.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements of the inter-band
con-current V2X operation, for UE-to-UE coexistence to protect legacy
protected bands
Table 10.1.1.13-1: Requirements
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | NR V2X | Sp | | | | | | | | con-c | urious | | | | | | | | urrent | em | | | | | | | | ope | ission | | | | | | | | rating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | cofigu | | | | | | | | | ration | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | V2 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | X_n71 | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | A-n47A | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, 85 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -38 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 29 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 1 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 41, 70 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | | NR | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | n71 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | | Fre | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 3, 4 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | | Fre | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 3 | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: As | | | | | | | | | excep | | | | | | | | | tions, | | | | | | | | | measur | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | mitted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | signed | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | ^th^] | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | urious | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions. | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ptions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | | spr | | | | | | | | | eading | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | immed | | | | | | | | | iately | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terval | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entred | | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 18 | | | | | | | | | 0kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3 | | | | | | | | | or 4 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | espect | | | | | | | | | ively. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | otally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | tially | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1A-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | | | egated | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | Appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | NS_33 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | e-conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | meters | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | 3 V2X | | | | | | | | | UE. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: In | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | x-59 | | | | | | | | | 50MHz, | | | | | | | | | SE | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -30d | | | | | | | | | Bm/MHz | | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plied; | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | x = | | | | | | | | | max | | | | | | | | | (5925, | | | | | | | | | fc + | | | | | | | | | 15), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | fc is | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | centre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+------+
#### 10.1.1.14 Transmit intermodulation
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE. The legacy transmit intermodulation requirements will be applied on CC of
NR licensed band and NR V2X transmit intermodulation requirements will be
applied on CC of NR Band n47.
### 10.1.2 Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation
#### 10.1.2.1 REFSENS
For the NR V2X UE RF receiver requirements, RAN4 can refer the 2DL inter-band
CA to define general UE RF Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X
UE.
The legacy REFSENS requirement will be applied on CC of NR licensed band and
NR V2X REFSENS requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47 if there was
no self-interference problems in own receiver frequency band by own uplink and
sidelink transmission.
Table 10.1.2.1-1 and Table 10.1.2.1-2 propose the uplink test configurations
for inter-band con-current NR V2X REFSENS requirements. For the uplink
configuration, RAN4 consider 10MHz Channel bandwidth.
Table 10.1.2.1-1: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X UE
(PC5)
**Inter-band NR V2X con-current band configuration** **NR UL band / SCS/
Channel BW / N~RB~ / Duplex mode**
* * *
**NR V2X band (PC5)** **NR V2X band (Uu)** **NR V2X UL band (Uu)** **SCS
(kHz)** **Channel Bandwidth (MHz)** **N~RB~** **Duplex Mode** n47 n71 n71 15
10 52 FDD 30 10 24  
60 10 11
Table 10.1.2.1-2: SL Tx configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X UE (Uu)
**Inter-band NR V2X con-current band configuration** **NR UL band / SCS/
Channel BW / N~RB~ / Duplex mode**
* * *
**NR V2X band (PC5)** **NR V2X band (Uu)** **NR V2X band (PC5)** **SCS (kHz)**
**Channel Bandwidth (MHz)** **N~RB~** **Duplex Mode** n47 n71 n47 15 10 50 HD
30 10 24  
60 10 10
Table 10.1.2.1-3 is proposed UE REFSENS requirements with inter-band con-
current NR V2X UE reception.
Table 10.1.2.1-3: Reference sensitivity for V2X QPSK P~REFSENS~
* * *
Inter-band V2X reception Channel bandwidth
NR V2X Band NR band NR Band SCS (kHz) 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20 MHz\ 30 MHz
(dBm) 40 MHz (dBm) Duplex Mode (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
n47 n71 n71 15 -97.2 -94.0 -91.6 -86.0 FDD
                                                           30                   -94.3     -91.9     -87.4
                                                           60
                                       n47                 15                   -92.5               -89.2        -87.4          -86.1          HD
                                                           30                   -92.1               -89.4        -87.7          -86.2
                                                           60                   -92.9               -89.1        -87.9          -86.4
* * *
Table 10.1.2.1-4 is proposed additional Rx insertion loss according to
harmonic trap filter to reduce the harmonic problem based on specific self
desense analysis according to specific NR V2X inter-band con-current
operation.
> Table 10.1.2.1-4: ΔR~IB,c~ (two bands)
* * *
V2X inter-band con-current band Combination NR V2X Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
V2X_n71-n47 n71 0.0
* * *
#### 10.1.2.2 Maximum input level
No need to define additional requirements for con-current inter-band V2X
operation since NR UE shall meet the requirements per each carrier while all
downlink carriers are active.
#### 10.1.2.3 The other Rx requirements
The other Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X UE can be reused.
The legacy other RX requirement will be applied on CC of NR licensed band and
legacy NR V2X other RX requirements will be applied on CC of NR Band n47 since
there was no difference on UE receiver aspect.
\- ACS: Keep the same requirements per CC
\- In band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the inter-band
con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in the
requirement.
\- Out-of-Band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the inter-band
con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in the
requirement.
\- Narrow Band Blocking: NR **NBB requirements only** applied on CC of **NR
licensed band and no requirements for NR Band n47.**
\- Spurious response: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the inter-band
con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in the
requirement.
\- Wideband inter-modulation: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current NR V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~
in the requirement.
## 10.2 NR V2X SL operation and LTE/NR Uu operation both in licensed band for
FR1
### 10.2.1 Tx requirements for inter-band con-current V2X operation
#### 10.2.1.1 Maximum output power
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation at licensed bands in FR1, the
following V2X UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 10.2.1.1-1: Con-current V2X UE Power Class for uplink inter-band
combination (two bands)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | V2X | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | c | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | on-cu | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | V2X\ | | | | | 23 | +2/ | | | | _20A\ | | | | | | -3^4^ | | | | _n38A | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | | mbina | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | Ser | | | | | | | | | | vice. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | on-cu | | | | | | | | | | rrent | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | total | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | | | onent | | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | | (per | | | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | ^4^ | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | (F | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 10.2.1.2 UE maximum output power reduction
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed maximum power
reduction (MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per each
component carrier based on the legacy MPR requirements per CC for inter-band
EN-DC at licensed bands.
#### 10.2.1.3 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the allowed additional maximum
power reduction (A-MPR) for the maximum output power shall be applied per each
component carrier based on the legacy A-MPR requirements per CC for inter-band
EN-DC at licensed bands.
#### 10.2.1.4 Configured transmitted power
For the inter-band con-current V2X operation, the configured transmitted power
requirements for V2X UE shall be applied per each component carrier. The
legacy LTE or NR configured transmitted power for inter-band EN DC shall be
decided by MPR _~c~_ and A-MPR _~c~_ of each CC _._
If the total transmitted power is over the power class of the V2X UE or given
P~EMAX~,_c_ for NR V2X service, the UE shall compare the priority between the
legacy LTE service on licensed band and NR SL V2X service at licensed band.
Based on the priority, the configured transmitted power will be decided which
transmission will be applied on power scale down or dropping between the
legacy LTE Uu transmission and NR V2X SL transmission at licensed band.
The ΔT~IB,V2X~ of P~CMAX,_c_ ,Uu~ is considered to determine maximum output
power for corresponding V2X con-current operating bands
Table 10.2.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,V2X~ for inter-band con-current V2X operation (two
bands)
V2X con-current operating band Configuration Operating Band ΔT~IB,V2X~ [dB]
* * *
V2X_20_n38 20 0.0^1^ Note 1: The ΔT~IB,V2X~ is applied on top of ΔT~IB,c~ of
DC_20A_n38A UE that is considered harmonic trap filter to reduce 3^rd^
harmonic impact from Band 20.
#### 10.2.1.5 UE Minimum output power
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy minimum output power requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE
or NR bands.
#### 10.2.1.6 Transmit OFF power
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy transmit OFF power requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE
or NR bands.
#### 10.2.1.7 ON/OFF time mask
When UE support inter-band con-current V2X operation in Table 10.2-1, the
existing general time mask for LTE or NR UE will be applied on LTE or NR Uu
operation CC in LTE or NR licensed band and the NR V2X general time mask for
NR V2X UE will be applied on NR SL operation CC.
#### 10.2.1.8 Power control
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy power control requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE or NR
licensed band the NR V2X power control for NR V2X UE will be applied on NR SL
operation CC.
#### 10.2.1.9 Transmit signal quality
##### 10.2.1.9.1 Frequency error
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X
> UE. The legacy frequency error requirements will be applied on each CC of
> LTE or NR bands.
##### 10.2.1.9.2 Transmit modulation quality
##### 10.2.1.9.2.1 Error Vector Magnitude {#error-vector-magnitude-2 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X
> UE. The legacy EVM requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE or NR
> bands.
##### 10.2.1.9.2.2 Carrier leakage {#carrier-leakage-2 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X
> UE. The legacy carrier leakage requirements will be applied on each CC of
> LTE or NR bands.
##### 10.2.1.9.2.3 In-band emissions {#in-band-emissions-2 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X
> UE. The legacy in-band emission requirements will be applied on each CC of
> LTE or NR bands.
##### 10.2.1.9.2.4 EVM equalizer spectrum flatness {#evm-equalizer-spectrum-
flatness-2 .H6}
> Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X
> UE. The legacy spectrum flatness requirements will be applied on each CC of
> LTE or NR bands.
#### 10.2.1.10 Spectrum emission mask
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy general/additional SEM requirements will be applied on each CC of
LTE or NR bands.
#### 10.2.1.11 ACLR requirements
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy ACLR requirements will be applied on each CC of LTE or NR bands.
#### 10.2.1.12 Spurious emission requirements
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy general spurious emission requirements will be applied on each CC
of LTE or NR bands.
#### 10.2.1.13 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
This clause specifies the spurious emission requirements of the inter-band
con-current V2X operation, for UE-to-UE coexistence to protect legacy
protected bands
Table 10.2.1.13-1: Requirements
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | V2X | Sp | | | | | | | | con-c | urious | | | | | | | | urrent | em | | | | | | | | ope | ission | | | | | | | | rating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | cofigu | | | | | | | | | ration | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | Pro | Fre | M | MBW | NOTE | | | | | tected | quency | aximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | V2 | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | | | X_20A | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | _n38A | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 8, 22, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 72, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 75, 76 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | E-UTRA | F~DL | - | F~DL\ | -50 | 1 | 1 | | | Band | _low~ | | _high~ | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 52, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77, | | | | | | | | | n78 | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: As | | | | | | | | | excep | | | | | | | | | tions, | | | | | | | | | measur | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | mitted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | signed | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | ^th^] | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | urious | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions. | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ptions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | | | spr | | | | | | | | | eading | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | immed | | | | | | | | | iately | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | esults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terval | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entred | | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 18 | | | | | | | | | 0kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3 | | | | | | | | | or 4 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmonic | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | espect | | | | | | | | | ively. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | llowed | | | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | | | measu | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | otally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | tially | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verall | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | eption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | requir | | | | | | | | | ements | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.5 | | | | | | | | | .3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | 3 UE | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | widths | | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2570 - | | | | | | | | | 2615 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fol | | | | | | | | | lowing | | | | | | | | | restri | | | | | | | | | ction: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rriers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | centre | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2605.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2607.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rriers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | arrier | | | | | | | | | centre | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2597 - | | | | | | | | | 2605 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | | | icable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for an | | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | 2 UE | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | widths | | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2570 - | | | | | | | | | 2615 | | | | | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | NS_44 | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | apply. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | 2 or 3 | | | | | | | | | UE for | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rriers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | | | overl | | | | | | | | | apping | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fre | | | | | | | | | quency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2615 - | | | | | | | | | 2620 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | | rement | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplies | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | aximum | | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | | igured | | | | | | | | | to +19 | | | | | | | | | dBm in | | | | | | | | | the IE | | | | | | | | | P-Max. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4 | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | jacent | | | | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | armful | | | | | | | | | interf | | | | | | | | | erence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | ope | | | | | | | | | rating | | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | tected | | | | | | | | | ope | | | | | | | | | rating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+------+---+---+
#### 10.2.1.14 Transmit intermodulation
Expected no need to change the requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy transmit intermodulation requirements will be applied on each CC of
LTE or NR bands.
### 10.2.2 Rx requirements for inter-band con-current NR V2X operation
#### 10.2.2.1 REFSENS
For the V2X UE RF receiver requirements, RAN4 can refer the 2DL inter-band CA
to define general UE RF Rx requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE.
The legacy REFSENS requirement will be applied on each CC of NR licensed bands
if there was no self-interference problems in own receiver frequency band by
own uplink and sidelink transmission.
Table 10.2.2.1-1 and Table 10.2.2.1-2 propose the uplink test configurations
for inter-band con-current V2X REFSENS requirements. For the uplink
configuration, RAN4 consider 10MHz Channel bandwidth.
Table 10.2.2.1-1: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X UE
(PC5)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+ | Int | LTE or | | | | | | | er-band | NR UL | | | | | | | V2X | band / | | | | | | | con- | Channel | | | | | | | current | BW / | | | | | | | band | N~RB~ / | | | | | | | config | Duplex | | | | | | | uration | mode | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=======+=======+=========+ | V2X | LTE or | LTE or | Channel | SCS | N~RB~ | Duplex | | band | NR band | NR UL | Ba | | | Mode | | (PC5) | (Uu) | band | ndwidth | (kHz) | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+ | n38 | B20 | B20 | 10 | 15 | 50 | FDD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
Table 10.2.2.1-2: SL Tx configuration for reference sensitivity of V2X UE (Uu)
+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+ | Int | | LTE or | | | | | | er-band | | NR UL | | | | | | V2X | | band / | | | | | | con- | | Channel | | | | | | current | | BW / | | | | | | band | | N~RB~ / | | | | | | config | | Duplex | | | | | | uration | | mode | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=======+=======+=========+ | V2X | LTE or | NR V2X | Channel | SCS | N~RB~ | Duplex | | band | NR band | band | Ba | | | Mode | | (PC5) | (Uu) | (PC5) | ndwidth | (kHz) | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+ | n38 | B20 | n38 | 10 | 15 | 50 | HD | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+ | | | | | 30 | 24 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+ | | | | | 60 | 10 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+-------+---------+
Table 10.2.2.1-3 is proposed the REFSENS requirements with inter-band con-
current V2X UE reception without any self-interference problem.
Table 10.2.2.1-3: Reference sensitivity for V2X QPSK P~REFSENS~
* * *
Inter-band V2X reception Channel bandwidth
V2X Band LTE or NR V2X band (Uu) LTE or NR Band SCS (kHz) 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15
MHz\ 20 MHz\ 30 MHz (dBm) 40 MHz (dBm) Duplex Mode (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
n38 B20 B20 15 -97 -94 -91.2 -90 FDD
                                                       n38              15                   -96.5               -93.2     -91.4          -90.1          HD
                                                                        30                   -96.11              -93.4     -91.7          -90.2
                                                                        60                   -966.99             -93.1     -91.9          -90.4
* * *
Table 10.1.2.2-4 is proposed additional Rx insertion loss according to
harmonic trap filter to reduce the harmonic problem based on specific self
desense analysis according to specific NR V2X inter-band con-current
operation.
Table 10.2.2.1-4: ΔR~IB,V2X~ (two bands)
V2X inter-band con-current band Combination V2X operating Band ΔR~IB,V2X~ [dB]
Note
* * *
V2X_20_n38 20 0.0^1^ 3^rd^ harmonic from B20 impact into n38 Note 1: The
ΔR~IB,V2X~ is applied on top of ΔR~IB,c~ of DC_20_n38 UE that is considered
harmonic trap filter to reduce 3^rd^ harmonic impact from Band 20.
#### 10.2.2.1a Reference sensitivity exception due to UL harmonic problem
Sensitivity degradation is allowed for a band if it is impacted by UL harmonic
interference from another band part of the inter-band con-current V2X UE.
Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) for the victim band (high) are
specified in Table 10.2.2.1a-1 with uplink configuration of the aggressor band
(low) specified in Table 10.2.2.1a-2.
Table 10.2.2.1a-1: Reference sensitivity exceptions (MSD) due to UL harmonic
for inter-band con-current operation
+---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+ | V2X | Op | | | | | | | int | erating | | | | | | | er-band | Bands / | | | | | | | con- | Channel | | | | | | | current | ba | | | | | | | band | ndwidth | | | | | | | combi | of the | | | | | | | nations | a | | | | | | | | ffected | | | | | | | | DL band | | | | | | | | / MSD | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+========+========+=========+========+ | V2X_ | UL band | SL | 10 MHz | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | | 20_n38 | | op | | | (dB) | | | | | eration | (dB) | (dB) | | (dB) | +---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+ | | 20 | n38 | 10.7 | 7.7 | 5.8 | 4.7 | +---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | ind | | | | | | | | ividual | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | ag | | | | | | | | gressor | | | | | | | | (lower) | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | the 3rd | | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | | smitter | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | idelink | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | mission | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | victim | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | higher) | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | erified | | | | | | | | for UL | | | | | | | | EARFCN | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | ag | | | | | | | | gressor | | | | | | | | (lower) | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | (supe | | | | | | | | rscript | | | | | | | | LB such | | | | | | | | that in | | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | victim | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | higher) | | | | | | | | band in | | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | figured | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | low | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | The MSD | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | applied | | | | | | | | to all | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | pported | | | | | | | | SCSs in | | | | | | | | victim | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+--------+---------+--------+
Table 10.2.2.1a-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity exceptions
due to UL harmonic interference for inter-band con-current V2X in NR FR1
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | | | | | | | or NR | | | | | | | Band / | | | | | | | Channel | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | affected | | | | | | | DL band | | | | | | | / UL RB | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | agressor | | | | | | | band | | | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | UL band | SL | 10 | 20 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | | | o | | | | | | | peration | MHz | (L~CRB~) | (L~CRB~) | (L~CRB~) | | | | | | | | | | | (L~CRB~) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 20 | n38 | 25 | 50 | 50 | 50 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | The UL | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | gardless | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | UL band | | | | | | | unless | | | | | | | the UL | | | | | | | resource | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | exceed | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | pecified | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | 7.3.1-2 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 36.101 | | | | | | | [4] or | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2-3 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | | [2] | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | in which | | | | | | | case the | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ccording | | | | | | | to Table | | | | | | | 7.3.1-2 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 36.101 | | | | | | | [4] or | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | 7.3.2-3 | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | | [2] | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 10.2.2.2 Maximum input level
No need to define additional requirements for con-current inter-band V2X
operation since NR UE shall meet the requirements per each carrier while all
downlink carriers are active.
#### 10.2.2.3 The other Rx requirements
The other Rx requirements for inter-band con-current V2X UE can be reused. The
legacy other RX requirement will be applied on each CC of NR licensed bands.
\- ACS: Keep the same requirements per CC
\- In band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the inter-band
con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in the
requirement.
\- Out-of-Band Blocking: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the inter-band
con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in the
requirement.
\- Narrow Band Blocking: NR **NBB requirements only** applied on CC of **NR
licensed bands.**
\- Spurious response: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the inter-band
con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in the
requirement.
\- Wideband inter-modulation: Keep the same requirements per CC. For the
inter-band con-current V2X UE, P~Interferer~ power is increased by ΔR~IB,c~ in
the requirement.
## 10.3 NR V2X SL operation in 5.9GHz or other potential ITS spectrum and NR
Uu operation in licensed bands for FR2
## 10.4 NR V2X SL operation and NR Uu operation both in licensed bands for FR2
# 11 Conclusion and recommendations
According to the coexistence simulation results at both licensed band and ITS
spectrum in section 5.4, RAN4 made consensus for the NR V2X deployment
scenarios in section 4.3.1.
Based on the NR V2X operating scenarios, RAN4 studied and specified the NR V2X
UE RF requirements to support the following scenarios to comply the regional
regulatory requirements in FR1.
\- Specify operating NR V2X bands and system parameters (Section 7)
\- Specify RF core requirements in the ITS spectrum (Section 8 and 9)
\- Specify additional-SEM requirements to comply regional regulation
\- Specify the restricted max. power to protect CEN DSRC tolling system
\- Specify RF core requirements for NR SL (at n47) and LTE SL (at B47) as TDM
for Tx transmission and simultaneous receptions (Section 8 and 9)
\- Specify RF core requirements for licensed bands (Section 8 and 9)
\- Specify RF core requirements for inter-band con-current operation (Section
10)
Above RF core requirements for NR V2X operating scenarios in TR38.886, RAN4
will specify NR V2X UE RF core requirements in TS38.101-1 and TS38.101-3 for
NR V2X operation in FR1.
###### ## Annex A Link level simulation mapping model for NR V2X
The detail link level simulation parameters are shown in Table A- 1. The
reference for SNR-TO-BLER mapping model for NR V2V system is shown in
following Table A- 2 according to the operating frequency bands respectively.
Table A-1 Detail link-level simulation parameters for NR V2X
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | parameter | Assumption | +==================================+==================================+ | Bandwidth | 40MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2 GHz/ 3.5GHz/ 5.9GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | numerology | 15 kHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of antenna | 1T2R | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | channel | Urban-LOS | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulation | QPSK | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Coding | LDPC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TB size | 1100 Bytes | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of Occupied PRB | 70 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DMRS configuration | Rel-15 PDSCH DMRS Configuration | | | type 2 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DMRS symbol index | 1, 8 for 30 km/h | | | | | | 1,4,8,12 for 120 km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Symbols number in a slot | 14(including one symbol AGC | | | symbol and 1 symbol gap) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Relative speed | 30km/h and 120km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Retransmission | Off^2^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The maximum transmission number | 1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | synchronization | No timing error | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: These all link level | | | assumptions are only intended | | | for evaluation of SNR-TO-BLER in | | | RAN4 coexistence study. | | | | | | Note 2 Retransmission option of | | | 1,2 or 3 is .not precluded based | | | on contributions from other | | | companies. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table A- 2 Reference table of Link level BLER vs. SNR for NR V2X
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | SNR(dB) | Centre | Centre | Centre | | | | | | fr | fr | fr | | | | | | equency | equency | equency | | | | | | 2GHz | 3.5GHz | 5.9GHz | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | R | R | R | R | R | R | | | elative | elative | elative | elative | elative | elative | | | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | Speed | | | | | | | | | | | 30Km/h | 120Km/h | 30Km/h | 120Km/h | 30Km/h | 120Km/h | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -10 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -9 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -8 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -7 | 0.9997 | 1 | 0.9998 | 0.9999 | 1 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -6 | 0.9978 | 0.9993 | 0.9988 | 0.9996 | 0.9992 | 0.9997 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -5 | 0.9915 | 0.9944 | 0.9917 | 0.996 | 0.9934 | 0.9991 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -4 | 0.9697 | 0.9769 | 0.9736 | 0.9845 | 0.9756 | 0.9926 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -3 | 0.9244 | 0.9385 | 0.9322 | 0.9535 | 0.9331 | 0.9738 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -2 | 0.8436 | 0.8688 | 0.8509 | 0.8901 | 0.8575 | 0.9265 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | -1 | 0.7319 | 0.7666 | 0.7404 | 0.7992 | 0.7524 | 0.8415 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 0 | 0.6007 | 0.6448 | 0.6081 | 0.6718 | 0.6317 | 0.7205 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | 0.4691 | 0.5075 | 0.4764 | 0.5329 | 0.4948 | 0.5757 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | 0.3455 | 0.3802 | 0.3612 | 0.3953 | 0.3691 | 0.429 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | 0.2454 | 0.272 | 0.2562 | 0.2783 | 0.2614 | 0.3018 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | 0.1671 | 0.1907 | 0.1737 | 0.1859 | 0.1762 | 0.1959 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | 0.1034 | 0.1218 | 0.11 | 0.1122 | 0.1105 | 0.1192 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | 0.0611 | 0.0736 | 0.0699 | 0.0663 | 0.0712 | 0.0664 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | 0.0337 | 0.0409 | 0.0391 | 0.0381 | 0.0412 | 0.0331 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | 0.0175 | 0.0198 | 0.0213 | 0.0192 | 0.0222 | 0.0157 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | 0.009 | 0.0092 | 0.0111 | 0.0085 | 0.0109 | 0.007 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | 0.0039 | 0.004 | 0.0055 | 0.0032 | 0.0048 | 0.0026 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | 0.0014 | 0.0015 | 0.0025 | 0.001 | 0.002 | 0 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#