# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on NR
Vehicle-to-Everything\" [2]. The purpose of this TR is to is to study how to
support advanced V2X use cases identified in [3], among other matters.
However, this does not imply that NR V2X capability is necessarily restricted
to advanced services. It is up to the regional regulators and the stakeholders
involved (i.e. car OEMs and the automotive ecosystem in general) to decide on
the technology of choice for the services and use cases.
This document addresses NR SL design for V2X; Uu enhancements for advanced V2X
use cases; Uu-based SL resource allocation/configuration by LTE and NR; RAT
and interface selection; QoS management; and non-cochannel coexistence between
NR and LTE SLs. The study addresses unlicensed ITS bands and licensed bands in
FR1 and FR2, up to 52.6 GHz.
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-190224: \"Revised SID: Study on NR V2X\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios; Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on Scenarios and Requirements for Next Generation
Access Technologies\".
[5] 3GPP TR 37.885: \"Study on evaluation methodology of new Vehicle-to-
Everything V2X use cases for LTE and NR\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.786: \"Study on architecture enhancements for the Evolved
Packet System (EPS) and the 5G System (5GS) to support advanced V2X
services\".
[7] 3GPP TR 37.910: \"Study on self evaluation towards IMT-2020 submission\".
[8] 3GPP TR 38.800: \"NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP R1-1901899: \"Additional field trial results from 39GHz vehicle to
vehicle communications\", AT&T.
[10] 3GPP R1-1805914: \"V2X sidelink channel model\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[11] R1-1901540: \"Sidelink resource allocation mode 2\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[12] R1-1903166: \"Resource allocation procedures for Mode 2\", Ericsson.
[13] 3GPP R1-1902997: \"Sidelink Resource Allocation Mechanism for NR V2X\",
Qualcomm Incorporated.
[14] 3GPP R1-1903337: \"Discussion on sidelink resource allocation
mechanism\", vivo.
[15] 3GPP R1-1902484: \"Resource allocation schemes for NR V2X sidelink
communication\", Intel Corporation.
[16] 3GPP R1-1901880: \"Analysis of Mode 2 resource schemes on sidelink\",
ZTE, Sanechips.
[17] 3GPP R1-1902576: \"On Sidelink Resource Allocation\", Nokia, Nokia
Shanghai Bell.
[18] 3GPP R1-1901945: \"Geographic Information based Dynamic TFRP Resource
Selection Procedure in NR-V2X\", Fujitsu.
[19] 3GPP R1-1902389: \"Discussion on UE autonomous RA in NR-V2X\", OPPO.
[20] 3GPP R1-1902283: \"System level evaluations for NR V2X sidelink resource
allocation\", Samsung.
[21] 3GPP R1-1902801: \"Sidelink resource allocation mechanism for NR V2X\",
NTT DOCOMO, INC.
[22] 3GPP R1-1901933: \"Discussion on resource allocation mechanism for NR
V2X\", LG Electronics.
[23] 3GPP R1-1901995: \"Discussion on resource allocation mechanism in NR
V2X\", CATT.
[24] 3GPP TR 38.824: \"Study on physical layer enhancements for NR ultra-
reliable and low latency case (URLLC)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> 5GC 5G Core Network
>
> CBR Channel busy ratio
>
> CE Control Element
>
> CU Centralised unit
>
> DU Distributed unit
>
> EN-DC E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity
>
> RLF Radio link failure
>
> FR Frequency range
>
> GNSS Global navigation satellite system
>
> ITS Intelligent transport systems
>
> MR-DC Multi-Radio Dual Connectivity
>
> NE-DC NR-E-UTRA Dual Connectivity
>
> NGEN-DC NG-RAN E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity
>
> OLPC Open-loop power control
>
> OS OFDM symbol
>
> PSBCH Physical SL broadcast channel
>
> PSFCH Physical SL feedback channel
>
> PSCCH Physical SL control channel
>
> PSSCH Physical SL shared channel
>
> QFI QoS Flow Identifier
>
> RE Resource element
>
> RSU Road side unit
>
> SCS Subcarrier spacing
>
> SCI Sidelink control information
>
> SDAP Service Data Adaptation Protocol
>
> SFCI SL feedback control information
>
> SL Sidelink
>
> SLRB SL radio bearer
>
> SN Secondary node
>
> V2B Vehicle to base station
>
> V2I Vehicle to infrastructure
>
> V2P Vehicle to pedestrian
>
> V2R Vehicle to road side unit
>
> V2V Vehicle to vehicle
>
> V2X Vehicle to everything
# 4 Introduction
Support for V2V and V2X services has been introduced in LTE during Releases 14
and 15, in order to expand the 3GPP platform to the automotive industry. These
work items defined an LTE SL suitable for vehicular applications, and
complementary enhancements to the cellular infrastructure.
Further to this work, SA WG1 have defined Stage 1 requirements for support of
enhanced V2X use cases, which are broadly arranged into four use case groups
[3]:
1) Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a platoon
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon obtain information from
the leading vehicle to manage this platoon. These information allow the
vehicles to drive closer than normal in a coordinated manner, going to the
same direction and travelling together.
2) Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video images among vehicles, road site units,
devices of pedestrian and V2X application servers. The vehicles can increase
the perception of their environment beyond of what their own sensors can
detect and have a more broad and holistic view of the local situation. High
data rate is one of the key characteristics.
3) Advanced Driving enables semi-automated or full-automated driving. Each
vehicle and/or RSU shares its own perception data obtained from its local
sensors with vehicles in proximity and that allows vehicles to synchronize and
coordinate their trajectories or manoeuvres. Each vehicle shares its driving
intention with vehicles in proximity too.
4) Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive by themselves or remote
vehicles located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. High reliability and low latency are the
main requirements.
In TSG RAN, a set of corresponding 5G RAN requirements, channel models, etc.
for NR have been defined in TR 38.913 [4] and TR 37.885 [5].
This study investigates the RAN aspects of supporting these advanced use cases
and requirements in NR, as phase 3 of V2X support in the 3GPP platform. This
TR reports the study\'s findings on: NR SL design for V2X; Uu enhancements for
advanced V2X use cases; Uu-based SL resource allocation/configuration by LTE
and NR; RAT and interface selection; QoS management; and non-cochannel
coexistence between NR and LTE SLs. The study addresses unlicensed ITS bands
and licensed bands in frequency ranges below and above 6 GHz, i.e. FR1 and
FR2, up to 52.6 GHz. As can be seen from these aspects, NR V2X will complement
LTE V2X for advanced V2X services and support interworking with LTE V2X.
In the remainder of this document, the NR SL or the LTE SL may be referred to
specifically. When no RAT is indicated, the NR SL is meant.
## 4.1 Operation scenarios
The scenarios considered in the study are captured in the following figures.
The scenarios can be categorized into standalone and MR-DC scenarios regarding
the architecture. The study prioritised Scenarios 1, 2 and 3, and MN
controlling/configuring both NR SL and LTE SL in Scenarios 4, 5 and 6 which is
covered by Scenarios 1, 2 and 3 respectively.
Figure 4.1-1, Figure 4.1-2 and Figure 4.1-3 illustrate the standalone
scenarios to support V2X SL communication. Particularly:
1) In scenario 1, a gNB provides control/configuration for a UE\'s V2X
communication in both LTE SL and NR SL;
2) In scenario 2, an ng-eNB provides control/configuration for a UE\'s V2X
communication in both LTE SL and NR SL;
3) In scenario 3, an eNB provides control/configuration for a UE\'s V2X
communication in both LTE SL and NR SL.
{width="1.8243055555555556in" height="1.9354166666666666in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Scenario 1
{width="1.8229166666666667in" height="1.9375in"}
Figure 4.1-2: Scenario 2
{width="1.8229166666666667in" height="1.9375in"}
Figure 4.1-3: Scenario 3
Figure 4.1-4, Figure 4.1-5 and Figure 4.1-6 illustrate the MR-DC scenarios to
support V2X SL communication. Particularly:
1) In scenario 4, a UE\'s V2X communication in LTE SL and NR SL is
controlled/configured by Uu while the UE is configured with NE-DC;
2) In scenario 5, a UE\'s V2X communication in LTE SL and NR SL is
controlled/configured by Uu while the UE is configured in NGEN-DC;
3) In scenario 6, a UE\'s V2X communication in LTE SL and NR SL is
controlled/configured by Uu while the UE is configured in EN-DC.
{width="1.9895833333333333in" height="1.9375in"}
Figure 4.1-4: Scenario 4
{width="1.9895833333333333in" height="1.9375in"}
Figure 4.1-5: Scenario 5
{width="1.8229166666666667in" height="1.9375in"}
Figure 4.1-6: Scenario 6
# 5 Sidelink (PC5) aspects
## 5.1 NR sidelink unicast, groupcast, and broadcast design
SL broadcast, groupcast, and unicast transmissions are supported for the in-
coverage, out-of-coverage and partial-coverage scenarios.
The AS protocol stack for the control plane in the PC5 interface consists of
at least RRC, PDCP, RLC and MAC sublayers, and the physical layer. The
protocol stack of PC5-C is shown in Figure 5.1-1.
{width="2.5in" height="1.8020833333333333in"}
Figure 5.1-1: PC5 control plane (PC5-C) protocol stack.
The AS protocol stack for user plane in the PC5 interface consists of SDAP,
PDCP, RLC and MAC sublayers, and the physical layer. The protocol stack of
PC5-U is shown in Figure 5.1-2.
{width="2.5in" height="1.7395833333333333in"}
Figure 5.1-2: PC5 user plane (PC5-U) protocol stack.
For the purposes of physical layer analysis, it is assumed that higher layers
decide if unicast, groupcast, or broadcast transmission is to be used for a
particular data transfer, and they correspondingly inform the physical layer.
When considering a unicast or groupcast transmission, it is assumed that the
UE is able to establish which unicast or groupcast session a transmission
belongs to, and that the following information is known to the physical layer:
\- Identities:
\- The layer-1 source and destination IDs, conveyed in SCI
\- Additional layer-1 ID(s), conveyed via PSCCH, at least for the purpose of
identifying which transmissions can be combined in reception when HARQ
feedback is in use (see Section 5.1.2.2)
\- HARQ process ID
For the purpose of Layer 2 analysis, it is assumed that upper layers (i.e.
above AS) provide the information on whether it is a unicast, groupcast or
broadcast transmission for a particular data transfer. For the unicast and
groupcast transmission in SL, the following information is known to Layer 2:
\- Identities:
\- Unicast: destination ID, source ID
\- Groupcast: destination Group ID, source ID
Any UE configured to receive a group destination Layer 2 ID is allowed to
receive the groupcast transmission, whether it is within or beyond the
\"minimum communication range\" provided by upper layers.
For AS-level link management in unicast, SL RLM/RLF declaration is supported.
For RLC AM in SL unicast, RLF declaration is triggered by indication from RLC
that the maximum number of retransmissions has been reached. The AS-level link
status (e.g., failure) should be informed to upper layers. No RLM design
specific to groupcast, different than the RLM procedure for unicast, is
considered. There is no need for RLM/RLF declarations among group members for
groupcast.
Discovery procedure and related messages for unicast and groupcast
transmission are up to upper layers.
### 5.1.1 Physical layer structures
In this section, the design of a physical SL control channel (PSCCH), a
physical SL shared channel (PSSCH), a physical SL feedback channel (PSFCH) and
other matters related to physical layer structures are studied. In addition to
what is discussed in this TR, at least aspects related to modulation,
scrambling, RE mapping and rate matching would be included in normative work.
For design of the physical SL broadcast channel (PSBCH), refer to Section 5.2.
The waveform supported in the study is CP-OFDM.
#### 5.1.1.1 Subcarrier spacing and cyclic prefix
In FR1, 15 kHz, 30 kHz and 60 kHz SCS are supported with normal CP, and 60 kHz
SCS with extended CP. In FR2, 60 kHz and 120 kHz SCS are supported with normal
CP, and 60 kHz SCS with extended CP. In a given carrier, a UE is not required
to receive simultaneously SL transmissions with more than one combination of
SCS and CP, nor transmit simultaneously SL transmissions with more than one
combination of SCS and CP. The numerology configuration is part of the SL BWP
configuration (see Section 5.1.1.3).
#### 5.1.1.2 Channel coding
The channel coding defined for data and control in NR Uu are respectively the
starting points for data and control on the NR SL.
#### 5.1.1.3 SL bandwidth parts and resource pools
BWP is defined for SL, and the same SL BWP is used for transmission and
reception. In specification terms, in a licensed carrier, SL BWP would be
defined separately, and have separate configuration signalling, from Uu BWP.
One SL BWP is (pre-)configured for RRC IDLE and out-of-coverage NR V2X UEs in
a carrier. For UEs in RRC_CONNECTED mode, one SL BWP is active in a carrier.
No signalling is exchanged over SL for the activation or deactivation of a SL
BWP.
In a carrier, only one SL BWP is configured for a UE, and the UE is not
expected to use at the same time a different numerology in the SL BWP than an
active UL BWP.
A resource pool is a set of time-frequency resources that can be used for SL
transmission and/or reception. From the UE point of view, a resource pool is
inside the UE\'s bandwidth, within a SL BWP and has a single numerology. Time
domain resources in a resource pool can be non-contiguous. Multiple resource
pools can be (pre-)configured to a UE in a carrier.
#### 5.1.1.4 Resource arrangements
NR V2X may be deployed in a carrier dedicated to ITS services, or a carrier
shared with cellular services. Therefore, resource arrangements where all the
symbols in a slot are available for SL, and where only a subset of consecutive
symbols in a slot (which are not dynamically indicated) are available for SL
are supported. The latter case is not intended for use in ITS spectrum, if
normative specification work does not find a forward compatibility issue.
Resource allocation for PSSCH is based on the concept of sub-channels in the
frequency domain, and a UE performs either transmission or reception in a slot
on a carrier. Blind retransmissions of a TB are supported, and resource
allocation Mode 2 (see section 5.3.1) supports reservation of SL resources at
least for such blind retransmission.
PSFCH (see section 5.1.2.2) supports at least a format which uses the last
symbol(s) available for SL in a slot.
#### 5.1.1.5 Reference signals
DM-RS associated with PSSCH are transmitted in one of several possible
patterns in the time domain. In FR2, a PT-RS for PSSCH is also supported.
Other candidate reference signals are: CSI-RS (see section 5.1.2.3 for CSI
procedure), SRS, and AGC training signal.
### 5.1.2 Physical layer procedures
In this section, physical layer procedures are studied. For procedures related
to SL synchronization, refer to Section 5.2
#### 5.1.2.1 Multiplexing of physical channels
For the purposes of this section, a PSSCH is said to be \"associated\" to a
PSCCH when the PSCCH carries at least the SCI necessary to decode the PSSCH.
The following options for multiplexing of a PSCCH and associated PSSCH are
studied:
**Option 1** : PSCCH and the associated PSSCH are transmitted using non-
overlapping time resources.
**\- Option 1A** : The frequency resources used by the two channels are the
same.
**\- Option 1B** : The frequency resources used by the two channels can be
different.
**Option 2** : PSCCH and the associated PSSCH are transmitted using non-
overlapping frequency resources in the all the time resources used for
transmission. The time resources used by the two channels are the same.
**Option 3** : Part of PSCCH and the associated PSSCH are transmitted using
overlapping time resources in non-overlapping frequency resources, but another
part of the associated PSSCH and/or another part of the PSCCH are transmitted
using non-overlapping time resources.
{width="3.8625in" height="2.8229166666666665in"}
Figure 1: Illustration of multiplexing options for PSCCH and associated PSSCH.
Of the options described above, at least Option 3 is supported. (_Editor\'s
note: this is a RAN1 working assumption)._
#### 5.1.2.2 HARQ procedures
##### 5.1.2.2.1 General HARQ procedure
For SL unicast and groupcast, HARQ feedback and HARQ combining in the physical
layer are supported. HARQ-ACK feedback for a PSSCH is carried in SFCI
format(s) via PSFCH in resource allocation Modes 1 and 2.
When SL HARQ feedback is enabled for unicast, in the case of non-CBG operation
the receiver UE generates HARQ-ACK if it successfully decodes the
corresponding TB. It generates HARQ-NACK if it does not successfully decode
the corresponding TB after decoding the associated PSCCH targeted to the
receiver UE.
When SL HARQ feedback is enabled for groupcast, it is supported to use TX-RX
distance and/or RSRP in deciding whether to send HARQ feedback. In the case of
non-CBG operation, two options are supported: _(Editor\'s note: This is a RAN1
working assumption)_
**Option 1:** Receiver UE transmits HARQ-NACK on PSFCH if it fails to decode
the corresponding TB after decoding the associated PSCCH. It transmits no
signal on PSFCH otherwise.
**Option 2:** Receiver UE transmits HARQ-ACK on PSFCH if it successfully
decodes the corresponding TB. It transmits HARQ-NACK on PSFCH if it does not
successfully decode the corresponding TB after decoding the associated PSCCH
which targets the receiver UE.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 HARQ procedure details for Mode 1 resource allocation
The time between PSSCH and sending HARQ feedback on PSFCH is (pre-)configured.
For unicast and groupcast, if retransmission is needed on the SL, this can be
indicated to the gNB by an in-coverage UE using PUCCH. It is supported that
the transmitter UE sends the indication to its serving gNB in a form such as
SR/BSR, but not in the form of HARQ ACK/NACK.
The study considered an additional option of the receiver UE sending the
indication to its serving gNB, as HARQ ACK/NACK, and assuming no inter-BS
communication.
SL re-transmission resources can also be scheduled by the gNB without
receiving such an indication.
##### 5.1.2.2.3 HARQ procedure details for Mode 2 resource allocation
The time between PSSCH and sending HARQ feedback on PSFCH is (pre-)configured.
#### 5.1.2.3 CSI acquisition
Examples of CSI information for V2X are CQI, PMI, RI, RSRP, RSRQ,
pathgain/pathloss, SRI, CRI, interference condition, vehicle motion. For
unicast communication, CQI, RI and PMI, or a subset among them, are supported
with non-subband-based aperiodic CSI reports assuming no more than 4 antenna
ports. The CSI procedure does not rely on a \'standalone\' RS. CSI reporting
can be enabled and disabled by configuration.
#### 5.1.2.4 Power control
Open-loop power control procedures are supported for SL. When the transmitting
UE is in-coverage, gNB can enable OLPC for a unicast, groupcast or broadcast
transmission based on the pathloss between the transmitting UE and its serving
gNB. This is in order to mitigate interference to the gNB\'s UL reception.
Additionally, at least for unicast, (pre-)configuration can enable also using
the pathloss between the transmitting and receiving UE. The transmitting UE
derives the pathloss estimation from a SL RSRP reported by the receiving UE.
To support OLPC, long-term measurements, i.e. with L3 filtering, on SL are
supported, at least for unicast.
The SL does not support TPC commands.
#### 5.1.2.5 Beam management
RAN1 conducted a limited study on beam management, and concluded that it is
beneficial for the SL. In FR1, it is feasible to support V2X use cases without
SL beam management. In FR2, it is feasible to support some V2X use cases
without SL beam management in some scenarios. To improve communication range
in FR2, panel selection is necessary.
## 5.2 Synchronization
The V2X SL synchronization includes the following:
\- SL synchronization signals: SL primary synchronization signal (S-PSS), SL
secondary synchronization signal (S-SSS)
\- Physical SL broadcast channel (PSBCH)
\- SL synchronization sources and procedures
The use of other SL signals and channels for SL synchronization, such as
reference signals and PSCCH/PSSCH is also studied.
### 5.2.1 S-PSS, S-SSS, PSBCH
S-PSS, S-SSS and PSBCH are structured in a block format (S-SSB) which supports
periodic transmission. The S-SSB has the same numerology (i.e. SCS and CP
length) as PSCCH/PSSCH in a carrier, transmission bandwidth is within the
(pre-)configured SL BWP, and its frequency location is (pre-)configured. This
leads to no need for the UE to perform hypothesis detection in frequency to
find S-SSB in a carrier.
The sequence for S-PSS is an _m_ -sequence, and the sequence for S-SSS is a
Gold sequence. Note that these are respectively the same types of sequence as
PSS and SSS.
### 5.2.2 Synchronization procedure
SL synchronization sources are GNSS, gNB, eNB, NR UE, each associated with a
synchronization priority, as shown in Table 5.2.2-1.
Table 5.2.2-1: Synchronization source priority
* * *
Priority level GNSS-based synchronization gNB/eNB-based synchronization P0
GNSS gNB/eNB P1 All UEs directly synchronized to GNSS All UEs directly
synchronized to gNB/eNB P2 All UEs indirectly synchronized to GNSS All UEs
indirectly synchronized to gNB/eNB P3 Any other UE GNSS P4 N/A All UEs
directly synchronized to GNSS P5 N/A All UEs indirectly synchronized to GNSS
P6 N/A Any other UE
* * *
_(Editor\'s note: Table 5.2.2-1 is a RAN1 working assumption)_
Whether GNSS- or gNB/eNB-based synchronization is used is (pre-)configured. In
single-carrier operation, UE derives its transmission timing from the
available synchronization reference with the highest priority.
An eNB can be a synchronization source only for NR UEs which support LTE
Uu/PC5 or LTE Uu. Operation when the NR SL is synchronized with an LTE SL, and
where the NR and LTE SL synchronization procedures operate independently are
relevant to normative specification work.
On an unlicensed (ITS) carrier where no cellular network is present, it is
also supported to use a SL RS for the purpose of synchronization. Such an RS
is neither a part of S-PSS/S-SSS nor is it transmitted or designed
specifically for this purpose.
## 5.3 Resource allocation
The study defines at least the following two SL resource allocation modes:
**Mode 1** : BS schedules SL resource(s) to be used by UE for SL
transmission(s). See section 6.2.1.
**Mode 2** : UE determines, i.e. BS does not schedule, SL transmission
resource(s) within SL resources configured by BS/network or pre-configured SL
resources. See section 5.3.1.
> The definition of SL resource allocation Mode 2 covers:
a) UE autonomously selects SL resource for transmission
b) UE assists SL resource selection for other UE(s), a functionality which can
be part of a), c), d)
c) UE is configured with NR configured grant (Type-1 like) for SL transmission
d) UE schedules SL transmissions of other UEs
### 5.3.1 Resource allocation Mode 2
Resource allocation Mode 2 supports reservation of SL resources at least for
blind retransmission.
### 5.3.1.1 Sensing and resource (re-)selection
Sensing- and resource (re-)selection-related procedures are supported for
resource allocation Mode 2.
The sensing procedure considered is defined as decoding SCI(s) from other UEs
and/or SL measurements. Decoding SCI(s) in this procedure provides at least
information on SL resources indicated by the UE transmitting the SCI. The
sensing procedure uses a L1 SL RSRP measurement based on SL DMRS when the
corresponding SCI is decoded.
The resource (re-)selection procedure considered uses the results of the
sensing procedure to determine resource(s) for SL transmission.
### 5.3.1.2 Mode 2(a)
The study considers SL sensing and resource selection procedures for Mode
2(a), in the context of a semi-persistent scheme where resource(s) are
selected for multiple transmissions of different TBs and a dynamic scheme
where resource(s) are selected for each TB transmission.
The following techniques are studied to identify occupied SL resources:
\- Decoding of SL control channel transmissions
\- SL measurements
\- Detection of SL transmissions
The following aspects are studied for SL resource selection
\- How a UE selects resource for PSCCH and PSSCH transmission (and other SL
physical channel/signals that are defined)
\- Which information is used by UE for resource selection procedure
### 5.3.1.3 Mode 2(c)
For out-of-coverage operation, Mode 2(c) assumes a (pre-)configuration of
single or multiple SL transmission patterns, defined on each SL resource pool.
For in-coverage operation, Mode 2(c) assumes that gNB configuration indicates
single or multiple SL transmission patterns, defined on each SL resource pool.
If there is a single pattern configured to a transmitting UE, there is no
sensing procedure executed by UE, while if multiple patterns are configured,
there is a possibility of a sensing procedure.
A \'pattern\' is defined by the size and position(s) of the resource in time
and frequency, and the number of resources.
### 5.3.1.4 Mode 2(d)
In the context of group-based SL communication, it supported for UE-A to
inform its serving gNB about members UE-B, UE-C, and so on of a group, and for
the gNB to provide individual resource pool configurations and/or individual
resource configurations to each group member through UE-A. UE-A cannot modify
the configurations, and there is no direct connection required between any
member UE and the gNB. Higher-layer only signalling is used to provide the
configurations. Such functionality is up to UE capability(ies).
## 5.4 L2/L3 protocols
V2X SL communication is supported for UEs in RRC_CONNECTED, RRC_IDLE and (in
NR) RRC_INACTIVE modes.
UEs in RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_IDLE perform V2X SL communication by using the
cell-specific configurations included in SIB(s) specific to V2X.
## 5.4.1 MAC
The MAC sublayer provides the following functions for SL:
\- Layer 2 packet filtering (at least for broadcast, if it is concluded that
full identification is not used in L1 control information)
\- SL carrier/resource (re-)selection, at least for broadcast;
\- SL HARQ transmissions without HARQ feedback and SL process, at least for
broadcast;
\- SL specific logical channel prioritization, at least for broadcast;
\- SL Scheduling Request, for broadcast, groupcast and unicast;
\- SL Buffer Status Reporting, for broadcast, groupcast and unicast;
\- UL/SL TX prioritization, for broadcast, groupcast and unicast.
The study also investigates whether and how to enhance SR
procedure/configuration, MAC PDU format, HARQ/CSI feedback/procedure for
groupcast and unicast, and configured SL grant transmission for MAC.
## 5.4.2 RLC
The RLC sublayer provides the following functions for SL:
\- Segmentation and reassembly of RLC SDUs, for broadcast, groupcast and
unicast;
\- RLC SDU discard function for broadcast, groupcast and unicast;
A UM RLC entity is configured to submit/receive RLC PDUs for user packets of
SL broadcast, groupcast or unicast. If SBCCH is used for SL (see Section 5.2
for physical layer synchronization), a TM RLC entity is configured to
submit/receive RLC PDUs for control information. RLC AM is supported for SL
unicast, and is not supported for SL broadcast and groupcast.
## 5.4.3 PDCP
The PDCP sublayer provides the following functions for SL broadcast, groupcast
and unicast:
\- SL packet duplication and duplicated PDU discard, at least for broadcast
and groupcast;
\- Timer based SDU discard, for broadcast, groupcast and unicast.
## 5.4.4 RRC
RRC is used to exchange at least UE capabilities and AS layer configurations.
For UE capability transfer, the information flow is triggered during or after
PC5-S signalling for direct link setup, and can be done in a one-way manner,
e.g. as shown in Figure 5.4.4-1, or a two-way manner, e.g. as shown in Figure
5.4.4-2.
{width="2.5in" height="1.28125in"}
Figure 5.4.4-1: One-way information flow for UE capability transfer
{width="2.5in" height="1.625in"}
Figure 5.4.4-2: Two-way information flow for UE capability transfer
For AS layer configuration, the information flow is triggered during or after
PC5-S signalling for direct link setup, and can be done in the two-way manner,
e.g. as shown in Figure 5.4.4-3.
{width="2.59375in" height="1.625in"}
Figure 5.4.4-3: SL AS layer configuration information flow
There is no need for one-to-many PC5-RRC connection establishment among group
members for groupcast.
## 5.4.5 SDAP
The SDAP sublayer provides the following functions for SL unicast which apply
to the per-flow QoS model described in [6] in the upper layers:
\- QoS flow to SLRB mapping for SL unicast.
The SDAP sublayer does not apply to SL broadcast or groupcast.
# 6 Uplink and downlink (Uu) aspects
## 6.1 Advanced V2X use cases over Uu interfaces
### 6.1.1 LTE Uu
LTE Rel-15 introduced the HRLLC feature which was designed based on the sTTI
frame structure to fulfil the target that a packet of 32 bytes can be
delivered within a 1 ms air interface latency with 10^-5^ BLER. The HRLLC
feature supports _K_ consecutive subslot-based PDSCH transmissions for
improving reliability with the same resource allocation, MCS and HARQ process,
where _K_ ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4 or 6}, and is indicated in a single DCI. UE will not
expect retransmission within the latency budget if the initial transmission
decoding fails.
In addition, uplink SPS with repetition was introduced in the HRLLC feature in
order to improve reliability and reduce latency. The number of repetitions _K_
must not exceed the periodicity length _P_ , but if new data arrives and
misses the first transmission occasion within the repetition window, the UE
has to wait for the next first sTTI of the transmission window. Therefore, in
order to shorten the delay, the specifications allow multiple SPS
configurations to be activated on the same serving cell.
The descriptions above show the basis of the HRLLC feature, however the
specifications also include ways that higher performance can be achieved.
For downlink, UE can expect retransmission(s) when the initial transmission
fails and improve performance by combining retransmission(s) and initial
transmission given the air interface latency budget (3 ms) is larger for
supporting remote driving via LTE Uu interface than the 1 ms that assumed in
LTE HRLLC. Note this does not have impact on specifications.
For uplink, since the uplink packet size of 5220 bytes of remote driving is
much larger than 32 bytes, using carrier aggregation for uplink can support
large packet size transmission. This does not have impact on specifications
assuming no increase in the maximum number of component carriers.
In general, the techniques introduced in Rel-15 NR URLLC and being discussed
in Rel-16 NR URLLC can be considered potentially applicable to LTE as Uu
enhancements. However, such enhancements would need significant LTE
specification changes.
In terms of supporting advanced V2X uses cases over the LTE Uu interface,
since there are options with no specification impact, the options with
specification impact are not needed.
### 6.1.2 NR Uu
NR supports having multiple active UL configured grants in a given BWP in a
given cell, of which not more than one is used simultaneously for transmission
by UE. DCI is used to identify the type-2 UL configured grant to be activated
or deactivated.
The UE can report assistance information to the gNB consisting of at least UE-
related geographic information such as position and, at least for periodic
traffic, reports of Uu and SL V2X traffic periodicity, timing offset, and
message size.
Rel-15 NR does not support multicast/broadcast over the Uu interface. There
are two technologies for Uu multicast/broadcast in 3GPP previously: multimedia
broadcast single frequency network (MBSFN) and single-cell point-to-multipoint
(SC-PTM), both supported in LTE. NR Uu multicast/broadcast are beneficial at
least in terms of resource utilization for V2X use cases in some scenarios.
## 6.2 Uu-based SL resource allocation/configuration
The study considers how the NR and LTE Uu interfaces are used to
control/configure SL resource allocation. If MR-DC is configured for a UE
performing V2X sidelink communication, SN is not allowed to control/configure
SL resources.
### 6.2.1 Control of NR SL by NR
The study considers how NR Uu can assign NR SL resources for the cases of (i)
a licensed carrier shared between NR Uu and NR SL; and (ii) a carrier
dedicated to NR SL. The following techniques are supported for resource
allocation Mode 1:
\- Dynamic resource allocation
\- Configured grant Type 1 and Type 2
In the above, the level of network control is also studied, for example
whether the UE may select other parameters (e.g., MCS) and/or the exact
transmission resources, and whether the selection is autonomous or not.
#### 6.2.1.1 RRC
To support V2X SL communication, the RRC layer provides at least the following
functionalities in Uu:
\- Acquisition of V2X-specific SIB(s);
\- Establishment of RRC connection for V2X SL communication: For the UE
configured by upper layers to transmit V2X SL communication, and having data
to transmit, an RRC connection is established at least if the frequency on
which the UE is configured to transmit for SL communication is included in the
V2X-specific SIB(s), without the inclusion of transmission resource pool for
that frequency;
\- Configuration of resource allocation modes for V2X communication in SL:
\- Resource allocation Mode 1 and Mode 2 can be configured at the same time
for the UE;
\- The network can provide pools of resources in which UE autonomously selects
sidelink grant for \'sidelink unicast/groupcast/broadcast\' via broadcast
system information and/or dedicated signalling;
\- Mode 2 resource configuration can be provided for a given validity area
where UE does not need to acquire a new Mode 2 resource configuration while
moving within the validity area, at least when this configuration is provided
by SIB (e.g. reuse valid area of NR SIB);
\- Mobility management:
\- During handover, the transmission and reception of V2X SL communication are
performed based on at least configuration of the exceptional transmission
resource pool and reception resource pool of the target cell, which can be
used by the UE during handover, are provided in the handover command;
\- Cell selection and reselection for V2X SL communication are performed based
on at least the following criteria and configurations:
\- The carrier frequencies that may provide V2X SL resource configuration or
inter-frequency configuration can be (pre-)configured;
\- The frequencies providing inter-frequency V2X SL configurations are
prioritized during cell (re-)selection;
\- It is up to UE implementation how to minimize the interruption of V2X SL
transmission and reception during cell reselection;
\- Reporting of UE SL information;
\- SL-related measurement and reporting, including:
\- Measuring and reporting of CBR;
\- Reporting of location information;
\- Reporting of UE assistance information for traffic pattern(s) (periodicity,
offset and packet size), at least for periodic traffic.
#### 6.2.1.2 MAC
To support V2X SL communication, the MAC layer provides at least the following
functionalities in Uu:
\- Scheduling Request:
\- Separate SR resources and configurations for UL and SL;
\- Multiple SR resources and configurations for different SL logical channels;
\- Sidelink Buffer Status Reporting:
\- At least destination information, LCG information and SL Buffer Size are
included in SL BSR MAC CE.
### 6.2.2 Control of NR SL by LTE
LTE can provide the necessary semi-static configurations for NR SL resource
allocation Mode 1 and Mode 2. For Mode 1, the configuration is of a Type 1
configured grant with configuration limited to time-frequency resources and
periodicity, without additional functions or procedures on the LTE Uu
interface.
### 6.2.3 Control of LTE SL by NR
NR can provide the necessary semi-static configurations for LTE SL mode 4\.
For control of LTE SL SPS transmissions when the UE has the relevant
capability, under the premise that there is sufficient time for coordination
between the NR and LTE modules, it is supported from the physical layer point
of view that Uu-RRC (and not DCI) delivers and releases the SPS grant
configuration. In normative work, specification change to LTE is needed to
support reception via Uu-RRC of a message containing LTE SL mode 3 grant
content and timing.
# 7 QoS management
QoS management is relevant to V2X in the context of its use in resource
allocation, congestion control, in-device coexistence, power control and SLRB
configuration. Physical layer parameters related to QoS management are the
priority, latency, reliability and minimum required communication range (as
defined by higher layers) of the traffic being delivered. Data rate
requirements are also supported in the AS. A SL congestion metric and, at
least in resource allocation mode 2, mechanisms for congestion control are
needed. It is beneficial to report the SL congestion metric to gNB.
For SL unicast, groupcast and broadcast, QoS parameters of V2X packets are
provided by upper layers to the AS. For SL unicast, the SLRBs are
(pre-)configured based on the signalling flows and procedures shown in Figures
7-1 and 7-2. The per-flow QoS model described in [6] is assumed in upper
layers.
{width="5.677083333333333in" height="4.916666666666667in"}
Figure 7-1: SLRB configuration for SL unicast (UE-specific)
In Step 0 of Figure 7-1, the PC5 QoS profile, i.e. a set of specific PC5 QoS
parameters, and PC5 QoS rule for each PC5 QoS flow are provisioned to the UE
in advance by service authorization and provisioning procedures as in [6];
similarly, PC5 QoS profile for each QoS flow is also provisioned to the
gNB/ng-eNB in advance. Then, when packet(s) arrive, the UE can first derive
the identifier of the associated PC5 QoS flow(s) (i.e. PC5 QFI) based on the
PC5 QoS rules configured in Step 0, and may then report the derived PC5 QFI(s)
to the gNB/ng-eNB in Step 3. The gNB/ng-eNB can derive the QoS profile(s) of
these reported PC5 QFI(s) based on the provisioning from 5GC in Step 0, and
may signal the configurations of the SLRB(s) associated with the PC5 QFI(s) UE
reported via RRC dedicated signalling in Step 4. These SLRB configurations may
include PC5 QoS flow to SLRB mapping, SDAP/PDCP/RLC/LCH configurations, etc.
In Step 5, the UE in the AS establishes SLRB(s) associated with the PC5 QFI(s)
of the packet(s) with the peer UE as per gNB/ng-eNB configuration, and maps
available packet(s) to the SLRB(s) established. SL unicast transmission can
then occur.
NOTE: How the PC5 QFI is defined is up to SA2 WG2.
{width="5.770833333333333in" height="4.916666666666667in"}
Figure 7-2: SLRB configuration for SL unicast (pre-configuration based)
In Figure 7-2, both the PC5 QoS rules which are used in the upper layers for
filtering and the SLRB configuration for each PC5 QoS flow in the AS layer are
pre-configured as in Step 0 (either via CN signalling, pre-configured in UICC
or pre-configured in ME [6]). In Step 1-3, the UE derives the identifier of
the associated PC5 QoS flow(s) for the arriving packets, autonomously sets up
associated SLRB(s) with the peer UE depending on the pre-configuration, and
maps the packet(s) into corresponding SLRB(s) based on their associated PC5
QoS flow identifiers. SL unicast transmission can then occur.
For NR SL unicast, the PC5 QoS flow to SLRB mapping is performed in the SDAP
layer of the UE. Some SLRB configurations (including at least SN length, RLC
mode and PC5 QoS profile associated with each SLRB) for unicast need to be
informed by one UE to the peer UE in SL, when they are (pre-)configured at the
UE.
For V2X sidelink transmission in SL groupcast and broadcast, the SLRB
configurations are (pre)configured based on the signalling flows and
procedures shown in Figure 7-3, Figure 7-4 and Figure 7-5 below. For SL
groupcast and broadcast, the per-packet QoS model described in [6] is assumed
in the upper layers; particularly, PQI and other potential QoS parameters (if
any) are set by the UE\'s upper layers to represent a set of per-packet PC5
QoS parameters, i.e. the PC5 QoS profile, which are tagged on each V2X packet
submitted to the AS.
{width="5.65625in" height="4.916666666666667in"}
Figure 7-3: SLRB configuration for SL groupcast and broadcast (UE-specific)
In Figure 7-3, steps 1-2, the PC5 QoS profile of each arriving V2X packet is
set by the upper layers and submitted to the AS. In Step 3, the UE may report
the PC5 QoS profile(s) of the packet(s) to the gNB/ng-eNB, and requests the
configuration of the SLRB(s) associated with these PC5 QoS profile(s)
reported. In response, the gNB/ng-eNB may signal the configurations of the
SLRB(s) associated with the PC5 QoS profile(s) reported via RRC dedicated
signalling; these SLRB configurations may include PC5 QoS profile to SLRB
mapping, PDCP/RLC/LCH configurations, etc. In Step 5, the UE in the AS
establishes SLRB(s) associated with the QoS profile of the packet(s) as per
gNB/ng-eNB configuration, and maps the packet(s) to the SLRB(s) established.
SL groupcast or broadcast transmission can then occur.
{width="5.677083333333333in" height="4.90625in"}
Figure 7-4: SLRB configuration for SL groupcast and broadcast (cell-specific)
In Figure 7-4, the gNB/ng-eNB uses V2X specific SIB to broadcast the SLRB
configuration associated with each possible PC5 QoS profile in Step 0\. When
packet(s) with specific PC5 QoS profile(s) arrive in Step 1-2, the UE
establishes the SLRB(s) corresponding to these QoS profile(s) as per the cell-
specific configurations broadcast in the SIB and maps the packet(s) to the
established SLRB(s).
{width="5.770833333333333in" height="4.916666666666667in"}
Figure7-5: SLRB configuration for SL groupcast and broadcast (pre-
configuration based)
In Figure 7-5, the SLRBs associated with all PC5 QoS profiles are pre-
configured to the UE (either via CN signalling, pre-configured in UICC, or
pre-configured in ME [6]) as in Step 0. In the steps afterwards, the UE
autonomously sets up SLRB(s) associated with the PC5 QoS profile(s) of the
arriving packet(s) and maps the packet(s) to the associated SLRBs established
based on the pre-configuration.
# 8 RAT and interface selection
It is assumed that the candidate RAT(s) for SL transmission are associated
with a service type by upper layers. A given V2X service type may be
associated with: 1) LTE RAT only, 2) NR RAT only, 3) LTE or NR RAT, or 4) LTE
and NR RAT. RAT selection is performed by upper layers and applied only to V2X
SL broadcast transmission. V2X SL unicast and groupcast transmissions can only
be performed over NR. A Tx profile-based approach is the baseline for SL RAT
selection.
For Uu/PC5 interface selection, the UE AS signals to UE upper layers the
Uu/PC5 availability information, and UE upper layers select the radio
interface.
In particular, for the Uu interface, the UE in-coverage/out-of-coverage status
is used as the baseline to determine the Uu interface
availability/unavailability for V2X communication. It is up to UE
implementation how the UE AS signals the Uu interface
availability/unavailability information to UE upper layers, i.e. when the
signalling is triggered and what the content of the signalling is.
# 9 Coexistence
From the UE perspective, coexistence between LTE V2X and NR V2X SLs is studied
in the scenarios when there are coordinated procedures between LTE and NR, and
half-duplex constraints are assumed; and where LTE and NR SL do not have any
coordinated procedures.
Solutions based on TDM or FDM between LTE and NR SLs are the focus of the
study. TDM solutions are those that involve overlapping or simultaneous NR and
LTE V2X SL transmissions. FDM solutions are those that involve simultaneous NR
and LTE V2X SL transmissions, and define solutions for sharing the total power
between the two. Solutions are studied for the following cases:
\- Potential LTE V2X transmission and NR V2X transmission
\- Potential LTE V2X transmission and NR V2X reception
\- Potential LTE V2X reception and NR V2X transmission
## 9.1 TDM solutions
In this section, the LTE and NR V2X SLs are assumed to be synchronized to a
certain degree. Subframe boundary alignment between the SLs is required, as
well as both SLs being aware of the other\'s time resource index, e.g. DFN on
the LTE SL. There can be:
1\. Long-term timescale coordination, where potential transmissions in time of
LTE and NR V2X are statically/quasi-statically determined; or
2\. Short-term timescale coordination, where transmissions in time of LTE and
NR V2X are known to each RAT.
For long-term timescale coordination, coexistence is feasible from the
physical-layer point of view by (pre-)configuring resource pools which are
non-overlapping in the time-domain, with no need to modify LTE specifications.
This may have impacts on latency, reliability and data rate requirements for
some V2X applications.
For short-term timescale coordination, coexistence is feasible between NR SL
and LTE SL with SPS scheduling, when SL transmissions from both RATs overlap,
or transmission from one overlaps with reception for the other, by
prioritizing one of the RATs on each occurrence. This requires that the
traffic load of LTE and NR is at or below an acceptable level, and needs
information exchange within the UE between the SLs. It is expected that
normative work on prioritization would cover high-level principles of
prioritization, while details would be left to UE implementation.
## 9.2 FDM solutions
For dynamic and semi-static power allocation solutions, for physical layer
purposes synchronization is assumed between NR and LTE V2X SLs in intra-band
cases.
For inter-band FDM coexistence with static power assignment of _P_ ~c,\ max~
for each carrier, synchronization between the SLs is not assumed. Under these
conditions, inter-band FDM coexistence is feasible when SL transmissions from
both RATs overlap. When transmission from one SL overlaps with reception for
the other, inter-band FDM coexistence under the above conditions is feasible
if the inter-band separation is large enough, but it is not feasible
otherwise.
For inter-band and intra-band FDM coexistence with dynamic power sharing, it
is assumed that NR and LTE transmissions are fully overlapped in the time
domain, i.e. NR transmissions span the entire LTE TTI such that the total
power across the transmissions is constant. In addition, it is assumed that
there is subframe boundary alignment between LTE and NR SLs and that both SLs
are aware of the time resource index, e.g. DFN for LTE, in both carriers.
Under these conditions, inter-band and intra-band FDM coexistence is feasible
when SL transmissions from both RATs overlap. It is expected that normative
work on prioritization would cover high-level principles of prioritization,
while details would be left to UE implementation.
For inter-band and intra-band FDM coexistence, coexistence is feasible when SL
receptions for both RATs overlap, and it is expected that normative work on
prioritization would cover high-level principles, while details would be left
to UE implementation.
# 10 Network aspects
## 10.1 V2X service authorization
Following similar principles as in LTE, the V2X service authorization
information will be conveyed by 5GC to the NG-RAN node over NG interface and
provided by Xn between NG-RAN nodes during mobility events. The V2X service
authorization information is PC5 RAT specific. The cross-RAT PC5 control
authorization information (implicit or explicit) is also necessary.
## 10.2 UE SL aggregate maximum bit rate
The assignment of UE SL AMBR follows similar principles as in LTE and will be
conveyed by 5GC to the NG-RAN node over the NG interface and provided between
NG-RAN nodes by the Xn interface during mobility events. The UE SL AMBR is PC5
RAT specific.
## 10.3 Impacts on the F1 interface
An impact on the F1 interface is whether the resource pool for side link
communication is configured in the gNB-CU or gNB-DU. For resource allocation
Mode 1 (dynamic case), gNB-DU is responsible for the scheduling of sidelink
resource. gNB-DU transmits the V2X SL configuration information to the gNB-CU,
which uses it to generate the RRC message and forwards it to the UE.
## 10.4 Slicing aspects
NR V2X shall support the use of slicing similarly to NG-RAN, i.e. the same
general principles as captured in [8] shall apply.
## 10.5 Resource coordination
Resource pool coordination between NG-RAN nodes (e.g., ng-eNB and gNB) is
considered beneficial.
# 11 Evaluations and measurement results
The methodologies and assumption in [5] are used here where appropriate,
together with those in Annex A.
## 11.1 Latency
In this section, the overall radio latency incurred over NR Uu to support
advanced V2X use cases is analysed. The analysis itself is based on the
evaluation in [7] for UL and DL cases. The set of parameters considered for
this evaluation is provided in Table 11.1-1:
Table 11.1-1: Parameter/configuration for this evaluation
* * *
Parameter/configuration Value Subcarrier spacing 15 kHz, 30 kHz and 60 kHz
Initial transmission error probability 0, 0.1 UL transmission scheme Type 1
configured grant, type 2 configured grant (with 2 OS periodicity)
* * *
The following additional assumptions are made to obtain the results for the
latency analysis:
\- UE processing capability is adapted from [7] Tables 6.4-1 and 6.4-2 and
this evaluation assumes UE processing capability 2.
\- Non-slot based PDSCH/PUSCH allocation (transmission duration) of 2 OS is
considered in order to meet the latency requirement for advanced V2X use cases
\- Type 1 and type 2 configured grant based transmission are considered for
the UL case.
Based on the above set of parameters/configurations and assumptions, the
overall latency results are captured from [7] in Tables 11.1-2 and 11.1-3,
corresponding to transmission error probabilities of 0% and 10% respectively.
Table 11.1-2: UP latency for different SCS assuming initial transmission error
probability _p_ =0 (ms)
* * *
UP latency assuming _p=0_ SCS  
15 kHz 30 kHz 60 kHz UL latency using type 1 configured grant transmissions
0.52 0.30 0.24 UL latency using type 2 configured grant transmissions (with
2OS periodicity) 0.59 0.33 0.26 DL latency using unicast transmission 0.49
0.29 0.23 End-to-end latency assuming type 1 configured grant transmissions
1.01 0.59 0.47 End-to-end latency assuming type 2 configured grant
transmissions (with 2OS periodicity) 1.08 0.62 0.49
* * *
Table 11.1-3: UP latency for different SCS assuming initial transmission error
probability _p=_ 0.1 (ms)
* * *
UP latency assuming _p=0.1_ SCS  
15 kHz 30 kHz 60 kHz UL latency using type 1 configured grant transmissions
0.62 0.36 0.28 UL latency using type 2 configured grant transmissions (with
2OS periodicity) 0.69 0.39 0.30 DL latency using unicast transmission 0.60
0.35 0.28 End-to-end latency assuming type 1 configured grant transmissions
1.22 0.71 0.56 End-to-end latency assuming type 2 configured grant
transmissions (with 2OS periodicity) 1.29 0.74 0.58
* * *
The following observations are made:
1) Using type 1 configured grant transmissions, the end-to-end radio latency
is below 2 ms, even when considering non-zero initial transmission error
probability. For 30 and 60 kHz, the latency drops below 1 ms
2) Transmission using type 2 configured grant with 2 OFDM symbol periodicity
increases the latency for all cases, while still remaining below 2 ms.
3) The maximum end-to-end user plane latency incurred (i.e. excluding CN
delay) considering the set of parameters and assumptions above is within the
overall end-to-end latency requirement of 5 ms for the remote driving V2X use
case. Assuming that the CN delay can be bounded by 3 ms, the total end-to-end
latency over NR Uu can be bounded by 5 ms.
## 11.2 SL performance in FR2
Field measurements have been performed in [9] and [10] to evaluate the SL
performance on different frequencies. Figure 11.2-1 summarizes the RSRP values
for FR2 as a function of Tx-Rx distance and using wide beam antenna panel with
or without blocking vehicle (for details refer to [9]). The measurement
results are based on laboratory equipment which is considerably better than
production grade equipment. For example, the noise figure is 2.5 dB compared
to 13 dB in Table 6.1.1-2 of [5], and it is observed that FR2 SL can support
reasonably large coverage even without advanced beam management procedures.
{width="3.5055555555555555in" height="2.839583333333333in"}
Figure 11.2-1: RSRP as a function of Tx-Rx distance. Blocking vehicle is
located 1 m from Tx.
In addition, Figure 11.2-2 shows the results of the channel sounding campaign
reported in [10] in terms of the angular power profile in case of LOS and
vehicle blockage (NLOSv). It is observed that received signal power is highly
dependent on the beam direction, indicating that beamforming can further
improve SL performance. Figure 11.2-2 also shows that the normalized channel
response in different directions is similar for both frequencies, showing that
similar beam management approaches can apply across frequencies.
{width="3.357638888888889in" height="1.9701388888888889in"}
Figure 11.2-2a: Marginal power azimuth profile (dB) at Rx in LOS.
{width="3.357638888888889in" height="1.9701388888888889in"}
Figure 11.2-2b: Marginal power azimuth profile (dB) at Rx in NLOSv.
## 11.3 Capacity analysis
This section summarises the SL resource allocation Mode 1 and Mode 2 PRR
evaluation results based on the simulation profiles defined in Table A.1-1. In
each table, the average PRR is shown in the range (_n_ ×20, (_n_ +1)×20)
meters from the transmitter, where _n_ =15 for the highway case and _n_ =7 for
the urban case. Details of the evaluation assumptions and results of each
source can be found in Annex B. It is noted that no system-level calibration
was performed.
### 11.3.1 Resource allocation Mode 1
Evaluation results for resource allocation Mode 1 are summarised in this
section. Where a sourcing company provided results for more than one grant
type, they appear in respective rows of a table.
Table 11.3.1-1: Average PRR for unicast V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20, **_b_**
=(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
             Grant type   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   Highway (*n*=15)   Urban grid (*n*=7)                      
                                                           Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic    Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic
Source 1 Dynamic 6 15 0.9988 0.9976 0.9824 0.9618 30 0.9996 0.9984 - - 60
0.9998 0.9974 0.9625 0.9416 Source 2 Dynamic 15 0.9996 0.9998 0.9381 0.9058 30
0.9996 0.9997 0.9337 0.8803 60 0.9995 0.9996 0.9134 0.8897 Source 3 Dynamic 15
0.9931 0.9966 0.9259 0.9637 30 1.000 1.000 0.9157 0.9825 Source 4 Dynamic 15 -
- 0.9523 -
* * *
Table 11.3.1-2: Average PRR for groupcast V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20, **_b_**
=(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
             Grant type                      SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   Highway (*n*=15)   Urban grid (*n*=7)                      
                                                                              Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic    Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic
Source 1 Dynamic 6 15 0.9969 0.9965 0.9811 0.96 30 0.9981 0.9985 - - 60 0.9984
0.9977 0.9612 0.9335 Source 2 Dynamic 15 0.9991 0.9988 0.7428 0.7600 30 0.9999
0.9988 0.6995 0.7313 60 0.9991 0.9978 0.6636 0.7037 Source 3 Dynamic 15 0.9985
0.9485 0.7007 - 30 1.000 0.9928 0.7039 0.8251 Source 5 Configured grant (TFRP-
based) 30 0.9671 0.9406 - -
* * *
Table 11.3.1-3: Average PRR for broadcast V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20, **_b_**
=(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
             Grant type   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   Highway (*n*=15)   Urban grid (*n*=7)                      
                                                           Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic    Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic
Source 1 Dynamic 6 15 0.9914 0.9942 0.9265 0.8336 30 0.9919 0.9972 - - 60
0.9904 0.9968 0.8477 0.74 Source 2 Dynamic 15 0.9989 0.9992 0.7139 0.7075 30
0.9992 0.9993 0.6689 0.7028 60 0.9996 0.9985 0.6192 0.693 Source 3 Dynamic 15
0.9985 0.9458 0.7007 - 30 1.000 0.9928 0.7039 0.8251
* * *
The following observations are made from the evaluation results:
\- In the highway case at 320 m range, depending on the grant type and SCS, SL
resource allocation Mode 1 achieves:
\- In the range 99.88% - 100% PRR for unicast periodic traffic and 99.73%-
100% PRR for unicast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz.
\- In the range 99.69% - 100% PRR for groupcast periodic traffic and 94.85% -
99.88% PRR for groupcast with dynamic grants for aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz.
Configured grant Type 1 performs within this range.
\- In the range 99.04% - 100% PRR for broadcast periodic traffic and 94.58% -
99.93% PRR for broadcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz.
\- In the urban grid case at 150 m range, depending on the grant type and SCS,
SL resource allocation Mode 1 achieves:
\- In the range 91.34% - 98.23% PRR for unicast periodic traffic and 88.03%-
98.25% PRR for unicast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz.
\- In the range 66.36%- 98.10% PRR for groupcast periodic traffic and 70.37% -
96.00% PRR for groupcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz.
\- In the range 70.07% - 92.64% PRR for broadcast periodic traffic and 69.30%
- 83.35% PRR for broadcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz.
### 11.3.2 Resource allocation Mode 2
Evaluation results for resource allocation Mode 1 are summarised in this
section. Refer to the following notes for a summary of how each sourcing
company has modelled Mode 2, and to the documents referenced in Annex B for
full details. Where a sourcing company provided results for more than one
version of Mode 2, they appear in respective rows of a table.
NOTE 1: Based on [12]: Mode 2c based on (pre-)configured TFRPs .
NOTE 2: Based on [11]: Long-term sensing similar to LTE-V2X Mode 4.
NOTE 3: Based on [11]: Short-term sensing based on listen before talk (LBT).
NOTE 4: Based on [12]: Reservation of both initial and retransmission of a TB.
NOTE 5: Based on Scheme 1 of [13]. With slot aggregation and up to 3
transmissions per TB. No reservation for initial transmission, and chained
reservations for re-transmissions.
NOTE 6: Based on [14]: Mode 2d with resource coordination based on receiver
sensing.
NOTE 7: Based on Scheme 2 of [15]. LBT-like short term sensing
NOTE 7a: Based on Scheme 1 of [15]. Long-term sensing similar to LTE-V2X Mode
4.
NOTE 7b: Based on Scheme 6 of [15]. Long term sensing similar to LTE-V2X Mode
4 plus short term sensing with double control channel capacity.
NOTE 8: Based on [16].
NOTE 9: Based on [17]: Sensing based resource selection (LTE V2V) with SPT for
periodic traffic and forward SA based resource selection for aperiodic
traffic.
NOTE 10: Based on [18]: Long-term sensing similar to LTE-V2X Mode 4
NOTE 11: Based on [18]: Mode 2c based on (pre-)configured TFRPs.
NOTE 12: Based on [19] (Option A): Short-term sensing (STS) baseline scheme
based on LTE-sidelink mode 4 with sensing period and resource selection window
both set to 50ms. Based on sensing results, an available PSSCH resource is
randomly selected then a PSCCH resource is also randomly selected for the pre-
emption indication message (SCI) within the resource selection window but
before the selected PSSCH resource.
NOTE 13: Based on [19] (Option B): STS-5ms is based on the above STS-baseline
scheme, where pre-emption indication message (SCI) is transmitted in an
available PSCCH resource within 5ms.
NOTE 14: Based on [19] (Option C): STS-2PSCCH is based on the above STS-
baseline scheme, where the PSCCH / pre-emption indication message is repeated
and transmitted twice before the PSSCH to improve detection performance,
instead of once in the baseline scheme.
NOTE 15: Based on [19] (Option D): STS-continuous sensing is based on the
above STS-baseline scheme, where Tx UE continued to perform SA reading and
sensing before the associated PSCCH / pre-emption SCI is transmitted. If
potential Tx collision is detected, PSSCH resource is re-selected among the
remaining available resources.
NOTE 16: Based on [19] (Option E): Sidelink resource sensing and (re)selection
to transmit V2X packets is based on Rel-15 LTE-V2X mode 4 scheme.
NOTE 17: Based on [19] (Option F): Sidelink resources are randomly selected
within a selection window for V2X packet transmissions.
NOTE 18: Based on [20]: Short term sensing based on LBT.
NOTE 19: Based on [20]: Long-term sensing similar to LTE-V2X Mode 4.
NOTE 20: Based on [20]: Random resource selection among 6 time-domain
patterns.
NOTE 21: Based on [20]: Mode 2d.
NOTE 22: Based on [21]: LTE V2X Mode 4 for periodic traffic, random resource
selection for aperiodic traffic.
NOTE 23: Based on [22]: Short-term sensing based on LBT.
NOTE 24: Based on [23]: Sensing with one shot for aperiodic traffic and
sensing with SPS for periodic traffic.
NOTE 25: Long-term sensing similar to LTE-V2X Mode 4.
Table 11.3.2-1: Average PRR for unicast V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20, **_b_**
=(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
             NOTE   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   Highway (*n*=15)   Urban grid (*n*=7)                      
                                                     Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic    Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic
Source 1 1 6 60 0.9841 0.9845 0.9863 0.9756 2 60 0.9603 0.9334 0.9497 0.9122 3
60 0.9692 0.9435 0.9421 0.9064 Source 2 4 30 0.9951 0.9775 0.4126 0.4061
Source 3 5 60 0.9987 0.9994 0.9963 0.9973 Source 4 6 15 0.9987 0.9983 - - 30
0.9978 0.9960 - - 60 0.9882 0.9896 - - Source 5 7 30 0.9929 0.9903 0.8703
0.7913 Source 6 8 15 0.971 0.9460 0.9033 0.9373 30 0.9900 0.9556 0.9008 0.9086
Source 7 9 15 0.9782 0.9723 0.5732 0.3921
* * *
Table 11.3.2-2: Average PRR for groupcast V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20, **_b_**
=(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
             NOTE   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   Highway (*n*=15)   Urban grid (*n*=7)                      
                                                     Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic    Periodic traffic   Aperiodic traffic
Source 1 1 6 60 0.9934 0.9932 0.9893 0.9821 2 60 0.9671 0.9528 0.9687 0.9305 3
60 0.9614 0.9536 0.9366 0.9086 Source 2 4 30 0.9067 0.8466 0.3322 0.3201
Source 3 5 60 0.9991 0.9985 0.9450 0.9587 Source 4 6 15 0.9903 0.9988 - - 30
0.9894 0.9832 - - 60 0.9808 0.9531 - - Source 5 7 30 0.9979 0.9974 0.9132
0.8983 Source 6 8 15 0.9283 0.9237 0.5403 - 30 0.9790 0.9055 0.5725 0.7253
Source 7 9 15 0.9389 0.9521 - - Source 8 10 15 0.9267 0.8212 - - 11 15 0.9571
0.9206 - -
* * *
Table 11.3.2-3: Average PRR for broadcast V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20, **_b_**
=(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
Source NOTE SL frequency (GHz) SCS (kHz) Highway (_n_ =15) Urban grid (_n_ =7)  
Periodic traffic Aperiodic traffic Periodic traffic Aperiodic traffic Source 1
1 6 60 0.9938 0.9960 0.8357 0.7682 2 60 0.9615 0.9481 0.8392 0.7750 3 60
0.9577 0.9447 0.7973 0.7293 Source 2 4 30 0.9471 0.9232 0.1698 0.1818 Source 3
5 60 0.9969 0.9951 0.9279 0.9295 Source 4 6 15 0.9974 0.9985 - - 30 0.9940
0.9896 - - 60 0.9842 0.9733 - - Source 5 7a 30 0.9815 0.8972 0.6747 0.6155 7b
30 0.9893 0.9569 0.7873 0.7171 Source 6 8 15 0.8879 0.9226 0.5003 - 30 0.9471
0.8995 0.5542 0.7111 Source 7 9 15 0.9389 0.9520 0.4434 0.4050 Source 9 12 15
- 0.8607 - - 13 15 - 0.9489 - - 14 15 - 0.9026 - - 15 15 0.9695 0.9670 - - 16
15 0.9828 0.8081 - - 17 15 0.8714 0.8219 - - Source 10 18 15 - 0.8558 - 0.6486
19 15 - 0.7458 - 0.6477 20 15 - 0.6644 - 0.6997 Source 11 21 15 0.9590 0.9057
0.9014 0.8829 22 15 0.8684 0.6737 0.8666 0.7281 Source 12 23 30 - 0.9494 -
0.6512 Source 13 24 30 0.8472 0.6060 - - Source 14 25 15 - - 0.6730 -
* * *
Table 11.3.2-4: Average PRR for mixed traffic V2V (**_a_** =**_n_** ×20,
**_b_** =(**_n_** +1)×20 m)
* * *
Source NOTE SL frequency (GHz) SCS (kHz) Highway (n=15) Urban grid (n=7)
Source 1 1 6 60 0.9908 0.9227 2 60 0.9539 0.8959 3 60 0.9550 0.8754 Source 2 4
30 0.9113 0.2721 Source 7 9 15 0.9548 -
* * *
The following observations are made from the evaluation results, where a range
of different versions of Mode 2 have been simulated according to the notes
indicated in the preceding tables.
\- In the highway case at 320 m range, depending on the design basis and SCS,
SL resource allocation Mode 2 can achieve:
\- In the range 96.03% - 99.87% PRR for unicast periodic traffic and 93.33% -
99.93% PRR for unicast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz, respectively.
\- In the range 90.69% - 99.91% PRR for groupcast periodic traffic and 82.12%
- 99.87% PRR for groupcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz, respectively.
\- In the range 84.72% - 99.73% PRR for broadcast periodic traffic and 60.6% -
99.84% PRR for broadcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz, respectively.
\- In the range 91.13% - 99.08% PRR for mixed traffic at 6 GHz.
\- In the urban grid case at 150 m range, depending on the design basis and
SCS, SL resource allocation Mode 2 can achieve:
\- In the range 41.26% - 99.62% PRR for unicast periodic traffic and 39.2% -
99.73% PRR for unicast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz, respectively.
\- In the range 33.22% - 98.93% PRR for groupcast periodic traffic and 32.01%
- 98.93% PRR for groupcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz, respectively.
\- In the range 16.98% - 92.78% PRR for broadcast periodic traffic and 18.18%
- 92.94% PRR for broadcast aperiodic traffic at 6 GHz, respectively.
\- In the range 27.21% - 92.27% PRR for mixed traffic at 6 GHz.
## 11.4 Synchronization performance
### 11.4.1 S-SSB detection
Link-level evaluations of the S-SSB design combinations in Table 11.4.1-1 are
shown in this section. It is noted that no link-level calibration is
performed. Tables 11.4.1-2 shows the one-shot joint detection probability of
S-PSS/S-SSS is achieved at -6 dB SNR with a UE speed of 240 km/h. Details of
the evaluation assumptions and results of each source, including other UE
speeds, can be found in Annex C.1.
Table 11.4.1-1: S-SSB design combinations
* * *
Combination Number of S-PSS symbols S-PSS length Number of S-SSS symbols S-SSS
length Number of RBs Bandwidth containing S-SSB (MHz)  
15 kHz SCS 30 kHz SCS 60 kHz SCS 120 kHz SCS 1 2 127 2 127 11 or 12 2.5 5 10
20 2 2 127 2 127 20 5 10 20 40 3 1 127 1 127 20 5 10 20 40 4 1 255 1 255 24 5
10 20 40
* * *
Table 11.4.1-2.1: One-shot joint detection probability of S-PSS/S-SSS at -6 dB
SNR of combination 1
* * *
             S-SSB design combination   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   One-shot joint detection probability
Source 1 1 6 15 92.23% Source 2 1 6 30 97.08% Source 3 1 6 15 87.80% 30 87.86%
60 87.01% Source 4 1 6 15 76.93% 30 78% 60 78.3% Source 5 1 6 15 76.88% Source
6 1 6 15 69.59% 30 84.26% 60 92.31%
* * *
Table 11.4.1-2.2: One-shot joint detection probability of S-PSS/S-SSS at -6 dB
SNR of combination 2
* * *
             S-SSB design combination   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   One-shot joint detection probability
Source 1 2 6 15 92.23% Source 2 2 6 30 97.08% Source 3 2 6 15 87.01% 30 87.86%
60 88.01% Source 4 2 6 15 76.93% 30 78% 60 78.3% Source 5 2 6 15 76.88% Source
6 2 6 15 86% 30 95.2% 60 99.24% Source 7 2 6 15 93.67% 30 95.6% Source 8 3 6
15 97.27%
* * *
Table 11.4.1-2.3: One-shot joint detection probability of S-PSS/S-SSS at -6 dB
SNR of combination 3
* * *
             S-SSB design combination   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   One-shot joint detection probability
Source 1 3 6 15 88.04% Source 2 3 6 15 86.10% 30 87.01% 60 87.89% Source 5 3 6
15 76.88% Source 6 3 6 15 78.76% 30 90.77% 60 94.11% Source 7 3 6 15 88.12% 30
93.16% Source 9 3 6 15 35.84% 30 51.12%
* * *
Table 11.4.1-2.4: One-shot joint detection probability of S-PSS/S-SSS at -6 dB
SNR of combination 4
* * *
             S-SSB design combination   SL frequency (GHz)   SCS (kHz)   One-shot joint detection probability
Source 8 4 6 15 54.96% 30 80.08%
* * *
The following observations are made from the evaluation results:
\- S-SSB design combination 1 can have a one-shot joint detection probability
of between 76.9% and 97.1% at -6 dB SNR.
\- S-SSB design combination 2 can have a one-shot joint detection probability
of between 76.9% and 99.2% at -6 dB SNR.
\- S-SSB design combination 3 can have a one-shot joint detection probability
of between 76.9% and 94.1% at -6 dB SNR according to most sources. One source
found significantly lower detection probability.
\- Although the ranges of detection probability are similar across design
combinations 1-3, individual results show that S-SSB design combinations 1 and
2 offer higher detection probabilities than combination 3 for a given set of
simulation assumptions.
### 11.4.2 PSBCH decoding
Link-level evaluations of the PSBCH decoding probability in the S-SSB design
combinations in Table 11.4.1-1 are shown in this section. Tables 11.4.2-1, -2
and -3 show the SNR at which a 10^-2^ BLER of one-shot decoding probability of
PSBCH is achieved with a UE speed of 240 km/h. Details of the evaluation
assumptions and results of each source, including other UE speeds, can be
found in Annex C.2.
Table 11.4.2-1: SNR for 10^-2^ BLER of one-shot decoding of PSBCH of
combination 1
* * *
Source S-SSB design combination SL frequency (GHz) SCS (kHz) PSBCH bits SNR
(dB) Source 1 1 6 15 56 -5.0 30 -4.5 60 -4.5 Source 2 1 6 15 72 - 30 -5.5 60 -
Source 3 1 6 15 40 -3.5 30 -3.0 60 -2.0
* * *
Table 11.4.2-2: SNR for 10^-2^ BLER of one-shot decoding of PSBCH of
combination 2
* * *
Source S-SSB design combination SL frequency (GHz) SCS (kHz) PSBCH bits SNR
(dB) Source 1 2 6 15 56 -4.0 30 -3.5 60 -4.0 Source 4 2 6 15 40 -2.5 30 -2.5
60 -3.0 Source 7 2 6 15 56 0.5 30 1.0 60 -
* * *
Table 11.4.2-3: SNR for 10^-2^ BLER of one-shot decoding of PSBCH of
combination 3
* * *
Source S-SSB design combination SL frequency (GHz) SCS (kHz) PSBCH bits SNR
(dB) Source 1 3 6 15 56 -4.0 30 -3.5 60 -4.0 Source 7 3 6 15 56 -2.5 30 -2.0
60 -
* * *
The following observation is made from the simulation results.
\- Results for S-SSB design combination 1 suggest it operates at lower SNR
than combinations 2 and 3. However, if S-SSB and physical channels are TDM\'d,
the EPRE of combination 1 is approximately 1.8 times higher than for
combinations 2 and 3.
# 12 Conclusions
It is feasible to support advanced V2X services over the NR PC5 interface and
the NR Uu interface. Study of the remote driving use case can be found in
[24]. In particular for the PC5 interface, it is feasible to support unicast,
groupcast, and broadcast operation in SL and coexistence among them in a
carrier is feasible, as well as the coexistence between sidelink and other
cellular transmissions in a carrier. In-coverage, partial coverage, and out-
of-coverage operation are feasible.
To support sidelink unicast, sidelink groupcast, and sidelink broadcast, it is
recommended to specify the following based on the descriptions in this TR:
\- Waveform of CP-OFDM
\- S-PSS, S-SSS, and PSBCH in S-SSB format, with associated synchronization
source detection procedures
\- PSCCH, PSSCH, PSFCH
\- Reference signals
\- Mode 1 resource allocation
\- Mode 2 resource allocation
\- Physical procedures to support sidelink transmission and reception for in-
coverage, partial coverage, and out-of-coverage UEs
\- Congestion control
\- MAC, RLC, PDCP, SDAP, and RRC protocols over the PC5 interface
\- QoS management
It is feasible to support NR sidelink in both FR1 and FR2 using a common
design framework.
It is recommended to specify for NR Uu interface, based on the descriptions in
this TR, support for multiple simultaneously active uplink configured grants,
and reporting of UE assistance information to gNB. QoS management for these
services is also needed. It is feasible to deliver advanced V2X use cases in
some scenarios over the LTE Uu interface. Some possible enhancements were
studied but none are recommended.
It is feasible to support LTE Uu managing NR SL in resource allocation Modes 1
and 2, and NR Uu managing LTE SL in Modes 3 and 4. Specification of the
enhancements described to the respective Uu interfaces is recommended.
Additional enhancements have been identified for the network interfaces to
support V2X service authorization, UE SL aggregate maximum bit rate, F1
signalling for support of NR V2X mode 1 and mode 2, resource coordination, and
possibly network slicing.
It is recommended to support RAT and interface selection considering the
outcome of related SA2 work.
Based on the study from physical layer specification perspective, in-device
coexistence of LTE and NR sidelink is feasible for intra- and inter-band under
the respective conditions, and solutions for TX/TX, TX/RX, and RX/RX
coexistence have been identified in this TR.
The technical solutions identified in this TR can be used for public safety
when the service requirements can be met.
###### ### Annex A: Evaluation assumptions
# A.1 Simulation profiles
Simulation profiles are defined in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: Simulation profiles
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Unicast | Multicast | Broadcast | Mixture | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SL | 6, 30 | 6, 30 | 6, 30 | 6, 30 | | frequency | | | | | | (GHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Traffic | Periodic: | Periodic: | Periodic: | 33%, 33%, | | models | Medium | Medium | Medium | 34% | | | intensity; | intensity; | intensity; | vehicles | | | [50] ms | [50] ms | [50] ms | generate | | | i | i | i | unicast, | | | nter-packet | nter-packet | nter-packet | multicast, | | | arrival, | arrival, | arrival, | broadcast | | | [50]% | [50]% | [50]% | packets, | | | vehicles | vehicles | vehicles | re | | | generate | generate | generate | spectively. | | | packets. | packets. | packets | For each | | | | | | traffic | | | Aperiodic: | Aperiodic: | Aperiodic: | type, 50% | | | Medium | Medium | Medium | is periodic | | | intensity, | intensity, | intensity, | and 50% is | | | 100% | 100% | 100% | aperiodic. | | | vehicles | vehicles | vehicles | | | | generate | generate | generate | Periodic: | | | packets. | packets. | packets. | Medium | | | | | | intensity; | | | Periodic | Periodic | Periodic | 100 ms | | | and | and | and | i | | | aperiodic | aperiodic | aperiodic | nter-packet | | | traffic are | traffic are | traffic are | arrival | | | simulated | simulated | simulated | | | | separately. | separately. | separately. | Aperiodic: | | | | | | Medium | | | | | | intensity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Simulation | Highway: | Highway: | Highway: | Highway: | | e | Option A | Option A | Option A | Option A | | nvironment, | | | | | | UE drop and | Urban: | Urban: | Urban: | Urban: | | mobility | Option A | Option A | Option A | Option A | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Number of | 2Tx/4Rx for | 2Tx/4Rx for | 2Tx/4Rx for | 2Tx/4Rx for | | Tx/Rx | 6 GHz | 6 GHz | 6 GHz | 6 GHz | | antenna | | | | | | elements | FFS for 30 | FFS for 30 | FFS for 30 | FFS for 30 | | for vehicle | GHz | GHz | GHz | GHz | | UE^1^ | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Antenna | Option 1 | Option 1 | Option 1 | Option 1 | | model for | | | | | | vehicle UE | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | As defined | As defined | As defined | As defined | | model | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SL | 20 MHz for | 20 MHz for | 20 MHz for | 20 MHz for | | simulation | 6 GHz | 6 GHz | 6 GHz | 6 GHz | | bandwidth | | | | | | (MHz) | 100 MHz for | 100 MHz for | 100 MHz for | 100 MHz for | | | 30 GHz | 30 GHz | 30 GHz | 30 GHz | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | number of | | | | | | antennas | | | | | | can be | | | | | | increased | | | | | | for the | | | | | | evaluations | | | | | | for | | | | | | tr | | | | | | ansmissions | | | | | | using more | | | | | | than 2 | | | | | | layers. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The transmitter-receiver association model in [5] is used, with setting X and
Y to [150 meters for Urban and 320 meters for Freeway] as baseline. Other
values of X and Y are not precluded. When evaluating V2I based on Uu, it is
assumed that the packet is generated at the location where UE-type RSU is
placed.
# A.2 Link-level simulation parameters
Link-level simulation parameters are defined in Table A.2-1.
Table A.2-1: Link-level simulation parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | AGC settling time^1^ | FR1: One symbol | | | | | | FR2: One symbol | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TX/RX switching time^1^ | FR1: One symbol | | | | | | FR2: One symbol | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Timing error | Up to [0.4] μs between a UE | | | and its synchronization source | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frequency error | Up to [0.1] ppm between a UE | | | and its synchronization source | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Initial frequency error for SL | Uniformly distributed in ±[5] | | synchronization^2^ | ppm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Working assumption for | | | RAN1 evaluation purposes only, | | | pending RAN4 information. The | | | symbol used for AGC settling | | | time is not the same symbol as | | | that used for TX/RX switching | | | time. | | | | | | NOTE 2: This is the error of the | | | local oscillator for | | | transmission and reception with | | | respect to the absolute carrier | | | frequency. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Simulation parameters for synchronization evaluat3ions are defined in Table
A.2-2.
Table A.2-2: Simulation parameters for synchronization evaluations
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Below 6GHz | Above 6GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 6 GHz | 30 GHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel Model | CDL channel models | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Subcarrier | 15, 30, 60 kHz | 60, 120 kHz | | Spacing(s) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SNR Range | > -6 dB | > -6 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Relative UE Speed | 6 km/h, 240 km/h | 6 km/h, 240 km/h | | | (mandatory) | (mandatory) | | | | | | | 60 km/h, 500 km/h | | | | (optional) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Interference model | Scenario 1: no | Scenario 1: no | | | interference | interference | | | | | | | Scenario 2: effect | | | | of interference | | | | includes in the | | | | model | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Initial Frequency | TX: Uniform | | | Offset | distribution within | | | | [-5, 5] ppm of | | | | nominal carrier | | | | frequency | | | | | | | | RX: Uniform | | | | distribution within | | | | [-5, 5] ppm of | | | | nominal carrier | | | | frequency | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex B: Detailed evaluation results for resource allocation
# B.1 Resource allocation Mode 1
## B.1.1 Simulation assumptions
Table B.1.1-1: Simulation assumptions used in resource allocation Mode 1
evaluations
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Desc | Source | Source | Source | Source | Source | | | ription | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Carrier | 6 | 6 | 6 | 6 | 6 | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | (GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Ba | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | R | NR mode | NR mode | NR mode | NR mode | NR mode | | | esource | 1, | 1, | 1, | 1, | 1, | | | all | dynamic | dynamic | dynamic | dynamic | con | | | ocation | | | | | figured | | | | | | | | grant | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | 2Tx/4Rx | 2Tx/4Rx | 2Tx/4Rx | 2Tx/2Rx | 1Tx/4Rx | | | of | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ntennas | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | PHY | P | P | P | 1672 or | P | | | packet | eriodic | eriodic | eriodic | 2088 | eriodic | | | size | 8 | 8 | 8 | bits | 8 | | | (bytes) | 00/1200 | 00/1200 | 00/1200 | | 00/1200 | | | | | | | | | | | | Ap | Ap | Ap | | Ap | | | | eriodic | eriodic | eriodic | | eriodic | | | | 2 | 2 | 2 | | 2 | | | | 00-2000 | 00-2000 | 00-2000 | | 00-2000 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Mod | Hi | QPSK | Q | QPSK(0. | - | 16 QAM | | ulation | ghway-p | (0.34)- | PSK(0.4 | 53-0.8) | | (0.4 | | and | eriodic | | 4-0.59) | | | 2-0.64) | | code | | 16QA | | | | | | rates | | M(0.54) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Hig | QPSK( | QPSK | QPSK | - | 16QAM | | | hway-ap | 0.085)- | (0.12)- | (0.667) | | (0.2 | | | eriodic | | | | | 4-0.58) | | | | 64QA | 16QA | | | | | | | M(0.46) | M(0.48) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Urban-p | Q | Q | QPSK(0. | 16 QAM | - | | | eriodic | PSK(0.3 | PSK(0.4 | 53-0.8) | | | | | | 4-0.54) | 4-0.59) | | 0.42 | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | 1672 | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 0.54 | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | 2088 | | | | | | | | bits | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | U | QPSK( | QPSK | QPSK | - | - | | | rban-ap | 0.085)- | (0.12)- | (0.667) | | | | | eriodic | | | | | | | | | 16QA | 16QA | | | | | | | M(0.59) | M(0.48) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | W | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | | | aveform | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | CP | Normal | Normal | Normal | Normal | Normal | | | length | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Channel | Ideal | Ideal | Ideal | Ideal | Ideal | | | est | | | | | | | | imation | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | None | None | 1 | Up to 3 | Initial | | | of | | | trans | re | + 1 | | | retrans | | | mission | transmi | re | | | mission | | | | ssions, | -transm | | | and | | | | chase | ission, | | | co | | | | co | chase | | | mbining | | | | mbining | co | | | | | | | | mbining | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | TX | SFBC | None | None | 1 layer | Single | | | scheme | | | | pr | antenna | | | (e.g. | | | | ecoding | | | | TxD | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | pplied) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UE | M | M | MMSE | M | - | | | r | MSE-IRC | MSE-IRC | | MSE-IRC | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | gorithm | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## B.1.2 Detailed results
### B.1.2.1 Unicast
**[Highway periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Highway aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Urban periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Urban aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
### B.1.2.2 Groupcast
**[Highway periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 5
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Highway aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 5
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Urban periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Urban aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
### B.1.2.3 Broadcast
**[Highway periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.802083333333333in" height="2.8854166666666665in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Highway aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Urban periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
**[Urban aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="4.864583333333333in" height="2.96875in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
# B.2 Resource allocation Mode 2
## B.2.1 Simulation assumptions
Table B.2.1-1: Simulation assumptions used in resource allocation Mode 1
evaluations, sources 1-5
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Desc | * | * | * | * | * | | | ription | _Source |_ Source | _Source |_ Source | _Source | | | | 1_ _| 2_ _| 3_ _| 4_ _| 5_ _| | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | 2Tx/4Rx | 2TX/4RX | 2TX/4RX | 2Tx/4Rx | 1 | | |_ Number | | | | | TX/4RX, | | | of | | | | | X-Pol | | | ant | | | | | | | | ennas**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** Sub | 60 kHz | 30 kHz | 60 kHz | 15/3 | 30KHz | | | carrier | | | | 0/60kHz | | | | sp | | | | | | | | acing**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** PHY | **Aper | 200-20 | Medium | un | Un | • | | packet | iodic** | 00bytes | in | iformly | iformly | Packet | | size**| | | tensity | dist | random | size: | | | | | (as in | ributed | in the | Un | | | | | TR | between | range | iformly | | | | | 37.885, | | between | random | | | | | and | [200, | 200 | in the | | | | | fo | 400, | bytes | range | | | | | llowing | 600, | and | between | | | | | the | 800, | 2000 | 200 | | | | | profile | 1000, | bytes | bytes | | | | | agree | 1200, | with | and | | | | | in | 1400, | the | 2000 | | | | | RAN1\ | 1600, | quant | bytes | | | | | #94bis) | 1800, | ization | with | | | | | | 2000] | step of | the | | | | | | bytes | 200 | quant | | | | | | | bytes | ization | | | | | | 100% of | | step of | | | | | | UEs | | 200 | | | | | | g | | bytes | | | | | | enerate | | | | | | | | packets | | • | | | | | | | | Inter | | | | | | Latency | | -packet | | | | | | requ | | arrival | | | | | | irement | | time: | | | | | | = 100ms | | 50 ms + | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | expo | | | | | | | | nential | | | | | | | | random | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | ariable | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | mean of | | | | | | | | 50 ms | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | • | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | atency: | | | | | | | | 50 ms | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | |** Per | 800/12 | | 1200 | 1200 | • | | | iodic**| 00bytes | | bytes | bytes | Packet | | | | | | with | with | size: | | | | | | prob | prob | 1200 | | | | | | 0.2; | ability | bytes | | | | | | | of 0.2 | with | | | | | | 800 | and 800 | prob | | | | | | bytes | bytes | ability | | | | | | with | with | of 0.2 | | | | | | prob | prob | and 800 | | | | | | 0.8 | ability | bytes | | | | | | | of 0.8 | with | | | | | | 50% of | | prob | | | | | | UEs | | ability | | | | | | g | | of 0.8 | | | | | | enerate | | | | | | | | packets | | • | | | | | | | | Inter | | | | | | | | -packet | | | | | | | | arrival | | | | | | | | time: | | | | | | | | 50 ms | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | • | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | atency: | | | | | | | | 50ms | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** Mod | **Aper | 64Q | PSCCH: | Unicast | QPS | Data | | ulation | iodic** | AM(0.5) | QPSK, | and | K(0.12) | pa | | and | | | R\<0.1; | Gro | for 200 | ckets:\ | | code | | | | upcast: | bytes\ | • 200 | | rates**| | | PSSCH: | | QPS | By | | | | | 16QAM, | 16QAM | K(0.19) | te:QPSK | | | | | R\ <0.85 | | for 400 | ( | | | | | | CR = | bytes\ | CR_TTI | | | | | | 0.3 to | QP | = | | | | | | 0.8 | SK(0.3) | 0.33)\ | | | | | | | for 600 | • 400 | | | | | | Bro | bytes\ | By | | | | | | adcast: | QPS | te:QPSK | | | | | | | K(0.44) | ( | | | | | | 16QAM | for 800 | CR_TTI | | | | | | | bytes\ | = | | | | | | CR = | QPS | 0.67)\ | | | | | | 0.3 to | K(0.44) | • 600 | | | | | | 0.7 | for | Byte | | | | | | | 1000 | :16-QAM | | | | | | | bytes\ | ( | | | | | | | QPS | CR_TTI | | | | | | | K(0.59) | = 0.5)\ | | | | | | | for | • 800 | | | | | | | 1200 | Byte: | | | | | | | bytes\ | 16-QAM | | | | | | | QPS | ( | | | | | | | K(0.59) | CR_TTI | | | | | | | for | = | | | | | | | 1400 | 0.66)\ | | | | | | | bytes\ | • 1000 | | | | | | | 16QA | Byte: | | | | | | | M(0.37) | 16-QAM | | | | | | | for | ( | | | | | | | 1600 | CR_TTI | | | | | | | bytes\ | = | | | | | | | 16QA | 0.83)\ | | | | | | | M(0.48) | • 1200 | | | | | | | for | Byte: | | | | | | | 1800 | 16-QAM | | | | | | | bytes\ | ( | | | | | | | 16QA | CR_TTI | | | | | | | M(0.48) | = 1)\ | | | | | | | for | • 1400 | | | | | | | 2000 | Byte: | | | | | | | bytes | 16-QAM | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | CR_TTI | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | 1.16)\ | | | | | | | | • 1600 | | | | | | | | Byte: | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | CR_TTI | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | 1.33)\ | | | | | | | | • 1800 | | | | | | | | Byte: | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | CR_TTI | | | | | | | | = 1.5)\ | | | | | | | | • 2000 | | | | | | | | Byte: | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | CR_TTI | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | 1.67)\ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | Control | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | ckets:\ | | | | | | | | • 64 | | | | | | | | bit: | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | (CR_TT | | | | | | | | I=0.26) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | **Per | | | 16QAM | QPS | Data | | | iodic**| | | | K(0.44) | pa | | | | | | CR = | for 800 | ckets:\ | | | | | | 0.3 to | bytes\ | • 800 | | | | | | 0.7 | QPS | Byte: | | | | | | | K(0.59) | 16-QAM | | | | | | | for | ( | | | | | | | 1200 | CR_TTI | | | | | | | bytes | = | | | | | | | | 0.66)\ | | | | | | | | • 1200 | | | | | | | | Byte: | | | | | | | | 16-QAM | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | CR_TTI | | | | | | | | = 1)\ | | | | | | | | Control | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | ckets:\ | | | | | | | | • 64 | | | | | | | | bit: | | | | | | | | QPSK | | | | | | | | (CR_TT | | | | | | | | I=0.26) | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** Wav | OFDM | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | SC-FDMA | | | eform**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** CP | NCP | NCP | ECP | Normal | Normal | | | l | | | ( | | CP | | | ength**| | | 4.16µs) | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** | no | Ideal | pr | ideal | Perfect | | | Channel | n-ideal | | actical | | channel | | | estim | | | (MMSE | | est | | | ation** | | | -based) | | imation | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | **Aper | 1 | Unicast | Unicast | No | Number | | *Number | iodic** | retrans | and | and | retrans | of data | | of | | mission | Gro | Bro | mission | packet | | retrans | | | upcast: | adcast: | | ret | | mission | | | | | | ransmis | | and | | | Up to | 3Tx | | sions:\ | | comb | | | 4, | | | • 200 | | ining**| | | Incr | Gro | | Byte: 2 | | | | | emental | upcast: | | TTI\ | | | | | red | | | • 400 | | | | | undancy | 4Tx | | Byte: 2 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | Bro | | | • 600 | | | | | adcast: | | | Byte: 2 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | 4, | | | • 800 | | | | | Incr | | | Byte: 2 | | | | | emental | | | TTI\ | | | | | red | | | • 1000 | | | | | undancy | | | Byte: 3 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | | | | • 1200 | | | | | | | | Byte: 3 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | | | | • 1400 | | | | | | | | Byte: 4 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | | | | • 1600 | | | | | | | | Byte: 4 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | | | | • 1800 | | | | | | | | Byte: 5 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | | | | • 2000 | | | | | | | | Byte: 5 | | | | | | | | TTI\ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | ret | | | | | | | | ransmis | | | | | | | | sions:\ | | | | | | | | • Same | | | | | | | | as used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eferred | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | packet\ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | etransm | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | comb | | | | | | | | ining:\ | | | | | | | | • Data: | | | | | | | | Incr | | | | | | | | emental | | | | | | | | Redu | | | | | | | | ndancy\ | | | | | | | | HARQ\ | | | | | | | | • | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | ontrol: | | | | | | | | No HARQ | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | mbining | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | |** Per | | | | | Number | | | iodic**| | | | | of data | | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | ret | | | | | | | | ransmis | | | | | | | | sions:\ | | | | | | | | • 800 | | | | | | | | Byte: | | | | | | | | 3TTI\ | | | | | | | | • 1200 | | | | | | | | Byte: | | | | | | | | 3TTI\ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | Number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | ret | | | | | | | | ransmis | | | | | | | | sions:\ | | | | | | | | • Same | | | | | | | | as used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eferred | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | packet\ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | etransm | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | comb | | | | | | | | ining:\ | | | | | | | | • Data: | | | | | | | | Incr | | | | | | | | emental | | | | | | | | Redu | | | | | | | | ndancy\ | | | | | | | | HARQ\ | | | | | | | | • | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | ontrol: | | | | | | | | No HARQ | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | mbining | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** TX | SFBC | none | SCDD | None | Single | | | scheme | | | | | antenna | | | (e.g. | | | | | port | | | TxD | | | | | | | | scheme | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | lied)**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** UE | M | MRC | MMSE | M | Rec | | | r | MSE-IRC | | | MSE-IRC | eiver:\ | | | eceiver | | | | | M | | | algo | | | | | MSE-IRC | | | rithm** | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | ceiver\ | | | | | | | | Single | | | | | | | | SCI | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecoding | | | | | | | | at each | | | | | | | | SCI | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | slot\ | | | | | | | | Single | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecoding | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | slot\ | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | Sele | | | | | | | | ction:\ | | | | | | | | Scheme | | | | | | | | 2 from | | | | | | | | R1- | | | | | | | | 1902484 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table B.2.1-2: Simulation assumptions used in resource allocation Mode 1
evaluations, sources 6-10
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | * | * | * | * | * | | | _Descri |_ Source | _Source |_ Source | _Source |_ Source | | | ption**| 6** | 7**| 8** | 9**| 10** | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | 2T | 2T4R | 1T4R | 1T2R | 2Tx/2Rx | | | _Number | x4Rx(1, | | | | | | | of | 2, 2, | | | | | | | ant | 1, 1) | | | | | | | ennas_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__Sub | 30k | 15kHz | 15kHz | 15 kHz | 15kHz | | | carrier | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | acing_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__PHY |__Aper | Un | 20 | 100ms | -- | Model 1 | | packet | iodic_ _| iformly | 0\~2000 | inter | | (medium | | size_ _| | random | bytes | -packet | | traffic | | | | in the | | a | | int | | | | range | | rrival, | | ensity) | | | | between | | 100% | | | | | | 200 | | v | | | | | | bytes | | ehicles | | | | | | and | | g | | | | | | 2000 | | enerate | | | | | | bytes | | packets | | | | | | with | | (200, | | | | | | the | | 400, | | | | | | quant | | 600, | | | | | | ization | | 800, | | | | | | step of | | 1000, | | | | | | 200 | | 1200, | | | | | | bytes | | 1400, | | | | | | | | 1600, | | | | | | | | 1800, | | | | | | | | 200 | | | | | | | | 0bytes) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | |__Per | 1200 | 800 and | 50ms | Option | -- | | | iodic_ _| bytes | 1200 | inter | 1: 200 | | | | | with | bytes | -packet | bytes | | | | | prob | | a | | | | | | ability | | rrival, | Option | | | | | of 0.2 | | 50% | 2: | | | | | and 800 | | v | | | | | | bytes | | ehicles | 1200 | | | | | with | | g | bytes | | | | | prob | | enerate | with | | | | | ability | | packets | prob | | | | | of 0.8 | | (1 | ability | | | | | | | 200byte | of 0.2 | | | | | | | packet | and 800 | | | | | | | 20%、 | bytes | | | | | | | 800byte | with | | | | | | | packet | prob | | | | | | | 80%) | ability | | | | | | | | of 0.8 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__Mod |__Aper | 16QAM, | 16QAM, | 18, 36, | -- | MC | | ulation | iodic_ _| c | 1/2 | 54, | | S:16QAM | | and | | oderate | LDPC | 72\ | | | | code | | 0.6667 | | [RBs], | | CR:0.5 | | rates_ _| | | | de | | | | | | | | pending | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | | size. | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | |__Per | 16 QAM\ | | 40\ | QPSK | -- | | | iodic_ _| Code | | [RBs], | (0.15) | | | | | Rate | | 80 | for 200 | | | | | {0.4 | | 0byte： | bytes | | | | | 4,0.67} | | | | | | | | for | | per CB, | 16QA | | | | | {80 | | code | M(0.44) | | | | | 0bytes, | | length | for | | | | | 1200 | | 14 | 1200 | | | | | bytes } | | 582bit, | bytes | | | | | | | TBS | | | | | | | | 6144bit | 16Q | | | | | | | (16QAM) | AM(0.3) | | | | | | | | for 800 | | | | | | | 40\ | bytes | | | | | | | [RBs], | | | | | | | | 120 | | | | | | | | 0byte： | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | per CB, | | | | | | | | code | | | | | | | | length | | | | | | | | 9 | | | | | | | | 600bit, | | | | | | | | TBS | | | | | | | | 6144bit | | | | | | | | (16QAM) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__Wav | CP-OFDM | CP-OFDM | -- | CP-OFDM | OFDM | | | eform_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |__CP | Normal | NCP | -- | normal | normal | | | l | CP | | | | | | | ength_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** | Ideal | Ideal | -- | No | Ideal | | | Channel | | | | n-ideal | channel | | | estim | | | | | est | | | ation_ _| | | | | imation | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | * | 2 | No | Rep | None | 1 | | |_ Number | trans | retrans | etition | | trans | | | of | mission | mission | com | | mission | | | retrans | | | bining: | | | | | mission | | | chase | | | | | and | | | co | | | | | comb | | | mbining | | | | | ining**| | | with | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | sub-c | | | | | | | | hannels | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | initial | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** TX | -- | None | -- | None | one | | | scheme | | | | | layer | | | (e.g. | | | | | pr | | | TxD | | | | | ecoding | | | scheme | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | lied)**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** UE | MMSE | MRC | -- | MMSE | MRC | | | r | | | | | | | | eceiver | | | | | | | | algo | | | | | | | | rithm** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table B.2.1-3: Simulation assumptions used in resource allocation Mode 1
evaluations, source 11-14
* * *
**Description** **Source 11** **Source 12** **Source 13** **Source 14**
**Number of antennas** 2TX/4RX 2TX/4RX 2TX/4RX 2Tx/4Rx
**Subcarrier spacing** 15 kHz 30 kHz 30KHz 15kHz
**PHY packet size** **Aperiodic** Uniformly random in the range between 200
bytes and 2000 bytes with the quantization step of 200 bytes Medium traffic
intensity (according to TR 37.885 and simulation profile agreed in RAN1#94bis)
400-2000bytes --
                                               **Periodic**    1200 bytes with probability of 0.2 and 800 bytes with probability of 0.8                                 \--                                                                                              800/1200 bytes           80% probability of 800 / 20% probability of 1200
**Modulation and code rates** **Aperiodic** 16QAM, 0.5 PSCCH: QPSK w/ R=0.125\
SA: QPSK(0.125)\ **\--** PSSCH: QPSK w/ 0.18≤R≤0.36 and 16QAM w/ 0.27≤R≤0.45
Data:16QAM(0.45/0.65)
                                               **Periodic**    16QAM(0.5) for 1200 bytes packet                                                                         \--                                                                                              SA: QPSK(0.125)\         QPSK (0.57) for 800-byte packet/ QPSK (0.38) for 1200 byte packet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Data:16QAM(0.45/0.67)
**Waveform** CP-OFDM CP-OFDM CP-OFDM OFDM
**CP length** Normal Normal Normal CP Normal
**Channel estimation** Practical Ideal Non-ideal Ideal
**Number of retransmission and combining** None Up to 3 reTX (1 reTX for QPSK,
1/2/3 reTX for 16QAM) and IR combining 1 retransmission 1 blind retransmission
**TX scheme (e.g. TxD scheme if applied)** None None None precoder cycling
**UE receiver algorithm** MMSE MMSE MMSE MMSE
* * *
## B.2.2 Detailed results
### B.2.2.1 Unicast
**[Highway periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.010416666666667in" height="3.004166666666667in"}
Source 2
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="2.8666666666666667in"}
Source 3
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.2069444444444444in"}
Source 4
{width="5.760416666666667in" height="3.2708333333333335in"}
Source 5
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="4.227083333333334in"}
Source 7
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Highway aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source1
{width="5.010416666666667in" height="3.004166666666667in"}
Source 2
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.700694444444444in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 4
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.4402777777777778in"}
Source 5
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.5069444444444446in"}
Source 6
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="2.7270833333333333in"}
Source 7
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.3069444444444445in"}
**[Urban periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source1
{width="5.010416666666667in" height="3.004166666666667in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Urban aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source1
{width="5.010416666666667in" height="3.004166666666667in"}
[]{.underline}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
### B.2.2.2 Groupcast
**[Highway periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 4
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 8
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Highway aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 4
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 8
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Urban periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Urban aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
### B.2.2.3 Broadcast
**[Highway periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 4
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 9
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 11
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 13
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Highway aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 4
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 9
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 10
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 11
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 12
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 13
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Urban periodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 11
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 14
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
**[Urban aperiodic scenario]{.underline}**
Source 1
{width="5.740277777777778in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 2
{width="5.740277777777778in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 3
{width="5.7340277777777775in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 5
{width="5.667361111111111in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 6
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 7
{width="5.567361111111111in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 10
{width="5.780555555555556in" height="3.127083333333333in"}
Source 11
{width="5.606944444444444in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Source 12
{width="5.606944444444444in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
###### ### Annex C: Detailed evaluation results for synchronization
# C.1 S-SSB detection
## C.1.1 Simulation assumptions
This section shows the detailed results used to report the evaluations of
S-SSB design combination performance in Section 11. Table C.1-1 shows the
simulation assumptions used by each sourcing company.
Table C.1-1: S-SSB simulation assumptions
* * *
                          Source 1             Source 2             Source 3   Source 4             Source 5             Source 6                    Source 7            Source 8   Source 9
Number of antennas 2Tx*4Rx 2Tx*2Rx 2Tx*2Rx 2Tx*2Rx 2Tx*2Rx 2Tx*2Rx 2Tx*2Rx
2Tx*2Rx 2Tx*2Rx CDL channel model CDL V2X Urban NLOS CDL V2X Urban NLOS CDL-C
CDL V2X Urban NLOS CDL V2X Urban NLOS CDL V2X highway LOS/NLOSv CDL V2X Urban
LOS CDL-C CDL V2X Urban LOS UE speed 240 km/h 240 km/h 240 km/h 240 km/h 240
km/h 240 km/h 240 km/h 240 km/h 240 km/h Interference scenario 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
1
* * *
## C.1.2 Detailed results
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 3
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 4
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 5
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 6
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 7
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 8
{width="5.010416666666667in" height="3.004166666666667in"}
Source 9
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
# C.2 PSBCH decoding
This section shows the detailed results used to report the evaluations of
PSBCH performance in Section 11. Table C.1-1 shows the simulation assumptions
used by each sourcing company.
Source 1
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 2
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 4
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Source 7
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
{width="4.989583333333333in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
#