# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Scope
The present document is a technical report for Work Item on New Radio (NR)
Access Technology, covering the new frequency range between 39.5- 43.5 GHz for
NR.
# References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.141-2: \"NR; Base Station (BS) conformance testing; Part 2:
Radiated conformance testing\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or unpaired),
that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Δf~OOB~ Δ Frequency of Out Of Band emission
ΔMB~P,n~ Allowed relaxation to each, minimum peak EIRP and reference
sensitivity due to support for multi-band operation, per band in a combination
of supported bands
ΔMB~S,n~ Allowed relaxation to each, EIRP spherical coverage and EIS spherical
coverage due to support for multi-band operation, per band in a combination of
supported bands
∑MB~P~ Total allowed relaxation to each, minimum peak EIRP and reference
sensitivity due to support for multi-band operation, for all bands in a
combination of supported bands
∑MB~S~ Total allowed relaxation to each, EIRP spherical coverage and EIS
spherical coverage due to support for multi-band operation, for all bands in a
combination of supported bands
NR~ACLR~ NR ACLR
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
P~CMAX~ The configured maximum UE output power
P~TMAX,f,c~ The measured total radiated power for carrier _f_ of serving cell
_c_
P~UMAX~ The measured configured maximum UE output power
### 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
> EIS Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity
FR Frequency Range
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
OTA Over The Air
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TDD Time division Duplex
# 4 Background
WRC-19 agenda item 1.13, Resolution **238** (WRC-15) identifies 37-40.5 GHz,
42.5-43.5 GHz, which have allocations to the mobile service on a primary
basis; and 40.5-42.5 GHz which may require additional allocations to the
mobile service on a primary basis, among other as IMT candidate bands.
Consequently, after WRC-15 there have been extensive discussions and studies
on the suitability of these bands for IMT allocation in different regulatory
organizations. From the WRC-19 preparations, it is evident that many
administrations across all ITU regions are interested in the IMT allocation of
the whole or part of the 37-43.5 GHz frequency ranges. The position of
regulatory bodies and regional forums regarding these ranges are summarized
below:
APT (Asia-Pacific Telecommunity) members support identification of the
frequency bands 37-40.5 GHz, 40.5-42.5 GHz and 42.5-43.5 GHz, or portions
thereof, for IMT considering that protection of the incumbent services in
these and adjacent frequency bands should be ensured. APT Members recognize
that different administrations would implement IMT in different portions of
the 37-43.5 GHz frequency range for IMT, and a global identification for IMT
in the 37-43.5 GHz band, or portions thereof, would allow each country/region
to implement IMT in different portions of the band in accordance with their
national/regional considerations, while still facilitating the benefits of
economies of scale.
ASMG (Arab Spectrum Management Group): supports IMT identification within the
frequency bands 40.5-42.5GHz and 42.5-43.5GHz.
**CEPT** (European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications): proposes an
IMT identification for 40.5-43.5 GHz. This is a priority band for CEPT and
already specified for future harmonization in Europe. Whilst CEPT will not
propose IMT identification at WRC-19 and has no intention of using 37-40.5 GHz
for IMT, CEPT will not oppose a global IMT identification for the full 37-43.5
GHz range.
**Some countries in CITEL including the US, Canada and Brazil** support IMT
identification for part of 37-43.5 GHz spectrum range.
Position of the RCC (**Regional Commonwealth in the field of Communications)**
administrations on frequency bands 37.0−40.5 GHz and 40.5−42.5 GHz included in
Resolution 238 (WRC-15): to be specified taking into account the need to
protect both passive and active services.
ATU (African Telecommunications Union) supports the 40GHz band (37-40.5,
40.5-42.5 and 42.5-43.5 GHz frequency range) for IMT identification under
Resolution 238 (WRC15).
## 4.1 Regulatory situation
Table 4.1-1 is the extract of the Radio Regulation (RR) table of allocations
providing the services allocated in the 36-47 GHz frequency range.
Table 4.1.1 Allocation information in the 36-47GHz frequency range [2]
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Allocation to | | | | services | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **36-37** EARTH | | | | E | | | | XPLORATION-SATELLITE | | | | (passive) | | | | | | | | FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | SPACE RESEARCH | | | | (passive) | | | | | | | | 5.149 5.550A | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **37-37.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE except | | | | aeronautical mobile | | | | | | | | SPACE RESEARCH | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.547 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **37.5-38** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | MOBILE except | | | | aeronautical mobile | | | | | | | | SPACE RESEARCH | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.547 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **38-39.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.547 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **39.5-40** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.547 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 40.5-41 | 40.5-41 | 40.5-41 | | | | | | FIXED | FIXED | FIXED | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | | (space-to-Earth) | (space-to-Earth) | (space-to-Earth) | | | 5.516B | | | MOBILE | | MOBILE | | | MOBILE | | | BROADCASTING | | BROADCASTING | | | BROADCASTING | | | BR | | BR | | OADCASTING-SATELLITE | BR | OADCASTING-SATELLITE | | | OADCASTING-SATELLITE | | | Mobile | | Mobile | | | Mobile | | | 5.547 | | 5.547 | | | Mobile-satellite | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.547 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **41-42.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | BROADCASTING | | | | | | | | BR | | | | OADCASTING-SATELLITE | | | | | | | | Mobile | | | | | | | | 5.547 5.551F 5.551H | | | | 5.551I | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **42.5-43.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.552 | | | | | | | | MOBILE except | | | | aeronautical mobile | | | | | | | | RADIO ASTRONOMY | | | | | | | | 5.149 5.547 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **43.5-47** MOBILE | | | | 5.553 | | | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | | | | | RADIONAVIGATION | | | | | | | | RADIO | | | | NAVIGATION-SATELLITE | | | | | | | | 5.554 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.2 Outcome of WRC-19 for 37-43.5 GHz spectrum range
WRC-19 was held 28 October-22 November in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt and concluded
the following decision for spectrum range 37-43.5 GHz:
"For frequency range 37-43.5 GHz he frequency band 37-43.5 GHz, or portions
thereof, is identified for use by administrations wishing to implement the
terrestrial component of International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT). This
identification does not preclude the use of this frequency band by any
application of the services to which it is allocated and does not establish
priority in the Radio Regulations. Because of the potential deployment of FSS
earth stations within the frequency range 37.5-42.5 GHz and high-density
applications in the fixed-satellite service in the bands 39.5-40 GHz in Region
1, 40-40.5 GHz in all Regions and 40.5-42 GHz in Region 2 (see No. 5.516B),
administrations should further take into account potential constraints to IMT
in these bands, as appropriate. Resolution COM4/9 (WRC-19) applies."
# 5 NR Frequency band definition
The Band plan for 37-43.5 GHz frequency range is shown in Figure below. Two
bands are defined in this range, existing band n260 (37-40 GHz) and the new
band n259 (39.5-43.5 GHz).
Band definition in the frequency range 37- 43.5 GHz
Summary of the new NR band is provided in Table 5-1.
Table 5-1: New NR band in FR2
**Band number** **UL** **DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n259 39.5 -- 43.5 GHz 39.5 - 43.5 GHz TDD
# 6 Channel numbering and channel bandwidth
BS channel bandwidth for FR2 has been defined in TS 38.104. They are captured
to support at least 50 MHz as a minimum channel bandwidth and up to 400 MHz as
the maximum channel bandwidth. In order to apply the same requirement for Band
n259, the same bandwidths as other FR2 bands are proposed as shown in table
6-1.
Table 6-1: NR channel bandwidth in the frequency range between 39.5 -- 43.5
GHz
NR band Channel bandwidth
* * *
Band number data SCS(kHz) 50 MHz 100 MHz 200 MHz 400 MHz n259 60 Yes Yes Yes  
120 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes**
NR-ARFCN parameters for the global frequency raster are presented in TS
38.104, table 7-2:
Table 6-2: NR-ARFCN parameters for the global frequency raster
Frequency range (MHz) ΔF~Global~ (kHz) F~REF-Offs~ (MHz) N~REF-Offs~ Range of
N~REF~
* * *
0 -- 3000 5 0 0 0 -- 599999 3000 -- 24250 15 3000 600000 600000 -- 2016666
24250 -- 100000 60 24250.08 2016667 2016667 -- 3279165
Using information above and the equation F~REF~ = F~REF-Offs~ + ΔF~Global~
(N~REF~ -- N~REF-Offs~), The NR-ARFCN that are applicable in the frequency
range 39.5-43.5 GHz can be calculated as in table 6-3:
Table 6-3: Applicable NR-ARFCN in the frequency range between 39.5-43.5 GHz
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+ | NR Operating Band | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink and Downlink | | | | | | | (kHz) | Range of N~REF~ | | | | | | | | (First -- \ \-- Last) | +===================+============+==================================+ | n259 | 60 | 2270832 -- \ \-- 2337499 | +-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+ | n259 | 120 | 2270832 -- \ \-- 2337499 | +-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+
The synchronization raster in the frequency range between 39.5-43.5 GHz is
given in Table 7-4. The distance between applicable GSCN entries is given by
the \ indicated in Table 7-4 with the step size interval of
17.28MHz.
Table 6-4: Applicable SS raster entries in the frequency range between
39.5-43.5 GHz
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NR Operating | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | Band | | pattern^1^ | | | | | | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n259 | 120 kHz | Case D | 23140 -- \ | | | | | -- 23369 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 240 kHz | Case E | 23142 -- \ | | | | | -- 23368 | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: SS Block | | | | | pattern is | | | | | defined in | | | | | subclause 4.1 | | | | | in TS 38.213. | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
# 7 Configurations for intra-band contiguous CA
Table 5.5A.1-1( NR CA configurations, bandwidth combination sets, and fallback
group defined for intra-band contiguous CA) in 38.101-2 should be updated to
include the following configurations for band n259 intra-band contiguous CA.
NR CA configuration | Uplink CA configurations | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | BWChannel (MHz) | Maximum aggregated BW(MHz) | BCS | Fallback group  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
CA_n259B | CA_n259B | 50, 100, 200, 400 | 400 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 800 | 0 | 3  
CA_n259C | CA_n259B | 50, 100, 200, 400 | 400 | 400 |  |  |  |  |  | 1200 | 0 |   
CA_n259G | CA_n259G | 50, 100 | 100 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 200 | 0 |   
CA_n259H | CA_n259G CA_n259H | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |  |  | 300 | 0 |   
CA_n259I | CA_n259G CA_n259H CA_n259I | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  |  |  | 400 | 0 |   
CA_n259J | CA_n259G CA_n259H CA_n259I CA_n259J | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  |  | 500 | 0 |   
CA_n259K | CA_n259G CA_n259H CA_n259I CA_n259J CA_n259K | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  |  | 600 | 0 |   
CA_n259L | CA_n259G CA_n259H CA_n259I CA_n259J CA_n259K CA_n259L | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 |  | 700 | 0 |   
CA_n259M | CA_n259G CA_n259H CA_n259I CA_n259J CA_n259K CA_n259L CA_n259M | 50, 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 100 | 800 | 0 |   
# 8 RF requirements for band n259
## 8.1 UE specific
For introduction of band n259 only RF requirements for power class 3 has been
considered.
### 8.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
The following requirements define the maximum output power radiated by the UE
for any transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth for non-CA
configuration, unless otherwise stated. The period of measurement shall be at
least one sub frame (1ms). The requirement is verified with the test metric of
total component of EIRP (Link=Beam peak search grids, Meas=Link angle).
Table 8.1.1-1: UE minimum peak EIRP for power class 3
Operating band Min peak EIRP (dBm)
* * *
n259 18.7 NOTE 1: Minimum peak EIRP is defined as the lower limit without
tolerance
The maximum output power values for TRP and EIRP are found on the Table
8.1.1-2. The max allowed EIRP is derived from regulatory requirements. The
requirements are verified with the test metrics of TRP (Link=TX beam peak
direction) in beam locked mode and the total component of EIRP (Link=TX beam
peak direction, Meas=Link angle).
Table 8.1.1-2: UE maximum output power limits for power class 3
Operating band Max TRP (dBm) Max EIRP (dBm)
* * *
n259 23 43
The minimum EIRP at the 50^th^ percentile of the distribution of radiated
power measured over the full sphere around the UE is defined as the spherical
coverage requirement and is found in Table 8.1.1-3 below. The requirement is
verified with the test metric of the total component of EIRP (Link=Beam peak
search grids, Meas=Link angle).
Table 8.1.1-3: UE spherical coverage for power class 3
+-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Operating band | Min EIRP at 50 %-tile CDF (dBm) | +===================================+=================================+ | n259 | 5.8 | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Minimum EIRP at 50 %-tile | | | CDF is defined as the lower limit | | | without tolerance | | | | | | NOTE 2: The requirements in this | | | table are verified only under | | | normal temperature conditions. | | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+
It is also necessary to consider the band specific requirements besides the
minimum peak EIRP, maximum output power and spherical coverage. The following
part will give the required changes for introducing band n259 into the
requirements in TS 38.101-2: P~UMAX~ tolerance, minimum output power, transmit
OFF power, adjacent channel leakage ratio, and spurious emission band UE co-
existence.
**[Required changes for TS 38.101-2]{.underline}**
Table 6.2.4-1: P~UMAX,f,c~ tolerance
+----------------------------------+---------------+-----------------+ | Operating Band | ∆P (dB) | Tolerance T(∆P) | | | | | | | | (dB) | +==================================+===============+=================+ | n257, n258, n259, n260, n261 | ∆P = 0 | 0 | +----------------------------------+---------------+-----------------+ | | 0 \ _Table 9.7.1-1: Maximum offset Δf~OBUE~ outside the downlink operating band_
_BS type_ _Operating band characteristics_ _Δf~OBUE~ (MHz)_
* * *
_BS type 1-O_ _F~DL,high~ -- F~DL,low~ \  _Table 9.7.5.3.2.3-2: Step frequencies for defining the BS radiated Tx
> spurious emission limits in FR2 (Category B)_
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _Op |_ F~s | _F~s |_ F~s | _F~s |_ F~s | _F~s | | erating | tep,1~\ | tep,2~\ | tep,3~\ | tep,4~\ | tep,5~\ | tep,6~\ | | band_ | \ | \ | [GHz] | [GHz] | \ | \ | | | [GHz]_| [GHz]_ | (Note | (Note | [GHz]_| [GHz]_ | | | | | 2)_| 2)_ | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | _n258_ | _18_ | _21_ | _22.75_ | _29_ | _30.75_ | _40.5_ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _n259_ | 23,5 | 35,5 | 38 | 45 | 47,5 | 59,5 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | _NOTE | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | step,X~ | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | on ERC | | | | | | | | Recomme | | | | | | | | ndation | | | | | | | | 74-01 | | | | | | | | [19], | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | 2._ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | _NOTE | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | step,3~ | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | step,4~ | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | aligned | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Δ | | | | | | | | f~OBUE~ | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | 9. | | | | | | | | 7.1-1._ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 8.2.2.5 Measurement uncertainty and test tolerance
For introduction of band n259 the following updates are needed in TS 38.141-2:
\- Update the frequency range in the TT table (Table C.1-2: Derivation of test
requirements (FR2 OTA transmitter tests)) as below:
\- Radiated transmit power:
\- 2.0 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) for normal condition
\- 3.3 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) for extreme condition.
\- OTA base station output power:
\- 2.4 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz)
\- OTA transmitter OFF power:
\- 3.3 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz)
\- OTA ACLR
\- 2.6 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) for relative ACLR
\- 2.7 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz) for absolute ACLR
\- OTA operating band unwanted emissions
\- 2.7 dB (37 -- 43.5 GHz)
\- Update the frequency range of the test requirements for "radiated transmit
power", "OTA base station output power" and "OTA transmitter transient period"
from "37 GHz \ _Table 10.5.2.3-0: Δf~OOB~ offset for NR operating bands in FR2_
_BS type_ _Operating band characteristics_ _Δf~OOB~ (MHz)_
* * *
_BS type 2-O_ _F~UL_high~ -- F~UL_low~ ≤ 4000 MHz_ _1500_
> The same modification should be performed inTable 7.5.2.5.3-0: _ΔfOOB offset
> for NR operating bands in FR2_ in TS 38.141-2.
#### 8.2.2.2 Step frequencies for Rx spurious emission
It is also needed to add band n259 to Table 10.7.3-2in TS 38.104 thus Table
10.7.3-2should be modified as below to include band n259.
Table 10.7.3-2: Step frequencies for defining the radiated Rx spurious
emission limits for _BS type 2-O_
* * *
Operating band F~step,1~\ F~step,2~\ F~step,3~\ F~step,4~\ F~step,5~\
F~step,6~\ (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz) (GHz)
* * *
n257 18 23.5 25 31 32.5 41.5
n258 18 21 22.75 29 30.75 40.5
n259 23,5 35,5 38 45 47,5 59,5
n260 25 34 35.5 41.5 43 52
n261 18 25.5 26.0 29.85 30.35 38.35
* * *
# 9 RRM Requirements
For introduction of band n259 the following sections in TS 38.133 need to be
updated to include RRM band specific requirements for band n259:
1) 3.5 Frequency bands grouping
2) Annex B (normative): Conditions for RRM requirements applicability for
operating bands
## 9.1 Frequency bands grouping
The frequency bands grouping for FR2 presented in Table 3.5.3-1 is derived
based on UE REFSENS requirements and assuming 0.5 dB step between the
neighbour groups. The groups are defined in the order of increasing REFSENS,
i.e., the group A has the smallest REFSENS among the groups.
UE REFSENS for band n259 is defined in TR 38.887 [1] as follows:
Table 8.1.2-1: Reference sensitivity
Operating band REFSENS (dBm) / Channel bandwidth
* * *
                   50 MHz                              100 MHz   200 MHz   400 MHz
n259 -84.7 -81.7 -78.7 -75.7
In Table 3.5.3-2, Group Y which includes n260 PC3 with REFSENS of -85.7/50
MHz, Table 7.3.2.3-1 in TS 38.101-2 , corresponds to UE REFSENS of -85.5.
Since REFSENS for band n259 is -84.7 dBm/50 MHz, we need to introduce two new
groups considering the 0.5 dB steps between two groups. The two new groups are
presented in Table 3.5.3-1.
Table 3.5.3-1: NR frequency band groups for FR2
+---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | Group | Band group notation | Operating bands | +===========================+=====================+===========================+ | A | NR_TDD_FR2_A | n257^1^, n258^1^, n261^1^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | B | NR_TDD_FR2_B | n257^4^, n258^4^, n261^4^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | C | NR_TDD_FR2_C | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | D | NR_TDD_FR2_D | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | E | NR_TDD_FR2_E | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | F | NR_TDD_FR2_F | n260^4^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | G | NR_TDD_FR2_G | n260^1^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | H | NR_TDD_FR2_H | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | I | NR_TDD_FR2_I | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | J | NR_TDD_FR2_J | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | K | NR_TDD_FR2_K | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | L | NR_TDD_FR2_L | n257^2^, n258^2^, n261^2^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | M | NR_TDD_FR2_M | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | N | NR_TDD_FR2_N | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | O | NR_TDD_FR2_O | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | P | NR_TDD_FR2_P | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | Q | NR_TDD_FR2_Q | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | R | NR_TDD_FR2_R | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | S | NR_TDD_FR2_S | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | T | NR_TDD_FR2_T | n257^3^, n258^3^, n261^3^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | U | NR_TDD_FR2_U | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | V | NR_TDD_FR2_V | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | W | NR_TDD_FR2_W | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | X | NR_TDD_FR2_X | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | Y | NR_TDD_FR2_Y | n260^3^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | Z | NR_TDD_FR2_Z | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | AA | NR_TDD_FR2_AA | n259^3^ | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE 1: UE power class 1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: UE power class 2. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: UE power class 3. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: UE power class 4. | | | +---------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------+
## 9.2 Conditions for RRM requirements applicability for operating bands
Derivation of Minimum SSB_RP values for FR2 is defined in Annex B.2 in TS
38.133 as follows:
### 9.2.1 Minimum SSB_RP values for Rx Beam Peak angle of arrival
Minimum SSB_RP values are based on Reference sensitivity for the Operating
band and for the UE power class, taking a _baseline of UE Power class 3 in
Band n260 with 50 MHz channel bandwidth._
The calculated Minimum SSB_RP value for the baseline of UE power class 3 in
Band n260 is (-109.5+ΣMB~P~) dBm/120kHz for intra-frequency measurements and
(-107.5+ΣMB~P~) dBm/120kHz for inter-frequency measurements.
The following methodology to define the Minimum SSB_RP level for power class X
(PC_X) and operating band Y (Band_Y) is used:
For Intra-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (PC_X, Band_Y) = _-109.5_ dBm/120kHz +
Refsens ~PC_X,\ Band_Y,\ 50MHz~ -- Refsens ~PC3,\ n260,\ 50MHz~ + Y ~PC_X~ --
Y ~PC3~ _+_**∆** _MB~P~,_
For Inter-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (PC_X, Band_Y) = _-107.5_ dBm/120kHz +
Refsens ~PC_X,\ Band_Y,\ 50MHz~ -- Refsens ~PC3,\ n260,\ 50MHz~ + Y ~PC_X~ --
Y ~PC3~ _+_**∆** MB~P~_._
_Using the formulas above will result in following values for band n259:_
For Intra-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (3, n259) = _-108_ dBm/120kHz
For Inter-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (3, n259) = _-106_ dBm/120kHz
### 9.2.2 Minimum SSB_RP values for angle of arrival within Spherical coverage
Minimum SSB_RP values are based on EIS spherical coverage for the Operating
band and for the UE power class, taking a _baseline of UE power class 3 in
Band n260 with 50 MHz channel bandwidth._
_The calculated_ Minimum SSB_RP _value for the baseline of UE power class 3 in
Band n260 is (-96.9+ΣMB~S~) dBm/120kHz for intra-frequency measurements and is
(-94.9+ΣMB~S~) dBm/120kHz for inter-frequency measurements._
The following methodology to define the Minimum SSB_RP level for power class X
(PC_X) and operating band Y (Band_Y) is used:
For Intra-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (PC_X, Band_Y) = _(-103.9+ΣMB~S~ +Z)_
dBm/120 kHz + Refsens ~PC_X,\ Band_Y,\ 50MHz~ -- Refsens ~PC3,\ n260,\ 50MHz~
+ Z ~PC_X~ -- Z ~PC3~ _+_**∆** _MB~S~,_
For Inter-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (PC_X, Band_Y) = _(-101.9+ΣMB~S~ +Z)_
dBm/120 kHz + Refsens ~PC_X,\ Band_Y,\ 50MHz~ -- Refsens ~PC3,\ n260,\ 50MHz~
+ Z ~PC_X~ -- Z ~PC3~ _+_ ∆MB~S~
_Using the formulas above will result in following values for band n259:_
For Intra-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (3, n259) = _-95.3_ dBm/120kHz
For Inter-frequency: Minimum SSB_RP (3, n259) = _-93.3_ dBm/120kHz
The following tables in TS 38.133 should be upated based on the calculations
above.
**Table B.1.2-2: Conditions for intra-frequency cell re-selection in FR2**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **P | ** |** NR | **Mi |** SSB | | | | | | arame | Angle | oper | nimum | Ês/ | | | | | | ter**| of | ating | SS | Iot** | | | | | | | arri | ba | B_RP | | | | | | | | val**| nds** | ^ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 2,\ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 3^**| | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | |** dBm | * | | | | | | | | | / | _dB_ _| | | | | | | | | SCS~S | | | | | | | | | | SB~__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__SCS |__SCS | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | = 120 | = 240 | | | | | | | | | kHz_ _| kHz_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__UE |__UE | | | | | | | | | Power | Power | | | | | | | | | cl | cl | | | | | | | | | ass_ _| ass_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__1_ _|__2_ _|__3_ _|__4_ _|__1, | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Condi | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-4 | | tions | Beam | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | Value | | | | Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 105.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 122.3 | | 106.5 | 122.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | ( | ≥-4 | | | rical | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | SCS | | | | ^Not | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | e\ 1^ | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -92.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -93.9 | - | | | | | | | 114.3 | | | 110.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | |__∆_ _| | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | |_ and _| | | | | | | | | | Sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆_ _MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the _| | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | |_ in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in _| | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | | TS 38 | | | | | | | | | | .101- | | | | | | | | | | 2_[ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
Table B.2.2-2: Conditions for intra-frequency measurements in FR2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Para | Angle | NR | Mi | SSB | | | | | | meter | of | oper | nimum | Ê | | | | | | | ar | ating | SS | s/Iot | | | | | | | rival | bands | B_RP | | | | | | | | | | ^Not | | | | | | | | | | e\ 2, | | | | | | | | | | \ Not | | | | | | | | | | e\ 3^ | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | | dBm / | dB | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | | SCS | SCS | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | = 120 | = 240 | | | | | | | | | kHz | kHz | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | | power | power | | | | | | | | | class | class | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | | 3, 4 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **Co | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-6 | | nditi | Beam | | 128.3 | 113.8 | 112.1 | 127.8 | Value | | | ons** | Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 128.3 | 113.8 | 112.1 | 127.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 108.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | | 109.5 | 125.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 128.3 | 113.8 | 112.1 | 127.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-6 | | | rical | | 120.3 | 102.8 | 101.2 | 118.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | SCS | | | | **^ | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | Note\ | | | | | | = 120 | | | | 1^** | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 120.3 | 102.8 | 101.2 | 118.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -95.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -96.9 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 113.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 120.3 | 102.8 | 101.2 | 118.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Note | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | **∆** | | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | | _and_ | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆ __MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the_ | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | | _in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in_ | | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | _TS | | | | | | | | | | 38.1 | | | | | | | | | | 01-2_ | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
**Table** B.2.3-2**: Conditions for inter-frequency measurements in FR2**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Para | Angle | NR | Mi | SSB | | | | | | meter | of | oper | nimum | Ê | | | | | | | ar | ating | SS | s/Iot | | | | | | | rival | bands | B_RP | | | | | | | | | | ^Not | | | | | | | | | | e\ 2, | | | | | | | | | | \ Not | | | | | | | | | | e\ 3^ | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | | dBm / | dB | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | | SCS | SCS | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | = 120 | = 240 | | | | | | | | | kHz | kHz | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | | power | power | | | | | | | | | class | class | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | | **1** | **2** | **3** | **4** | **1, | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **Co | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-4 | | nditi | Beam | | 126.3 | 111.8 | 110.1 | 125.8 | Value | | | ons** | Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 126.3 | 111.8 | 110.1 | 125.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 106.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 123.3 | | 107.5 | 123.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 126.3 | 111.8 | 110.1 | 125.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | - | -99.2 | - | ( | ≥-4 | | | rical | | 118.3 | 100.8 | | 116.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | SCS | | | | **^ | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | Note\ | | | | | | = 120 | | | | 1^** | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | -99.2 | - | | | | | | | 118.3 | 100.8 | | 116.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -93.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -94.9 | - | | | | | | | 115.3 | | | 111.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | -99.2 | - | | | | | | | 118.3 | 100.8 | | 116.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | **∆** | | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | | _and_ | | | | | | | | | | Sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆ __MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the_ | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | | _in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in_ | | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | _TS | | | | | | | | | | 38.1 | | | | | | | | | | 01-2_ | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
**Table** **B.2.4.1-2: Conditions for SSB based L1-RSRP measurements in FR2**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **P | ** |** NR | **Mi |** SSB | | | | | | arame | Angle | oper | nimum | Ês/ | | | | | | ter**| of | ating | SS | Iot** | | | | | | | arri | ba | B_RP | | | | | | | | val**| nds** | ^ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 2,\ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 3^**| | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | |** dBm | * | | | | | | | | | / | _dB_ _| | | | | | | | | SCS~S | | | | | | | | | | SB~__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__SCS |__SCS | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | = 120 | = 240 | | | | | | | | | kHz_ _| kHz_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__UE |__UE | | | | | | | | | power | power | | | | | | | | | cl | cl | | | | | | | | | ass_ _| ass_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__1_ _|__2_ _|__3_ _|__4_ _|__1, | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ |__Co | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-3 | | nditi | Beam | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | Value | | | ons_ _| Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 105.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 122.3 | | 106.5 | 122.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | ( | ≥-3 | | | rical | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | SCS | | | |__^ | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | Note\ | | | | | | = 120 | | | | 1^__| | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -92.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -93.9 | - | | | | | | | 114.3 | | | 110.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | |__∆_ _| | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | |_ and _| | | | | | | | | | Sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆_ _MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the _| | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | |_ in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in _| | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | |_ TS | | | | | | | | | | 38.1 | | | | | | | | | | 01-2* | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
**Table B.2.4.2-2: Conditions for CSI-RS based L1-RSRP measurements in FR2**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **P | ** |** NR | **Mi |** C | | | | | | arame | Angle | oper | nimum | SI-RS | | | | | | ter**| of | ating | CSI-R | Ês/ | | | | | | | arri | ba | S_RP | Iot** | | | | | | | val**| nds** | ^ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 2,\ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 3^**| | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | |** dBm | * | | | | | | | | | / | _dB_ _| | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~CSI- | | | | | | | | | | RS~__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__S |__S | | | | | | | | | CS~CS | CS~CS | | | | | | | | | I-RS~ | I-RS~ | | | | | | | | | = 60 | = 120 | | | | | | | | | kHz_ _| kHz_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__UE |__UE | | | | | | | | | power | power | | | | | | | | | cl | cl | | | | | | | | | ass_ _| ass_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__1_ _|__2_ _|__3_ _|__4_ _|__1, | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ |__Co | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-3 | | nditi | Beam | | 128.3 | 113.8 | 112.1 | 127.8 | Value | | | ons_ _| Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | | CS~CS | | | | | | | | | | I-RS~ | | | | | | | | | | = 60 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 128.3 | 113.8 | 112.1 | 127.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 108.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | | 109.5 | 125.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 128.3 | 113.8 | 112.1 | 127.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-3 | | | rical | | 120.3 | 102.8 | 101.2 | 118.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | S | | | |__^ | | | | | | CS~CS | | | | Note\ | | | | | | I-RS~ | | | | 1^__| | | | | | = 60 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 120.3 | 102.8 | 101.2 | 118.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -95.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -96.9 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 113.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 120.3 | 102.8 | 101.2 | 118.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | | SI-RS | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | |__∆_ _| | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | |_ and _| | | | | | | | | | Sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆_ _MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the _| | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | |_ in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in _| | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | |_ TS | | | | | | | | | | 38.1 | | | | | | | | | | 01-2* | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
Table B.2.5-2: Conditions for RRC connection release with redirection to NR in
FR2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **P | ** |** NR | **Mi |** SSB | | | | | | arame | Angle | oper | nimum | Ês/ | | | | | | ter**| of | ating | SS | Iot** | | | | | | | arri | ba | B_RP | | | | | | | | val**| nds** | ^ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 2,\ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 3^**| | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | |** dBm | * | | | | | | | | | / | _dB_ _| | | | | | | | | SCS~S | | | | | | | | | | SB~__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__SCS |__SCS | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | = 120 | = 240 | | | | | | | | | kHz_ _| kHz_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__UE |__UE | | | | | | | | | power | power | | | | | | | | | cl | cl | | | | | | | | | ass_ _| ass_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__1_ _|__2_ _|__3_ _|__4_ _|__1, | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ |__Co | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-4 | | nditi | Beam | | 126.3 | 111.8 | 110.1 | 125.8 | Value | | | ons_ _| Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 126.3 | 111.8 | 110.1 | 125.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 106.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 123.3 | | 107.5 | 123.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 126.3 | 111.8 | 110.1 | 125.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | - | -99.2 | - | ( | ≥-4 | | | rical | | 118.3 | 100.8 | | 116.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | SCS | | | |__^ | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | Note\ | | | | | | = 120 | | | | 1^__| | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | -99.2 | - | | | | | | | 118.3 | 100.8 | | 116.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -93.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -94.9 | - | | | | | | | 115.3 | | | 111.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | -99.2 | - | | | | | | | 114.3 | 100.8 | | 116.8 | | | | | | | | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | |__∆_ _| | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | |_ and | | | | | | | | | | s _phe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆_ _MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the _| | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | |_ in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in _| | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | |_ TS | | | | | | | | | | 38.1 | | | | | | | | | | 01-2* | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
Table B.2.6.1-2: Conditions for SSB based UE transmit timing in FR2
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **P | ** |** NR | **Mi |** SSB | | | | | | arame | Angle | oper | nimum | Ês/ | | | | | | ter**| of | ating | SS | Iot** | | | | | | | arri | ba | B_RP | | | | | | | | val**| nds** | ^ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 2,\ | | | | | | | | | | Note\ | | | | | | | | | | 3^**| | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=====+ | | | |** dBm | * | | | | | | | | | / | _dB_ _| | | | | | | | | SCS~S | | | | | | | | | | SB~__| | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__SCS |__SCS | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | = 120 | = 240 | | | | | | | | | kHz_ _| kHz_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__UE |__UE | | | | | | | | | power | power | | | | | | | | | cl | cl | | | | | | | | | ass_ _| ass_ _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | |__1_ _|__2_ _|__3_ _|__4_ _|__1, | | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | | 4_ _| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ |__Co | Rx | n257 | - | - | - | - | ( | ≥-3 | | nditi | Beam | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | Value | | | ons_ _| Peak | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | for | | | | | | | | | | SCS | | | | | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | | | | | | | = 120 | | | | | | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | - | | | | | | | | | | 105.5 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | - | - | | | | | | | 122.3 | | 106.5 | 122.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | 125.3 | 110.8 | 109.1 | 124.8 | | | | | | | +Y~1~ | | | +Y~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Sphe | n257 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | ( | ≥-3 | | | rical | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | Value | | | | cov | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | for | | | | erage | | | | | | SCS | | | |__^ | | | | | | ~SSB~ | | | | Note\ | | | | | | = 120 | | | | 1^__| | | | | | kHz) | | | | | | | | | | +3dB | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n258 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n259 | | | -92.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n260 | - | | -93.9 | - | | | | | | | 114.3 | | | 110.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | | n261 | - | -99.8 | -98.2 | - | | | | | | | 117.3 | | | 115.8 | | | | | | | +Z~1~ | | | +Z~4~ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 7.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | | | | | 38. | | | | | | | | | | 101-2 | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | | Side | | | | | | | | | | cond | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | | EIS | | | | | | | | | | sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | met. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | V | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | give | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | SSB | | | | | | | | | | Ês | | | | | | | | | | /Iot, | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | oise. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOET | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | | | | tiple | | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | | Rx | | | | | | | | | | Beam | | | | | | | | | | Peak | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | |__∆_ _| | | | | | | | | | MB~P~ | | | | | | | | | |_ and _| | | | | | | | | | Sphe | | | | | | | | | | rical | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | incr | | | | | | | | | | eased | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | ∆_ _MB | | | | | | | | | | ~S~_ , | | | | | | | | | | the _| | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | multi | | | | | | | | | | -band | | | | | | | | | | relax | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | |_ in | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in _| | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | | ause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | |_ TS | | | | | | | | | | 38.1 | | | | | | | | | | 01-2* | | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | | 19]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
# 10 Required changes to NR, E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the NR band n259 are
summarised in a Table 8-1.
Table 8-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
Affected existing specifications
* * *
Spec No. Subject of the CR Comments CR/TP (Tdoc) 38.141-2 Introduction of band
n259 **R4-2007796** 38.104 Introduction of band n259 R4-2008975 38.101-2
Introduction of band n259 R4-2009153 38.133 Introduction of band n259
R4-2008911
#