# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies and contains the derivation of Test Points for
NR RF test cases, thereby 3GPP TSG RAN WG5 will have a way of storing the
input contributions provided. The test cases are described in TS38.521-1[2],
TS38.521-2[3] and TS38.521-3[4],
The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Points are included
as .zip files.
The present document is applicable from Release 15 up to the release indicated
on the front page of the present Terminal conformance specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] to [9] (void)
[10] 3GPP TR 38.905 Release 17: \"NR; Derivation of test points for radio
transmission and reception User Equipment (UE) conformance test cases\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Test coverage analysis
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TR 38.905
Release 17 [10].
###### ### Annex A to D: Void
#