# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the findings of the study item, \"Study on
channel model for frequency spectrum above 6 GHz\" [2] and from further
findings of the study item, \"Study on New Radio Access Technology [22]\" and
the study item \"Study on Channel Modeling for Indoor Industrial Scenarios
[23]\". The channel models in the present document address the frequency range
0.5-100 GHz. The purpose of this TR is to help TSG RAN WG1 to properly model
and evaluate the performance of physical layer techniques using the
appropriate channel model(s). Therefore, the TR will be kept up-to-date via
CRs in the future.
This document relates to the 3GPP evaluation methodology and covers the
modelling of the physical layer of both Mobile Equipment and Access Network of
3GPP systems.
This document is intended to capture the channel model(s) for frequencies from
0.5GHz up to 100GHz.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TD RP-151606: \"Study on channel model for frequency spectrum above 6
GHz\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.873 (V12.2.0): \"Study on 3D channel model for LTE\".
[4] 3GPP RP-151847: \"Report of RAN email discussion about >6GHz channel
modelling\", Samsung.
[5] 3GPP TD R1-163408: \"Additional Considerations on Building Penetration
Loss Modelling for 5G System Performance Evaluation\", Straight Path
Communications.
[6] ICT-317669-METIS/D1.4: \"METIS channel model, METIS 2020, Feb, 2015\".
[7] Glassner, A S: \"An introduction to ray tracing. Elsevier, 1989\".
[8] McKown, J. W., Hamilton, R. L.: \"Ray tracing as a design tool for radio
networks, Network, IEEE, 1991(6): 27-30\".
[9] Kurner, T., Cichon, D. J., Wiesbeck, W.: \"Concepts and results for 3D
digital terrain-based wave propagation models: An overview\", IEEE J.Select.
Areas Commun., vol. 11, pp. 1002--1012, 1993.
[10] Born, M., Wolf, E.: \"Principles of optics: electromagnetic theory of
propagation, interference and diffraction of light\", CUP Archive, 2000.
[11] Friis, H.: \"A note on a simple transmission formula\", proc. IRE, vol.
34, no. 5, pp. 254--256, 1946.
[12] Kouyoumjian, R.G., Pathak, P.H.: \"A uniform geometrical theory of
diffraction for an edge in a perfectly conducting surface\" Proc. IEEE, vol.
62, pp. 1448--1461, Nov. 1974.
[13] Pathak, P.H., Burnside, W., Marhefka, R.: \"A Uniform GTD Analysis of the
Diffraction of Electromagnetic Waves by a Smooth Convex Surface\", IEEE
Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 28, no. 5, pp. 631--642, 1980.
[14] IST-WINNER II Deliverable 1.1.2 v.1.2, \"WINNER II Channel Models\", IST-
WINNER2, Tech. Rep., 2007 ([http://www.ist-
winner.org/deliverables.html]{.underline}).
[15] 3GPP TR36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[16] 3GPP TR36.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[17] Asplund, H., Medbo, J., Göransson, B., Karlsson, J., Sköld, J.: \"A
simplified approach to applying the 3GPP spatial channel model\", in Proc. of
PIMRC 2006.
[18] ITU-R Rec. P.1816: \"The prediction of the time and the spatial profile
for broadband land mobile services using UHF and SHF bands\".
[19] ITU-R Rec. P.2040-1: \"Effects of building materials and structures on
radiowave propagation above about 100 MHz\", International Telecommunication
Union Radiocommunication Sector ITU-R, 07/2015.
[20] ITU-R Rec. P.527-3: \"Electrical characteristics of the surface of the
earth\", International Telecommunication Union Radiocommunication Sector
ITU-R, 03/1992.
[21] Jordan, E.C., Balmain, K.G.: \"Electromagnetic Waves and Radiating
Systems\", Prentice-Hall Inc., 1968.
[22] 3GPP TD RP-162469: \"Study on New Radio (NR) Access Technology\".
[23] 3GPP TD RP-182138: \"SID on Channel Modeling for Indoor Industrial
Scenarios\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
antenna radiation power pattern
maximum attenuation
_d~2D~_ 2D distance between Tx and Rx
_d_ ~3D~ 3D distance between Tx and Rx
antenna element spacing in horizontal direction
antenna element spacing in vertical direction
_f_ frequency
_f~c~_ center frequency / carrier frequency
_F_ ~rx,u,θ~ Receive antenna element _u_ field pattern in the direction of the
spherical basis vector {width="0.12777777777777777in"
height="0.22083333333333333in"}
_F_ ~rx,u,ϕ~ Receive antenna element _u_ field pattern in the direction of the
spherical basis vector {width="0.12777777777777777in"
height="0.24444444444444444in"}
_F_ ~tx,s,θ~ Transmit antenna element _s_ field pattern in the direction of
the spherical basis vector {width="0.12777777777777777in"
height="0.22083333333333333in"}
_F_ ~rx,s,ϕ~ Transmit antenna element _s_ field pattern in the direction of
the spherical basis vector {width="0.12777777777777777in"
height="0.24444444444444444in"}
_h_ ~BS~ antenna height for BS
_h_ ~UT~ antenna height for UT
{width="0.3486111111111111in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} spherical unit
vector of cluster _n_ , ray _m_ , for receiver
{width="0.3486111111111111in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} spherical unit
vector of cluster _n_ , ray _m_ , for transmitter
_α_ bearing angle
_β_ downtilt angle
_γ_ slant angle
wavelength
_κ_ cross-polarization power ratio in linear scale
_μ_ ~lgASA~ mean value of 10-base logarithm of azimuth angle spread of arrival
_μ_ ~lgASD~ mean value of 10-base logarithm of azimuth angle spread of
departure
_μ_ ~lgDS~ mean value of 10-base logarithm of delay spread
_μ_ ~lgZSA~ mean value of 10-base logarithm of zenith angle spread of arrival
_μ_ ~lgZSD~ mean value of 10-base logarithm of zenith angle spread of
departure
LOS probability
side-lobe attenuation in vertical direction
_σ_ ~lgASA~ standard deviation of 10-base logarithm of azimuth angle spread of
arrival
_σ_ ~lgASD~ standard deviation of 10-base logarithm of azimuth angle spread of
departure
_σ_ ~lgDS~ standard deviation value of 10-base logarithm of delay spread
_σ_ ~lgZSA~ standard deviation of 10-base logarithm of zenith angle spread of
arrival
_σ_ ~lgZSD~ standard deviation of 10-base logarithm of zenith angle spread of
departure
{width="0.2673611111111111in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} standard
deviation of SF
{width="0.11597222222222223in" height="0.19791666666666666in"} azimuth angle
{width="0.11597222222222223in" height="0.1625in"} zenith angle
{width="0.11597222222222223in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} spherical basis
vector (unit vector) for GCS
{width="0.18611111111111112in" height="0.2673611111111111in"} spherical basis
vector (unit vector) for LCS
{width="0.29097222222222224in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} horizontal 3 dB
beamwidth of an antenna
{width="0.11597222222222223in" height="0.22083333333333333in"} spherical basis
vector (unit vector), orthogonal to {width="0.11597222222222223in"
height="0.24444444444444444in"}, for GCS
{width="0.18611111111111112in" height="0.2326388888888889in"} spherical basis
vector (unit vector), orthogonal to {width="0.18611111111111112in"
height="0.2673611111111111in"}, for LCS
electrical steering angle in vertical direction
{width="0.29097222222222224in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} vertical 3 dB
beamwidth of an antenna
_ψ_ Angular displacement between two pairs of unit vectors
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
2D two-dimensional
3D three-dimensional
AOA Azimuth angle Of Arrival
AOD Azimuth angle Of Departure
AS Angular Spread
ASA Azimuth angle Spread of Arrival
ASD Azimuth angle Spread of Departure
BF Beamforming
BS Base Station
BP Breakpoint
BW Beamwidth
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CDL Clustered Delay Line
CRS Common Reference Signal
D2D Device-to-Device
DFT Discrete Fourier Transform
DS Delay Spread
GCS Global Coordinate System
IID Independent and identically distributed
InF Indoor Factory
InF-SL Indoor Factory with Sparse clutter and Low base station height (both Tx
and Rx are below the average height of the clutter)
InF-DL Indoor Factory with Dense clutter and Low base station height (both Tx
and Rx are below the average height of the clutter)
InF-SH Indoor Factory with Sparse clutter and High base station height (Tx or
Rx elevated above the clutter)
InF-DH Indoor Factory with Dense clutter and High base station height (Tx or
Rx elevated above the clutter)
InF-HH Indoor Factory with High Tx and High Rx (both elevated above the
clutter)
InH Indoor Hotspot
IRR Infrared Reflecting
ISD Intersite Distance
K Ricean K factor
LCS Local Coordinate System
LOS Line Of Sight
MIMO Multiple-Input-Multiple-Output
MPC Multipath Component
NLOS Non-LOS
O2I Outdoor-to-Indoor
O2O Outdoor-to-Outdoor
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing
PAS Power angular spectrum
PL Path Loss
PRB Physical Resource Block
RCS Radar cross-section
RMa Rural Macro
RMS Root Mean Square
RSRP Reference Signal Received Power
Rx Receiver
SCM Spatial Channel Model
SINR Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio
SIR Signal-to-Interference Ratio
SSCM Statistical Spatial Channel Model
SF Shadow Fading
SLA Sidelobe Attenuation
TDL Tapped Delay Line
TOA Time Of Arrival
TRP Transmission Reception Point
Tx Transmitter
UMa Urban Macro
UMi Urban Micro
UT User Terminal
UTD Uniform Theory of Diffraction
V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle
XPR Cross-Polarization Ratio
ZOA Zenith angle Of Arrival
ZOD Zenith angle Of Departure
ZSA Zenith angle Spread of Arrival
ZSD Zenith angle Spread of Departure
# 4 Introduction
At 3GPP TSG RAN #69 meeting the Study Item Description on \"Study on channel
model for frequency spectrum above 6 GHz\" was approved [2]. This study item
covers the identification of the status/expectation of existing information on
high frequencies (e.g. spectrum allocation, scenarios of interest,
measurements, etc), and the channel model(s) for frequencies up to 100 GHz.
This technical report documents the channel model(s). The new channel model
has to a large degree been aligned with earlier channel models for \60 GHz | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Urban macro | CMCC | No | NYU | | | | | kia/Aalborg | | | | | No | | | | | | kia/Aalborg | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Urban micro | Aalto | AT&T | AT&T | AT&T | | | University | | | | | | | Aalto | Huawei | Aalto | | | CMCC | University | | University | | | | | Intel | | | | Ericsson | CMCC | /Fraunhofer | Huawei | | | | | HHI | | | | Intel | Huawei | | Intel | | | /Fraunhofer | | NTT DOCOMO | /Fraunhofer | | | HHI | Intel | | HHI | | | | /Fraunhofer | Qualcomm | | | | No | HHI | | NYU | | | kia/Aalborg | | CATT | | | | | No | | | | | NTT DOCOMO | kia/Aalborg | ETRI | | | | | | | | | | Orange | NTT DOCOMO | ITRI/CCU | | | | | | | | | | | NYU | ZTE | | | | | | | | | | | Qualcomm | | | | | | | | | | | | Samsung | | | | | | | | | | | | CATT | | | | | | | | | | | | KT | | | | | | | | | | | | ETRI | | | | | | | | | | | | ITRI/CCU | | | | | | | | | | | | ZTE | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Indoor | Aalto | AT&T | AT&T | AT&T | | | University | | | | | | | Alc | Ericsson | Aalto | | | CMCC | atel-Lucent | | University | | | | | Huawei | | | | Ericsson | Aalto | | Huawei | | | | University | Intel | | | | Huawei | | /Fraunhofer | Intel | | | | BUPT | HHI | /Fraunhofer | | | Intel | | | HHI | | | /Fraunhofer | CMCC | NTT DOCOMO | | | | HHI | | | NYU | | | | Huawei | NYU | | | | No | | | | | | kia/Aalborg | Intel | Qualcomm | | | | | /Fraunhofer | | | | | NTT DOCOMO | HHI | CATT | | | | | | | | | | Orange | No | ETRI | | | | | kia/Aalborg | | | | | | | ITRI/CCU | | | | | NTT DOCOMO | | | | | | | ZTE | | | | | NYU | | | | | | | | | | | | Qualcomm | | | | | | | | | | | | Samsung | | | | | | | | | | | | CATT | | | | | | | | | | | | KT | | | | | | | | | | | | ETRI | | | | | | | | | | | | ITRI/CCU | | | | | | | | | | | | ZTE | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | O2I | Ericsson | AT&T | AT&T | AT&T | | | | | | | | | Huawei | Alc | Ericsson | Huawei | | | | atel-Lucent | | | | | Intel | | Huawei | Intel | | | /Fraunhofer | Ericsson | | /Fraunhofer | | | HHI | | Intel | HHI | | | | Huawei | /Fraunhofer | | | | No | | HHI | | | | kia/Aalborg | Intel | | | | | | /Fraunhofer | NTT DOCOMO | | | | NTT DOCOMO | HHI | | | | | | | | | | | Orange | NTT DOCOMO | | | | | | | | | | | | NYU | | | | | | | | | | | | Samsung | | | | | | | | | | | | KT | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 6.4 Modelling objectives
The requirements for channel modelling are as follows.
\- Channel model SI should take into account the outcome of RAN-level
discussion in the \'5G\' requirement study item
\- Complexity in terms of Description, Generating channel coefficients,
development complexity and Simulation time should be considered.
\- Support frequency range up to 100 GHz.
\- The critical path of the SI is 6 -- 100 GHz
\- Take care of mmW propagation aspects such as blocking and atmosphere
attenuation.
\- The model should be consistent in space, time and frequency
\- Support large channel bandwidths (up to 10% of carrier frequency)
\- Aim for the channel model to cover a range of coupling loss considering
current typical cell sizes, e.g. up to km-range macro cells. Note: This is to
enable investigation of the relevance of the 5G system using higher frequency
bands to existing deployments.
\- Accommodate UT mobility
\- Mobile speed up to 500 km/h.
\- Develop a methodology considering that model extensions to D2D and V2V may
be developed in future SI.
\- Support large antenna arrays
# 7 Channel model(s) for 0.5-100 GHz
## 7.1 Coordinate system
### 7.1.1 Definition
A coordinate system is defined by the x, y, z axes, the spherical angles and
the spherical unit vectors as shown in Figure 7.1.1. Figure 7.1.1 defines the
zenith angle and the azimuth angle in a Cartesian coordinate system. Note that
points to the zenith and points to the horizon. The field component in the
direction of is given by and the field component in the direction of is given
by .
Figure 7.1.1: Definition of spherical angles and spherical unit vectors in a
Cartesian coordinate system, whereis the given direction, and are the
spherical basis vectors
### 7.1.2 Local and global coordinate systems
A Global Coordinate System (GCS) is defined for a system comprising multiple
BSs and UTs. An array antenna for a BS or a UT can be defined in a Local
Coordinate System (LCS). An LCS is used as a reference to define the vector
far-field that is pattern and polarization, of each antenna element in an
array. It is assumed that the far-field is known in the LCS by formulae. The
placement of an array within the GCS is defined by the translation between the
GCS and a LCS. The orientation of the array with respect to the GCS is defined
in general by a sequence of rotations (described in clause 7.1.3). Since this
orientation is in general different from the GCS orientation, it is necessary
to map the vector fields of the array elements from the LCS to the GCS. This
mapping depends only on the orientation of the array and is given by the
equations in clause 7.1.3. Note that any arbitrary mechanical orientation of
the array can be achieved by rotating the LCS with respect to the GCS.
### 7.1.3 Transformation from a LCS to a GCS
A GCS with coordinates (_x_ , _y_ , _z_ , , ) and unit vectors (, ) and an LCS
with \"primed\" coordinates (_x\'_ , _y\'_ , _z\'_ , , ) and \"primed\" unit
vectors (, ) are defined with a common origins in Figures 7.1.3-1 and 7.1.3-2.
Figure 7.1.3-1 illustrates the sequence of rotations that relate the GCS
(gray) and the LCS (blue). Figure 7.1.3-2 shows the coordinate direction and
unit vectors of the GCS (gray) and the LCS (blue). Note that the vector fields
of the array antenna elements are defined in the LCS. In Figure 7.1.3-1 we
consider an arbitrary 3D-rotation of the LCS with respect to the GCS given by
the angles _α_ , _β_ , _γ_. The set of angles _α_ , _β_ , _γ_ can also be
termed as the orientation of the array antenna with respect to the GCS.
Note that the transformation from a LCS to a GCS depends only on the angles
_α_ , _β_ , _γ_. The angle _α_ is called the bearing angle, _β_ is called the
downtilt angle and _γ_ is called the slant angle.
{width="2.91875in" height="3.0930555555555554in"}
{width="2.9305555555555554in" height="3.0930555555555554in"}
* * *
Figure 7.1.3-1: Orienting the LCS (blue) with respect to the GCS (gray) by a
sequence of 3 rotations: _α_ , _β_ , _γ_. Figure 7.1.3-2: Definition of
spherical coordinates and unit vectors in both the GCS and LCS.
Let denote an antenna element pattern in the LCS and denote the same antenna
element pattern in the GCS. Then the two are related simply by
(7.1-1)
with and given by (7.1-7) and (7.1-8).
Let us denote the polarized field components in the LCS by , and in the GCS by
, . Then they are related by equation (7.1-11).
Any arbitrary 3D rotation can be specified by at most 3 elemental rotations,
and following the framework of Figure 7.1.3-1, a series of rotations about the
z, and axes are assumed here, in that order. The dotted and double-dotted
marks indicate that the rotations are intrinsic, which means that they are the
result of one (⋅) or two (⋅⋅) intermediate rotations. In other words, the axis
is the original y axis after the first rotation about z, and the axis is the
original x axis after the first rotation about z and the second rotation
about. A first rotation of _α_ about _z_ sets the antenna bearing angle (i.e.
the sector pointing direction for a BS antenna element). The second rotation
of _β_ about sets the antenna downtilt angle. Finally, the third rotation of
_γ_ about sets the antenna slant angle. The orientation of the _x_ , _y_ and
_z_ axes after all three rotations can be denoted as , and . These triple-
dotted axes represents the final orientation of the LCS, and for notational
purposes denoted as the _x\'_ , _y\'_ and _z\'_ axes (local or \"primed\"
coordinate system).
In order to establish the equations for transformation of the coordinate
system and the polarized antenna field patterns between the GCS and the LCS,
it is necessary to determine the composite rotation matrix that describes the
transformation of point (_x_ , _y_ , _z_) in the GCS into point (_x\'_ , _y\'_
, _z\'_) in the LCS. This rotation matrix is computed as the product of three
elemental rotation matrices. The matrix to describe rotations about the _z_
,and axes by the angles _α_ , _β_ and _γ_ respectively and in that order is
defined as
(7.1-2)
The reverse transformation is given by the inverse of _R_ , which is also
equal to the transpose of _R_ since it is orthogonal.
(7.1-3)
The simplified forward and reverse composite rotation matrices are given by
(7.1-4)
and
(7.1-5)
These transformations can be used to derive the angular and polarization
relationships between the two coordinate systems.
In order to establish the angular relationships, consider a point (_x_ , _y_ ,
_z_) on the unit sphere defined by the spherical coordinates (_ρ_ =1, _θ_ ,
_φ_), where _ρ_ is the unit radius, _θ_ is the zenith angle measured from the
+_z_ -axis, and _φ_ is the azimuth angle measured from the +_x_ -axis in the
_x_ -_y_ plane. The Cartesian representation of that point is given by
(7.1-6)
The zenith angle is computed as and the azimuth angle as , where , and are the
Cartesian unit vectors. If this point represents a location in the GCS defined
by _θ_ and _φ_ , the corresponding position in the LCS is given by , from
which local angles _θ\'_ and _φ\'_ can be computed. The results are given in
equations (7.1-7) and (7.1-8).
(7.1-7)
(7.1-8)
These formulae relate the spherical angles (_θ_ , _φ_) of the GCS to the
spherical angles (_θ\'_ , _φ\'_) of the LCS given the rotation operation
defined by the angles (_α_ , _β_ , _γ_).
Let us denote the polarized field components, in the GCS and, in the LCS.
These are related by
(7.1-9)
In this equation, and represent the spherical unit vectors of the GCS, and and
are the representations in the LCS. The forward rotation matrix R transforms
the LCS unit vectors into the GCS frame of reference. These pairs of unit
vectors are orthogonal and can be represented as shown in Figure 7.1.3-3.
Figure 7.1.3-3: Rotation of the spherical basis vectors by an angle _ψ_ due to
the orientation of the LCS with respect to the GCS
Assuming an angular displacement of _ψ_ between the two pairs of unit vectors,
the rotation matrix of equation (7.1-9) can be further simplified as:
(7.1-10)
and equation (7.1-9) can be written as:
(7.1-11)
The angle _ψ_ can be computed in numerous ways from equation (7.1-10), with
one such way approach being
(7.1-12)
The dot products are readily computed using the Cartesian representation of
the spherical unit vectors. The general expressions for these unit vectors are
given by
(7.1-13)
and
(7.1-14)
The angle _ψ_ can be expressed as a function of mechanical orientation (_α_ ,
_β_ , _γ_) and spherical position (_θ_ , _φ_), and is given by
(7.1-15)
It can be shown thatandcan be expressed as:
(7.1-16)
(7.1-17)
### 7.1.4 Transformation from an LCS to a GCS for downtilt angle only
In this clause equations are provided for the transformation from LCS to GCS
assuming that the orientation of the LCS (with respect to the GCS) is such
that the bearing angle _α_ =0, the downtilt angle _β_ is non-zero and the
slant angle _γ_ =0. In other words the _y\'_ -axis of the LCS is parallel to
the _y_ -axis of the GCS. Considering a BS antenna element the _x_ -axis of
the GCS is aligned with the pointing direction of the sector. Mechanical
downtilt is modelled as a rotation of the LCS around the _y_ -axis. For zero
mechanical downtilt the LCS coincides with the GCS.
This transformation relates the spherical angles (,) in the global coordinate
system to spherical angles (,) in the local (antenna-fixed) coordinate system
and is defined as follows:
(7.1-18)
(7.1-19)
where is the mechanical tilt angle around the _y_ -axis as defined in Figure
7.1.4. Note that the equations (7.1-7), (7.1-8) reduce to equations (7.1-18),
(7.1-19) if both _α_ and _γ_ are zero.
The antenna element pattern in the GCS is related to the antenna element
pattern in the LCS by the relation
(7.1-20)
with and given by (7.1-18) and (7.1-19).
Figure 7.1.4: Definition of angles and unit vectors when the LCS has been
rotated an angle around the _y_ -axis of the GCS
For a mechanical tilt angle , the global coordinate system field components
and , are calculated from the field components and of the radiation pattern in
the local (antenna-fixed) coordinate system as:
(7.1-21)
(7.1-22)
where and are defined as in (7.1-18) and (7.1-19), and is defined as:
. (7.1-23)
Note that the equation (7.1-15) is reduced to equation (7.1-23) if both α and
γ are zero.
As an example, in the horizontal cut, i.e., for , equations (7.1-18), (7.1-19)
and (7.1-23) become
(7.1-24)
(7.1-25)
(7.1-26)
## 7.2 Scenarios
The detailed scenario description in this clause can be used for channel model
calibration.
**UMi-street canyon and UMa**
Details on UMi-street canyon and UMa scenarios are listed in Table 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1: Evaluation parameters for UMi-street canyon and UMa scenarios
Parameters UMi - street canyon UMa
* * *
Cell layout Hexagonal grid, 19 micro sites, 3 sectors per site (ISD = 200m)
Hexagonal grid, 19 macro sites, 3 sectors per site (ISD = 500m)  
BS antenna height 10m 25m  
UT location Outdoor/indoor Outdoor and indoor Outdoor and indoor LOS/NLOS LOS
and NLOS LOS and NLOS Height Same as 3D-UMi in TR36.873 Same as 3D-UMa in
TR36.873 Indoor UT ratio 80% 80%  
UT mobility (horizontal plane only) 3km/h 3km/h  
Min. BS - UT distance (2D) 10m 35m  
UT distribution (horizontal) Uniform Uniform
**Indoor-office**
Details on indoor-office scenarios are listed in Table 7.2-2 and presented in
Figure 7.2-1. More details, if necessary, can be added to Figure 7.2-1.
Table 7.2-2: Evaluation parameters for indoor-office scenarios
+-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | Parameters | Indoor - office | Indoor - office | | | | | | | open office | mixed office | +=====================================+===================+=================+ | Layout | Room size (WxLxH) | 120mx50mx3m | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | | ISD | 20m | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | BS antenna height | 3 m (ceiling) | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | UT location | LOS/NLOS | LOS and NLOS | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | | Height | 1 m | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | UT mobility (horizontal plane only) | 3 km/h | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | Min. BS - UT distance (2D) | 0 | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+ | UT distribution (horizontal) | Uniform | | +-------------------------------------+-------------------+-----------------+
Note: The only difference between the open office and mixed office models in
this TR is the line of sight probability.
{width="6.0in" height="2.9069444444444446in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Layout of indoor office scenarios.
**RMa**
The rural deployment scenario focuses on larger and continuous coverage. The
key characteristics of this scenario are continuous wide area coverage
supporting high speed vehicles. This scenario will be noise-limited and/or
interference-limited, using macro TRPs. Details of RMa scenario is described
in Table 7.2-3.
Table 7.2-3: Evaluation parameters for RMa
Parameters RMa
* * *
Carrier Frequency Up to 7Ghz BS height 35m Layout Hexagonal grid, 19 Macro
sites, 3sectors per site, ISD = 1732m or 5000m UT height 1.5m UT distribution
Uniform Indoor/Outdoor 50% indoor and 50% in car LOS/NLOS LOS and NLOS Min BS
- UT distance(2D) 35m
**Indoor Factory (InF)**
The indoor factory (InF) scenario focuses on factory halls of varying sizes
and with varying levels of density of \"clutter\", e.g. machinery, assembly
lines, storage shelves, etc. Details of the InF scenario are listed in Table
7.2-4.
Table 7.2-4: Evaluation parameters for InF
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | InF | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+========+ | > Par | InF-SL | InF-DL | InF-SH | InF-DH | InF-HH | | | ameters | | | | | | | | | (sparse | (dense | (sparse | (dense | (high | | | | c | c | c | c | Tx, | | | | lutter, | lutter, | lutter, | lutter, | high | | | | low BS) | low BS) | high | high | Rx) | | | | | | BS) | BS) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | Layout | Room | Recta | | | | | | | size | ngular: | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | -160000 | | | | | | | | m^2^ | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Ceiling | 5-25 m | 5-15 m | 5-25 m | 5-15 m | 5-25 m | | | height | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+--------+ | | Ef | \ Scenario | > LOS/NLOS | Pathloss | Shadow | Ap | | | | [dB], | | plicability | | | | _f~c~_ is | fading | range, | | | | in GHz and | | | | | | _d_ is in | std [dB] | antenna | | | | meters, see | | height | | | | note 6 | | | | | | | | default | | | | | | values | +=============+============+=============+=============+=============+ | > RMa | > LOS | , see note | | h = avg. | | | | 5 | | building | | | | | | height | | | | | | | | | | | | W = avg. | | | | | | street | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | ap | | | | | | plicability | | | | | | ranges: | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > NLOS | for | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UMa | > LOS | , see note | | | | | | 1 | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > NLOS | for | | Ex | | | | | | planations: | | | | | | see note 3 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Optional | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > UMi - | > LOS | , see note | | | | > Street | | 1 | | | | > Canyon | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > NLOS | for | | Ex | | | | | | planations: | | | | | | see note 4 | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Optional | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > InH - | > LOS | | | | | > Office | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > NLOS | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Optional | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > InF | > LOS | $$\text{PL | $$\sig | $$1 \le | | | | }_{\text{LO | ma_{\text{S | q d_{3D} \l | | | | S}} = 31.84 | F}} = 4.3$$ | eq 600\ m$$ | | | | + 21.50\lo | | | | | | g_{10}\left | | | | | | ( d_{3D} \r | | | | | | ight) + 19. | | | | | | 00\log_{10} | | | | | | \left( f_{c | | | | | | } \right)$$ | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > NLOS | InF-SL:$ | $$\sig | | | | | \ \text{PL} | ma_{\text{S | | | | | = 33 + 25. | F}} = 5.7$$ | | | | | 5\log_{10}\ | | | | | | left( d_{3D | | | | | | } \right) + | | | | | | 20\log_{10 | | | | | | }\left( f_{ | | | | | | c} \right)$ | | | | | | | | | | | | $$\te | | | | | | xt{PL}_{\te | | | | | | xt{NLOS}} = | | | | | | max(PL,\te | | | | | | xt{PL}_{\te | | | | | | xt{LOS}})$$ | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | InF-DL:$\t | $$\sig | | | | | ext{\ PL} = | ma_{\text{S | | | | | 18.6 + 35. | F}} = 7.2$$ | | | | | 7\log_{10}\ | | | | | | left( d_{3D | | | | | | } \right) + | | | | | | 20\log_{10 | | | | | | }\left( f_{ | | | | | | c} \right)$ | | | | | | | | | | | | $$\t | | | | | | ext{PL}_{\t | | | | | | ext{NLOS}} | | | | | | = max(PL,\t | | | | | | ext{PL}_{\t | | | | | | ext{LOS}},\ | | | | | | text{PL}_{I | | | | | | nF - SL})$$ | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | InF-SH: | $$\sig | | | | | $PL = | ma_{\text{S | | | | | 32.4 + 23. | F}} = 5.9$$ | | | | | 0\log_{10}\ | | | | | | left( d_{3D | | | | | | } \right) + | | | | | | 20\log_{10 | | | | | | }\left( f_{ | | | | | | c} \right)$ | | | | | | | | | | | | $$\te | | | | | | xt{PL}_{\te | | | | | | xt{NLOS}} = | | | | | | max(PL,\te | | | | | | xt{PL}_{\te | | | | | | xt{LOS}})$$ | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | InF-DH: | $$\sig | | | | | $\ | ma_{\text{S | | | | | text{PL} = | F}} = 4.0$$ | | | | | 33.63 + 21. | | | | | | 9\log_{10}\ | | | | | | left( d_{3D | | | | | | } \right) + | | | | | | 20\log_{10 | | | | | | }\left( f_{ | | | | | | c} \right)$ | | | | | | | | | | | | $$\te | | | | | | xt{PL}_{\te | | | | | | xt{NLOS}} = | | | | | | max(PL,\te | | | | | | xt{PL}_{\te | | | | | | xt{LOS}})$$ | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | Breakpoint | | | | | | distance | | | | | | _d_ \'~BP~ = | | | | | | 4 _h_ \'~BS~ | | | | | | _h_ \'~UT~ | | | | | | _f_ ~c~/_c_ , | | | | | | where | | | | | | _f_ ~c~ is | | | | | | the centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | in Hz, _c_ | | | | | | = 3.0×10^8^ | | | | | | m/s is the | | | | | | propagation | | | | | | velocity in | | | | | | free space, | | | | | | and | | | | | | _h_ \'~BS~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _h_ \'~UT~ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | effective | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | heights at | | | | | | the BS and | | | | | | the UT, | | | | | | re | | | | | | spectively. | | | | | | The | | | | | | effective | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | heights | | | | | | _h_ \'~BS~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | _h_ \'~UT~ | | | | | | are | | | | | | computed as | | | | | | follows: | | | | | | _h_ \'~BS~ = | | | | | | _h_ ~BS~ -- | | | | | | _h_ ~E~, | | | | | | _h_ \'~UT~ = | | | | | | _h_ ~UT~ -- | | | | | | _h_ ~E~, | | | | | | where | | | | | | _h_ ~BS~ and | | | | | | _h_ ~UT~ are | | | | | | the actual | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | heights, | | | | | | and h~E~ is | | | | | | the | | | | | | effective | | | | | | environment | | | | | | height. For | | | | | | UMi _h_ ~E~ | | | | | | = 1.0m. For | | | | | | UMa | | | | | | _h_ ~E~=1m | | | | | | with a | | | | | | probability | | | | | | equal to | | | | | | 1/(1 | | | | | | +C(_d_ ~2D~, | | | | | | _h_ ~UT~)) | | | | | | and chosen | | | | | | from a | | | | | | discrete | | | | | | uniform | | | | | | d | | | | | | istribution | | | | | | uniform(12 | | | | | | ,15,...,(_h | | | | | |_ ~UT~-1.5)) | | | | | | otherwise. | | | | | | With | | | | | | C(_d_ ~2D~, | | | | | | _h_ ~UT~) | | | | | | given by | | | | | | | | | | | | , | | | | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | | | Note that | | | | | | _h_ ~E~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | _d_ ~2D~ and | | | | | | _h_ ~UT~ and | | | | | | thus needs | | | | | | to be | | | | | | in | | | | | | dependently | | | | | | determined | | | | | | for every | | | | | | link | | | | | | between BS | | | | | | sites and | | | | | | UTs. A BS | | | | | | site may be | | | | | | a single BS | | | | | | or multiple | | | | | | co-located | | | | | | BSs. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range of | | | | | | the PL | | | | | | formula in | | | | | | this table | | | | | | is 0.5 \7 GHz is | | | | | | validated | | | | | | based on a | | | | | | single | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | campaign | | | | | | conducted | | | | | | at 24 GHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: UMa | | | | | | NLOS | | | | | | pathloss is | | | | | | from | | | | | | TR36.873 | | | | | | with | | | | | | simplified | | | | | | format and | | | | | | PL~UMa-LOS~ | | | | | | = Pathloss | | | | | | of UMa LOS | | | | | | outdoor | | | | | | scenario. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | | PL~UMi-LOS~ | | | | | | = Pathloss | | | | | | of | | | | | | UMi-Street | | | | | | Canyon LOS | | | | | | outdoor | | | | | | scenario. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | | Break point | | | | | | distance | | | | | | _d~BP~_ = | | | | | | 2π _h~BS~_ | | | | | | _h~UT~_ | | | | | | _f~c~_ /_c_ , | | | | | | where | | | | | | _f~c~_ is | | | | | | the centre | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | in Hz, _c_ | | | | | | = 3.0 × | | | | | | 10^8^ m/s | | | | | | is the | | | | | | propagation | | | | | | velocity in | | | | | | free space, | | | | | | and _h~BS~_ | | | | | | and _h~UT~_ | | | | | | are the | | | | | | antenna | | | | | | heights at | | | | | | the BS and | | | | | | the UT, | | | | | | re | | | | | | spectively. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 6: | | | | | | _f~c~_ | | | | | | denotes the | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | normalized | | | | | | by 1GHz, | | | | | | all | | | | | | distance | | | | | | related | | | | | | values are | | | | | | normalized | | | | | | by 1m, | | | | | | unless it | | | | | | is stated | | | | | | otherwise. | | | | | +-------------+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.4.2 LOS probability
The Line-Of-Sight (LOS) probabilities are given in Table 7.4.2-1.
Table 7.4.2-1 LOS probability
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenario | LOS probability (distance is in | | | meters) | +==================================+==================================+ | RMa | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UMi - Street canyon | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UMa | where | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Indoor - Mixed office | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Indoor - Open office | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | InF-SL | $$\Pr_{\text{LO | | | S},\text{subsce}}\left( d_{2D} \ | | InF-SH | right) = \exp\left( - \frac{d_{2 | | | D}}{k_{\text{subsce}}} \right)$$ | | InF-DL | | | | where | | InF-DH | | | | $$k_{\text{s | | | ubsce}} = \left{ \begin{matrix} | | | - \frac | | | {d_{\text{clutter}}}{\ln\left( 1 | | | - r \right)} & \text{for\ }\tex | | | t{InF-SL}\text{\ and\ InF-DL} \ | | | - \frac{d_{\text{clutter}}}{\ | | | ln\left( 1 - r \right)} \bullet | | | \frac{h_{\text{BS}} - h_{\text{U | | | T}}}{h_{c} - h_{\text{UT}}} & \t | | | ext{for\ InF-SH\ and\ InF-DH} \ | | | \end{matrix} \right.\ $$ | | | | | | The parameters | | | $d_{\text{clutter}}$, $r$, and | | | $h_{c}$ are defined in Table | | | 7.2-4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | InF-HH | $$\Pr_{\text{LOS}} = 1$$ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note: The LOS probability is | | | derived with assuming antenna | | | heights of 3m for indoor, 10m | | | for UMi, and 25m for UMa | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 7.4.3 O2I penetration loss
#### 7.4.3.1 O2I building penetration loss
The pathloss incorporating O2I building penetration loss is modelled as in the
following:
(7.4-2)
where is the basic outdoor path loss given in Clause 7.4.1, where is replaced
by . is the building penetration loss through the external wall, is the inside
loss dependent on the depth into the building, and σ _~P~_ is the standard
deviation for the penetration loss.
is characterized as:
(7.4-3)
is an additional loss is added to the external wall loss to account for non-
perpendicular incidence; , is the penetration loss of material _i_ , example
values of which can be found in Table 7.4.3-1; is proportion of _i_ -th
materials, where ; and _N_ is the number of materials.
Table 7.4.3-1: Material penetration losses
Material Penetration loss [dB]
* * *
Standard multi-pane glass  
IRR glass  
Concrete  
Wood  
Note: f is in GHz
Table 7.4.3-2 gives , and σ _~P~_ for two O2I penetration loss models. The O2I
penetration is UT-specifically generated, and is added to the SF realization
in the log domain.
Table 7.4.3-2: O2I building penetration loss model
+----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | | Path loss | Indoor loss: | Standard | | | through | | deviation: | | | external wall: | in [dB] | | | | | | σ _~P~_ in | | | in [dB] | | [dB] | +================+================+==============+================+ | **Low-loss | | 0.5 | 4.4 | | model** | | | | +----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | **High-loss | | 0.5 | 6.5 | | model** | | | | +----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+
is minimum of two independently generated uniformly distributed variables
between 0 and 25 m for UMa and UMi-Street Canyon, and between 0 and 10 m for
RMa. shall be UT-specifically generated.
Both low-loss and high-loss models are applicable to UMa and UMi-Street
Canyon.
Only the low-loss model is applicable to RMa.
Only the high-loss model is applicable to InF.
The composition of low and high loss is a simulation parameter that should be
determined by the user of the channel models, and is dependent on the use of
metal-coated glass in buildings and the deployment scenarios. Such use is
expected to differ in different markets and regions of the world and also may
increase over years to new regulations and energy saving initiatives.
Furthermore, the use of such high-loss glass currently appears to be more
predominant in commercial buildings than in residential buildings in some
regions of the world (see note).
Note: One example survey for the US market can be found in [5]. The survey
does not necessarily be representative for all the scenarios. Other ratios
outside of the survey should not be precluded.
For backwards compatibility with TR 36.873 [3], the following building
penetration model should be used for UMa and UMi single-frequency simulations
at frequencies below 6 GHz.
Table 7.4.3-3. O2I building penetration loss model for single-frequency
simulations \ Table 7.5-2: Scaling factors for AOA, AOD generation
# clusters 4 5 8 10 11 12 14 15 16 19 20 25
* * *
                0.779   0.860   1.018   1.090   1.123   1.146   1.190   1.211   1.226   1.273   1.289   1.358
_In the LOS case,_ constant also depends on the Ricean K-factor _K_ in [dB],
as generated in Step 4. Additional scaling of the angles is required to
compensate for the effect of LOS peak addition to the angle spread.
Assign positive or negative sign to the angles by multiplying with a random
variable _X~n~_ with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,--1}, and
add component to introduce random variation
, (7.5-11)
where _ϕ~LOS,AOA~_ is the LOS direction defined in the network layout
description, see Step1c.
_In the LOS case,_ substitute (7.5-11) by (7.5-12) to enforce the first
cluster to the LOS direction _ϕ~LOS,\ AOA~_
(7.5-12)
Finally add offset angles _α~m~_ from Table 7.5-3 to the cluster angles
, (7.5-13)
where _c~ASA~_ is the cluster-wise rms azimuth spread of arrival angles
(cluster ASA) in Table 7.5-6.
> Table 7.5-3: Ray offset angles within a cluster, given for rms angle spread
> normalized to 1
Ray number _m_ Basis vector of offset angles _α~m~_
* * *
1,2 ± 0.0447 3,4 ± 0.1413 5,6 ± 0.2492 7,8 ± 0.3715 9,10 ± 0.5129 11,12 ±
0.6797 13,14 ± 0.8844 15,16 ± 1.1481 17,18 ± 1.5195 19,20 ± 2.1551
The generation of AOD () follows a procedure similar to AOA as described
above.
The generation of ZOA assumes that the composite PAS in the zenith dimension
of all clusters is Laplacian (see Table 7.5-6). The ZOAs are determined by
applying the inverse Laplacian function (7.5-14) with input parameters _P~n~_
and RMS angle spread ZSA
, (7.5-14)
with defined as
, (7.5-15)
Where is a scaling factor related to the total number of clusters and is given
in Table 7.5-4:
> Table 7.5-4: Scaling factors for ZOA, ZOD generation
# clusters 8 10 11 12 15 19 20 25
* * *
                0.889   0.957   1.031   1.104   1.1088   1.184   1.178   1.282
_In the LOS case,_ constant also depends on the Ricean K-factor _K_ in [dB],
as generated in Step 4. Additional scaling of the angles is required to
compensate for the effect of LOS peak addition to the angle spread.
Assign positive or negative sign to the angles by multiplying with a random
variable _X~n~_ with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,--1}, and
add component to introduce random variation
, (7.5-16)
where if the BS-UT link is O2I and otherwise. The LOS direction is defined in
the network layout description, see Step1c.
_In the LOS case,_ substitute (7.5-16) by (7.5-17) to enforce the first
cluster to the LOS direction _θ~LOS,ZOA~_
. (7.5-17)
Finally add offset angles _α~m~_ from Table 7.5-3 to the cluster angles
, (7.5-18)
where _c~ZSA~_ is the cluster-wise rms spread of ZOA (cluster ZSA) in Table
7.5-6. Assuming that is wrapped within [0, 360°], if , thenis set to .
The generation of ZOD follows the same procedure as ZOA described above except
equation (7.5-16) is replaced by
, (7.5-19)
where variable _X~n~_ is with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,
--1}, , is given in Tables 7.5-6/7/8 and equation (7.5-18) is replaced by
(7.5-20)
where is the mean of the ZSD log-normal distribution.
_In the LOS case,_ the generation of ZOD follows the same procedure as ZOA
described above using equation (7.5-17).
[Step 8]{.underline}: Coupling of rays within a cluster for both azimuth and
elevation
Couple randomly AOD angles _φ~n,m,AOD~_ to AOA angles _φ~n,m,AOA~_ within a
cluster _n_ , or within a sub-cluster in the case of two strongest clusters
(see Step 11 and Table 7.5-3). Couple randomly ZOD angles with ZOA angles
using the same procedure. Couple randomly AOD angles _φ~n,m,AOD~_ with ZOD
angles within a cluster _n_ or within a sub-cluster in the case of two
strongest clusters.
[Step 9]{.underline}: Generate the cross polarization power ratios
Generate the cross polarization power ratios (XPR) _κ_ for each ray _m_ of
each cluster _n_. XPR is log-Normal distributed. Draw XPR values as
, (7.5-21)
where is Gaussian distributed with and from Table 7.5-6.
Note: is independently drawn for each ray and each cluster.
The outcome of Steps 1-9 shall be identical for all the links from co-sited
sectors to a UT.
**Coefficient generation:**
[Step 10]{.underline}: Draw initial random phases
Draw random initial phase for each ray _m_ of each cluster _n_ and for four
different polarisation combinations (_θθ_ , _θϕ,_ _ϕθ,_ _ϕϕ_). The
distribution for initial phases is uniform within (-_π,π_).
[Step 11]{.underline}: Generate channel coefficients for each cluster _n_ and
each receiver and transmitter element pair _u, s_.
The method described below is used at least for _drop-based evaluations_
irrespective of UT speeds. Relevant cases for drop-based evaluations are:
\- Case 1: For low complexity evaluations
\- Case 2: To compare with earlier simulation results,
\- Case 3: When none of the additional modelling components are turned on.
\- Case 4: When spatial consistency and/or blockage is modeled for MU-MIMO
simulations
\- Other cases are not precluded
_For the N -- 2 weakest clusters_ , say _n_ = 3, 4,..., _N_ , the channel
coefficients are given by:
{width="5.8375in" height="1.2208333333333334in"} (7.5-22)
where _F~rx,u,θ~_ and _F~rx,u,ϕ~_ are the field patterns of receive antenna
element _u_ according to (7.1-11) and in the direction of the spherical basis
vectors, {width="0.12777777777777777in" height="0.22083333333333333in"} and
{width="0.12777777777777777in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} respectively,
_F~tx,s,θ~_ and _F~tx,s,ϕ~_ are the field patterns of transmit antenna element
_s_ in the direction of the spherical basis vectors,
{width="0.12777777777777777in" height="0.22083333333333333in"} and
{width="0.12777777777777777in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} respectively.
Note that the patterns are given in the GCS and therefore include
transformations with respect to antenna orientation as described in Clause
7.1. {width="0.3486111111111111in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} is the
spherical unit vector with azimuth arrival angle _ϕ~n,m,AOA~_ and elevation
arrival angle _θ~n,m,ZOA~_ , given by
{width="2.1277777777777778in" height="0.8020833333333334in"}, (7.5-23)
where _n_ denotes a cluster and _m_ denotes a ray within cluster _n_.
{width="0.3486111111111111in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} is the spherical
unit vector with azimuth departure angle _ϕ~n,m,AOD~_ and elevation departure
angle _θ~n,m,ZOD~_ , given by
{width="2.151388888888889in" height="0.8020833333333334in"}, (7.5-24)
where _n_ denotes a cluster and _m_ denotes a ray within cluster _n_. Also,
{width="0.3020833333333333in" height="0.25555555555555554in"}is the location
vector of receive antenna element _u_ and {width="0.2673611111111111in"
height="0.25555555555555554in"}is the location vector of transmit antenna
element _s_ , _κ~n,m~_ is the cross polarisation power ratio in linear scale,
and _λ_ ~0~ is the wavelength of the carrier frequency. If polarisation is not
considered, the 2x2 polarisation matrix can be replaced by the scalar
{width="0.6625in" height="0.24444444444444444in"} and only vertically
polarised field patterns are applied.
The Doppler frequency component depends on the arrival angles (AOA, ZOA), and
the UT velocity vector {width="0.12777777777777777in"
height="0.17430555555555555in"}with speed _v_ , travel azimuth angle _ϕ~v~_ ,
elevation angle _θ~v~_ and is given by
(7.5-25)
_For the two strongest clusters_ , say _n_ = 1 and 2, rays are spread in delay
to three sub-clusters (per cluster), with fixed delay offset. The delays of
the sub-clusters are
{width="1.3020833333333333in" height="0.7909722222222222in"} (7.5-26)
where {width="0.25555555555555554in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} is
cluster delay spread specified in Table 7.5-6. When intra-cluster delay spread
is unspecified (i.e., N/A) the value 3.91 ns is used; it is noted that this
value results in the legacy behaviour with 5 and 10 ns sub-cluster delays.
Twenty rays of a cluster are mapped to sub-clusters as presented in Table
7.5-5 below. The corresponding offset angles are taken from Table 7.5-3 with
mapping of Table 7.5-5.
Table 7.5-5: Sub-cluster information for intra cluster delay spread clusters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | sub-cluster # | mapping to | Power | delay offset | | | rays | | | | {w | {width="0.5in" | width="0.52291 | | 55555556e-2in" | idth="0.186111 | he | 66666666667in" | | hei | 11111111112in" | ight="0.279166 | he | | ght="0.1861111 | hei | 6666666667in"} | ight="0.267361 | | 1111111112in"} | ght="0.2555555 | | 1111111111in"} | | | 5555555554in"} | | | +================+================+================+================+ | { | | | | width="0.31388 | width="1.75555 | | | | 88888888889in" | 55555555555in" | | | | hei | he | | | | ght="0.1979166 | ight="0.232638 | | | | 6666666666in"} | 8888888889in"} | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | { | | {w | | 11111111111in" | 55555555556in" | | idth="0.255555 | | hei | he | | 55555555554in" | | ght="0.1979166 | ight="0.232638 | | hei | | 6666666666in"} | 8888888889in"} | | ght="0.2555555 | | | | | 5555555554in"} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | { | | {w | | 11111111111in" | 66666666667in" | | idth="0.255555 | | hei | hei | | 55555555554in" | | ght="0.1979166 | ght="0.2555555 | | hei | | 6666666666in"} | 5555555554in"} | | ght="0.2555555 | | | | | 5555555554in"} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Then, the channel impulse response is given by:
{width="4.372222222222222in" height="0.5in"} (7.5-27)
where {width="0.6513888888888889in" height="0.2791666666666667in"} is given in
(7.5-22) and {width="0.6979166666666666in" height="0.2791666666666667in"}
defined as:
(7.5-28)
_In the LOS case,_ determine the LOS channel coefficient by:
(7.5-29)
where _δ_(**^.^**) is the Dirac\'s delta function and _K~R~_ is the Ricean
K-factor as generated in Step 4 converted to linear scale.
Then, the channel impulse response is given by adding the LOS channel
coefficient to the NLOS channel impulse response and scaling both terms
according to the desired K-factor {width="0.25555555555555554in"
height="0.2326388888888889in"} as
{width="4.022916666666666in" height="0.5229166666666667in"}. (7.5-30)
[Step 12]{.underline}: Apply pathloss and shadowing for the channel
coefficients.
Table 7.5-6 Part-1: Channel model parameters for UMi-Street Canyon and UMa
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Scen | UMi - | UMa | | | | | | | arios | S | | | | | | | | | treet | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | anyon | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | LOS | NLOS | O2I | LOS | NLOS | O2I | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Delay | _μ_ ~ | -0.24 | -0.24 | -6.62 | - | -6.28 | -6.62 | | s | lgDS~ | log~1 | log~1 | | 6.955 | - | | | pread | | 0~(1+ | 0~(1+ | | - | 0.204 | | | (DS) | | _f |_ f | | 0 | log~1 | | | | | ~c~_) | ~c~_) | | .0963 | 0~(_f | | | lgDS | | - | - | | log~1 | ~c~_) | | | =log~ | | 7.14 | 6.83 | | 0~(_f | | | | 10~(D | | | | | ~c~_) | | | | S/1s) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~ | 0.38 | 0.16 | 0.32 | 0.66 | 0.39 | 0.32 | | | lgDS~ | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(1+ | | | | | | | | | _f | | | | | | | | | ~c~_) | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | 0.28 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | AOD | _μ_ ~l | -0.05 | -0.23 | 1.25 | 1.06 | 1.5 - | 1.25 | | s | gASD~ | log~1 | log~1 | | + | 0 | | | pread | | 0~(1+ | 0~(1+ | | 0 | .1144 | | | (ASD) | | _f |_ f | | .1114 | log~1 | | | | | ~c~_) | ~c~_) | | log~1 | 0~(_f | | | l | | + | + | | 0~(_ f | ~c~_) | | | gASD= | | 1.21 | 1.53 | | ~c~_) | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(AS | | | | | | | | | D/1°) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~l | 0.41 | 0.11 | 0.42 | 0.28 | 0.28 | 0.42 | | | gASD~ | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(1+ | | | | | | | | | _f | | | | | | | | | ~c~_) | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | 0.33 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | AOA | _μ_ ~l | -0.08 | -0.08 | 1.76 | 1.81 | 2.08 | 1.76 | | s | gASA~ | log~1 | log~1 | | | - | | | pread | | 0~(1+ | 0~(1+ | | | 0.27 | | | (ASA) | | _f |_ f | | | log~1 | | | | | ~c~_) | ~c~_) | | | 0~(_f | | | l | | + | + | | | ~c~_) | | | gASA= | | 1.73 | 1.81 | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(AS | | | | | | | | | A/1°) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~l | 0.014 | 0.05 | 0.16 | 0.20 | 0.11 | 0.16 | | | gASA~ | log~1 | log~1 | | | | | | | | 0~(1+ | 0~(1+ | | | | | | | | _f |_ f | | | | | | | | ~c~_) | ~c~_) | | | | | | | | + | + 0.3 | | | | | | | | 0.28 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ZOA | _μ_ ~l | -0.1 | -0.04 | 1.01 | 0.95 | -0 | 1.01 | | s | gZSA~ | log~1 | log~1 | | | .3236 | | | pread | | 0~(1+ | 0~(1+ | | | log~1 | | | (ZSA) | | _f |_ f | | | 0~(_f | | | | | ~c~_) | ~c~_) | | | ~c~_) | | | l | | + | + | | | + | | | gZSA= | | 0.73 | 0.92 | | | 1.512 | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(ZS | | | | | | | | | A/1°) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _σ_ ~l | -0.04 | -0.07 | 0.43 | 0.16 | 0.16 | 0.43 | | | gZSA~ | log~1 | log~1 | | | | | | | | 0~(1+ | 0~(1+ | | | | | | | | _f |_ f | | | | | | | | ~c~_) | ~c~_) | | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | | 0.34 | 0.41 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | S | _σ | See | See | 7 | See | See | 7 | | hadow | ~SF~_ | Table | Table | | Table | Table | | | f | | 7. | 7. | | 7. | 7. | | | ading | | 4.1-1 | 4.1-1 | | 4.1-1 | 4.1-1 | | | ( | | | | | | | | | _SF_) | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | K-f | * | 9 | N/A | N/A | 9 | N/A | N/A | | actor | μ~K~_| | | | | | | | (_ K _) | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | 5 | N/A | N/A | 3.5 | N/A | N/A | | | σ~K~_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cro | _ASD_ | 0.5 | 0 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.4 | | ss-Co | vs | | | | | | | | rrela | _DS_ | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | 0.8 | 0.4 | 0.4 | 0.8 | 0.6 | 0.4 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | -0.4 | -0.4 | 0 | -0.5 | 0 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | -0.5 | 0 | 0.2 | -0.5 | -0.6 | 0.2 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _DS_ | -0.4 | -0.7 | -0.5 | -0.4 | -0.4 | -0.5 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | 0.4 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0.4 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASD_ | -0.2 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _Κ_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ASA_ | -0.3 | N/A | N/A | -0.2 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _Κ_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _DS_ | -0.7 | N/A | N/A | -0.4 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _Κ_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _SF_ | 0.5 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _Κ_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cro | _ZSD_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | ss-Co | vs | | | | | | | | rrela | _SF_ | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | ^1)^ | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | -0.8 | -0.4 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | N/A | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _K_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | -0.5 | -0.6 | -0.2 | -0.5 | -0.6 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0.2 | 0 | -0.2 | 0 | 0 | -0.2 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0.5 | 0.5 | -0.2 | 0.5 | 0.5 | -0.2 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0.3 | 0.5 | 0 | 0 | -0.1 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | -0.3 | 0 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0 | 0.2 | 0.5 | 0.4 | 0 | 0.5 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | 0 | 0.5 | 0 | 0 | 0.5 | | | vs | | | | | | | | | _ZSA_ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Delay | 3 | 2.1 | 2.2 | 2.5 | 2.3 | 2.2 | | | sc | | | | | | | | | aling | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | * | | | | | | | | | r~τ~_| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | XPR |_ μ _| 9 | 8.0 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 9 | | \ | ~XPR~ | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ σ _| 3 | 3 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 5 | | | ~XPR~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 12 | 19 | 12 | 12 | 20 | 12 | | | umber | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | clu | | | | | | | | | sters | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | N | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | umber | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | rays | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 5 | 11 | 11 | max( | max( | 11 | | | uster | | | | 0.25, | 0.25, | | | |_ DS _| | | | 6 | 6 | | | | () in | | | | .5622 | .5622 | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [ns] | | | | -3 | -3 | | | | | | | | .4084 | .4084 | | | | | | | | l | l | | | | | | | | og~10 | og~10 | | | | | | | | ~(_ f _| ~(_ f _| | | | | | | | ~c~)) | ~c~)) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 3 | 10 | 5 | 5 | 2 | 5 | | | uster | | | | | | | | |_ ASD _| | | | | | | | | () in | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | deg] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 17 | 22 | 8 | 11 | 15 | 8 | | | uster | | | | | | | | |_ ASA _| | | | | | | | | () in | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | deg] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cl | 7 | 7 | 3 | 7 | 7 | 3 | | | uster | | | | | | | | |_ ZSA _| | | | | | | | | () in | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | deg] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Per | 3 | 3 | 4 | 3 | 3 | 4 | | | cl | | | | | | | | | uster | | | | | | | | | shad | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | std ζ | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | C |_ DS _| 7 | 10 | 10 | 30 | 40 | 10 | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | horiz | | | | | | | | | ontal | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ASD _| 8 | 10 | 11 | 18 | 50 | 11 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ASA _| 8 | 9 | 17 | 15 | 50 | 17 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ SF _| 10 | 13 | 7 | 37 | 50 | 7 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ Κ _| 15 | N/A | N/A | 12 | N/A | N/A | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ZSA _| 12 | 10 | 25 | 15 | 50 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |_ ZSD _| 12 | 10 | 25 | 15 | 50 | 25 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | | | | | | f~c~_ | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | GHz; | | | | | | | | | _d | | | | | | | | |_ ~2D~ | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | BS-UT | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tance | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | km. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | _DS_ | | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | read, | | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | az | | | | | | | | | imuth | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | depa | | | | | | | | | rture | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | az | | | | | | | | | imuth | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | | _ZSD_ | | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | z | | | | | | | | | enith | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | depa | | | | | | | | | rture | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | | _ZSA_ | | | | | | | | | = rms | | | | | | | | | z | | | | | | | | | enith | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pread | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | rival | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | gles, | | | | | | | | | _SF_ | | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hadow | | | | | | | | | fa | | | | | | | | | ding, | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | _K_ = | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | icean | | | | | | | | | K-fa | | | | | | | | | ctor. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hadow | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | itive | | | | | | | | | SF | | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | eived | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | at UT | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | pred | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | odel. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | | | large | | | | | | | | | scale | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | orrel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | fl | | | | | | | | | oors. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | | (_μ_ ~ | | | | | | | | | lgX~= | | | | | | | | | mean{ | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(X) | | | | | | | | | }) | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | (_σ_ | | | | | | | | | ~lgX~ | | | | | | | | | =std{ | | | | | | | | | log~1 | | | | | | | | | 0~(X) | | | | | | | | | }) is | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | arith | | | | | | | | | mized | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | X. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | consi | | | | | | | | | dered | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | AO | | | | | | | | | D/AOA | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | elled | | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | | wr | | | | | | | | | apped | | | | | | | | | Gau | | | | | | | | | ssian | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ZO | | | | | | | | | D/ZOA | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | elled | | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | | Lapl | | | | | | | | | acian | | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | | strib | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | mod | | | | | | | | | elled | | | | | | | | | by an | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xpone | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | | | tribu | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | UMa | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | reque | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | GHz, | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | _f~c | | | | | | | | | \ ~_ = | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | eterm | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | -depe | | | | | | | | | ndent | | | | | | | | | LSP | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | UMi | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | reque | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | GHz, | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | _f~c | | | | | | | | | \ ~_ = | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | eterm | | | | | | | | | ining | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | -depe | | | | | | | | | ndent | | | | | | | | | LSP | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.5-6 Part-2: Channel model parameters for RMa (up to 7GHz) and Indoor-
Office
+---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Sc | RMa | Indoor | | | | | | enarios | | -Office | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=======+=========+=========+=========+ | | LOS | NLOS | O2I | LOS | NLOS | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Delay | _μ | -7.49 | -7.43 | -7.47 | -0.01 | -0.28 | | spread |_ ~lgDS~ | | | | log | log | | (DS) | | | | | ~10~(1+ | ~10~(1+ | | | | | | | _f~c~_) | _f~c~_) | | lgDS= | | | | | - 7.692 | - 7.173 | | log~10~ | | | | | | | | (DS/1s) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _σ | 0.55 | 0.48 | 0.24 | 0.18 | 0.10 | | |_ ~lgDS~ | | | | | log | | | | | | | | ~10~(1+ | | | | | | | | _f~c~_) | | | | | | | | + 0.055 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | AOD | _μ_ | 0.90 | 0.95 | 0.67 | 1.60 | 1.62 | | spread | ~lgASD~ | | | | | | | (ASD) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | lgASD=l | | | | | | | | og~10~( | | | | | | | | ASD/1°) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _σ_ | 0.38 | 0.45 | 0.18 | 0.18 | 0.25 | | | ~lgASD~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | AOA | _μ_ | 1.52 | 1.52 | 1.66 | -0.19 | -0.11 | | spread | ~lgASA~ | | | | log | log | | (ASA) | | | | | ~10~(1+ | ~10~(1+ | | | | | | | _f~c~_) | _f~c~_) | | lgASA=l | | | | | + 1.781 | + 1.863 | | og~10~( | | | | | | | | ASA/1°) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _σ_ | 0.24 | 0.13 | 0.21 | 0.12 | 0.12 | | | ~lgASA~ | | | | log | log | | | | | | | ~10~(1+ | ~10~(1+ | | | | | | | _f~c~_) | _f~c~_) | | | | | | | + 0.119 | + 0.059 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | ZOA | _μ_ | 0.47 | 0.58 | 0.93 | -0.26 | -0.15 | | spread | ~lgZSA~ | | | | log | log | | (ZSA) | | | | | ~10~(1+ | ~10~(1+ | | | | | | | _f~c~_) | _f~c~_) | | lgZSA=l | | | | | + 1.44 | + 1.387 | | og~10~( | | | | | | | | ZSA/1°) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _σ_ | 0.40 | 0.37 | 0.22 | -0.04 | -0.09 | | | ~lgZSA~ | | | | log | log | | | | | | | ~10~(1+ | ~10~(1+ | | | | | | | _f~c~_) | _f~c~_) | | | | | | | + 0.264 | + 0.746 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Shadow | _σ~SF~_ | See | 8 | See | | | | fading | | Table | | Table | | | | (SF) | | 7.4.1-1 | | 7.4.1-1 | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | K | _μ~K~_ | 7 | N/A | N/A | **7** | N/A | | -factor | | | | | | | | (_K_) | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _σ~K~_ | 4 | N/A | N/A | 4 | N/A | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cros | _ASD_ | 0 | -0.4 | 0 | 0.6 | 0.4 | | s-Corre | vs _DS_ | | | | | | | lations | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASA_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0.8 | 0 | | | vs _DS_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASA_ | 0 | 0 | 0 | --0.5 | --0.4 | | | vs _SF_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASD_ | 0 | 0.6 | 0 | --0.4 | 0 | | | vs _SF_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _DS_ vs | -0.5 | -0.5 | 0 | --0.8 | --0.5 | | | _SF_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASD_ | 0 | 0 | -0.7 | 0.4 | 0 | | | vs | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASD_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | | | vs _Κ_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASA_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | | | vs _Κ_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _DS_ vs | 0 | N/A | N/A | -0.5 | N/A | | | _Κ_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _SF_ vs | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0.5 | N/A | | | _Κ_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cros | _ZSD_ | 0.01 | -0.04 | 0 | 0.2 | 0 | | s-Corre | vs _SF_ | | | | | | | lations | | | | | | | | ^1)^ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSA_ | -0.17 | -0.25 | 0 | 0.3 | 0 | | | vs _SF_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0 | N/A | N/A | 0 | N/A | | | vs _K_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSA_ | -0.02 | N/A | N/A | 0.1 | N/A | | | vs _K_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSD_ | -0.05 | -0.10 | 0 | 0.1 | -0.27 | | | vs _DS_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0.27 | -0.40 | 0 | 0.2 | -0.06 | | | vs _DS_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSD_ | 0.73 | 0.42 | 0.66 | 0.5 | 0.35 | | | vs | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSA_ | -0.14 | -0.27 | 0.47 | 0 | 0.23 | | | vs | | | | | | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSD_ | -0.20 | -0.18 | -0.55 | 0 | -0.08 | | | vs | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSA_ | 0.24 | 0.26 | -0.22 | 0.5 | 0.43 | | | vs | | | | | | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSD_ | -0.07 | -0.27 | 0 | 0 | 0.42 | | | vs | | | | | | | | _ZSA_ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Delay | 3.8 | 1.7 | 1.7 | 3.6 | 3 | | | scaling | | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | | rameter | | | | | | | | _r~τ~_ | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | XPR | * | 12 | 7 | 7 | 11 | 10 | | [dB] | μ _~XPR~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | * | 4 | 3 | 3 | 4 | 4 | | | σ_ ~XPR~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | 11 | 10 | 10 | 15 | 19 | | | of | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | lusters | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | 20 | | | of rays | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | cluster | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cluster | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | | | _DS_ () | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | [ns] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cluster | 2 | 2 | 2 | 5 | 5 | | | _ASD_ | | | | | | | | () in | | | | | | | | [deg] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cluster | 3 | 3 | 3 | 8 | 11 | | | _ASA_ | | | | | | | | () in | | | | | | | | [deg] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cluster | 3 | 3 | 3 | 9 | 9 | | | _ZSA_ | | | | | | | | () in | | | | | | | | [deg] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Per | 3 | 3 | 3 | 6 | 3 | | | cluster | | | | | | | | sh | | | | | | | | adowing | | | | | | | | std ζ | | | | | | | | [dB] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | Corr | _DS_ | 50 | 36 | 36 | 8 | 5 | | elation | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | istance | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | hor | | | | | | | | izontal | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | [m] | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASD_ | 25 | 30 | 30 | 7 | 3 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ASA_ | 35 | 40 | 40 | 5 | 3 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _SF_ | 37 | 120 | 120 | 10 | 6 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _Κ_ | 40 | N/A | N/A | 4 | N/A | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSA_ | 15 | 50 | 50 | 4 | 4 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | | _ZSD_ | 15 | 50 | 50 | 4 | 4 | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+ | _f~c~_ | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | in GHz; | | | | | | | | _d_ ~2D~ | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | BS-UT | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | istance | | | | | | | | in km. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | _DS_ = | | | | | | | | rms | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | spread, | | | | | | | | _ASD_ = | | | | | | | | rms | | | | | | | | azimuth | | | | | | | | spread | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | parture | | | | | | | | angles, | | | | | | | | _ASA_ = | | | | | | | | rms | | | | | | | | azimuth | | | | | | | | spread | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | arrival | | | | | | | | angles, | | | | | | | | _ZSD_ = | | | | | | | | rms | | | | | | | | zenith | | | | | | | | spread | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | parture | | | | | | | | angles, | | | | | | | | _ZSA_ = | | | | | | | | rms | | | | | | | | zenith | | | | | | | | spread | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | arrival | | | | | | | | angles, | | | | | | | | _SF_ = | | | | | | | | shadow | | | | | | | | fading, | | | | | | | | and _K_ | | | | | | | | = | | | | | | | | Ricean | | | | | | | | K- | | | | | | | | factor. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | sign of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | shadow | | | | | | | | fading | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | so that | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | ositive | | | | | | | | SF | | | | | | | | means | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceived | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | at UT | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | edicted | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | path | | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | llowing | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | otation | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | mean | | | | | | | | (_μ_ | | | | | | | | ~lgX~=m | | | | | | | | ean{log | | | | | | | | ~10~(X) | | | | | | | | }) and | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | tandard | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | viation | | | | | | | | (_σ | | | | | | | |_ ~lgX~= | | | | | | | | std{log | | | | | | | | ~10~(X) | | | | | | | | }) is | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | logari | | | | | | | | thmized | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | X. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | Void. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | | For all | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | sidered | | | | | | | | sc | | | | | | | | enarios | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | AOD/AOA | | | | | | | | distri | | | | | | | | butions | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odelled | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | wrapped | | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | | aussian | | | | | | | | distri | | | | | | | | bution, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | ZOD/ZOA | | | | | | | | distri | | | | | | | | butions | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odelled | | | | | | | | by a | | | | | | | | La | | | | | | | | placian | | | | | | | | distr | | | | | | | | ibution | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | distr | | | | | | | | ibution | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odelled | | | | | | | | by an | | | | | | | | expo | | | | | | | | nential | | | | | | | | distri | | | | | | | | bution. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | For InH | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | below 6 | | | | | | | | GHz, | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | _f | | | | | | | | ~c\ ~_ = | | | | | | | | 6 when | | | | | | | | dete | | | | | | | | rmining | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | frequ | | | | | | | | ency-de | | | | | | | | pendent | | | | | | | | LSP | | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 7.5-6 Part-3: Channel model parameters for InF
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenarios | InF | | | +================+================+================+================+ | | LOS | NLOS | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Delay spread | _μ_ ~lgDS~ | log~10~(26 | log~10~(30 | | (DS) | | (V/S)+14)-9.35 | (V/S)+32)-9.44 | | | | | | | lgDS= | | | | | log~10~(DS/1s) | | | | | ^4)^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgDS~ | 0.15 | 0.19 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AOD spread | _μ_ ~lgASD~ | 1.56 | 1.57 | | (ASD) | | | | | | | | | | lgASD=l | | | | | og~10~(ASD/1°) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgASD~ | 0.25 | 0.2 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AOA spread | _μ_ ~lgASA~ | **-** 0.1 | 1.72 | | (ASA) | | 8*log10(1+fc) | | | | | + 1.78 | | | lgASA=l | | | | | og~10~(ASA/1°) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgASA~ | 0.1 | 0.3 | | | | 2*log10(1+fc) | | | | | + 0.2 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZOA spread | _μ_ ~lgZSA~ | -0. | -0.1 | | (ZSA) | | 2*log10(1+fc) | 3*log10(1+fc) | | | | + 1.5 | + 1.45 | | lgZSA=l | | | | | og~10~(ZSA/1°) | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSA~ | 0.35 | 0.45 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Shadow fading | _σ~SF~_ | Specified as | | | (SF) [dB] | | part of path | | | | | loss models | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | K-factor (_K_) | _μ~K~_ | 7 | N/A | | [dB] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ~K~_ | 8 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cros | _ASD_ vs _DS_ | 0 | 0 | | s-Correlations | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASA_ vs _DS_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASA_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASD_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _DS_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASD_ vs _ASA_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASD_ vs _Κ_ | -0.5 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASA_ vs _Κ_ | 0 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _DS_ vs _Κ_ | -0.7 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _SF_ vs _Κ_ | 0 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cros | _ZSD_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0 | | s-Correlations | | | | | ^1)^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _SF_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _K_ | 0 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _DS_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _DS_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _ASD_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _ASD_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _ASA_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSA_ vs _ASA_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSD_ vs _ZSA_ | 0 | 0 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Delay scaling | 2.7 | 3 | | | parameter | | | | | _r~τ~_ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | XPR [dB] | _μ_ ~XPR~ | 12 | 11 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~XPR~ | 6 | 6 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of | 25 | 25 | | | clusters | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Number of rays | 20 | 20 | | | per cluster | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cluster _DS_ | N/A | N/A | | | () in [ns] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cluster _ASD_ | 5 | 5 | | | () in [deg] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cluster _ASA_ | 8 | 8 | | | () in [deg] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cluster _ZSA_ | 9 | 9 | | | () in [deg] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Per cluster | 4 | 3 | | | shadowing std | | | | | ζ [dB] | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Correlation | _DS_ | 10 | 10 | | distance in | | | | | the horizontal | | | | | plane [m] | | | | | ^5)^ | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASD_ | 10 | 10 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ASA_ | 10 | 10 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _SF_ | 10 | 10 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _Κ_ | 10 | N/A | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSA_ | 10 | 10 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _ZSD_ | 10 | 10 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _f~c~_ is | | | | | carrier | | | | | frequency in | | | | | GHz; _d_ ~2D~ | | | | | is BS-UT | | | | | distance in | | | | | km. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: _DS_ = | | | | | rms delay | | | | | spread, _ASD_ | | | | | = rms azimuth | | | | | spread of | | | | | departure | | | | | angles, _ASA_ | | | | | = rms azimuth | | | | | spread of | | | | | arrival | | | | | angles, _ZSD_ | | | | | = rms zenith | | | | | spread of | | | | | departure | | | | | angles, _ZSA_ | | | | | = rms zenith | | | | | spread of | | | | | arrival | | | | | angles, _SF_ = | | | | | shadow fading, | | | | | and _K_ = | | | | | Ricean | | | | | K-factor. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | sign of the | | | | | shadow fading | | | | | is defined so | | | | | that positive | | | | | SF means more | | | | | received power | | | | | at UT than | | | | | predicted by | | | | | the path loss | | | | | model. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | following | | | | | notation for | | | | | mean | | | | | (_μ_ ~lgX~=m | | | | | ean{log~10~(X) | | | | | }) and | | | | | standard | | | | | deviation | | | | | (_σ_ ~lgX~= | | | | | std{log~10~(X) | | | | | }) is used for | | | | | logarithmized | | | | | parameters X. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: V = | | | | | hall volume in | | | | | m^3^, S = | | | | | total surface | | | | | area of hall | | | | | in m^2^ | | | | | (walls+ | | | | | floor+ceiling) | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: When | | | | | the simulation | | | | | scenario is | | | | | small it is | | | | | recommended to | | | | | consider | | | | | methods to | | | | | improve the | | | | | statistical | | | | | confidence, | | | | | such as using | | | | | multiple | | | | | random seeds | | | | | in | | | | | simulations. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.5-7: ZSD and ZOD offset parameters for UMa
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenarios | LOS | NLOS | | +================+================+================+================+ | ZOD spread | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | max[-0.5, | max[-0.5, | | (ZSD) | | -2.1 | -2.1 | | | | (_d~2D~_ /1000) | (_d~2D~_ /1000) | | lgZSD=l | | | | | og~10~(ZSD/1°) | | -0.01 | > -0 | | | | (_h~UT\ ~_ \- | .01(_h~UT\ ~_ \- | | | | 1.5)+0.75] | > 1.5)+0.9] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.40 | 0.49 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZOD offset | * | 0 | _e_(_f~c~_)-10 | | | µ~offset,ZOD~_| | \^{_ a _(_ f~c~_) | | | | | log~10~(ma | | | | | x(_ b _(_ f~c~_), | | | | |_ d~2D~_)) | | | | | | | | | | +_ c _(_ f~c~_) | | | | | -0.07 | | | | | (_ h~UT~_-1.5)} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note: For NLOS | | | | | ZOD offset: | | | | | | | | | |_ a _(_ f~c~_) = | | | | | 0.208lo | | | | | g~10~(_ f~c~_)- | | | | | 0.782; | | | | | | | | | |_ b _(_ f~c~_) = | | | | | 25; | | | | | | | | | |_ c _(_ f~c~_) = | | | | | -0.13log~10~ | | | | | (_ f~c~_)+2.03; | | | | | | | | | |_ e _(_ f~c~_) = | | | | | 7.66log~10~ | | | | | (_ f~c~*)-5.96. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.5-8: ZSD and ZOD offset parameters for UMi -- Street Canyon
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenarios | LOS | NLOS | | +================+================+================+================+ | ZOD spread | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | max[-0.21, | max[-0.5, | | (ZSD) | | -14.8 | -3.1 | | | | (_d_ ~2D~/1000) | (_d_ ~2D~/1000) | | lgZSD=l | | | | | og~10~(ZSD/1°) | | + | + | | | | 0.01\|_h_ | 0.01 max(_h_ ~ | | | | ~UT~-_h_ ~BS~\| | UT~-_h_ ~BS~,0) | | | | + 0.83] | +0.2] | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.35 | 0.35 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ZOD offset | * | 0 | -10\^{-1.5l | | | µ _~offset,ZOD~ | | og~10~(max(10, | | | | |_ d~2D~*))+3.3} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 7.5-9: ZSD and ZOD offset parameters for RMa
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ** | **LOS** | **NLOS** | **O2I** | | | Scenarios __| | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | ZOD spread |_ μ_~lgZSD~ | max[-1, | max[-1, | max[-1, | | (ZSD) | | -0.17(_d | -0.19(_ d | -0.19(_d | | | |_ ~2D~/1000) | _~2D~/1000) |_ ~2D~/1000) | | lgZSD=log~ | | | | | | 10~(ZSD/1°) | | -0 | -0 | -0 | | | | .01(_h_ ~UT~ | .01(_h_ ~UT~ | .01(_h_ ~UT~ | | | | - 1.5) + | - 1.5) + | - 1.5) + | | | | 0.22] | 0.28] | 0.28] | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.34 | 0.30 | 0.30 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ZOD offset | _µ_ ~ | 0 | arctan((35 | arctan((35 | | | offset,ZOD~ | | - | - | | | | | 3. | 3. | | | | | 5)/_d~2D~_) | 5)/_d~2D~_) | | | | | | | | | | | -arctan((35 | -arctan((35 | | | | | - | - | | | | | 1. | 1. | | | | | 5)/_d~2D~_) | 5)/_d~2D~_) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 7.5-10: ZSD and ZOD offset parameters for Indoor-Office
+-----------------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+------+ | Scenarios | LOS | NLOS | | +=======================+=================+================================+======+ | ZOD spread (ZSD) | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | -1.43 log~10~(1+ _f~c~_)+2.228 | 1.08 | | | | | | | lgZSD=log~10~(ZSD/1°) | | | | +-----------------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.13 log~10~(1+_f~c~_)+0.30 | 0.36 | +-----------------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+------+ | ZOD offset | _µ_ ~offset,ZOD~ | 0 | 0 | +-----------------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+------+
Table 7.5-11: ZSD and ZOD offset parameters for InF
+-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | Scenarios | LOS | NLOS | | +=======================+=================+======+======+ | ZOD spread (ZSD) | _μ_ ~lgZSD~ | 1.35 | 1.2 | | | | | | | lgZSD=log~10~(ZSD/1°) | | | | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | | _σ_ ~lgZSD~ | 0.35 | 0.55 | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+ | ZOD offset | _µ_ ~offset,ZOD~ | 0 | 0 | +-----------------------+-----------------+------+------+
Notes for Tables 7.5-7, 7.5-8, 7.5-9, 7.5-10, 7.5-11:
NOTE 1: _f~c~_ is center frequency in GHz; _d_ ~2D~ is BS-UT distance in m.
NOTE 2: _h_ ~BS~ and _h_ ~UT~ are antenna heights in m for BS and UT
**respectively.**
NOTE 3: The following notation for mean (_μ_ ~lgX~=mean{log~10~(X) }) and
standard deviation (_σ_ ~lgX~=std{log~10~(X) }) is used for logarithmized
parameters X**.**
NOTE 4: For frequencies below 6 GHz, use _f~c\ ~_ = 6 when determining the
values of the frequency-dependent ZSD and ZOD offset parameters in Table 7.5-7
and 7.5-10
NOTE 5: The ZSD parameters for O2I links are the same parameters that are used
for outdoor links, depending on the LOS condition of the outdoor link part in
Tables 7.5-7 and 7.5-8.
## 7.6 Additional modelling components
The additional modelling components in this clause are to support advanced
simulations, such as simulations with very large arrays and large bandwidth,
simulations affected by oxygen absorption (frequencies between 53 and 67 GHz),
simulations in which spatial consistency is important (e.g. high number of
closely located user), simulations of mobility, simulations of blockage
effects, simulations of absolute time of arrival, simulations of dual
mobility, simulations that include sources of EM interference, and simulations
of devices embedded in machinery or enclosures. These modelling components
affect some of the steps between Step 1 and Step 12 in Clause 7.5.
These extensions are computationally more expensive and might not be required
in all evaluation cases.
### 7.6.1 Oxygen absorption
Oxygen absorption loss is applied to the cluster responses generated in Step
11 in Clause 7.5. The additional loss, OL _~n~_(_f~c~_) for cluster _n_ at
centre frequency _f~c~_ is modelled as:
[dB] (7.6-1)
where:
_\- α_(_f~c~_) is frequency dependent oxygen loss [dB/km] characterized in
Table 7.6.1-1;
\- _c_ is the speed of light [m/s]; and _d_ ~3D~ is the distance [m];
_\- τ~n~_ is the _n_ -th cluster delay [s] in Step 11 in Clause 7.5;
_\- τ_ ~Δ~ is 0 in the LOS case and min() otherwise, where min() is the
minimum delay in Step 5.
For centre frequencies not specified in this table, the frequency dependent
oxygen loss _α_(_f~c~_) is obtained from a linear interpolation between two
loss values corresponding to the two adjacent centre frequencies of the centre
frequency _f~c~_.
Table 7.6.1-1 Frequency dependent oxygen loss _α_(_f_) [dB/km]
**f in [GHz]** 0-52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68-100
* * *
**α(f) in [dB/km]** **0** 1 2.2 4 6.6 9.7 12.6 14.6 15 14.6 14.3 10.5 6.8 3.9
1.9 1 **0**
For large channel bandwidth, first transform the time-domain channel response
of each cluster (all rays within one cluster share common oxygen absorption
loss for simplicity) into frequency-domain channel response, and apply the
oxygen absorption loss to the cluster\'s frequency-domain channel response for
frequency _f~c~_ \+ Δ _f_ within the considered bandwidth. The oxygen loss, OL
_~n~_(_f~c~_ \+ Δ _f_) for cluster _n_ at frequency _f~c~_ \+ Δ _f_ is
modelled as:
[dB] (7.6-2)
where:
_\- α_(_f~c~_ \+ Δ _f_) is the oxygen loss (dB/km) at frequency _f~c~_ \+ Δ
_f_ characterized in Table 7.6.1-1. Note that Δ _f_ is in [-B/2, B/2], where B
is the bandwidth. Linear interpolation is applied for frequencies not provided
in Table 7.6.1-1.
The final frequency-domain channel response is obtained by the summation of
frequency-domain channel responses of all clusters.
Time-domain channel response is obtained by the reverse transform from the
obtained frequency-domain channel response.
### 7.6.2 Large bandwidth and large antenna array
#### 7.6.2.1 Modelling of the propagation delay
The modelling in this clause applies only when the bandwidth _B_ is greater
than _c/D_ Hz, where
_\- D_ is the maximum antenna aperture in either azimuth or elevation (m)
_\- c_ is the speed of light (m/s)
Each ray within a cluster for a given _u_ (Rx) and _s_ (Tx) has unique time of
arrival (TOA). The channel coefficient generation step (Step 11 in Clause 7.5)
is updated to model individual rays. In this case, the channel response of ray
_m_ in cluster _n_ for a link between Rx antenna _u_ and Tx antenna _s_ at
delay at time _t_ is given by:
(7.6-3)
with is the wavelength on frequency _, which can be implemented by user\'s own
method._ The delay (TOA) for ray _m_ in cluster _n_ for a link between Rx
antenna _u_ and Tx antenna _s_ is given by:
(7.6-4)
Note that Equation (7.6-3) only considers the delays intentionally. _If
unequal ray powers are considered,_ _are generated according to Clause
7.6.2.2. Otherwise, ray powers are equal within a cluster, i.e.,_ _for all m._
Note: this model is developed assuming plane wave propagation.
#### 7.6.2.2 Modelling of intra-cluster angular and delay spreads
With large antenna arrays or large bandwidths, the angle and/or delay
resolution can be larger than what the fast fading model in Clause 7.5 is
designed to support. To model this effect, the following modifications to Step
7 in Clause 7.5 can be optionally used.
[1. The offset angles _α~m~_]{.underline} in (7.5-13), (7.5-18) and (7.5-20)
are generated independently per cluster and ray using:
(7.6-5)
where denotes the continuous uniform distribution in the interval . These
random variables may further be modelled as spatially consistent with
correlation distance equal to the cluster-specific random variable correlation
distance of Table 7.6.3.1-2.
[2. The relative delay of _m_ -th ray]{.underline} is given by , where _n_ is
the cluster index, , the cluster DS is given in Table 7.5-6. These random
variables may further be modelled as spatially consistent with correlation
distance equal to the cluster-specific random variable correlation distance of
Table 7.6.3.1-2. In this case, the sub-cluster mapping according to (7.5-26)
and Table 7.5-5 shall not be applied. The delays to be used in Equation
(7.6-3) are given by .
[3. Ray powers]{.underline} are determined unequally by the following process:
The power of _m_ -th ray in _n_ -th cluster is given by for _m_ = 1,...,_M_ ,
where
(7.6-6)
and , , , and are respectively the intra-cluster delay spread and the
corresponding intra-cluster angular spread that are given in Table 7.5-6. The
cluster zenith spread of departure is given by
, (7.6-7)
with being defined in Tables 7.5-7, 7.5-8, 7.5-9, 7.5-10 and 7.5-11.
4\. The number of rays per cluster shall be calculated as follows:
(7.6-8)
where:
-
-
-
\- is the upper limit of , and it should be selected by the user of channel
model based on the trade-off between simulation complexity and accuracy.
\- and are the array size in m in horizontal and vertical dimension, _B_ is
bandwidth in Hz, and are the cluster spreads in degrees, and is the
wavelength.
\- is a \"sparseness\" parameter with value 0.5.
It is noted that each MPC may have different AOD, ZOD, and delay.
### 7.6.3 Spatial consistency
#### 7.6.3.1 Spatial consistency procedure
A new procedure, namely _a_ _spatial consistency procedure_ , can be used for
both cluster-specific and ray-specific random variables to be generated in
various channel generation steps in Clause 7.5, so that they are spatially
consistent for drop-based simulations. Alternatively, this can be used
together with Procedure B described in Clause 7.6.3.2 for spatially consistent
mobility simulations.
The procedure can be considered as a 2D random process (in the horizontal
plane) given the UT locations based on the parameter-specific correlation
distance values for spatial consistency, specified in Table 7.6.3.1-2. The
cluster specific random variables include:
\- Cluster specific random delay in Step 5;
\- Cluster specific shadowing in Step 6; and
\- Cluster specific offset for AOD/AOA/ZOD/ZOA in Step 7.
\- Cluster specific sign for AOD/AOA/ZOD/ZOA in Step 7.
\- Optionally in case of large bandwidth as described in Clause 7.6.2.2 the
procedure may apply as well for the parameters of rays within a cluster.
The procedure shall apply to each cluster before sorting the delay. Cluster
specific sign for AOD/AOA/ZOD/ZOA in Step 7 shall be kept unchanged per
simulation drop even if UT position changes during simulation. The ray
specific random variables include:
\- Random coupling of rays in Step 8;
\- XPR in Step 9; and
\- Random phase in Step 10.
The random coupling of rays in Step 8 and the intra-cluster delays in Step 11
shall be kept unchanged per simulation drop even if UT position changes during
simulation.
Table 7.6.3.1-2 Correlation distance for spatial consistency
* * *
Correlation distance in [m] RMa UMi UMa Indoor InF  
LOS NLOS O2I LOS NLOS O2I LOS NLOS O2I  
Cluster and ray specific random variables 50 60 15 12 15 15 40 50 15 10 10
LOS/NLOS state 60 50 50 10 $$\frac{d_{\text{clutter}}}{2}$$  
Indoor/outdoor state 50 50 50 N/A N/A
* * *
#### 7.6.3.2 Spatially-consistent UT/BS mobility modelling
For mobility simulation enhancement, two alternative spatial consistency
procedures -- Procedure A and Procedure B -- are described as follows. The
procedures presented below consider the downlink direction same as in Clause
7.5.
**Procedure A:**
For when a UT/BS is dropped into the network, spatially consistent
powers/delays/angles of clusters are generated according to Clause 7.6.3.1.
The updated distance of UT/BS should be limited within 1 meter, i.e. when ,
and the updated procedure in the following should take the closest realization
instead of . In case the absolute time of arrival modeling of clause 7.6.9 is
simultaneously used, the update distance should be the minimum of 1 meter and
$\frac{d_{3D}}{10}$.
At , update channel cluster power/delay/angles based on UT/BS channel cluster
power/delay/angles, moving speed moving direction and UT position at _._
[Cluster delay]{.underline} is updated as:
${\widetilde{\tau}}_{n}\left( t_{k} \right) = \left{ \begin{matrix}
{\widetilde{\tau}}_{n}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) -
\frac{{\widehat{r}}_{rx,n}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)^{T}{\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) +
{\widehat{r}}_{tx,n}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)^{T}{\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)}{c}\mathrm{\Delta}t & \text{for\ }k > 0 \ \tau_{n}\left( t_{0} \right)
+ \tau_{\mathrm{\Delta}}\left( t_{0} \right) + \frac{d_{3D}(t_{0})}{c} &
\text{for\ }k = 0 \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $ (7.6-9)
where
_is the speed of light in [m/s]_ ;
${\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}\left( t_{k} \right)$ and
${\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}\left( t_{k} \right)$ are the BS and UTvelocity
vectors respectively, with $\left\| {\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}\left( t_{k}
\right) \right\|_{2} = v_{\text{tx}}$ and $\left\|
{\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}\left( t_{k} \right) \right\|_{2} =
v_{\text{rx}}$_;_
is the 3D distance between Rx antenna and Tx antenna at in [m];
are the cluster delays in [s] as in Step 11 in Clause 7.5;
, where are the delays from Equation (7.5-1). In case the absolute time of
arrival modelling of clause 7.6.9 is simultaneously used, where $\Delta\tau$
is determined according to clause 7.6.9.
_Also,_
_(7.6-10)_
where and are cluster specific zenith and azimuth angles of arrival.
${\widehat{r}}_{tx,n}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) = \begin{bmatrix} \sin\left(
\theta_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right)\cos\left( \phi_{n,AOD}\left(
t_{k - 1} \right) \right) \ \sin\left( \theta_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k - 1} \right)
\right)\sin\left( \phi_{n,\text{AOD}}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right) \
\cos\left( \theta_{n,\text{ZOD}}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right) \
\end{bmatrix}$ (7.6-10aa)
where $\theta_{n,ZOD}$ and $\phi_{n,\text{AOD}}$ are the cluster specific
zenith and azimuth angles of departure.
After updating the delays according to equation (7.6-9), the delays over the
mobility range are normalized. Equation (7.5-2) of the fast fading model is
replaced by
(7.6-10a)
in which covers the entire duration of the mobility model.
[Cluster powers]{.underline} are updated as in Step 6 using the cluster delays
from Equation (7.6-10a)_._
[Cluster departure angles]{.underline} ( and ) [and arrival
angles]{.underline} ( and ) are updated using a cluster-wise transformation of
the UT/BS velocity vector given by
${\overline{v}}_{n,\text{rx}}^{'}(t_{k}) = \left{ \begin{matrix}
{\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}\left( t_{k} \right){-
\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}(t_{k}) & \text{for\ LOS} \ {R_{n,rx} \bullet
\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}(t_{k}) - {\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}(t_{k}) &
\text{for\ NLOS} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $ (7.6-10b)
${\overline{v}}_{n,\text{tx}}^{'}(t_{k}) = \left{ \begin{matrix}
{\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}\left( t_{k} \right){-
\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}(t_{k}) & \text{for\ LOS} \ {R_{n,tx} \bullet
\overline{v}}_{\text{tx}}(t_{k}) - {\overline{v}}_{\text{rx}}(t_{k}) &
\text{for\ NLOS} \ \end{matrix} \right.\ $ (7.6-10c)
with
$R_{n,rx} = R_{Z}\left( \phi_{n,AOD}\left( t_{k} \right) + \pi \right) \bullet
R_{Y}\left( \frac{\pi}{2}{- \theta}_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k} \right) \right)
\bullet \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 \ 0 & X_{n} & 0 \ 0 & 0 & 1 \ \end{bmatrix}
\bullet R_{Y}\left( \frac{\pi}{2} - \theta_{n,ZOA}\left( t_{k} \right) \right)
\bullet R_{Z}\left( - \phi_{n,AOA}\left( t_{k} \right) \right)$,
and
$R_{n,tx} = R_{Z}\left( - \phi_{n,AOD}\left( t_{k} \right) \right) \bullet
R_{Y}\left( \frac{\pi}{2}{- \theta}_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k} \right) \right)
\bullet \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 \ 0 & X_{n} & 0 \ 0 & 0 & 1 \ \end{bmatrix}
\bullet R_{Y}\left( \frac{\pi}{2}{- \theta}_{n,ZOA}\left( t_{k} \right)
\right) \bullet R_{Z}\left( \phi_{n,AOA}\left( t_{k} \right) + \pi \right)$,
where and being the rotation matrices around y-axis and z-axis as defined in
Equation (7.1-2). Random variable is sampled from a uniform distribution on a
NLOS cluster basis and is not changed during the UT mobility within a drop.
The cluster specific decorrelation distances are 60m, 15m, 50m and 10m for
RMa, UMi, UMa and Indoor scenarios, respectively.
Now, the departure and arrival angles in radians are updated as:
$\phi_{n,AOD}\left( t_{k} \right) = \phi_{n,AOD}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) +
\frac{{{\overline{v}}_{n,\text{rx}}^{'}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)}^{T}\widehat{\phi}\left( \theta_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right),\phi_{n,AOD}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right)}{c \bullet
{\widetilde{\tau}}_{n}\left( t_{k - 1} \right)\sin\left(
\theta_{n,\text{ZOD}}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right)}\mathrm{\Delta}t$
(7.6-11)
$\theta_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k} \right) = \theta_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) +
\frac{{{\overline{v}}_{n,\text{rx}}^{'}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)}^{T}\widehat{\theta}\left( \theta_{n,ZOD}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right),\phi_{n,AOD}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right)}{c \bullet
{\widetilde{\tau}}_{n}\left( t_{k - 1} \right)}\ \mathrm{\Delta}t$ (7.6-12)
and
$\phi_{n,AOA}\left( t_{k} \right) = \phi_{n,AOA}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) +
\frac{{{\overline{v}}_{n,\text{tx}}^{'}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)}^{T}\widehat{\phi}\left( \theta_{n,ZOA}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right),\phi_{n,AOA}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right)}{c \bullet
{\widetilde{\tau}}_{n}\left( t_{k - 1} \right)\sin\left( \theta_{n,ZOA}\left(
t_{k - 1} \right) \right)}\mathrm{\Delta}t$ (7.6-13)
$\theta_{n,ZOA}\left( t_{k} \right) = \theta_{n,ZOA}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) +
\frac{{{\overline{v}}_{n,\text{tx}}^{'}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right)}^{T}\widehat{\theta}\left( \theta_{n,ZOA}\left( t_{k - 1}
\right),\phi_{n,AOA}\left( t_{k - 1} \right) \right)}{c \bullet
{\widetilde{\tau}}_{n}\left( t_{k - 1} \right)}\mathrm{\Delta}t$, (7.6-14)
with and being the spherical unit vectors defined in Equations (7.1-13) and
(7.1-14).
**Procedure B:**
In procedure B, spatial or time evolution of the channel is obtained by
generating channel realizations separately for all links to different Rx
positions using Steps 1-12 of Clause 7.5 together with the spatially
consistent procedure of Clause 7.6.3.1. In the case of mobility these
positions may be a function of time along one or more Rx trajectories.
Furthermore, to ensure that the spatial or time evolution of delays and angles
are within reasonable limits, Steps 5, 6, and 7 in Clause 7.5 should be
replaced by the below procedure.
Note: For implementation purposes, LSPs and SSPs may be interpolated within
the coherence length or time of the respective parameter.
[Step 5]{.underline}: Generate cluster delays $\tau$, with .
delays are drawn randomly from a uniform distribution.
(7.6-15)
Normalise the delays by subtracting the minimum delay: . The autocorrelation
distance for is .
In the case of LOS, set the delay of the first cluster to 0.
[Step 6]{.underline}: Generate arrival angles and departure angles for both
azimuth and elevation using (7.6-16) instead of (7.5-9) and (7.5-14).
(7.6-16)
with . This step is repeated independently for AOD, AOA, ZOD, and ZOA with
corresponding maximum angles for the uniform distribution. In case of LOS, set
the angles of the first cluster (, etc) to 0.
The autocorrelation distances are $\tau_{\max} \cdot c_{0}\ $ for AOD, and
ZOD, while they are fixed to 50m for AOA, and ZOA.
Offset angles etc are applied in the modified Step 7b below after cluster
powers have been calculated.
[Step 7]{.underline}: Generate cluster powers$P$
Cluster powers are calculated assuming a single slope exponential power
profile and Laplacian angular power profiles. The cluster powers are
determined by
(7.6-17)
_where_ _(autocorrelation distance same as for shadow fading) is the per
cluster shadowing term in [dB]. Delay spread_ _and angular spreads_ , , , _are
generated in Step 4 of Clause 7.5._ Normalize the cluster powers so that the
sum of all cluster powers is equal to one, i.e.,
(7.6-17a)
_In the case of LOS condition, substitute_ _with_ and {, , , } with {, , , }
respectively to preserve the delay and angular spreads. is the Ricean K-factor
as generated in Step 4 converted to linear scale. Furthermore, an additional
specular component is added to the first cluster. Power of the single LOS ray
is:
(7.6-17b)
and the cluster powers are not normalized as in equation (7.6-17a), but:
(7.6-17c)
where δ(.) is Dirac\'s delta function.
Assign the power of each ray within a cluster as _P~n ~/ M_ , where _M_ is the
number of rays per cluster.
_[Step 7b]{.underline}: Apply offset angles_
_The ray AOA angles are determined by_
(7.6-17d)
where is the LOS direction defined in the network layout description, see
Step1c.
The generation of AOD () follows a procedure similar to AOA as described
above.
_The ZOA angles are determined by_
(7.6-17e)
where if the BS-UT link is O2I and otherwise. The LOS direction is defined in
the network layout description, see Step1c.
_The ZOA angles are determined by_
(7.6-17f)
where is the mean of the ZSD log-normal distribution.
_Some of the delay and angle spreads and standard deviations used in equations
(7.6-15) and (7.6-16) may be frequency-dependent. In the case of multi-
frequency simulations according to Clause 7.6.5, the largest value among all
the simulated frequencies should be used in (7.6-15) and (7.6-16) so that the
cluster and ray delays and angles (but not the powers or the resulting delay
or angular spreads) are the same for all frequencies._
#### 7.6.3.3 LOS/NLOS, indoor states and O2I parameters
The LOS state can be determined according to the spatial consistency procedure
for random variables as mentioned in Clause 7.6.3.1, by comparing a
realization of a random variable generated with distance-dependent LOS
probability. If the realization is less than the LOS probability, the state is
LOS; otherwise NLOS. Decision of LOS and NLOS status should be used in Step 2
in Clause 7.5 if this advanced simulation is performed.
The same procedure can be applied for determining the indoor state, with the
indoor probability instead of the LOS probability.
The correlation distance for LOS state and indoor/outdoor is specified in
Table 7.6.3.1-2.
The indoor distance can be modeled as the minimum of two spatially consistent
uniform random variables within (0, 25) meters with correlation distance 25m.
Note in case the UT is in an indoor state, the pathloss model changes and a
penetration loss is considered. For details on the model, see Clause 7.4.3.
Here, the focus is on modelling aspects with respect to spatial consistency.
As described in Clause 7.4.3, the penetration loss deviation σ~p~ represents
variations within and between buildings of the same type. For spatial
consistency this can be modeled as a spatially consistent random variable with
correlation distance 10m, see Clause 7.6.3.1. The \"building type\" is
determined using a spatially consistent uniform random variable with
correlation distance 50 m. The building type is determined by comparing the
random variable with P~1~, where P~1~ is the probability of the building type
with low loss penetration. If the realization of the random variable is less
than P~1~, the building type is low loss; otherwise the building type is high
loss.
The cluster-specific and ray-specific random variables as defined in Clause
7.6.3.1 on the same floor are generated in the spatial consistency modelling;
otherwise, these variables across different floors are uncorrelated.
In case there is a transition from LOS to NLOS due to UT mobility, there will
be a hard transition in the channel response. This is because pathloss and LS
parameters are different for these states, leading automatically to very
different channel realizations. To circumvent such hard transitions the
optional soft LOS state can be considered to determine the PL and the channel
impulse responses containing characteristics of both LOS and NLOS. Soft LOS
state $\text{LOS}_{\text{soft}}$ is generated by floating numbers between 0
(NLOS) and 1 (LOS) in the spatial consistency modelling. The value of
$\text{LOS}_{\text{soft}}\ $is determined by
, (7.6-18)
$\text{LOS}_{\text{soft}} = \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{\pi}\arctan\left(
\sqrt{\frac{d_{\text{LOS}}}{\lambda}}\left( G + F(d) \right) \right)$where:
\- $G$ is a spatially consistent Gaussian random variable with correlation
distance according to Table 7.6.3.1-2;
\- $F\left( d \right) = \sqrt{2}\text{erf}^{- 1}\left( 2P_{\text{LOS}}\left( d
\right) - 1 \right)$; and
\- $P_{\text{LOS}}\left( d \right)$ is the distance dependent LOS probability
function.
After $\text{LOS}_{\text{soft}}\ $is obtained, Steps 2-12 of the channel
coefficient generation described in Clause 7.5 are performed twice, once with
the propagation condition in Step 2 set as LOS and once with the propagation
condition in Step 2 set as NLOS. The resulting channel coefficients are
denoted as and respectively, where is generated with the LOS path loss formula
and channel model parameters while is generated using the NLOS path loss
formula and channel model parameters. The channel matrix with soft LOS state
is determined from a linear combination of and as:
(7.6-19)
It is noted that soft indoor/outdoor states are not modelled in this TR. Thus
the model does not support transitions between indoor/outdoor states in
mobility simulations.
#### 7.6.3.4 Applicability of spatial consistency
According to the characteristics of different cluster specific parameters and
ray specific parameters, the following types on spatial consistency are
defined:
\- Site-specific: parameters for different BS-UT links are uncorrelated, but
the parameters for links from co-sited sectors to a UT are correlated.
\- All-correlated: BS-UT links are correlated.
In Table 7.6.3.4-1, correlation type for each large scale parameter, cluster
specific parameter and ray specific parameter is clarified.
Table 7.6.3.4-1: Correlation type among TRPs
**Parameters** **Correlation type**
* * *
Delays Site-specific Cluster powers Site-specific AOA/ZOA/AOD/ZOD offset Site-
specific AOA/ZOA/AOD/ZOD sign Site-specific Random coupling Site-specific XPR
Site-specific Initial random phase Site-specific LOS/NLOS states Site-specific
Blockage (Model A) All-correlated O2I penetration loss All-correlated Indoor
distance All-correlated Indoor states All-correlated
Spatial consistency is not modelled in the following situations:
\- Different link types, e.g., outdoor LOS, outdoor NLOS or O2I
\- UE locates on different floors
Table 7.6.3.4-2, lists conditions in which each large scale parameter, cluster
specific parameter and ray specific parameter is assumed not spatially
correlated.
Table 7.6.3.4-2: Conditions when parameters are not spatially correlated.
**Parameters** **Uncorrelated states**
* * *
Delays Outdoor LOS/outdoor NLOS/O2I (different floors) Cluster powers Outdoor
LOS/outdoor NLOS/O2I (different floors) AOA/ZOA/AOD/ZOD offset Outdoor
LOS/outdoor NLOS/O2I (different floors) AOA/ZOA/AOD/ZOD sign Outdoor
LOS/outdoor NLOS/O2I (different floors) Random coupling Outdoor LOS/outdoor
NLOS/O2I (different floors) XPR Outdoor LOS/outdoor NLOS/O2I (different
floors) Initial random phase Outdoor LOS/outdoor NLOS/O2I (different floors)
Blockage Outdoor/O2I (different floors) Standard deviation for O2I penetration
loss Different building types, i.e., high/low loss
### 7.6.4 Blockage
Blockage modelling is an add-on feature to the channel model. The method
described in the following applies only when this feature is turned on. In
addition, the temporal variability of the blockage modelling parameters is on-
demand basis. It is also noted that the modelling of the blockage does not
change LOS/NLOS state of each link.
When blockage model is applied, the channel generation in Clause 7.5 should
have several additional steps between Step 9 and 10 as illustrated in Figure
7.6.4-1.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="4.093055555555556in"}
Figure.7.6.4-1 Channel generation procedure with blockage model
Two alternative models (Model A and Model B) are provided for the blockage
modelling. Both approaches have their own use cases. Model A is applicable
when a generic and computationally efficient blockage modelling is desired.
Model B is applicable when a specific and more realistic blocking modelling is
desired.
#### 7.6.4.1 Blockage model A
Model A adopts a stochastic method for capturing human and vehicular blocking.
[Step a]{.underline}: Determine the number of blockers.
Multiple 2-dimensional (2D) angular blocking regions, in terms of centre
angle, azimuth and elevation angular span are generated around the UT. There
is one self-blocking region, and = 4 non-self-blocking regions, where _may be
changed for certain scenarios (e.g., higher blocker density)._ Note that the
self-blocking component of the model is important in capturing the effects of
human body blocking.
[Step b]{.underline}: Generate the size and location of each blocker.
For self-blocking, the blocking region in UT LCS is defined in terms of
elevation and azimuth angles, (,) and azimuth and elevation angular span (, ).
(7.6-20)
where the parameters are described in Table 7.6.4.1-1.
Table 7.6.4.1-1: Self-blocking region parameters.
* * *
Portrait mode 260^o^ 120^o^ 100^o^ 80^o^ Landscape mode 40^o^ 160^o^ 110^o^
75^o^
* * *
For non-self-blocking _k_ = 1, ..., 4, the blocking region in GCS is defined
by
(7.6-21)
where the parameters are described in Table 7.6.4.1-2, as well as the distance
_r_ between the UT and the blocker.
Table 7.6.4.1-2: Blocking region parameters.
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-----------+------+ | Blocker | | | | | _r_ | | index | | | | | | | (_k_ = 1, | | | | | | | ..., 4) | | | | | | +===========+===========+===========+=======+===========+======+ | InH | Uniform | Uniform | 90^o^ | Uniform | 2 m | | scenario | in | in | | in | | | | | | | | | | | [0^o^, | [15^o^, | | [5^o^, | | | | 360^o^] | 45^o^] | | 15^o^] | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-----------+------+ | UMi, UMa, | Uniform | Uniform | 90^o^ | 5^o^ | 10 m | | RMa | in | in | | | | | scenarios | | | | | | | | [0^o^, | [5^o^, | | | | | | 360^o^] | 15^o^] | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-----------+------+
[Step c]{.underline}: Determine the attenuation of each cluster due to
blockers.
The attenuation of each cluster due to self-blocking corresponding to the
centre angle pair (,), is 30 dB provided that $\left| \varphi_{\text{AoA}} - \
\text{φ}_{1} \right|  1) CDF of coupling loss | | | > (serving cell) | | | > | | | > 2) Wideband SINR before | | | > receiver -- determined from | | | > RSRP (formula) from CRS port 0 | | | > | | | > 3) Cross-correlation | | | > coefficient of delay for the | | | > third cluster between paired | | | > UEs, see note 1 | | | > | | | > 4) Cross-correlation | | | > coefficient of AOA for the | | | > third cluster between paired | | | > UEs | | | > | | | > 5) Cross-correlation | | | > coefficient of LOS/NLOS status | | | > between paired UEs | | | > | | | > 6) Cross correlation | | | > coefficient of the channel | | | > response in Step 11 on the | | | > first non-DC subcarrier in an | | | > OFDM symbol on antenna port 0 | | | > received on the first UE | | | > antenna over multiple | | | > realizations between paired | | | > UEs | | | > | | | > 7) CDF of average varying | | | > rate of power for the third | | | > cluster, see note 2 | | | > | | | > 8) CDF of average varying | | | > rate of delay for the third | | | > cluster (ns) | | | > | | | > 9) CDF of average varying | | | > rate of AOA for the third | | | > cluster (degree) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1 For the UT pair at a | | | certain distance range, the | | | variables collected by two UEs | | | can be denoted as X and Y, | | | respectively, then the | | | cross-correlation coefficient | | | for real number can be written | | | as [E(XY)-E(X)E(Y)] | | | /sqrt([E(X\^2)-E(X)\^2])/ | | | sqrt([E(Y\^2)-E(Y)\^2]), the | | | cross-correlation coefficient | | | for complex number can be | | | written as | | | \|[E(XY*)-E(X)E(Y)\ | | | *]/sqrt([E(XX*)-E(X)E(X)*]) | | | /sqrt([E(YY*)-E(Y)E(Y)*])\|. | | | | | | NOTE 2 For the average varying | | | rate, we assume the collecting | | | interval, e.g., 100ms, and then | | | get the samples for a certain | | | UE, the varying rate can be | | | written as the standard variance | | | of the samples per 100ms. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 7.8-6: Simulation assumptions for calibration for blockage
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +===========================+=========================================+ | Scenarios | UMi-street Canyon | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Carrier Frequency | 30 GHz | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | BS antenna configurations | M = 4, N = 4, P = 2, M~g~ = 1, N~g~ = | | | 2, d~H~ = d~V~ = 0.5λ, d~H,g~ = d~V,g~ | | | = 2.5λ | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | BS port mapping | all 16 elements for each polarization | | | on each panel are mapped to a single | | | CRS port; panning angles of the two | | | subarrays: (0,0) degs; same downtilt | | | angles as used for the large-scale | | | calibrations | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Calibration method | For Model A: | | | | | | Drop multiple users in the multiple | | | cells, and collect the following | | | metrics 1) -- 3) for each user after | | | attachment. Optional self-blocking | | | feature is made mandatory in the | | | Landscape mode only for calibration | | | purposes. | | | | | | For Model B: | | | | | | Drop a BS in (0,0,30) and a UT in | | | (100,0,1.5), | | | | | | Jump directly to Step 11 and replace | | | the channel with CDL-E. | | | | | | Drop a blocking screen of size h=10m, w | | | = 2m in (80,10,1.5) | | | | | | Move the UT from (100,0,1.5) to | | | (100,20,1.5) in small increments. For | | | each UT position, translate all the | | | AODs and AOAs of CDL-E such that the | | | specular (LOS path) of CDL-E is | | | pointing along the direct path between | | | the BS and UT. | | | | | | Collect metric 4) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Metrics | 1) CDF of coupling loss (serving cell) | | | | | | 2) Wideband SINR before receiver -- | | | determined from RSRP (formula) from CRS | | | port 0 | | | | | | 3) CDF of ASA from the serving cell | | | | | | 4) RSRP as a function of UT position | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
### 7.8.4 Calibration of the indoor factory scenario
For the InF, the calibration parameters can be found in Table 7.8-7. The
calibration results can be found in R1-1909704.
It should be noted absolute delay model had not been agreed by the deadline,
so companies were not able to submit CDF of first path excess delay for
serving cell.
Table 7.8-7: Simulation assumptions for large scale calibration for the indoor
factory scenario
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values | +==================================+==================================+ | Scenario | InF-SL, InF-DL, InF-SH, InF-DH | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Hall size | InF-SL: 120x60 m | | | | | | InF-DL: 300x150 m | | | | | | InF-SH: 300x150 m | | | | | | InF-DH: 120x60 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Room height | 10 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Sectorization | None | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS antenna configurations | 1 element (vertically | | | polarized), Isotropic antenna | | | gain pattern | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UT antenna configurations | 1 element (vertically | | | polarized), Isotropic antenna | | | gain pattern | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover margin (for | 0dB | | calibration) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS deployment | 18 BSs on a square lattice with | | | spacing D, located D/2 from the | | | walls. | | | | | | - for the small hall (L=120m x | | | W=60m): D=20m | | | | | | - for the big hall (L=300m x | | | W=150m): D=50m | | | | | | {width="3.5625in" | | | height="1.8818514873140857in"} | | | | | | BS height = 1.5 m for InF-SL and | | | InF-DL | | | | | | BS-height = 8 m for for InF-SH | | | and InF-DH | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UT distribution | uniform dropping for indoor with | | | minimum 2D distance of 1 m | | | | | | UT height = 1.5 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UT attachment | Based on pathloss | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UT noise figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 3.5 GHz, 28 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Bandwidth | 100 MHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Clutter density: $r$ | Low clutter density: 20% | | | | | | High clutter density: 60% | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Clutter height: $h_{c}$ | Low clutter density: 2 m | | | | | | High clutter density: 6 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Clutter size: | Low clutter density: 10 m | | $d_{\text{clutter}}$ | | | | High clutter density: 2 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Metrics | 1) Coupling loss -- serving | | | cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 2) Geometry with and without | | | noise | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 3) CDF of delay spread and | | | angle spread (ASD, ZSD, ASA, | | | ZSA) according to the definition | | | in Annex A.1 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | 4) CDF of first path excess | | | delay for serving cell | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 8 Map-based hybrid channel model (Alternative channel model methodology)
Map-based hybrid model is composed of a deterministic component following,
e.g., METIS work [6] and a stochastic component following mainly the model
described in clause 7. The channel model methodology described in this clause
is an alternative to the methodology specified in clause 7, and can be used
if:
\- The system performance is desired to be evaluated or predicted with the use
of digital map to take into account the impacts from environmental structures
and materials.
The map-based hybrid model defined in this clause is not calibrated and can be
used per company basis.
## 8.1 Coordinate system
The same coordinate system as defined in Clause 7.1 is applied.
## 8.2 Scenarios
The same scenarios as in Clause 7.2 can be applied.
## 8.3 Antenna modelling
The same antenna modelling as defined in Clause 7.3 can be applied.
## 8.4 Channel generation
The radio channels are created using the deterministic ray-tracing upon a
digitized map and emulating certain stochastic components according to the
statistic parameters listed in Tables 7.5-6 to 7.5-11 [Note: Not all
parameters listed in these tables are used in hybrid model]. The channel
realizations are obtained by a step-wise procedure illustrated in Figure 8.4-1
and described below. In the following steps, downlink is assumed. For uplink,
arrival and departure parameters have to be swapped.
Figure 8.4-1: Channel coefficient generation procedure
**Step-wise procedure:**
[Step 1]{.underline}: Set environment and import digitized map accordingly
> a) Choose scenario. Choose a global coordinate system and define zenith
> angle _θ_ , azimuth angle _ϕ_ , and spherical basis vectors , as shown in
> Figure 7.5-2.
>
> b) Import digitized map according to the chosen scenario. The digitized map
> should at least contain the following information:
\- The 3D geometric information for each of major structures involving with
buildings or rooms. The external building walls and internal room walls are
represented by surfaces and identified by the coordinates of the vertices on
each wall.
\- The material and thickness of each wall as well as the corresponding
electromagnetic properties including permittivity and conductivity.
\- Random small objects in certain scenarios (e.g, UMi outdoor)
The format of digitized map, including additional information besides above-
mentioned, is per implementation wise and out of scope of this description.
[Step 2]{.underline}: Set network layout, and antenna array parameters
a) Give number of BS and UT.
b) Give 3D locations of BS and UT, and calculate LOS AOD (_ϕ~LOS,AOD~_), LOS
ZOD (_θ~LOS,ZOD~_), LOS AOA (_ϕ~LOS,AOA~_), LOS ZOA (_θ~LOS,ZOA~_) of each BS
and UT in the global coordinate system
c) Give BS and UT antenna field patterns _F~rx~_ and _F~tx~_ in the global
coordinate system and array geometries
d) Give BS and UT array orientations with respect to the global coordinate
system. BS array orientation is defined by three angles Ω _~BS,α~_ (BS bearing
angle), Ω _~BS,β~_ (BS downtilt angle) and Ω _~BS,γ~_ (BS slant angle). UT
array orientation is defined by three angles Ω _~UT,α~_ (UT bearing angle), Ω
_~UT,β~_ (UT downtilt angle) and Ω _~UT,γ~_ (UT slant angle). Give rotational
motion of UT in terms of its bearing angle, downtilt angle and slant angle if
UT rotation is modelled.
e) Give speed and direction of motion of UT in the global coordinate system
for virtual motion.
f) Give system centre frequency/frequencies and bandwidth(s) for each of BS-UT
links
If the bandwidth (denoted as ) is greater than _c/D_ Hz, where _c_ is the
speed of light and _D_ is the maximum antenna aperture in either azimuth or
elevation, the whole bandwidth is split into equal-sized frequency bins, where
is a per-implementation parameter taking into account the channel constancy as
well as other potential evaluation needs, and the bandwidth of each frequency
bin is . Within _k_ -th frequency bin, the channel power attenuation, phase
rotation, Doppler are assumed constant, whose corresponding values are
calculated based on the centre frequency of _k_ -th frequency bin for , where
is the centre frequency of the corresponding BS-UT link.
[Step 3]{.underline}: Apply ray-tracing to each pair of link ends (i.e., end-
to-end propagation between pair of Tx/Rx arrays).
a) Perform geometric calculations in ray-tracing to identify propagation
interaction types, including LOS, reflections, diffractions, penetrations and
scattering (in case the digitized map contains random small objects), for each
propagation path. In general, some maximum orders of different interaction
types can be set.
\- The theoretical principles and procedures of geometric tracing calculations
can be found in [6]\~[10][12]. This description does not intend to mandate new
concepts and/or procedures to the conventional ray-tracing algorithms; on the
other hand, the implementation-based variations aiming to reduce computation
complexity are allowed within limits of acceptable calibration tolerances.
\- The same geometric calculation is shared among all frequency bins.
b) Perform electric field calculations over propagation path, based on
identified propagation interaction types (LOS, reflection, diffraction,
penetration and scattering) and centre frequencies of frequency bins.
The details of electric field calculation can be found in [6]\~[13].
> The modelling algorithms in geometry and electric field calculations for
> different propagation interactions are summarized in the table below.
Table 8.4-1 Principles applied in ray-tracing
                                    Geometry calculation                               Electric field calculation
* * *
LOS Free space LOS Friis equation [11] Reflection Snell\'s law with image-
based method [7] Fresnel equation [7] Diffraction Fermat\'s principle [12] UTD
[13] Penetration Snell\'s law for transmission through slab [8] Fresnel
equation [7] Scattering (upon small objects) Isotropic scattering [6] RCS-
based scattering coefficient [6]
Note: For reasons of simplicity and simulation speed, the maximum order of
reflection on a path without diffraction is configurable from {1,2,3}; the
maximum order of diffraction on a path without reflection is configurable from
{1,2}; the path containing both reflection and diffraction has 1-order
reflection and 1-order diffraction, besides any potential penetrations; and
the maximum order of penetration on a path is configurable, with the
recommended value equal to 5.
> The outputs from Step 3 should at least contain following for each pair of
> link ends:
\- the LOS/NLOS flag to indicate whether a LOS propagation mechanism exists;
\- the number of deterministic propagation paths (also referred as
deterministic clusters in Step 8. To avoid the unnecessary computation
complexity, these deterministic paths only include those paths whose powers
are higher than 25dB below the maximum deterministic path power, where the
path power is denoted as and defined below);
\- for each deterministic path (-th path sorted in ascending order of path
delay):
\- the flag indicating whether the deterministic path is generated with
scattering upon random small objects;
\- the normalized path delay and the first arrival absolute delay (with to be
the real absolute propagation delay of the path);
\- angles of arrival and departure [,,,];
\- the power for k-th frequency bin, and the path power
\- the XPR of the path, where with being the XPR for k-th frequency bin.
\- to support for true motion, i.e. the case when a trajectory is specified
for UT, a path ID is associated for each deterministic path. The same ID is
associated for a path across a number of UT locations as far as 1) it has same
interaction types in the same order and 2) its interactions occur in same
walls or other surfaces.
The deterministic paths are sorted by normalized path delay () in ascending
order. That is to say, = 0.
If =0 for a pair of link ends, the channel gain for this pair of link ends is
assumed to be zero and the remaining steps are skipped with none of random
cluster.
[Step 4]{.underline}: Generate large scale parameters e.g. delay spread,
angular spreads and Ricean K factor for random clusters.
The generation of large scale parameters takes into account cross correlation
according to Table 7.5-6 and uses the procedure described in Clause 3.3.1 of
[14] with the square root matrixbeing generated using the Cholesky
decomposition and the following order of the large scale parameter vector:
**s** _~M~_ = [_s~K,~ s~DS~, s~ASD~, s~ASA,~ s~ZSD,~ s~ZSA~_]_^T^_. Limit
random RMS azimuth arrival and azimuth departure spread values to 104 degrees,
i.e., ASA= min(ASA ,104°), ASD = min(ASD ,104°). Limit random RMS zenith
arrival and zenith departure spread values to 52 degrees, i.e., ZSA =
min(ZSA,52°), ZSD = min(ZSD,52°). For the parameter selection from Table
7.5-6, the LOS/NLOS condition determined in Step 3 is applied.
[Step 5]{.underline}: Generate delays (denoted as {}) for random clusters _._
Delays are drawn randomly according to the exponential delay distribution
(8.4-1)
where , _X~n~_ \~ uniform(0,1), and cluster index _n_ = 0,..., with to be
configurable. A recommended value for is the number of clusters given in Table
7.5-6.
, where _r~τ~_ is the delay distribution proportionality factor given in Table
7.5-6.
Normalise the delays by subtracting the minimum delay and sort the normalised
delays to ascending order:
(8.4-2)
where is the additional scaling of delays to compensate for the effect of LOS
peak addition to the delay spread, and is depending on the heuristically
determined Ricean K-factor [dB] as generated in Step 4:
(8.4-3)
For the delay used in cluster power generation in Step 6, the scaling factor
is always 1.
The _n_ -th random cluster is removed if _n=0_ or for any of _1≤l~RT~≤L~RT~_ ,
where _τ~th~_ is given by , and is the configurable probability for cluster
inter-arrival interval to be less than _τ~th~_. For example, set =0.2 to
obtain _τ~th~_ =0.223.
Denote for _1≤n≤L~RC\ ~_ as the delays of the _L~RC\ ~_ random clusters that
remain after the cluster removal.
As an add-on feature, the absolute time of arrival of a cluster is derived as:
\- , if the cluster is the -th deterministic path obtained in Step 3 for
_1≤l~RT~≤L~RT~_ ;
\- +, if the cluster is the n-th random cluster for _1≤n≤L~RC.~_
[Step 6]{.underline}: Generate powers (denoted as for _1≤i≤L~RC~_) for random
clusters.
Cluster powers for the random clusters are calculated assuming a single slope
exponential power delay profile. First, the virtual powers (denoted as for
_1≤i≤L~RC~_) of random clusters and virtual powers (denoted as for
_1≤j≤L~RT~_) of deterministic clusters are calculated as following.
Denote:
(8.4-4)
(8.4-5)
where _Ζ~i,RC~_ and _Ζ~j,RT~_ are the per cluster shadowing terms in [dB] and
meet distribution of _N(0, ζ^2^ )_. Then,
(8.4-6)
(8.4-7)
_In the case of LOS condition_ , _A=K~R~_ with _K~R~_ being the Ricean _K_
-factor obtained in Step 4 and converted to linear scale; otherwise, _A=0_.
The real power (including effects of pathloss) per random cluster in _k_ -th
frequency bin is given by
(8.4-8)
for _1≤i≤L~RC\ ~_ and . Similar to path power of deterministic cluster, the
path power of _i_ -th random cluster is calculated as
. (8.4-9)
[Step 7]{.underline}: Generate arrival angles and departure angles for both
azimuth and elevation, for each random cluster.
> _[For azimuth angles of the n-th random cluster:]{.underline}_
>
> The composite PAS in azimuth of all random clusters is modelled as wrapped
> Gaussian (see Table 7.5-6). The AOAs are determined by applying the inverse
> Gaussian function with input parameters and RMS angle spread ASA
(8.4-10)
> with constant defined as
(8.4-11)
> where is defined as a scaling factor related to the total number of clusters
> and is given in Table 7.5-2.
>
> In the LOS case, constant also depends on the Ricean K-factor _K_ in [dB],
> as generated in Step 4. Additional scaling of the angles is required to
> compensate for the effect of LOS peak addition to the angle spread.
>
> Assign positive or negative sign to the angles by multiplying with a random
> variable _X~n~_ with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,--1},
> and add component to introduce random variation
(8.4-12)
> where is calculated as
(8.4-13)
> Note that shall be given in radians here.
>
> The generation of AOD _(φ~n,AOD~_) follows a procedure similar to AOA as
> described above.
>
> _[For zenith angles of the n-th random cluster:]{.underline}_
>
> The generation of ZOA assumes that the composite PAS in the zenith dimension
> of all random clusters is Laplacian (see Table 7.5-6). The ZOAs are
> determined by applying the inverse Laplacian function with input parameters
> and RMS angle spread ZSA
(8.4-14)
> with defined as
, (8.4-15)
> where is a scaling factor related to the total number of clusters and is
> given in Table 7.5-4.
>
> _In the LOS case_ , constant also depends on the Ricean K-factor K in [dB],
> as generated in Step 4. Additional scaling of the angles is required to
> compensate for the effect of LOS peak addition to the angle spread.
>
> Assign positive or negative sign to the angles by multiplying with a random
> variable _X~n~_ with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,--1},
> and add component to introduce random variation
(8.4-16)
> where if the UT is located indoors and if the UT is located outdoors, where
> is calculated as
(8.4-17)
> Note that shall be given in radians here.
>
> The generation of ZOD follows the same procedure as ZOA described above
> except equation (8.4-16) is replaced by
(8.4-18)
where variable _X~n~_ is with uniform distribution to the discrete set of {1,
--1}, , is given in Tables 7.5-7 to 7.5-11.
[Step 8]{.underline}: Merge deterministic clusters and random clusters.
First, remove any deterministic or random cluster with less than -25 dB power
compared to max{,} for all _1≤j≤L~RT~_ and _1≤i≤L~RC~_. Then, simply put the
remaining deterministic clusters and random clusters into single set of
clusters, and meanwhile maintain an attribute for each cluster to indicate
whether the cluster is a deterministic cluster or a random cluster.
[Step 9]{.underline}: Generate ray delays and ray angle offsets inside each
cluster, where the cluster can be either random or deterministic.
> Denote _M_ as the number of rays per cluster, where _M=1_ if the cluster
> corresponds to n=1 in the LOS case, otherwise the value of _M_ is given in
> Table 7.5-6.
>
> _When_ _:_
>
> The relative delay of _m_ -th ray within _n_ -th cluster is given by for _m_
> = 1,...,_M_.
>
> The azimuth angle of arrival (AOA) for the _m_ -th ray in _n_ -th cluster is
> given by
(8.4-19)
> where is the cluster-wise rms azimuth spread of arrival angles (cluster ASA)
> in Table 7.5-6, and offset angle _α~m~_ is given in Table 7.5-3. equals to
> the AOA angle output from Step 3 if _n_ -th cluster is deterministic
> cluster, and equals to the AOA angle (8.4-12) in Step 7 if _n_ -th cluster
> is random cluster.
>
> The generation of AOD (_φ~n,m,AOD~_) follows a procedure similar to AOA as
> described above.
>
> The zenith angle of arrival (ZOA) for the _m_ -th ray in _n_ -th cluster is
> given by
(8.4-20)
> where is the cluster-wise rms spread of ZOA (cluster ZOA) in Table 7.5-6,
> and offset angle _α~m~_ is given in Table 7.5-3. Assuming that is wrapped
> within [0, 360°], if , thenis set to . equals to the ZOA angle output from
> Step 3 if _n_ -th cluster is deterministic cluster, and equals to the ZOA
> angle (8.4-16) in Step 7 if _n_ -th cluster is random cluster.
>
> The zenith angle of departure (ZOD) for the _m_ -th ray in _n_ -th cluster
> is given by
(8.4-21)
> where is the mean of the ZSD log-normal distribution. equals to the ZOD
> angle output from Step 3 if _n_ -th cluster is deterministic cluster, and
> equals to the ZOD angle (8.4-18) in Step 7 if _n_ -th cluster is random
> cluster.
>
> _When_ _:_
>
> The relative delay of _m_ -th ray within _n_ -th cluster is given by that
> are sorted in ascending order, where , with the cluster delay spread as
> given in Table 7.5-6. denotes the continuous uniform distribution on the
> interval . Note that shall be the independently generated.
>
> The azimuth angles (AOA and AOD) and zenith angles (ZOA and ZOD) for the _m_
> -th ray in _n_ -th cluster in each frequency bin is given by
(8.4-22)
> for _m_ = 1,...,_M_ , where and equal to the {AOA,AOD} and {ZOA, ZOD} angle
> outputs from Step 3 if _n_ -th cluster is deterministic cluster, and equal
> to the {AOA,AOD} and {ZOA, ZOD} angle in Step 7 if _n_ -th cluster is random
> cluster; and
(8.4-23)
> with the respective cluster angular spreads as given in Tables 7.5-6 to
> 7.5-11.
>
> Assuming that is wrapped within [0, 360°], if , thenis set to .
[Step 10]{.underline}: Generate power of rays in each cluster, where coupling
of rays within a cluster for both azimuth and elevation could be needed.
> Given as the real power in _k_ -th frequency bin for the _n_ -th cluster
> (either deterministic or random) obtained from Step 8,
>
> _When_ _:_
>
> Couple randomly AOD angles _φ~n,m,AOD~_ to AOA angles _φ~n,m,AOA~_ within a
> cluster _n_. Couple randomly ZOD angles with ZOA angles using the same
> procedure. Couple randomly AOD angles _φ~n,m,AOD~_ with ZOD angles within a
> cluster _n_.
>
> The power of _m_ -th ray in _n_ -th cluster and in _k_ -th frequency bin is
> given by for _m_ = 1,...,_M_.
>
> _When_ _:_
>
> The power of _m_ -th ray in _n_ -th cluster and in _k_ -th frequency bin is
> given by for _m_ = 1,...,_M_ , where
(8.4-24)
> and , , , and are respectively the intra-cluster delay spread and the
> corresponding intra-cluster angular spreads that are given in Table 7.5-6.
> The cluster zenith spread of departure is given by
, (8.4-25)
> with being defined in Tables 7.5-7, 7.5-8, 7.5-9, 7.5-10 and 7.5-11.
[Step 11]{.underline}: Generate XPRs
> Generate the cross polarization power ratios (XPR) _κ_ for each ray _m_ of
> each cluster _n_. XPR is log-Normal distributed. Draw XPR values as
(8.4-26)
> where is Gaussian distributed with given from Table 7.5-6. If _n_ -th
> cluster is a deterministic cluster, ; otherwise, is given in Table 7.5-6.
>
> Note: is independently drawn for each ray and each cluster.
[Step 12]{.underline}: Draw initial random phases
> Draw random initial phase for each ray _m_ of each cluster _n_ and for four
> different polarisation combinations (_θθ_ , _θϕ,_ _ϕθ,_ _ϕϕ_). The
> distribution for initial phases is uniform within (-_π,π_).
>
> _In the LOS case,_ calculate an initial phase for both _θθ_ and _ϕϕ_
> polarisations, where _d~3D~_ is the 3D distance between transmitter and
> receiver and _λ~0~=c/f~c~_ is the wavelength of the modelled propagation
> link.
[Step 13]{.underline}: Generate channel coefficients for each cluster _n_ and
each receiver and transmitter element pair _u, s_.
> _In case of NLOS,_ the channel coefficients of ray _m_ in cluster _n_ for a
> link between Rx antenna _u_ and Tx antenna _s_ at time _t_ in _k_ -th
> frequency bin can be calculated as
(8.4-27)
> where _F~rx,u,θ~_ and _F~rx,u,ϕ~_ are the receive antenna element _u_ field
> patterns in the direction of the spherical basis vectors, and respectively,
> _F~tx,s,θ~_ and _F~tx,s,ϕ~_ are the transmit antenna element _s_ field
> patterns in the direction of the spherical basis vectors, and respectively.
> The delay (TOA) for ray _m_ in cluster _n_ for a link between Rx antenna _u_
> and Tx antenna _s_ is given by:
(8.4-28)
> For the _m_ -th ray within _n_ -th cluster, is the spherical unit vector
> with azimuth arrival angle and elevation arrival angle , given by
(8.4-29)
> is the spherical unit vector with azimuth departure angle and elevation
> departure angle , given by
(8.4-30)
> Also, is the location vector of receive antenna element _u_ and is the
> location vector of transmit antenna element _s_ , _κ~n,m~_ is the cross
> polarisation power ratio in linear scale. If polarisation is not considered,
> the 2x2 polarisation matrix can be replaced by the scalar and only
> vertically polarised field patterns are applied.
>
> The Doppler frequency component is calculated from the arrival angles (AOA,
> ZOA), and the UT velocity vector with speed _v_ , travel azimuth angle
> _ϕ~v~_ , elevation angle _θ~v~_ and is given by
, (8.4-31)
> _In case of LOS,_ the channel coefficient is calculated in the same way as
> in (8.4-27) except for n=1:
(8.4-32)
> where the corresponding delay (TOA) for cluster _n=1_ for a link between Rx
> antenna _u_ and Tx antenna _s_ is given by .
>
> In (8.4-27) and (8.4-32), the oxygen absorption loss, OL _~n,m~_(_f_), for
> each ray _m_ in cluster _n_ at carrier frequency _f_ is modelled as
OL _~n,m~_(_f_) = _α_(_f_)/1000 · _c_ · [dB] (8.4-33)
> where:
_\- α_(_f_) is the frequency dependent oxygen loss per distance (dB/km)
characterized in Clause 7.6.1;
\- _c_ is speed of light (m/s); and
\- is the delay (s) obtained from Step 3 for deterministic clusters and from
Step 5 for random clusters. is from the output of Step 3.
> In (8.4-27) and (8.4-32), blockage modelling is an add-on feature. If the
> blockage model is applied, the blockage loss, BL _~n,m~_(_f,t_) in unit of
> dB, for each ray _m_ in cluster _n_ at carrier frequency _f_ and time _t_ is
> modelled in the same way as given in Clause 7.6.4; otherwise BL
> _~n,m~_(_f,t_)=0dB for all _f_ and _t_.
###### ### Annex A: Further parameter definitions
## A.1 Calculation of angular spread
Based on the circular standard deviation in directional statistics, the
following expression for the angular spread AS in radians is proposed
(A-1)
where {width="0.29097222222222224in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} is the
power for the _m_ th subpath of the _n_ th path and
{width="0.29097222222222224in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} is the subpaths
angle (either AOA, AOD, ZOA, ZOD) given in radians.
## A.2 Calculation of mean angle
The power weighted mean angle is given by
(A-2)
where {width="0.29097222222222224in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} is the
power for the _m_ th subpath of the _n_ th path and
{width="0.29097222222222224in" height="0.25555555555555554in"} is the subpaths
angle (either AOA, AOD, ZOA, ZOD) given in radians.
#