# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
A number of services might be accessed over HTTP. For the Presence Service, it
shall be possible to manage the data on the Presence Server over the Ut
reference point, which is based on HTTP. Other services like conferencing,
messaging, push, etc. might be accessed using HTTP.
Access to services over HTTP can be done in a secure manner. The present
document describes how the access over HTTP can be secured using TLS in the
Generic Authentication Architecture.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies secure access methods to Network Application
Functions (NAF) using HTTP over TLS in the Generic Authentication Architecture
(GAA), and provides Stage 2 security requirements, principles and procedures
for the access. The present document describes both direct access to an
Application Server (AS) and access to an Application Server through an
Authentication Proxy (AP).
NOTE: Any application specific details for access to Applications Servers are
not in scope of this specification and are covered in separate documents. An
example of such a document is TS 33.141 [5], which specifies the security for
presence services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.250: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) group management\"; Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[4] Void
[5] 3GPP TS 33.141: \"Presence Service; Security\".
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] IETF RFC 2818 (2000): \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[10] Void
[11] Void
[12] Void
[13] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP network layer
security\".
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] 3GPP TS 33.221: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Support for
subscriber certificates\".
[17] Void.
[18] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network application
function interface (Ua); Protocol details\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA), Zh and Zn
Interface based on the Diameter protocol; Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[24] W3C Working Draft (Jan 22, 2013): \"HTML5.1 Nightly -- A vocabulary and
associated APIs for HTML and XHTML\", work in progress,
http://dev.w3.org/html5/spec/.
[25] IETF RFC 5929 (2010): \"Channel Bindings for TLS\".
[26] W3C Working Draft (Oct 20, 2011): \"File API\", work in progress,
http://www.w3.org/TR/FileAPI/.
[27] W3C Candidate Recommendation (Dec 8, 2011): \"Web Storage\", work in
progress, http://www.w3.org/TR/webstorage/
[28] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[29] IETF RFC 5705 (2010): \"Keying Material Exporters for Transport Layer
Security (TLS)\".
[30] IETF RFC 8446 (2018): \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol
Version 1.3\".
[31] IETF RFC 7235: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1):
Authentication\".
[32] IETF RFC 7616: \"HTTP Digest Access Authentication\".
[33] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [23] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[23].
**GBA web session:** A GBA web session consists of a sequence of related HTTP
request/response transactions together with some associated server-side state
with the following additional requirement: During a GBA web session, a NAF can
identify that the messages relate to the same individual GBA enabled terminal
and a particular browser instance running in that terminal. The lifetime of
the session is the lifetime of the Ks_js_NAF which is equal or shorter than
the Ks_NAF lifetime and it is also equal or shorter than the lifetime of the
TLS session, which was used to derive the Ks_js_NAF.
NOTE: The NAF and the UE may have to recalculate the key, when the TLS session
is re-established.
**HTML5:** HTML5 is a W3C specification [24] that defines the fifth major
revision of the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), the standard language for
describing the contents and appearance of Web pages.
**HTML FORM:** A HTML form is a section of a HTML document containing normal
content, markup, special elements called controls (checkboxes, radio buttons,
text fields, password fields, etc.) and labels on those controls. End users
generally \"complete\" a form on a web page by modifying its controls
(entering text, selecting radio buttons, etc.), before submitting the form to
an agent for processing (e.g., to a web server).**HTTPS:** For the purpose of
this document, HTTPS refers to the general concept securing the HTTP protocol
using TLS. In some contexts, like in the IETF, the term HTTPS is used to refer
to the reserved port number (443) for HTTP/TLS traffic.
**JavaScript:** JavaScript is a prototype-based scripting language that was
formalized in the ECMAScript language standard. JavaScript is primarily used
in the form of client-side JavaScript, implemented as part of a Web browser in
order to provide enhanced user interfaces and dynamic websites.
**Reverse Proxy:** A reverse proxy is a web server system that is capable of
serving web pages sourced from other web servers (AS), making these pages look
like they originated at the reverse proxy.
**Same origin policy:** Same origin policy is a security mechanism in a client
browser that permits webpage scripts to access their associated website's data
and methods but restricts its access to scripts and data stored by other
websites.
**Session management mechanism:** A mechanism for creating stateful sessions
when using the HTTP protocol.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AP Authentication Proxy
API Application Programming Interface
AS Application Server
B-TID Bootstrapping Transaction Identifier
BSF Bootstrapping Server Functionality
CA Certification Authority
DNS Domain Name System
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
HSS Home Subscriber System
HTML HyperText Markup Language
HTTP HypertTxt Transfer Protocol
HTTPS HTTP over TLS
IMPI IP Multimedia Private Identity
IMPU IP Multimedia Public Identity
ME Mobile Equipment
NAF Network Application Function
NAF_ID NAF identifier
TLS Transport Layer Security
UE User Equipment
URL Uniform Resource Locator
# 4 Overview of the Security Architecture
The overall security architecture conforms to the architecture defined in TS
33.220 [3]. Details of the solution with an authentication proxy are given in
clause 6.
# 5 Authentication schemes
## 5.1 Reference model
Figure 1 shows a network model of the entities that utilize the bootstrapped
secrets, and the reference points used between them.
Figure 1: High level reference model for NAF using a bootstrapping service
## 5.2 General requirements and principles
This document is based on the architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3]. All
notions not explained here can be found in TS 33.220 [3]. For the purposes of
the present document Ks_(ext)_NAF refers to the key shared between the UE and
a NAF. In the case of GBA_U, Ks_(ext)_NAF refers to Ks_ext_NAF, and in the
case of GBA_ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF refers to Ks_NAF. Ks_int_NAF refers to the key
shared between the UICC and a NAF.
The UE shall be able to indicate to the NAF which key (Ks_(ext)_NAF or
Ks_int_NAF) the UE intends to use to secure the HTTPS Ua reference point.
The subscriber\'s home operator shall be able to require that a certain key
(i.e., Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF) shall be used to secure the HTTPS access
between the UE and the NAF. This home operator control is exercised using USS.
### 5.2.1 Requirements on the UE
To utilise GBA as described in this document the UE shall be equipped with a
HTTPS capable client (e.g. browser) implementing the particular features of
GBA as specified in TS 33.220 [3].
The UE hosts the HTTPS client (i.e. both the HTTP client and the TLS client).
The HTTP client and TLS client either resides both in the ME or in the UICC.
The HTTPS client may reside in the ME or in the UICC or both might host an
HTTPS client independently of each other. When the HTTPS capable client to be
used is in the ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be used as the shared key between the UE
and the NAF. When the HTTPS capable client to be used is located in the UICC,
Ks_int_NAF shall be used as the shared key between the UE and the NAF.
### 5.2.2 Requirements on the NAF
To utilise GBA as described in this document the NAF shall support the
features of GBA as specified in TS 33.220 [3].
It shall be possible that the NAF is configured to restrict the access to the
service based on which key is used, (e.g., access is allowed only for those
HTTPS capable clients that reside in the UICC and use Ks_int_NAF). The key
selection indication given in the USS shall overrule the local policy of the
NAF.
NOTE: The support of GBA_U is optional for the NAF. However, as indicated in
TS 33.220 [3], the use of Ks_ext_NAF is supported by NAFs, which are GBA_U
unaware.
Additionally in the scope of this specification, HTTP and TLS shall be
supported by the NAF for the UE-NAF reference point (Ua).
## 5.3 Shared key-based UE authentication with certificate-based NAF
authentication
### 5.3.0 Procedures
The authentication mechanism described in this section for ME-based
application is mandatory to implement in ME and optional to implement in NAF.
The authentication mechanism described in this section for UICC-based
application is mandatory to implement in the UICC and optional to implement in
the NAF.
This section explains how the procedures specified in TS 33.220 [3] have to be
enhanced when HTTPS is used between a ME and a NAF or between the UICC and the
NAF. The following gives the complementary description with respect to the
procedure specified in clauses 4.5.3, 5.3.3, I.5.3 and M.6.4 of TS 33.220 [3].
This document specifies the logical information carried in some header fields.
The exact definition of header fields is part of TS 29.109 [19] and TS 24.109
[18]. In the text below, the HTTPS client can reside in the ME or in the UICC.
NOTE 0: It should be noted that the term \"GBA mode\" does not refer to used
bootstrapping mechanism, but it refers to NAF keys in the following way:\ \-
\"3GPP-bootstrapping\" and \"3gpp-gba\" refer to Ks_NAF from GBA_ME,
Ks_ext_NAF from GBA_U or Ks_NAF from 2G GBA;\ \- \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\"
and \"3gpp-gba-uicc\" refer to Ks_int_NAF from GBA_U;\ \- \"3GPP-
bootstrapping-digest\" and \"3gpp-gba-digest\" refer to Ks_NAF from
GBA_Digest.
1) When the HTTPS client starts communication via Ua reference point with the
NAF, it shall establish a TLS tunnel with the NAF. The NAF is authenticated to
the HTTPS client by means of a public key certificate. The HTTPS client shall
verify that the server certificate corresponds to the FQDN of the NAF it
established the tunnel with. No client authentication is performed as part of
TLS (no client certificate necessary).
2) The HTTPS client sends an HTTP request to the NAF inside the TLS tunnel
(HTTPS, i.e. HTTP over TLS). The HTTPS client shall indicate to the NAF that
GBA-based authentication is supported by adding one or more constant string(s)
to the \"User-Agent\" HTTP header as product tokens as specified in IETF RFC
7231 [33]. If the client supports AKA-based authentication the constant string
added shall be either \"3gpp-gba\" for ME-based applications or \"3gpp-gba-
uicc\" for UICC based applications. Or, if the client supports GBA_Digest it
shall add the constant string "3gpp-gba-digest" The UE shall send the hostname
of the NAF in \"Host\" HTTP header.
NOTE 1: The ability to send the hostname of the NAF is particularly necessary
if a NAF can be addressed using different hostnames, and the NAF cannot
otherwise discover what is the hostname that the HTTPS client used to contact
the NAF. The hostname is needed by the BSF during key derivation
NOTE 1a: Sending the product tokens in the HTTP request enables the
optimisation that the NAF can reject the request right away based on a
mismatch of GBA mode in the client and the NAF, cf. next step.
3) In response to the HTTP request received from HTTPS client over the Ua
reference point, the NAF shall invoke HTTP digest as specified in RFC 7235
[31] and RFC 7616 [32] with the HTTPS client in order to perform client
authentication using the shared key as specified in clauses 4.5.3 and 5.3.3 of
TS 33.220 [3].
> The NAF first verifies that the product tokens received in the HTTP request
> in step 2, if any, indicates a GBA mode acceptable to the NAF. If so, the
> NAF selects one acceptable GBA mode and includes the corresponding realm
> attribute within the WWW-Authenticate header field i.e. the realm attribute
> shall contain the constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" (in case \"3gpp-
> gba\" is the selected GBA mode ), or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" (in case
> \"3gpp-gba-uicc\" is the selected GBA mode ), or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-
> digest\" (in case \"3gpp-gba-digest\" is the selected GBA mode), and the
> FQDN of the NAF (for all cases) ., In the selection of the GBA mode by the
> NAF, AKA-based modes shall take priority over GBA_Digest.
>
> If the NAF has been configured to forbid the access to the service for all
> indicated GBA modes (e.g. the HTTP request contains \"3gpp-gba\" whilst the
> NAF configuration for this service requires that Ks_int_NAF shall be used)
> or if the NAF does not support any of the indicated GBA modes (e.g. when a
> NAF, which is GBA_U unaware receives an HTTP request with \"3gpp-gba-uicc\"
> in \"User-Agent\" HTTP header) then the NAF shall respond with the
> appropriate error code and terminate the TLS connection with the UE.
NOTE 1b: The use of MD5 in HTTP Digest is not recommended and only supported
for interoperability.
4) On receipt of the response from the NAF, the HTTPS client shall verify that
the FQDN in the realm attribute corresponds to the FQDN of the NAF it
established the TLS connection with. On failure the HTTPS client shall
terminate the TLS connection with the NAF.Furthermore, if no key Ks
corresponding to the GBA mode indicated by the NAF in step 3 is available in
the UE the UE shall perform a run of the Ub protocol with the BSF for the
corresponding GBA mode. If no such key Ks can be obtained the UE shall abandon
the GBA-based authentication.
5) In the following request to NAF the HTTPS client sends a response with an
Authorization header field where Digest is inserted using the B-TID as
username.The NAF-specific key (Ks_(ext)_NAF in the case of ME-based
application (including GBA_Digest) or Ks_int_NAF in the case of UICC-based
application) is used as password in the Digest calculation.
6) On receipt of this request the NAF shall verify the value of the password
attribute by means of the NAF-specific key (Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF)
retrieved from BSF over Zn using the B-TID received as user name attribute in
the query.
> If the NAF has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the NAF that the
> Ks_int_NAF shall be used for HTTPS, then the NAF shall only accept the use
> of Ks_int_NAF as the NAF specific key. Therefore, if the Ks_(ext)_NAF was
> used as the NAF specific key with the HTTPS client, then the NAF shall
> respond with the appropriate error code and terminate the TLS connection
> with the UE. For information on usage of USS see Annex J in TS 33.220 [3].
>
> If the NAF is not able to obtain any NAF-specific key from the BSF the NAF
> shall respond with an appropriate error message not containing the realm
> attributes from step 3.
NOTE 1b: The last sentence in step 6 captures a failure case where both the ME
and NAF support GBA, but the NAF cannot communicate with the BSF, e.g. for
lack of commercial agreements. This allows UE and NAF to proceed with a
different authentication scheme, if available.
7) After the completion of step 6), UE and NAF are mutually authenticated as
the TLS tunnel endpoints.
NOTE 2: RFC 7616 [31] mandates in section 3.6 that all further HTTP requests
to the same realm must contain the Authorization request header field,
otherwise the server has to send a new \"401 Unauthorized\" with a new WWW-
Authenticate header. In principle it is not necessary to send an Authorization
header in each new HTTP request for security reasons as long as the TLS tunnel
exists, but this would not conform to RFC 7616 [31].
> In addition, there may be problems with the lifetime of a TLS session, as
> the TLS session may time-out at unpredictable (at least for the UE) times,
> so any request sent by UE can be the first request inside a newly
> established TLS tunnel requiring the NAF to re-check user credentials.
It shall be possible for the AP/AS to request a re-authentication of an active
UE using a bootstrapping renegotiation request, see clauses 4.5.3, 5.3.3,
I.5.3 and M.6.4 of TS 33.220 [13].
### 5.3.1 TLS profile
#### 5.3.1.0 General
The UE and the NAF shall support TLS and TLS Extensions according to the TLS
profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E.
Support of certificate revocation and of the related fields in certificates is
optional. If supported, the certificate and CRL profiles in clause 6.1 and
6.1a of TS 33.310 [20] should be followed.
NOTE 1: The management of Root Certificates is out of scope of this Technical
Specification.
The UE and the NAF shall support the server_name TLS extension. All other TLS
extensions are optional for implementation.
NOTE 2: If the NAF is doing virtual name based hosting (e.g. in the case of
authentication proxy, see Annex A), the NAF needs to either have a TLS server
certificate that contains all the hostnames that the NAF can be addressed with
(i.e. virtual hostnames), or have one TLS server certificate for each of the
hostnames mentioned above. In the latter case, the server_name extension is
needed because the NAF needs to be able to select the correct TLS server
certificate.
#### 5.3.1.1 Protection mechanisms
The rules on allowed and mandatory ciphersuites are given in TS 33.310 [20],
Annex E .
#### 5.3.1.2 Void
#### 5.3.1.3 Authentication of the AP/AS
The AP/AS is authenticated by the Client by use of a server certificate. The
client shall match the server name as specified in RFC 2818 [9] section 3.1.
The AP/AS certificate profile shall comply with the requirements for TLS
certificates in clause 6.1 of TS 33.310 [20].
#### 5.3.1.4 Authentication Failures
If the UE receives a Server Hello Message from the AP/AS that requests a
Certificate then the UE shall respond with a Certificate Message containing no
Certificate if it does not have a certificate. The AP/AS upon receiving this
message may respond with a failure alert, however if the AP/AS shall
authenticate the UE as configured by the policy of the operator the AP/AS
should continue the dialogue and assume that the UE will be authenticated as
specified in TS 33.220 [13].
If there is no response within a given time limit from a network initiated re-
authentication request an authentication failure has occurred after that the
request has been attempted for a limited number of times. This failure can be
due to several reasons, e.g. that the UE has powered off or due to that the
message was lost due to a bad radio channel. The AP/AS shall then still assume
that if a TLS session is still valid that it can be re-used by the UE at a
later time. Should then the UE re-use an existing session then the AP/AS shall
re-authenticate the UE and not give access to the AP/AS unless the
authentication was successful.
#### 5.3.1.5 Set-up of Security parameters
In TLS 1.2, the TLS Handshake Protocol negotiates a session, which is
identified by a Session ID. The Client and the AP/AS shall allow for resuming
a session. This facilitates that a Client and Server may resume a previous
session or duplicate an existing session. The lifetime of a Session ID is
maximum 24 hours. The Session ID shall only be used under its lifetime and
shall be considered by both the Client and the Server as obsolete when the
Lifetime has expired.
In TLS 1.3, the Client can only intiate resumption if the Server has sent a
NewSessionTicket Post-Handshake message. Each received ticket has a lifetime,
and the client may attempt resumption as long as it has a valid ticket.
#### 5.3.1.6 Error cases
The AP/AS shall consider the following cases as a fatal error:
\- if the received ciphersuites do not comply with the TLS profile.
## 5.4 Shared key-based mutual authentication between UE and NAF
### 5.4.0 Procedures
#### 5.4.0.0 General
The authentication mechanism described in this clause for ME-based application
is optional to implement in ME and NAF.
The authentication mechanism described in this section for UICC-based
application is optional to implement in UICC and NAF.
The HTTP client and server may authenticate each other based on the shared key
generated during the bootstrapping procedure. The shared key shall be used as
a master key to generate TLS session keys, and also be used as the proof of
secret key possession as part of the TLS authentication function. The usage of
Pre-Shared Key authentication in Transport Layer Security (TLS) is specified
in the TLS profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E.
This section explains how a GBA-based shared secret that is established
between the UE and the BSF as specified in TS 33.220 [3] is used with Pre-
Shared Key (PSK) authentication in TLS according to the TLS profile given in
TS 33.310 [20], Annex E. The HTTPS client may reside in the ME or in the UICC.
In former case, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be used to establish the TLS session keys.
In latter case, Ks_int_NAF shall be used to establish the TLS session keys.
NOTE 0: It should be noted that the term \"GBA mode\" does not refer to used
bootstrapping mechanism, but it refers to NAF keys in the following way:\ \-
\"3GPP-bootstrapping\" and \"3gpp-gba\" refer to Ks_NAF from GBA_ME,
Ks_ext_NAF from GBA_U or Ks_NAF from 2G GBA;\ \- \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\"
and \"3gpp-gba-uicc\" refer to Ks_int_NAF from GBA_U;\ \- \"3GPP-
bootstrapping-digest\" and \"3gpp-gba-digest\" refer to Ks_NAF from
GBA_Digest.
#### 5.4.0.1 TLS 1.2
1\. When an UE contacts a NAF, it may indicate to the NAF that it supports
PSK-based TLS by adding one or more PSK-based ciphersuites to the ClientHello
message. The UE shall include ciphersuites other than PSK-based ciphersuites
in the ClientHello message. The UE shall send the hostname of the NAF using
the server_name extension to the ClientHello message according to TLS
extensions.
NOTE 1: The ability to send the hostname of the NAF is particularly necessary
if a NAF can be addressed using different hostnames, and the NAF cannot
otherwise discover what is the hostname that the UE used to contact the NAF.
The hostname is needed by the BSF during key derivation.
NOTE 2: When the UE adds one or more PSK-based ciphersuites to the ClientHello
message, this can be seen as an indication that the UE supports PSK-based TLS.
If the UE supports PSK-based ciphersuites but not GBA-based authentication,
the TLS handshake will fail if the NAF selected the PSK-based ciphersuite and
suggested to use GBA (as described in step 2). In this case, the UE should
attempt to establish the TLS tunnel with the NAF without including PSK-based
ciphersuites to the CientHello message, according to the procedure specified
in clause 5.3. This note does not limit the use of PSK TLS to HTTP-based
services.
2\. If the NAF is willing to establish a TLS tunnel using a PSK-based
ciphersuite, it shall select one of the PSK-based ciphersuites offered by the
UE, and send the selected ciphersuite to the UE in the ServerHello message.
> The NAF shall send the ServerKeyExchange message with a list of PSK-identity
> hints. A constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" is used as PSK-identity hint
> to indicate the local configuration in the NAF i.e. that the NAF accepts
> that AKA-based Ks_(ext)_NAF is used establish the TLS session keys. A
> constant string \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" is used as PSK-identity hint to
> indicate that the local configuration in the NAF accepts that Ks_int_NAF is
> used to establish the TLS sessions keys. A constant string \"3GPP-
> bootstrapping-digest\" is used as PSK-identity hint to indicate that the
> local configuration in the NAF accepts that GBA_Digest-based Ks_NAF is used
> to establish the TLS sessions keys. One of these PSK-identity hints shall be
> present in the ServerKeyExchange message, and it shall indicate the GBA as
> the required authentication method. If the local configuration in the NAF
> allows several authentication methods to be used to access its service then
> the ServerKeyExchange message shall include the PSK-identity hints for all
> allowed authentication methods. Also other PSK-identity hints may be
> supported, however, they are out of the scope of this specification. The NAF
> finishes the reply to the UE by sending a ServerHelloDone message.
NOTE 3: If the NAF does not wish to establish a TLS tunnel using a PSK-based
ciphersuite, it shall select a non-PSK-based ciphersuite and continue TLS
tunnel establishment based on the procedure described either in clause 5.3 or
clause 5.5.
3\. The UE shall use a GBA-based shared secret for PSK TLS, if the NAF has
sent a ServerHello message containing a PSK-based ciphersuite, and a
ServerKeyExchange message containing at least one of the constant strings
\"3GPP-bootstrapping\", \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\", or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-
digest\" as the PSK identity hint. If the UE does not have a valid GBA-based
shared secret it shall obtain one by running the bootstrapping procedure with
the BSF over the Ub reference point as specified in TS 33.220 [3].
If the HTTPS client resides in the ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be used as the GBA
shared key. If the HTTPS client resides in the UICC, Ks_int_NAF shall be used
as the GBA shared key. In the selection of the GBA mode by the UE, AKA-based
modes shall take priority over GBA_Digest.
The UE derives the TLS premaster secret from the NAF specific key
(Ks_(ext)_NAF if the initiating HTTPS client resides on the ME or Ks_int_NAF
if the initiating HTTP client resides on the UICC).
The UE shall send a ClientKeyExchange message. The PSK identity in the
ClientKeyExchange message shall include a prefix indicating the PSK-identity
name space that was selected (i.e. \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\", \"3GPP-
bootstrapping\", or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-digest\"), and the B-TID. The prefix
shall match one of the PSK-identity hints that NAF offered in
ServerKeyExchange message. The precise format of the PSK identity is specified
in TS 24.109 [18]. The UE concludes the TLS handshake by sending the
ChangeCipherSuite and Finished messages to the NAF.
4\. If the NAF receives the \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" prefix and the B-TID in the
ClientKeyExchange messages it fetches the NAF specific shared secret
(Ks_(ext)_NAF) from the BSF using the B-TID, else if the NAF receives the
\"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" prefix and the B-TID in the ClientKeyExchange
messages it fetches the NAF specific shared secret (Ks_int_NAF) from the BSF
using the B-TID. If the NAF receives the \"3GPP-bootstrapping-digest\" prefix
and the B-TID in the ClientKeyExchange messages it shall indicate to the BSF
that GBA_Digest is acceptable.
> If the NAF has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the NAF that only
> the Ks_int_NAF shall be allowed, then the NAF shall only accept the
> Ks_int_NAF as the NAF specific key. If the Ks_(ext)_NAF was used as the NAF
> specific key, the NAF shall respond with the appropriate error code and
> terminate the TLS connection with the UE.
The NAF derives the TLS premaster secret from the NAF specific key
(Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF).
The NAF concludes the TLS handshake by sending the ChangeCipherSuite and
Finished messages to the UE.
The UE and the NAF have established a TLS tunnel using GBA-based shared
secret, and then may start to use the application level communication through
this tunnel.
#### 5.4.0.2 TLS 1.3
1\. When a UE contacts a NAF, it may indicate to the NAF that it supports TLS
with PSK authentication in the ClientHello message. The UE shall indicate
support of authentication methods other than PSK in the ClientHello message.
The UE shall send the hostname of the NAF using the server_name extension to
the ClientHello message according to TLS extensions.
The UE shall use a GBA-based shared secret for TLS with PSK authentication. If
the UE does not have a valid GBA-based shared secret it shall obtain one by
running the bootstrapping procedure with the BSF over the Ub reference point
as specified in TS 33.220 [3].
The PSK identities in the ClientHello shall include prefixes indicating the
PSK-identity name space (i.e. \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\", \"3GPP-
bootstrapping\", or \"3GPP-bootstrapping-digest\"), and the B-TID. In
addition, for each of these included identifiers an additional PSK-identity
namespace is included to enable the request of a fresh bootstrapping is
desired, (i.e. if \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\", then \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc-
bootstrappingrequired\" is included and similarly for the other methods). The
precise format of the PSK identity is specified in TS 24.109 [18]. The prefix
\"3GPP-bootstrapping\" is used in the PSK-identity to indicate that the UE
accepts that AKA-based Ks_(ext)_NAF is used establish the TLS session keys.
The prefix \"3GPP-bootstrapping-uicc\" is used in the PSK-identity to indicate
that the UE accepts that Ks_int_NAF is used to establish the TLS sessions
keys. The prefix \"3GPP-bootstrapping-digest\" is used in the PSK-identity to
indicate that the UE accepts that GBA_Digest-based Ks_NAF is used to establish
the TLS sessions keys. One of these prefixes shall be present in the
ClientHello message, and it shall indicate the GBA as the required
authentication method. The ClientHello message shall include prefixes for the
authentication methods the UE supports. Also, other PSK-identity prefixes may
be supported, however, they are out of the scope of this specification.
If the HTTPS client resides in the ME, Ks_(ext)_NAF shall be used as the GBA
shared key. If the HTTPS client resides in the UICC, Ks_int_NAF shall be used
as the GBA shared key. In the selection of the GBA mode by the UE, AKA-based
modes shall take priority over GBA_Digest.
The UE derives the TLS external PSK from the NAF specific key (Ks_(ext)_NAF if
the initiating HTTPS client resides on the ME or Ks_int_NAF if the initiating
HTTP client resides on the UICC).
NOTE 0: It is necessary for the UE to know the Ua security protocol identifier
to derive the Ks_(ext)_NAF or Ks_int_NAF before sending the ClientHello
message. Hence TLS 1.3 uses a fixed Ua security protocol identifier (see TS
33.220 [3]) that is independent of the ciphersuite that would be determined in
the later stage of the TLS protocol.
NOTE 1: The ability to send the hostname of the NAF is particularly necessary
if a NAF can be addressed using different hostnames, and the NAF cannot
otherwise discover what is the hostname that the UE used to contact the NAF.
The hostname is needed by the BSF during key derivation.
NOTE 2: If the UE supports PSK authentication but not GBA-based
authentication, the TLS handshake will fail if the NAF selected PSK
authentication and suggested to use GBA (as described in step 2). In this
case, the UE should attempt to establish the TLS tunnel with the NAF without
including indicating support of PSK authentication in the ClientHello message,
according to the procedure specified in clause 5.3. This note does not limit
the use of PSK authenticated TLS to HTTP-based services.
2\. If the NAF wants the UE to perform a new bootstrapping for a particular
method, the NAF shall indicate the index of the bootstrapping required of the
selected psk identity in the ServerHello message. The UE shall treat this
ServerHello message as a HelloRetryRequest (see RFC 8446 [30]) and shall
perform a new bootstrapping run for the indicated bootstrapping method. Once
the bootstrapping is completed, the UE shall send a new ClientHello including
only the PSK-identity name space of the chosen bootstrapping method and the
new B-TID.
If the NAF is willing to establish a TLS tunnel using PSK authentication (in
response to either the original ClientHello or the one sent after a fresh
bootstrapping), it shall select one of the psk identities and indicate the
index of the selected psk identity in the ServerHello message.
If the NAF receives the \"3GPP-bootstrapping\" prefix and the B-TID in the
ClientHello messages it fetches the NAF specific shared secret (Ks_(ext)_NAF)
from the BSF using the B-TID, else if the NAF receives the \"3GPP-
bootstrapping-uicc\" prefix and the B-TID in the ClientHello message it
fetches the NAF specific shared secret (Ks_int_NAF) from the BSF using the
B-TID. If the NAF receives the \"3GPP-bootstrapping-digest\" prefix and the
B-TID in the ClientHello message it shall indicate to the BSF that GBA_Digest
is acceptable.
If the NAF has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the NAF that only the
Ks_int_NAF shall be allowed, then the NAF shall only accept the Ks_int_NAF as
the NAF specific key. If the Ks_(ext)_NAF was used as the NAF specific key,
the NAF shall respond with the appropriate error code and terminate the TLS
connection with the UE.
The NAF derives the TLS external PSK from the NAF specific key (Ks_(ext)_NAF
or Ks_int_NAF).
NOTE 3: If the NAF does not wish to establish a TLS tunnel using a PSK-based
authentication, it shall select non-PSK-based authentication and continue TLS
tunnel establishment based on the procedure described either in clause 5.3 or
clause 5.5.
After the UE has sent the Finished message and the NAF has received the
Finished message from the UE, they may start to use the application level
communication through this tunnel.
### 5.4.1 TLS Profile
#### 5.4.1.0 General
If the PSK TLS based authentication mechanism is supported, the HTTPS client
in the UE or the NAF shall support the TLS version, PSK Ciphersuites and TLS
Extensions as specified in the TLS profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E.
The HTTPS client in the UE and the NAF shall support the server_name TLS
extension. All other TLS extensions are optional for implementation.
NOTE: If the NAF is doing virtual name based hosting (e.g. in the case of
authentication proxy, see Annex A), the NAF needs to be able to discover the
correct server name to indicate the correct NAF_ID to the BSF. Otherwise the
BSF is not able to derive the correct NAF specific keys.
#### 5.4.1.1 Protection mechanisms
The same requirements as in clause 5.3.1.1 of the present document shall
apply.
#### 5.4.1.2 Authentication of the AP/AS
The AP/AS is authenticated by the Client according to PSK TLS as specified in
Annex E of TS 33.310 [20].
#### 5.4.1.3 Authentication Failures
If there is no response within a given time limit from a network initiated re-
authentication request an authentication failure has occurred after that the
request has been attempted for a limited number of times. This failure can be
due to several reasons, e.g. that the UE has powered off or due to that the
message was lost due to a bad radio channel. The AP/AS shall then still assume
that if a TLS session is still valid that it can be re-used by the UE at a
later time. Should then the UE re-use an existing session then the AP/AS shall
re-authenticate the UE and not give access to the AP/AS unless the
authentication was successful.
If the AP/AS, acting as NAF, has requested a USS, and the USS indicates to the
NAF that only the Ks_int_NAF shall be allowed, then the NAF shall only accept
the Ks_int_NAF as the NAF specific key therefore if the Ks_(ext)_NAF was used
as the NAF specific key, then the NAF shall respond with the appropriate error
code and terminate the TLS connection with the UE.
#### 5.4.1.4 Set-up of Security parameters
[In TLS 1.2, t]{.underline}he TLS Handshake Protocol negotiates a session,
which is identified by a Session ID. The Client and the AP/AS shall allow for
resuming a session. This facilitates that a Client and Server may resume a
previous session or duplicate an existing session. The lifetime of a Session
ID is the lifetime of the GAA shared secret or maximum of 24 hours. The
Session ID shall only be used under its lifetime and shall be considered by
both the Client and the Server as obsolete when the Lifetime has expired.
[In TLS 1.3, the Client can only initiate resumption if the Server has sent a
NewSessionTicket Post-Handshake message. Each received ticket has a lifetime,
and the client may attempt resumption as long as it has a valid
ticket.]{.underline}
## 5.5 Certificate based mutual authentication between UE and application
server
### 5.5.1 General
The authentication mechanism described in this section is optional to
implement in UE and AS.
The certificate based mutual authentication between an UE and an application
server shall be based on TLS and TLS Extensions as specified in the TLS
profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E.
Annex B of this specification provides guidance on certificate mutual
authentication between UE and application server.
### 5.5.2 TLS Profile
#### 5.5.2.1 General
The UE and the AS shall support TLS and TLS Extensions according to the TLS
profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E.
Support of certificate revocation and of the related fields in certificates is
optional. If supported, the certificate and CRL profiles in clause 6.1 and
6.1a of TS 33.310 [20] should be followed.
NOTE 1: The management of Root Certificates is out of scope of this Technical
Specification.
The UE and the AS shall support the server_name TLS extension. All other TLS
extensions are optional for implementation.
NOTE 2: If the AS is doing virtual name base hosting (e.g. in the case of
authentication proxy, see Annex A) the AS needs to either have a TLS server
certificate that contains all the host names that the AS can be addressed with
(i.e. virtual hostnames), or have one TLS server certificate for each of the
hostnames mentioned above. In the latter case, the server_name extension is
needed because the AS needs to be able to select the correct TLS server
certificate.
#### 5.5.2.2 Protection mechanisms
The same requirements as in clause 5.3.1.1 of the present document apply.
#### 5.5.2.3 void
# 6 Use of Authentication Proxy
An Authentication Proxy (AP) is an HTTP proxy which takes the role of a NAF
for the UE. It handles the TLS security relation with the UE and relieves the
application server (AS) of this task. Based on GBA the AP can assure the ASs
that the request is coming from an authorized subscriber of the MNO.
## 6.1 Architectural view
Figure 2: Environment and reference points of AP
The use of an authentication proxy (AP) is fully compatible with the
architecture specified in TS 33.220 [3] and in clauses 4 and 5 of this
specification. When an AP is used in this architecture, the AP takes the role
of a NAF. When an HTTPS request is destined towards an application server (AS)
behind an AP, the AP terminates the TLS tunnel and performs UE authentication.
The AP proxies the HTTP requests received from UE to one or many application
servers. The AP may add an assertion of identity of the subscriber for use by
the AS, when the AP forwards the request from the UE to the AS.
NOTE: As an example, the following condition allows accessing multiple
application servers AS(s) through one shared TLS tunnel (over the Ua
interface) AS~n~ hostname = AP hostname = NAF_ID (e.g.:
_services.operator.com_). There might be alternative ways to access multiple
ASs behind an AP.
Figure 3 presents an architectural view of using Authentication Proxy, for
example, for IMS SIP based services. The UE shall manipulate own data such as
groups, through the Ua/Ut reference point. The reference point Ut specified in
TS 23.002 [1] shall be applicable to data manipulation of IMS based SIP
services, such as Presence, Messaging and Conferencing services. The stage 1
requirements are specified in TS 22.250 [2].
Figure 3: The architectural view using Authentication Proxy for IMS SIP based
services
Management of UE identities is described in clause 6.5.
Annex A contains further guidance on technical solutions for authentication
proxies.
## 6.2 Requirements and principles
The authentication proxy may reside between the UE and the AS as depicted in
figure 2. The usefulness of an Authentication Proxy may be to reduce the
consumption of authentication vectors and/or to minimize SQN synchronization
failures. Also the AP relieves the AS of security tasks.
The following requirements apply for the use of an Authentication Proxy:
\- authentication proxy shall be able to authenticate the UE using the means
of Generic Bootstrapping Architecture, as specified in TS 33.220 [3];
\- if the application server requires an authenticated identity of the UE the
authentication proxy shall send it to the application server belonging to the
trust domain with every HTTP request;
\- if required, the authentication proxy may not reveal the authenticated
identity of the UE to the application server not belonging to the trust
domain;
\- the authenticated identity management mechanism shall not prevent the
application server to use an appropriate session management mechanisms with
the client;
\- the UE shall be able to create multiple parallel HTTP sessions via the
authentication proxy towards different application servers;
NOTE 1: The used session management mechanism is out of the scope of 3GPP
specifications.
NOTE 2: One motivation for having AP between UE and AS\'s is to minimize the
number of TLS connections. However, there are situations when UE and AP may
end-up having parallel TLS connections, e.g. if two applications in the UE are
not able to share the same TLS connection.
\- implementation of check of asserted user identity in the AS is optional;
\- activation of transfer of asserted user identity shall be configurable in
the AP on a per AS basis.
The use of an authentication proxy should be such that there is no need to
manage the authentication proxy configuration in the UE.
NOTE 3: This requirement implies that the authentication proxy should be a
reverse proxy in the following sense: A reverse proxy is a web server system
that is capable of serving web pages sourced from other web servers - in
addition to web pages on disk or generated dynamically by CGI - making these
pages look like they originated at the reverse proxy.
## 6.4 Reference points
### 6.4.1 Ua reference point
The Ua reference point is standardised in specification TS 33.220 [3] and in
clauses 4 and 5 of this specification.
NOTE: The optional introduction of an AP has advantages which are stated
elsewhere. However, the following consequences should be taken into account to
decide whether an AP is to be used:
\- The AP terminates TLS and HTTP digest. This relieves the AS of the burden
to handle TLS and HTTP digest, but it should be noted that then the UE is not
able to establish an additional end-to-end TLS tunnel to the AS, nor can the
UE additionally authenticates itself to AS by use of client authentication
within TLS. Furthermore, if GBA authentication uses HTTP Digest
Authentication, then the UE cannot use Basic or Digest Authentication directly
with AS.
### 6.4.2 AP-AS reference point
The HTTP protocol is run over the AP-AS reference point.
Confidentiality and integrity protection can be provided for the reference
point between the AP and the AS using NDS/IP mechanisms as specified in TS
33.210 [13]. For traffic between different security domains, the Za reference
point shall be operated. For traffic inside a security domain, it is up to the
operator to decide whether to deploy the Zb reference point. As AP terminates
the TLS tunnel from UE, also a TLS tunnel is possible.
The AP may support the transfer of an identity of the UE authenticated by the
AP from AP to AS in a standardised format. The format of this information
element in the HTTP request header is left to stage 3 specifications.
## 6.5 Management of UE identity
Different ASs need different kinds of authentication information. To support
the requirements of different servers, the AP needs to perform authentication
with varying granularity and with varying degree of assertion to the AS. The
authentication and the corresponding assertion is therefore AS specific and
has to be configured in the AP per AS.
### 6.5.1 Granularity of Authentication and Access Control by AP
The AP is configured per AS if the particular application or applications
served by the AS is in need of an application specific user security setting,
see definitions in TS 33.220 [3]. This user security setting may contain the
public user identities in the authentication part of the USS. The
authorisation part of the USS may contain indications, which of the
applications residing on the AP, and the Application Servers behind the AP, a
user is allowed to access.
NOTE: There are two ways of implementing application specific user security
settings (USS). One can either assign a GSID (GAA Service Identifier) to each
application and store multiple USS in the BSF/HSS or one can assign a GSID to
the AP and store a single USS in the BSF/HSS. In the latter case the USS
contains identity and authorization information for all the ASs/applications
served by the AP. Unless indicated otherwise, the term \"application specific
user security settings\" refers to both implementation options.
#### 6.5.1.1 Authorised Participant of GBA
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised participant of GBA. Access is
granted on success of the basic GBA mechanism, i.e. the HTTPS client in the UE
sends a valid B-TID and performs digest authentication with the NAF specific
keys received from BSF.
The AP is configured not to request an application specific user security
setting from BSF for the AS named in the request. Depending on configuration
of BSF the AP may receives the private user identity (IMPI) from BSF.
This case shall be supported by AP.
NOTE: This case may apply when all subscribers of an operator, but no other
users, are allowed access to operator defined services. The BSF may not send
the IMPI out of privacy considerations or because the AP does not need it. If
the BSF does not send the IMPI to the AP, the user remains anonymous towards
the AP; or more precisely, the B-TID functions as a temporary user pseudonym.
#### 6.5.1.2 Authorised User of Application
The AP is configured to request an application specific user security setting
from the BSF. Depending on the policy of the BSF, the AP receives the
application specific user security setting and the private user identity
(IMPI) from the BSF. Access is granted if allowed according to the application
specific user security setting received from BSF.
The AP may do further checks on user inserted identities in the HTTP request
if required according to clause 6.5.2.4.
This case shall be supported by AP.
NOTE: If there is no application specific user security setting configured for
an application, this case reduces to authentication according to clause
6.5.1.1.
### 6.5.2 Transfer of Asserted Identity from AP to AS
The AP is configured per AS to perform authentication and access control
according to one of the following subclauses: if required in the subclause,
the user identity is transferred to AS in every HTTP request proxied to AS.
#### 6.5.2.1 Authorised Participant of GBA
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised participant of GBA. If the
authentication of the UE by the AP fails, the AP does not forward the request
of the UE to the AS.
This case shall be supported by AP.
NOTE: This case simply implies that the NAF checks that the user is known to,
and has established a valid key, with the BSF, according to the GBA procedures
described in TS 33.220 [3].
#### 6.5.2.2 Authorised User of Application Anonymous to AS
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised user of the application according
to application specific user security setting received from BSF. No user
identity shall be transferred to AS.
This case shall be supported by AP.
#### 6.5.2.3 Authorised User of Application with Transferred Identity asserted
to AS
The AP checks that the UE is an authorised user of the application. The user
identity (or user identities) received from the BSF shall be transferred to
AS. Based on AS-specific configuration of the AP, any authorization flags
existing in application-specfic user security settings shall also be
transferred to AS.
Depending on the application specific user security setting and the AS-
specific configuration of the AP, the transferred user identity (or
identities) may be the private user identity (IMPI), or may be taken from the
application specific user security setting (e.g. an IMPU), or may be a
pseudonym chosen by AP (e.g. Random, B-TID).
This case may be supported by AP.
NOTE 1: If the AP is configured to transfer a pseudonym to AS, any binding of
this pseudonym to the user identity (e.g. for charging purposes by AS) is out
of scope of this specification.
NOTE 2: If the AP is configured not to request an application specific user
security setting from BSF, only the private user identity (IMPI) or a
pseudonym may be transferred to AS. In this case any authorised participant of
GBA is supposed to be an authorised user of the application.
#### 6.5.2.4 Authorised User of Application with Transferred Identity asserted
to AS and Check of User Inserted Identity
This case resembles clause 6.5.2.3 with the following extension:
Based on the user identity received from BSF, the AP authenticates user
related identity information elements as sent from UE. These \"user inserted
identities\" may occur within header fields or within the body of the HTTP
request.
Depending on application specific user security setting and AS-specific
configuration of AP, all user-inserted identities (or a subset thereof) are
authenticated by checking against the private user identity (IMPI) or the
application specific user security setting.
Depending on the application specific user security setting and the AS-
specific configuration of AP, the transferred user identity (or identities)
may also be selected from the authenticated user inserted identities.
This case may be supported by AP.
NOTE 1: If AP authenticates certain or all user related identity information
elements of a request, and the AS shall rely on the check of these elements,
then a corresponding policy between the AP and the AS needs to be in place
between the AP and the AS.
NOTE 2: Any application specific details are beyond the scope of this document
and may be specified within the application, e.g. for Presence in TS 33.141
[5]. This specification does not preclude that any other application specific
specifications (e.g. Presence) declare this feature as mandatory in their
scope.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Technical Solutions for Access to Application
Servers via Authentication Proxy and HTTPS
This annex gives some guidance on the technical solution for authentication
proxies so as to help avoid misconfigurations. An authentication proxy acts as
reverse proxy which serves web pages (and other content) sourced from other
web servers (AS) making these pages look like they originated at the proxy.
To access different hosts with different DNS names on one server (in this case
the proxy) the concept of virtual hosts was created.
One solution when running HTTPS is to associate each host name with a
different IP address (IP based virtual hosts). This can be achieved by the
machine having several physical network connections, or by use of virtual
interfaces which are supported by most modern operating systems (frequently
called \"_ip aliases_ \"). This solution uses up one IP address per AS and it
does not allow the notion of \"one TLS tunnel from UE to AP-NAF\" for all
applications behind a NAF together.
If it is desired to use one IP address only or if \"one TLS tunnel for all\"
is required, only the concept of name-based virtual hosts is applicable.
Together with HTTPS, however, this creates problems, necessitating workarounds
which may deviate from standard behaviour of proxies and/or browsers.
Workarounds, which affect the UE and are not generally supported by browsers,
may cause interoperability problems. Other workarounds may impose restrictions
on the attached application servers.
To access virtual hosts where different servers with different DNS names are
co-located on AP, either of the solutions could be used to identify the host
during the handshaking phase:
\- TLS Extensions are specified in IETF, cf. Annex E of TS 33.310 [20]. TLS
Extensions support the UE to indicate a virtual host that it intends to
connect in the very initial TLS handshaking message (see clause 5.3.1);
\- The other alternative is to issue a multiple-identities certificate for the
AP. The certificate will contain identities of AP as well as each server that
rely on AP\'s proxy function. The verification of this type of certificate is
specified in RFC 2818 [9].
Either approach may be chosen by the operator who operates the authentication
proxy.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Guidance on Certificate-based mutual
authentication between UE and application server
This section explains how subscriber certificates (see TS 33.221 [16]) are
used in certificate-based mutual authentication between a UE and an
application server. The certificate-based mutual authentication between a UE
and an application server shall be based on TLS as specified in the TLS and
TLS Extensions profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex E.
When a UE and an application server (AS) want to mutually authenticate each
other based on certificates, the UE has previously enrolled a subscriber
certificate as specified in TS 33.221 [16]. After UE is in the possession of
the subscriber certificate it may establish a TLS tunnel with the AS as
specified in the TLS and TLS Extensions profile given in TS 33.310 [20], Annex
E.
The AS may indicate to the UE, that it supports client certificate-based
authentication by sending a CertificateRequest message during the TLS
handshake. This message includes a list of certificate types and a list of
acceptable certificate authorities. The AS may indicate to the UE that it
supports subscriber certificate-based authentication if the list of acceptable
certificate authorities includes the certification authority of the subscriber
certificate (i.e. the operator\'s CA certificate).
The UE may continue with the subscriber certificate-based authentication if
the list of acceptable certificate authorities includes the certification
authority of the subscriber certificate. This is done by sending the
subscriber certificate as the Certificate message during the TLS handshake. If
the list of acceptable certificate authorities does not include the
certification authority of the subscriber certificate, then UE shall send a
Certificate message that does not contain any certificates.
NOTE 1: Due to the short lifetime of the subscriber certificate, the usage of
the subscriber certificate does not require on-line interaction between the AS
and the PKI portal that issued the certificate.
If the AS receives a Certificate message that does not contain any
certificates, it can continue the TLS handshake in two ways:
\- if subscriber certificate-based authentication is mandatory according to
the AS\'s security policy, it shall response with a fatal handshake failure
alert, or
\- if subscriber certificate-based authentication is optional according to
AS\'s security policy, AS shall continue with TLS handshake.
In the latter case, if the AS has NAF functionality, the NAF may authenticate
the UE as specified in clause 5.3 of the present specification, where after
establishing the server-authenticated TLS tunnel, the procedure continues from
step 4.
NOTE 2: In order to successfully establish a TLS tunnel between the UE and the
AS using certificates for mutual authentication, the UE must have the root
certificate of the AS\'s certificate in the UE\'s certificate store, and the
AS must have the root certificate of the UE\'s subscriber certificate (i.e.
operator\'s CA certificate) in the AS\'s certificate store. The root
certificate is the root of the certification path, and should be marked
trusted in the UE and the AS.
NOTE 3: In order to enable access to an AS in a visited network with
subscriber certificates requires that the AS has the CA certificate of
subscriber\'s home operator and it is marked trusted in the visited AS. The
procedure to do this is outside the scope of this specification.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Considerations for GBA security using a web
browser and Javascript
# C.1 Usage Scenario
End user wants to use some service provider's services (e.g., an operator),
and the service provider wants to use GBA to authenticate the user.
1) End user opens web browser application in the ME, and instructs it to go
the service provider's web page. The web page redirects the web browser to a
login page if end user has not yet authenticated.
2) Service provider's login page has logic to discover whether Javascript
access to GBA is enabled in the browser or not (can be done with Javascript).
If this GBA access is not supported, the web page reverts to other means of
authentication, e.g., legacy username/password. If it is supported, proceed to
step 3.
3) The web page has code implemented in Javascript that obtains a NAF specific
token (Ks_js_NAF) and the B-TID from the GBA function in the UE. In simplest
case, the browser uses these variables as username and password in an HTML
FORM, and the web browser to send this information back to the web server.
4) The web server extracts the NAF specific token (Ks_js_NAF) and the B-TID,
and uses the B-TID to fetch the NAF specific key Ks_NAF from the BSF over Zn
interface. The NAF generates then the NAF specific authentication token and
compares it with the one received from the UE. If they are equal, the user is
authenticated, and the requested service is provided to the ME and the user.
# C.2 Threats
The usage scenarios described in clause A.1 are susceptible to five serious
threats:
Threat 1: ME downloads a web page from an attacker that has Javascript which
requests all NAF specific keys that the attacker is interested in.
Threat 2: ME uses a public access point that is controlled by the attacker,
i.e., a classic man-in-the-middle attack. When the ME requests the login page
from the service provider, the attacker sends back a rogue login web page as
it controls the DNS. This rogue login page has Javascript that is able to
extract any NAF specific authentication token of the service provider, and
sends it back to the attacker.
Threat 3: It is possible for any third party on the internet connection to
eavesdrop on the B-TID and the NAF specific authentication token, and
impersonate the user as long as the B-TID has not expired.
Threat 4: If an attacker gets hold of the authentication token Ks_js_NAF, then
he can utilize it to attack the communication between theweb browser and the
NAF.
Threat 5: ME downloads a web page from an attacker that has JavaScript which
repeatedly triggers GBA re-bootstrapping to be performed. This can have the
effect that the malicious web page can coordinate a distributed DoS attack
against the BSF/HSS.
# C.3 Control of GBA Credentials and GBA Module in the UE
## C.3.1 General
The threats identified in clause C.2 are countered using a set of control
mechanisms as defined in this clause. Using only a subset of the control
mechanisms leaves some threats open. Therefore all control mechanisms need to
be applied to mitigate the outlined threats.
## C.3.2 Control Mechanism 1-- Same Origin Authentication Tokens
To mitigate threat 1 in clause A.2, the web browser should limit a web page to
access only to those NAF specific authentication tokens that belong to the
origin web server. This way Javascript has access only to NAF's authentication
tokens, which is the NAF identified by the origin of the web page. This
implies that the browser can authenticate the server, cf. control mechanism 2.
Web browsers observing good security practices implement a single-origin
policy where the Javascript is able to send HTTP requests only to the server
from where the original web page came from.
## C.3.3 Control Mechanism 2 -- Server Authenticated TLS
To mitigate threats 1, 2 and 3 of C.2, HTTPS, i.e., server authenticated TLS,
should be used with integrity and confidentiality protection. This way
attacking DNS does not help the attacker as the origin of the web page is
authenticated using TLS, and the web page content, and B-TID and Ks_js_NAF are
confidentially protected against eavesdropping and the Ks_(ext)_NAF is not
used directly here.
## C.3.4 Control Mechanism 3 - Channel Binding
The usage of server authenticated TLS as described in clause C.3.3 is not
sufficient on its own if one were to consider the threat of a compromised TLS
server certificate a likely event. Given that in commonly used browsers there
are 100+ root certificates from certification authorities (CAs) that have
different levels of security protection when issuing and managing
certificates, A second line of defense for the case that a TLS server
certificate is compromised seems useful. If one CA is compromised the attacker
can use a compromised certificate to lure the user into believing that the
attacker's server is the genuine NAF the user wants to communicate with. The
attacker can exploit this to realize the following two threats:
\- Threat A: If the Javascript used the Ks_NAF directly and an attacker
obtained the Ks_NAF from the user, then it could use this Ks_NAF to
impersonate the user towards the genuine NAF, obtain the services and let the
user foot the bill.
\- Threat B: The attacker makes the user reveal information valuable for the
attacker that the user would want to reveal only to the genuine NAF.
Even though TLS with server certificates can generally be trusted, it imporves
the security of usage of GBA from a web browser if the authentication token
derivation process of GBA and the TLS tunnel are bound together. This shall
however not be taken as a general clue that TLS with server side certificate
authentication is insecure. As the key derivation of Ks_(ext)_NAF is already
defined with a fixed set of input parameters, and backward compatibility by
not changing this key derivation should be ensured, a new Javascript specific
authentication token (Ks_js_NAF) should be derived from Ks_(ext)_NAF using a
channel binding mechanism. This channel binding mechanism is based on RFC 5929
(Channel Bindings for TLS) [25].
This mechanism does not help against threat B. The mitigation of threat B is
further discussed in clause C.4.
## C.3.5 Control Mechanism 4 -- Key Usage
In Threat 4 in clause C.2, the attacker may get hold of the Ks_js_NAF by one
of the following means:
  * One of the endpoints can be considered as compromised i.e. NAF or web browser are compromised.
  * Ks_(ext)_NAF and authentication token derivation parameters are compromised.
The compromise of an endpoint might be made more difficult by usage of
additional hardware functionalities, but those would require that all
communication for usage of such keys would be routed over the secure hardware.
This would still leave the challenge, how to ensure that no fake traffic is
routed over the secure hardware. The handle used to authorize the usage of the
Ks_js_NAF authentication token inside the secure module need to be secured to
avoid unauthorized usage, but that would require a trustworthy browser, which
then negates the effect of using a handle for authentication tokens. The usage
of the Ks_js_NAF should be done in the TLS session that was used to create the
token. This makes usage in another TLS session impossible, as long as the end
points check that the TLS tunnel used to receive the information is the same
as was used to derive the token.
If the compromised token has been derived, by usage of the compromised
Ks_(ext)_NAF key and corresponding parameters, then usage of additional secure
hardware would not gain any significant security improvement for the usage
from the token of the originating terminal, since the source of the Ks_js_NAF
token is compromised.
# C.4 Security Considerations
## C.4.1 General Scripting Security Considerations
JavaScript has been designed as an open scripting language, and it has its own
security model. This model has not been designed to protect the server
administrator or the data that is passed between the browser and the external
application server. The scripting language security model is designed to
protect the user from malicious servers, and as a result, capabilities of
Javascript have been restricted. For example, there are deployed Javascript
implementations that cannot read or write files on users\' computers, or
interact between different web pages that are open at the same time in the
browser. W3C has been extending Javascript APIs to include functionality,
including File API [26] enabling reading and writing files, and HTML5 Web
Messaging enabling communication between the web pages in the browser.
## C.4.2 GBA key control
When the Javascript specific authentication token (Ks_js_NAF) is requested by
a web page, its creation is controlled by the web browser as specified in
Annex D. The Ks_js_NAF is bound to the web server, to the javascript context,
and to the specific of TLS tunnel used by using NAF_ID as described in Annex
D. The Ks_js_NAF should not be used outside the designed web page context.
## C.4.3 User grants
When Javascript in a web page is trying to access the Javascript specific
authentication token via the Javascript GBA API, the browser executing the
Javascript may prompt the end user with a permission dialog asking the end
user to grant access to the token. The end user can then decide whether to
allow access or deny it, and also additionally have the browser remember the
decision. This mimics the functionality of the browsers today that support
geolocation Javascript API. There Javascript notifies the end user, that the
current page is requesting location information. The end user has then the
possibility to either grant access or deny it. Additionally, the end user may
have the browser remember that decision, so that the next time the same page
is requesting access to the location information, the answer from the previous
query from the end users is used without disturbing the end user.
## C.4.4 Root CAs in Browser
Clause C.3.4 describes the threats related to a compromised CA where either
the CA certificate itself or the certificate of some root CA above the
compromised CA is present in browsers\' root CA list. For threat B it is
assumed that it is possible to issue certificates containing any DNS name, and
therefore pretend to be any server. If the attacker can spoof
https://www.popular-social-web-site.com or https://accounts.popular-mail-
service.com for instance, he can easily trick users into entering their
username and password to attacker\'s webpages by just mimicking the look-n-
feel of the attacked webpages. Additionally, with the introduction of HTML5
there are additional things to consider as HTML5 introduces features like
WebStorage API [27], where a web site can use \"localStorage\" function to
store name-value pairs to the browser, which can be later accessed only by
those web pages that have been downloaded from same server identified by
protocol/site/port tuple. With this threat, the attacker can fully read from
and write to the localStorage of the attacked site.
There is no way to mitigate this threat if a compromised CA is listed in
browsers\' root CA list except strongly recommend that the browser vendors
should carefully consider which CAs they include to their browser offering as
trust roots by default, and that the browser implementation should show proper
warnings to the end user, if the user (or some service on behalf of the user)
tries to add a new CA as trust root. In addition, root CA stores managed
online by some external instance, e.g., browser vendors updating root CA
stores of their browsers online, should also be kept up-to-date.
###### ## Annex D (normative): Security measures for usage of GBA with a web
browser
# D.1 Extension of Protocol Mechanism used on Ua Reference Point
## D.1.1 General
The Annex D is compatible with the chapters and sections up to and including
clause 5.2. The clauses 5.3, 5.4 and 5.5 can be seen as different
alternatives, since the client authentication mechanism in Annex D is
different from those in 5.3, 5.4 and 5.5.
## D.1.2 Key derivation
**[FQDN]{.underline}**
When the web browser in the ME downloads a web page using HTTPS, the web
browser verifies that the FQDN in the URL matches the FQDN used in the TLS
certificate used by the server (NAF). It is common good security practice for
web browsers to perform this check. Any web browser that does not perform this
check is not secure enough to be used for security sensitive applications with
or without GBA, and therefore should not be considered for the purpose of this
specificaton.
Once the web browser has verified that the FQDN in the URL matches the FQDN in
the server (NAF) certificate, the browser makes this verified FQDN available
to the GBA API.
The GBA API uses the verified FQDN to derive the authentication token
Ks_js_NAF.
NOTE1: Security associated with the use of the FQDN in Javascript in the
manner described above is dependent upon the implementation of the web
browser, which is out-of-scope for 3GPP.
The Ua security protocol identifier to be used is (0x01,0x00,0x02,yy,zz) as
specified in Annex H of 3GPP TS 33.220 [3], where yy and zz are the protection
mechanism CipherSuite as specified in relevant TLS specifications by IETF.
NOTE2: HTML FORM is tunneled through TLS, therefore the first consideration
might be to use the Ua security protocol identifier for Ua security protocols
that are based on TLS (HTTP Digest with HTTPS and Pre-shared key TLS) that is
already specified in Annex H of 3GPP TS 33.220 [3] (0x01,0x00,0x01,yy,zz).
This protocol id is used when the NAF specific key is used as a password in
the TLS tunneled HTTP Digest case. This is substantially different, for
example, from the case where HTML FORM based authentication within TLS tunnel
is used, therefore a different Ua protocol id is used.
## D.1.3 Channel binding
### D.1.3.1 Background
To mitigate the threats described in Annex C, a second level of key derivation
is introduced. When Javascript code that is downloaded from the web server via
the server authenticated TLS tunnel requests for a GBA based key, the request
is first handled by the web browser and more specifically the GBA API module
in the web browser. The GBA API module will request the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from
the GBA Function in the ME using the Javascript specific NAF_ID as specified
in clause D.1.2. After receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the GBA Function,
the GBA API will derive a Javascript specific authentication token Ks_js_NAF
that is bound to the server authenticated TLS tunnel.
The channel binding is performed using RFC 5705 [29] and RFC 5929 [25], as is
described below. An example sequence flow is in clause D.2.1.
### D.1.3.2 Channel binding using RFC 5705 and RFC 5929
After receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the GBA Function the GBA API obtains
the TLS_MK_Extr, which is extracted from the TLS master key using the exporter
function. For TLS 1.2, the exporter specified in RFC 5705 [29] shall be used.
For TLS 1.3, the exporter described in section 7.5 of RFC 8446 [30] shall be
used. as specified in RFC 5705 [29]. The label for the exporter function shall
be \"TLS_MK_Extr\". The GBA API obtains the tls-server-endpoint as specified
in RFC 5929 [25]. The Ks_js_NAF shall be derived from Ks_(ext)_NAF as follows:
Ks_js_NAF = KDF (Ks_(ext)_NAF, TLS_MK_Extr, tls-server-endpoint).
A sequence flow is in clause D.2.1.
# D.2 Sequence flow
## D.2.1 Sequence flow with channel binding
In this message flow with channel binding the following architecture is
assumed:
  * **GBA Function:** The GBA Function handles establishment of GBA-specific keys. In particular, the establishment of the key Ks can use any of the methods defined by TS 33.220 [3] (e.g., based on AKA or GBA_Digest). The GBA Function is not part of the web browser.
> NOTE: In the case of GBA_Digest, the GBA Function treats SIP Digest
> credentials as specified in Annex N of TS 33.203 [28].
  * **Web Browser:** The web browser is either native or downloaded and contains some functions which support usage of GBA. In particular we have in the architecture:
    * **GBA_API:** Part of the browser that communicates with the GBA Function and receives GBA authentication token material requests from the Javascript code.
    * **Javascript:** Downloaded Javascript code.
    * **Engine:** Sets up communication with the NAF.
Figure D.2-1.Architecture
Below is a sequence flow diagram of GBA usage in Web context, i.e., within
Javascript.
Figure D.2-2. Sequence flow.
The web browser is considered to be a trusted application in the sense that
the user trusts it to handle security related functions properly, i.e.,
setting TLS sessions with servers, sandboxing the Javascript code that is
downloaded from the web servers, and not leaking sensitive information like a
password to third parties. In the sequence flow diagram, the web browser is
divided into three functional blocks:
\- engine module handles the basic functionalities for the web browser like
setting up TLS with web servers, downloading web resources from network, and
providing the user interface with the end user.
\- GBA API module offers the API towards any Javascript executing in the web
browser. As Javascript should not be explicitly trusted, the web browser and
the GBA API should not reveal any sensitive information to the Javascript, nor
should they accept any sensitive information from the Javascript more than
necessary.
\- Javascript module executes the downloaded Javascript. Any Javascript
executing in web browser should be considered not trusted and should not be
granted access to sensitive resources or the access to those resources should
be controlled.
The communication between web browser and web server in the depicted sequence
flow diagram is executed inside a server authenticated TLS tunnel. Also, the
web browser is in the process of downloading an html page where one of the
linked Javascript resources is \"gba.js\".
1) The web browser and the web server establish a server authenticated TLS
session. The use of TLS message integrity is mandatory, while the use of TLS
encryption is optional. All further messages between the web server and the UE
shall be sent through this tunnel.
2) The web browser engine makes a HTTP GET request to the server to download
gba.js resource from the server.
3) The web server now knows that it can use the gba.js file that contains the
Javascript GBA API call on the browser. The gba.js can also contain additional
logical elements that make use of the Javascript specific authentication token
Ks_js_NAF.
> Editor's note: The definition of the GBA API details needs to be done, ffs
> if this happens in W3C or 3GPP SA3, depending on communication with them.
The GBA API is:
document.gba.getGBAToken(successCallback,
errorCallback);
4\. As a HTTP response to the HTTP request made in step 2, the web server
returns the gba.js to the web browser.
5\. The engine in the web browser starts to execute the Javascript in gba.js
in Javascript sandbox.
6\. The Javascript comes to a point where a call to GBA API is made.
7\. Browser\'s Javascript GBA API locates the relevant information about the
Javascript, i.e., in what html page it is executing, from what url was the
html page downloaded from, and which TLS ciphersuite is used in the TLS
tunnel. The FQDN of the NAF can be extracted from the url of the web page, and
the Ua security protocol identifier can be derived from the used TLS
ciphersuite. FQDN of the NAF and the Ua security protocol identifier form the
NAF_ID.
8\. Browser\'s Javascript GBA API makes a call to ME\'s GBA Function with the
NAF_ID derived in step 7.
9\. The GBA Function bootstraps with the BSF if there is no valid GBA master
key Ks. From the Ks, Ks_(ext)_NAF, the NAF specific key is derived using the
NAF_ID.
10\. The GBA Function returns the Ks_(ext)_NAF key to browser\'s Javascript
GBA API with the bootstrapping transaction identifier (B-TID).
11\. Upon receiving the Ks_(ext)_NAF key, browser\'s javascript GBA API will
derive the Javascript specific authentication token Ks_js_NAF that is bound to
the server authenticated TLS session as follows:\ \ The valuse of the
bindingType in GBAOptions are \"tls-key-extractor\" (i.e. RFC 5705 is used
with the label \"TLS_MK_Extr\") and tls-server-endpoint (i.e. RFC 5929 [25]).
T he Ks_js_NAF is derived as:
Ks_js_NAF = KDF (Ks_(ext)_NAF, TLS_MK_Extr, tls-server-endpoint )
The tls-server-endpoint value and TLS_MK_Extr are all related to the TLS
connection that established the TLS session in step 1.
12\. Browser\'s Javascript GBA API returns Javascript specific Ks_js_NAF
authentication token, B-TID and authentication token lifetime to the executing
javascript.
13\. The Javascript continues to execute and it uses the Ks_js_NAF
authentication token the way the web server has instructed (via Javascript).
> Javascript can extract parameters from result object in Javascript
> (continued from step 2).
function successCallback(result) {
var token = result.token;
var btid = result.btid;
var lifetime = result.expiryTime;
}
14\. After executing the client side logic, the Javascript makes a
XMLHttpRequest (ajax call, HTTP request) to the web server. This request
contains at least Ks_js_NAF or hash of it, and B-TID.
15\. The web server fetches the Ks_(ext)_NAF key from the BSF, and it then
derives the Ks_js_NAF the same way it was done in step 11. The web server will
then compare the received Ks_js_NAF with the locally derived one and validate
that the TLS session is the same as was used for the request that established
the TLS session in step 1.
16\. If the received Ks_js_NAF is valid, the web server will continue to
process the request made in step 14 and return the result to the web browser
(to the Javascript).
# D.3 Javascript GBA API description
## D.3.1 GBA API Description
Below is a description how Javascript based GBA API is specified:
[NoInterfaceObject]
interface DocumentGBA {
readonly attribute GBA gba;
};
Document implements DocumentGBA;
[NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBA {
void getGBAToken(in GBACallback successCallback,
in optional GBAErrorCallback errorCallback,
in optional GBAOptions options);
};
[Callback=FunctionOnly, NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBACallback {
void handleEvent(in GBATokenInfo keyinfo);
};
[Callback=FunctionOnly, NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBAErrorCallback {
void handleEvent(in GBAError error);
};
[Callback, NoInterfaceObject]
interface GBAOptions {
attribute boolean forceBootstrap; // force bootstrapping; default false
attribute DOMString bindingTypeExtr; // TLS channel binding tls-key-extractor;
attribute DOMStrong bindingTypeEndPoint // TLS channel binding tls-server-
endpoint
};
// The NAF_ID is determined by the web browser. The FQDN is taken from the
origin URL
// of the web page that has the javascript. The Ua security protocol
identifier is
// (0x01,0x00,0x02,yy,zz) where the yy,zz is CipherSuite in the used TLS
tunnel (HTTPS).
// If TLS tunnel was not used, (0xFF, 0xFF, 0xFF, 0xFF, 0xFF) is used as Ua
security
// protocol identifier. The latter case is not specified in 3GPP and it should
only be
// used for testing purposes.
interface GBATokenInfo {
readonly attribute DOMString key; // base64 encoded GBA key: Ks_(ext)_NAF
readonly attribute DOMString btid; // B-TID
readonly attribute long bootstrapTime; // Bootstrap time; millisecs since
1.1.1970
readonly attribute long expiryTime; // Token expiry: millisecs since 1.1.1970
readonly attribute DOMString fqdn; // used FQDN
readonly attribute DOMString uaSecProtId; // base64 encoded Ua security prot.
id;
};
interface GBAError {
readonly attribute unsigned short code; // error code (to be specified)
readonly attribute DOMString message; // textual description of the error
};
## D.3.2 API usage
Below is a description how to use javascript based GBA API:
// Basic example of requesting GBA token
document.gba.getGBAToken(gbaSuccess,gbaError);
function gbaSuccess(tokeninfo) {
// gba token was successfully created, and for example use
// tokeninfo.btid as username and tokeninfo.token as password
}
function gbaError(error) {
// an error occured during gba token creation
}
#