# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases that are
specific to the SCP network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of
the requirements and test cases given there, as well as specifying
requirements and test cases unique to the SCP network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\"
(Release 16).
[4] 3GPP TR 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\"
(Release 16).
[5] 3GPP TS 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\" (Release 16).
[7] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\" (Release 16).
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 SCP-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
The structure of the present document is aligned with TS 33.117 [2] such that
the SCP-specific adaptation of a generic requirements in clause 4 of TS 33.117
[2], can always be found in clause 4 of the present document. The text on pre-
requisites for testing in clause 4.1.1 of TS 33.117 [2] applies also to the
present document.
SCP-specific security requirements include both requirements derived from SCP-
specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as well
as security requirements introduced in the present document derived from the
threats specific to SCP as described in TR 33.926 [5].
## 4.2 SCP-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause describes the security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases for SCP network product class. The proposed security
requirements are classified in two groups:
\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 [3] and detailed in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in TS 33.501 [3] but whose support is also important to
ensure that SCP conforms to a common security baseline detailed in clause
4.2.3.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the SCP derived from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the SCP derived from 3GPP
specifications -- general approach
In addition to the requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.2.2,
an SCP shall satisfy the following:
It is assumed for the purpose of the present SCAS that an SCP conforms to all
mandatory security-related provisions pertaining to an SCP in:
\- TS 33.501 [3]: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\";
\- other 3GPP specifications that make reference to TS 33.501[3] or are
referred to from TS 33.501 (e.g. TS 23.501 [4], TS 23.502 [6], TS 29.500 [7],
etc.).
Security procedures pertaining to an SCP are typically embedded in NF/NF
indirect communication, delegated discovery, message forwarding and routing,
and are hence assumed to be tested together with them in interoperability
testing at PLMN level, shared-slice level and slice-specific level.
#### 4.2.2.2 Security functional requirements of SBI aspects
##### 4.2.2.2.1 Introduction
According to TS 23.501 [4], although the SCP is not a Network Function
instance and does not expose services itself, it still needs to support
service-based interface. Therefore, the general baseline requirements
supported by all Network Functions (NF) utilizing Service-Based Interfaces
(SBI) as defined in TS 33.117 [2] clause 4.2.2.2 shall also be applicable to
the SCP network product class. This clause contains SCP-specific adaptations
to the general SBI requirements and related test cases.
##### 4.2.2.2.2 Protection at the transport layer
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.2.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.2.2.3 Authorization of NF service access
The SCP is not a network function instance and does not provide any services
to any consumer NF. It supports OAuth 2.0 based service access authorization
for NF service access, but it does not verify access tokens as NF producers
do. Therefore, the requirements and test cases in clause 4.2.2.2.3 of TS
33.117 [2] are not applicable to the SCP network product class.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no SEPP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.3 SCP-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim to
securing SCP by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular, the
identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default configurations of
SCP (including operating system software, firmware and applications) are
appropriately set.
### 4.3.2 Technical Baseline
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.3 Operating Systems
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.4 Web Servers
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.5 Network Devices
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 in TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.6 Network Functions in service-based architecture
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.4 SCP-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
There are no SCP-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#