# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the NWDAF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General
Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the
requirements and test cases, as well as specifying requirements and test cases
unique to the NWDAF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 NWDAF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
NWDAF specific security requirements include both requirements derived from
NWDAF-specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as
well as security requirements introduced in the present document derived from
the threats specific to NWDAF as described in TR 33.926 [4].
## 4.2 NWDAF-specific security functional requirements and related test cases
### 4.2.1 Technical baseline
#### 4.2.1.1 General
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.1.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.1.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.1.2.2 Protecting data and information -- Confidential System
Internal Data
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.1.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.1.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.1.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.1.2.6 Protecting data and information -- Data masking on integration
analysis
Requirement Name: Data masking on integration analysis about personal data
Requirement Reference: TBA.
Requirement Description: NWDAF can collect data from UE, NF, OAM, etc. used
for analytics. Personal data of the UE\'s user are involved also. When NWDAF
uses such personal data in analytics with other information together, such
data correlation operation could bind more personal information with the
user\'s identity. Thus, privacy information about that specific user could be
revealed to the person who is allowed to operate data correlation for
analytics but not allowed to know the privacy information as the result of
data correlation. Therefore, applicable measures (e.g. data masking) shall be
applied to mitigate such privacy violation risk.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [ 4], clause 5.3.6.7, Personal Identification
Information Violation
**Test Name:** TC_DATA_MASKING
**Purpose:**
Verify that no privacy information of operators\' users is revealed to the
party who is not allowed to have.
**Pre-Condition:**
The vendor shall provide the documentation describing how to create an account
for accessing the analytics results.
Privacy information list (should be specified based on local policy,
regulation and others).
**Execution Steps:**
1\. Review the documentation provided by the vendor describing how to create
the account for accessing the analytics results provided by the NWDAF.
2\. The tester creates the account, and retrieves the analytics results from
the NWDAF using the account.
**Expected Results:**
The tester can create the account, and the account does not reveal subscriber
permanent identifier.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g. screenshot containing the results.
### 4.2.2 Void
## 4.3 NWDAF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains NWDAF-specific adaptations of hardening
requirements and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.4 NWDAF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
There are no NWDAF-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#