# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the SECAM (Security Assurance Methodology) and
SCAS (Security Assurance Specification) for 3GPP virtualised network products
based on SECAM and SCAS defined in TR 33.916 [2]. It makes thorough gap
analysis between current SECAM/SCAS work in TR 33.916 [2] and SECAM/SCAS work
for 3GPP virtualised network products. It also identifies, defines ToE and
roles of SECAM/SCAS for 3GPP virtualised network products according to
deployment scenarios and decoupling ways. Based on the identified ToE and
roles, the present document details the needed change or additional work to
current security assurance methodology for the creation, evaluation procedure
of related SCAS documents, etc. It studies new threats of the identified ToE
and identifies the additional security requirements of the ToE, or/and
identifies existing relevant/supporting requirements specified in ETSI NFV
specifications or the equivalent. The present document also provides potential
new SECAM/SCAS proposals and points out the impact to existing SECAM/SCAS
documents (including TR 33.916 [2], TR 33.926 [3], TS 33.117 [4], etc.).
NOTE: SECAM/SCAS of 3GPP virtualised network products in the present document
considers only the scenario that 3GPP VNF deployed in the virtual machines.
# 2 References {#references-1}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 33.916: \"Security Assurance Methodology (SCAS) for 3GPP network
products\".
[3] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Management concept, architecture and requirements for
mobile networks that include virtualised network functions\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 001: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); NFV
Security; Problem Statement\".
[7] GSMA FS.16: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme -- Development
and Lifecycle Security Requirements\".
[8] ETSI GR NFV-SEC 007: \"Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Trust; Report on
Attestation Technologies and Practices for Secure Deployments\".
[9] 3GPP TR 33.848: \"Study on security impacts of virtualisation\".
[10] 3GPP TR 33.805: \"Study on security assurance methodology for 3GPP
network products (Release 12) \".
[11] ETSI GS NFV 002: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Architectural
Framework\".
[12] ETSI GS NFV-EVE 001: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Virtualisation technologies; Hypervisor Domain Requirements Specification\".
[13] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Management
and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point - Interface and Information Model
Specification\".
[14] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 019: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Acceleration Technologies; Acceleration Resource Management Interface
Specification\".
[15] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3;
Management and Orchestration; VNF Descriptor and Packaging Specification\".
[16] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 012: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3;
Security; System architecture specification for execution of sensitive NFV
components\".
[17] ETSI GS NFV 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Terminology
for Main Concepts in NFV\".
[18] GSMA FS.14: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme - Security Test
Laboratory Accreditation\".
[19] GSMA FS.15: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme - Development
and Lifecycle Assessment Methodology\".
[20] GSMA FS.16: \"Network Equipment Security Assurance Scheme - Development
and Lifecycle Security Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI):** totality of all
hardware and software components that build up the environment in which VNFs
are deployed, as defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [17].
**Network Functions Virtualisation Orchestrator (NFVO):** functional block
that manages the Network Service (NS) lifecycle and coordinates the management
of NS lifecycle, VNF lifecycle (supported by the VNFM) and NFVI resources
(supported by the VIM) to ensure an optimized allocation of the necessary
resources and connectivity, as defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [17].
**Virtualised Infrastructure Manager (VIM):** functional block that is
responsible for controlling and managing the NFVI compute, storage and network
resources, usually within one operator\'s Infrastructure Domain (e.g. NFVI-
PoP), as defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [17].
**Virtual Machine (VM):** virtualised computation environment that behaves
very much like a physical computer/server, as defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [17].
**Virtualised Network Function (VNF):** implementation of an NF that can be
deployed on a Network Function Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI), as
defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [17].
**Virtualised Network Function Component (VNFC):** internal component of a VNF
providing a VNF Provider a defined sub-set of that VNF\'s functionality, with
the main characteristic that a single instance of this component maps 1:1
against a single Virtualisation Container, as defined in ETSI GS NFV 003 [17].
**Virtualised Network Function Component Instance (VNFCI):** instance of a
VNFC deployed in a specific Virtualisation Container instance. It has a
lifecycle dependency with its parent VNF instance, as defined in ETSI GS NFV
003 [17].
**Virtualised Network Function Manager (VNFM):** functional block that is
responsible for the lifecycle management of VNF, as defined in ETSI GS NFV 003
[17].
**VNF Package:** archive that includes a VNF descriptor, the software image(s)
associated with the VNF, as well as additional artefacts, e.g. to check the
integrity and to prove the validity of the archive, as defined in ETSI GS NFV
003 [17].
**virtualised network product class:** class of products that implement 3GPP
defined network functionalities running on Network Function Virtualisation
Infrastructure (NFVI).
**virtualised network product:** A virtualised network product is the
instantiation of one or more virtualised network product class(es).
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NFV Network Functions Virtualisation
NFVI Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure
NFVO Network Functions Virtualisation Orchestrator
VIM Virtualised Infrastructure Manager
VM Virtual Machine
VNF Virtualised Network Function
VNFC Virtualised Network Function Component
VNFCI Virtualised Network Function Component Instance
VNFM Virtualised Network Function Manager
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Introduction
### 4.1.1 Considerations on network product class when using NFV technology
The definitions of network product class and network product were documented
in the TR 33.916 [2]. For implementing 3GPP defined functionalities in network
products, some functionalities that relate to the supporting platform (e.g.
hardware components, operating system, etc.) also need to be implemented. The
platform provides execution environment for 3GPP defined functionalities. For
physical network products, the platform and the 3GPP defined functionalities
are tightly coupled, while for virtualised network products, the platform and
the 3GPP defined functionalities are decoupled. The platform of virtualised
network products composes of a hardware layer and a Virtualisation layer, and
is common for 3GPP defined functionalities. Concept of 3GPP VNF is defined in
TS 28.500 [5]. According to the concept in [5], a 3GPP VNF is 3GPP network
function(s) that runs on a Network Function Virtualisation Infrastructure
(NFVI), which is the platform of virtualised network products described above.
The realistic deployment scenarios are summarized in ETSI NFV-SEC 001 [6],
based on which a 3GPP network operator can deploy 3GPP defined functionalities
in three modes:
\- Mode 1. A network operator purchases 3GPP VNFs from its vendors and deploys
it on a third party NFVI.
\- Mode 2. A network operator purchases 3GPP VNFs and the Virtualisation layer
(e.g. hypervisor) from its vendors, and deploys them on a third party hardware
layer.
\- Mode 3. A network operator purchases and deploys 3GPP VNFs, the
Virtualisation layer and the hardware layer from its vendors.
NOTE: In order to implement virtualised product, some essential components
besides 3GPP defined functions are also needed. Detailed description could be
found in clause 5.
Each deployment mode requires the different composition of virtualised network
products purchased and deployed by a network operator, which are subject to
the testing and evaluation in SECAM scheme. Accordingly, the different
composition of virtualised network products maps to three types of virtualised
network product class as depicted in Figure 1:
\- Type 1: implement 3GPP defined functionalities only
\- Type 2: implement 3GPP defined functionalities and Virtualisation layer
\- Type 3: implement 3GPP defined functionalities, Virtualisation layer, and
hardware layer
{width="4.513888888888889in" height="1.5881944444444445in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: Three types of virtualised network product class
For type 2 and type 3, the.3GPP defined functionalities, the Virtualisation
layer, and the hardware layer can be decoupled from each other and can be
provided either by a vendor or by different vendors. In coupling scenario, the
interface between components could be considered as internal interface.
{width="4.305555555555555in" height="1.2173611111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1-2: Type2 in coupling scenarios
{width="6.14375in" height="1.9118055555555555in"}
Figure 4.1.1-3: Type3 in coupling scenarios
For type 2 in the decoupling scenario as depicted in Figure 2, a network
operator can purchase the 3GPP defined functionalities and the Virtualisation
layer from the same or different vendors. So, it is required to assure the
security of the decoupled 3GPP defined functionalities and the Virtualisation
layer separately. Only decoupled 3GPP defined functionalities is in 3GPP
scope. The security assurance evaluation about pure virtualisation layer is
out of 3GPP scope.
For type 3 in the decoupling scenario as depicted in Figure 3, there are three
decoupling ways. Like type 2 in the decoupling scenario, the security
assurance requirements of the decoupled components need to be considered
respectively. Only decoupled 3GPP defined functionalities in Figure 4.1.1-3
(1) and in Figure 4.1.1-3 (3) or coupled 3GPP defined functionality and
virtualisation layer in Figure 4.1.1-3 (2) is in 3GPP scope. The security
assurance evaluation about the others are out of 3GPP scope.
Note 1: For decoupling scenarios supporting a 3GPP GVNP, it could be
considered as coupling part which is in 3GPP scope and decoupled part which is
out of 3GPP scope. Only coupling part in 3GPP scope will be considered in rest
of the present document.
NOTE 2: For the purpose of testing a 3GPP GVNP of type 1 or a 3GPP GVNP of
type 2, NFVI for GVNP for type 1, or hardware for GVNP for type 2 are assumed
to have gone through security assurance testing in the same rigorous manner
that is similarly applied to the security assurance testing of any other 3GPP
network product under consideration in SCAS.
### 4.1.2 Considerations on SECAM of the virtualised network products
The security assurance methodology study in TR 33.916 [2] is a general
methodology and already considers virtualised network products in the design
of the methodology. The biggest difference between virtualised network
products and physical network products is that the former may be run on a
common platform, while the latter has a private and exclusive platform. With
the current SECAM as the basis, the present document aims to identify and
address the gaps when applying the current SECAM to 3GPP virtualised network
products as defined in clause 4.1.1.
## 4.2 Scope of a SECAM SCAS for 3GPP virtualised network products
### 4.2.1 Gap analysis
As with 3GPP physical network products, the targets of the security attack
analysis need to be identified before identifying the potential attack vectors
which could be used. According to the description in clause 4.1.1, three types
of 3GPP virtualised network product class are defined. So, these three types
of 3GPP virtualised network product class are the analysis objects of attack
vectors. This is different from using 3GPP physical network product class
composed of hardware, software, and interfaces as the analysis target for
attack vectors. The security threat analysis and related security requirements
of all these virtualised network product classes will be described in clause
5.
As the different types for 3GPP virtualised network product classes are
partially inclusive, it needs to study whether it there will be substantial
overlap for document writing between type 1, type 2 and type 3 SCAS of
different virtualised network product classes.
The validation of evaluation performed in the past and the overall process of
the validation for environment assumptions that proposed in clause 4.1 of TR
33.916 [2] can also be applied to SCAS of 3GPP virtualised network products.
### 4.2.2 Scope of a SECAM SCAS
The Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for a given 3GPP virtualised
network product class provides a description of the security requirements and
associated test cases. The SCAS for a given 3GPP virtualised network product
class defined in clause 4.1.1 is described below:
\- For type 1 (implementing 3GPP defined functionalities only): the SCAS
provides a description of the security requirements and associated test cases
pertaining to 3GPP VNF.
\- For type 2 (implementing 3GPP defined functionalities and Virtualisation
layer): the SCAS provides a description of the security requirements and
associated test cases pertaining to 3GPP VNF and Virtualisation layer
together. The security assurance requirements on the interface between 3GPP
VNF and Virtualisation layer is only applied in decoupling scenarios.
\- For type 3 (implementing 3GPP defined functionalities, Virtualisation
layer, and hardware layer): the SCAS provides a description of the security
requirements and associated test cases pertaining to 3GPP VNF, Virtualisation
layer and hardware layer together. The security assurance requirements on the
interfaces between components of type 3 are only applied in decoupling
scenarios.
Same as SECAM for 3GPP physical network products documented in TR 33.916 [2],
evaluations performed in the past remain valid. The environmental assumptions
which are contained in SCAS of 3GPP virtualised network products will be
validated during product deployment and it\'s not part of SECAM.
## 4.3 Scope of SECAM evaluation for 3GPP virtualised network products
### 4.3.1 Gap analysis
The current scope of SECAM evaluation for 3GPP network products comprises the
Vendor Network Product Development process evaluation, the product lifecycle
process evaluation and the Network Product evaluation. Such objectives mainly
focus on development and lifecycle, and they do not differentiate whether a
product is physical or virtualised. Hence the scope also applies to SECAM
evaluation of 3GPP virtualised network products.
The product lifecycle process of a physical network product consists of a
number of processes, e.g. first commercial introduction, update, minor
release, major release and end of life. The vendor network product development
and lifecycle processes in these stages should comply with security
requirements such as security by design, version control system, change
tracking, source code review and security testing as specified in [7]. This
generic product lifecycle process and the related security requirements can be
applied to a virtualised network product.
### 4.3.2 Scope of a SECAM evaluation
The type of SECAM evaluation tasks in clause 4.2 of TR 33.916 [2] can be
applied to 3GPP virtualised network products.
NOTE: Details of activity for the Vendor Virtualised Network Product
Development process evaluation and the virtualised network product lifecycle
process evaluation can be found in clause 7 of present document and the
documents defined by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
## 4.4 Scope of SECAM Accreditation for 3GPP virtualised network products
### 4.4.1 Gap analysis
According to the definitions of accreditation and SECAM Accreditation Body in
TR 33.916 [2], it is a general way to ensure the accuracy and recognition of
the evaluation results for the network products through the accreditation and
SECAM Accreditation Body. So, it can be applicable to all of the network
products, regardless of whether the network product is physical network
product or virtualised network product. It means, like for physical network
products, the actors who perform the SECAM tasks for 3GPP virtualised network
products should also be accredited by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
Table 4.4-1: Mapping between SECAM phases and involved party
**SECAM tasks** **Accredited actor**
* * *
Vendor Network Product Development and virtualised network product lifecycle
management process Auditor appointed by SECAM Accreditation Body Compliance
declaration with the accredited generic vendor development and lifecycle
process requirements Accredited vendor Virtualised network product evaluation
which includes Security compliance testing and Basic Vulnerability Testing
Accredited vendor or accredited third-party test laboratory
The above tale 4.4-1 describes the accredited actor for each SECAM task for
3GPP virtualised network products. Like the SECAM Accreditation Body for the
physical network products, the SECAM Accreditation Body for 3GPP virtualised
network products is responsible for writing and managing the accreditation,
monitoring rules and handling the dispute resolution process. But the decision
on who takes the role of SECAM Accreditation Body should be made in
cooperation with other SDOs such as GSMA, etc.
### 4.4.2 Scope of SECAM Accreditation
The scope of the SECAM accreditation in clause 4.3 of TR 33.916 [2] can be
applied to 3GPP virtualised network products.
as GSMA shows interest on accreditation of virtualised network product when
SCAS of virtualised network product is established, it is recommend to leave
accreditation responsibility to GSMA.
## 4.5 Ultimate Output of SECAM Evaluation for 3GPP virtualised network
products
### 4.5.1 Gap analysis
In clause 4.3.2, it is described that the type of SECAM evaluation tasks in
clause 4.2 of TR 33.916 [2] can be applied to 3GPP virtualised network
products, so the type of ultimate outputs from SECAM evaluation tasks for 3GPP
physical network products can also be applied to 3GPP virtualised network
products. It means the type of ultimate outputs from SECAM evaluation tasks
for 3GPP virtualised network products includes an evaluation report of the
virtualised network products, the evidence that the accredited vendor product
and development lifecycle processes have been complied with for the network
product, the evidence that the actors performing the evaluation tasks are
accredited by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
Since the virtualised network product is delivered to the operator, the
evaluation report of a virtualised network product should be examined by the
operator. To maintain the fairness, the evidence of the actors which performs
the evaluation tasks should be accredited by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
These are the same with the evaluation report examination and the evidence of
the actor accreditation for the physical network product.
### 4.5.2 Ultimate Output of SECAM Evaluation
The ultimate output of the SECAM evaluation for 3GPP virtualised network
products is:
\- an evaluation report demonstrating compliance of the network product with
the 3GPP security assurance specifications.
\- evidence to demonstrate to the test laboratory that the accredited vendor
product and development lifecycle processes have been complied with for the
network product. - evidence that the actors performing the evaluation tasks
are accredited by the SECAM Accreditation Body. Such evidence is not required
if there is consent between operator and vendor to not use the accreditation
process.
Like for physical network products, the evaluation report of a virtualised
network product is examined by the operator and the evidence that the actors
performing the evaluation tasks are accredited by the SECAM Accreditation
Body.
## 4.6 3GPP virtualised network products evaluation process
### 4.6.1 Gap analysis
The security assurance process defined in clause 4.5 of TR 33.916 [2] includes
evaluating network products, outputting the evaluation report, operator\'s
acceptance decision. A vendor also performs certification activities for
network products in addition to self-declaration after outputting evaluation
report. This process is a general process and can be applied to 3GPP
virtualised network products.
### 4.6.2 Virtualised network product evaluation process
3GPP virtualised network product evaluation process is generally the same as
3GPP physical network product evaluation process. The security assurance
process of virtualised network products describes how the operator gets
assurance regarding the security of the virtualised network product.
Figure 4.6.2-1: SECAM defined Security assurance process
The figure 4.6.2-1 describes the security assurance process of the virtualised
network products. The process is the same as 3GPP physical network product
evaluation process. The Security Assurance Specifications (SAS(s)) in the
figure refer to 3GPP SCAS specifications against which virtualised network
products are evaluated.
## 4.7 Roles in SECAM for 3GPP virtualised network products
### 4.7.1 Gap analysis
According to the descriptions in clauses 4.3 and 4.4, the type of SECAM
evaluation tasks and types of the accredited actors in clauses 4.2 and 4.3 of
TR 33.916 [2] can be applied to the SECAM evaluation and accreditation for
3GPP virtualised network products. So, the roles involved in SECAM evaluation
and accreditation described in TR 33.916 [2] can also be applied to 3GPP
virtualised network products. However, there are still the following gaps:
\- Vendor: there may be other types of vendor except the traditional CT
vendors.
\- SECAM Accreditation Body: whether GSMA can take the role or not is to be
confirmed.
### 4.7.2 SECAM Roles Overview
Compared to the types of roles for 3GPP physical network products, the types
of the basic roles for 3GPP virtualised network products also include vendor,
test laboratory, operator, 3GPP and SECAM Accreditation Body. For SECAM
Accreditation Body, it needs to be confirmed whether GSMA can take the role.
### 4.7.3 Examples of instantiation of roles in SECAM
#### 4.7.3.1 Introduction
The following clause contains an example for instantiation of roles in SECAM.
#### 4.7.3.2 Example: Complete self-evaluation
Complete self-evaluation of a 3GPP virtualised network product (e.g. vMME (MME
VNF) + virtualised layer from vendor X)
This example below is similar to the SECAM defined Security assurance process
in the figure 4.7.3.2-1 except that the vendor conducts all the phases of
evaluation.
Figure 4.7.3.2-1: Complete self-evaluation of a 3GPP virtualised network
product\ (e.g. vMME (MME VNF) + virtualised layer from vendor X)
Evaluation results are checked by operators and dispute on evaluation results
is resolved by the SECAM Accreditation Body.
## 4.8 Operator security acceptance decision for 3GPP virtualised network
products
### 4.8.1 Gap analysis
In clause 4.7 of TR 33.916 [2], it was proposed that for the evaluation result
of the network products, the operator decides the security acceptance through
examining the network product, the security compliance testing, the basic
vulnerability testing analysis reports, the self-declaration as well as the
optional evidence of accreditation from the SECAM Accreditation Body. Based on
the output of SECAM evaluation and the evaluation process in clauses 4.5.2 and
4.6.2, the evaluation of the virtualised network products also has the
contents which are examined during operator security acceptance decision. In
addition, operator security acceptance decision in clause 4.7 of TR 33.916 [2]
is general process. So, it can be applied to 3GPP virtualised network
products.
### 4.8.2 Operator security acceptance decision
Operator security acceptance decision for 3GPP virtualised network products is
the same as those for 3GPP physical network products, i.e. operator examines
the ultimate outputs of the evaluation, the self-declaration and decides if
the results are sufficient according to its internal policies, etc.
## 4.9 SECAM Assurance level for 3GPP virtualised network products
### 4.9.1 Gap analysis
SECAM assurance level for 3GPP physical network products was analysed in
clause 4.8 of TR 33.916 [2]. This analysis about SECAM assurance level is
general and can be applicable to all of the network products, regardless of
whether the network product is physical network product or virtualised network
product. In addition, per network product class being considered only one
SECAM assurance level could reduce the complexity of the network product
evaluation. So, SECAM of the virtualised network products also considers only
one assurance level per virtualised network product class.
### 4.9.2 SECAM Assurance level
Compared to SECAM assurance level for 3GPP physical network products, SECAM
assurance level for 3GPP virtualised network products also considers only one
assurance level per 3GPP virtualised network product class.
## 4.10 Security baseline for 3GPP virtualised network products
### 4.10.1 Gap analysis
The analysis about security baseline for network products in clause 4.9 of TR
33.916 [2] is general and is applicable for all of the network products,
regardless of whether the network product is physical network product or
virtualised network product. So, SECAM considers only one security baseline
per virtualised network product class.
### 4.10.2 Security baseline
Compared to the security baseline for 3GPP physical network products, the
security baseline for 3GPP virtualised network products also consider only one
security baseline per 3GPP virtualised network product class, which is built
on the entire set of security requirements, operational environment
assumptions and attacker model.
# 5 Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) Creation
## 5.1 Writing process overview
The steps of a SCAS document (i.e. describing and modelling the network
product class, defining the security problem, identifying the security
requirements and test cases, verifying the security requirements) in clause
5.1 of TR 33.916 [2] is high level and general. So, these steps can be applied
to the process of writing SCAS documents for a given virtualised network
product class. However, according to the description of 3GPP virtualised
network product class in clause 4.1.1, the components may be decoupled for a
virtualised network product class (e.g. type2-implementing 3GPP defined
functionalities and Virtualisation layer) and the security requirements on the
interfaces between the components are only considered in decoupled scenario.
So, when describing and modelling a given virtualised network product class,
and when identifying its security requirements and test cases, it should be
considered whether its components are decoupled or not.
## 5.2 SCAS documents structure and content
### 5.2.1 General
According to clause 5.1, the SCAS documents contain three parts, i.e.
Virtualised Network Product Class Description, Security Problem Definition and
Security Requirements (including the test cases) for any specific Network
Product Class, to counteract the risks outlined by the threat analysis.
Consequently SCAS documents for virtualised network products contain the
following parts:
**_\- Network Product Class Description for virtualised network products
(NPCDV):_** This clause includes the description of the virtualised network
product class defined in clause 4.1.1, e.g. the physical and logical
interfaces that the product class supports to interact with external entities
and the major functionalities of the VNPC. This material will be contained in
a 3GPP Technical Report of the 900-series.
**_\- Security Problem Definition (SPD):_** This clause defines the security
problem that is to be addressed and the security objectives of the virtualised
network product class. This material will be contained in a 3GPP Technical
Reports of the 900-series.
**_\- Security Requirements (SR):_** This clause defines the security
requirements, which may include hardening requirements, selected according to
the Security Problem Definition and the requirements strictly related to the
3GPP security features implemented by the virtualised network product class,
as well as the security requirements of Virtualisation aspect defined in 3GPP
and ETSI NFV, etc. Requirements and test cases will be contained in one or
more 3GPP Technical Specifications.
In the following clauses, detailed descriptions of NPCDV, SPD and SR for
virtualised network products are provided.
### 5.2.2 ToE
The term ToE is described in clause 5.2.4.2.2.1.2 of TR 33.805 [10] that ToE
is a logical and physical perimeter for the evaluation and this perimeter
heavily depends on the vendor\'s particular version of the Network Product.
The term ToE if used in a SCAS always refers to the ToE described in the SCAS
instantiation. This ToE definition also can be applied to ToE of virtualised
network product. According to virtualised network product classes and
decoupling scenarios described in clause 4.1.1, there may be multiple ToEs for
an instantiated virtualised network product class.
### 5.2.3 Generic virtualised network product model class description
#### 5.2.3.1 Introduction
According to the definition of virtualised network product class, a
virtualised network product class is the class of products that implement 3GPP
defined network functionalities running on Network Function Virtualisation
Infrastructure (NFVI). There are three types of the classes that are described
in clause 4.1.1. The generic virtualised network product model classes are
described in the following clauses.
#### 5.2.3.2 Generic virtualised network product model of type 1
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Description of the GVNP model
For the virtualised network product class type 1 (i.e. implementing 3GPP
defined functionalities only), the following figure 5.2.3.2.1-1 depicts the
components of a generic network product model at a high level.
{width="5.699305555555555in" height="1.726388888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.1-1: GVNP model of type 1
The components in the figure 5.2.3.2.1-1are further described in the following
clauses.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Functions defined by 3GPP
For a generic virtualised network function, it will implement 3GPP-defined
functions. Unlike a generic physical network product, a 3GPP-denfined function
can be deployed in multiple VMs and the feature s supported in different VM of
the GVNP are up to the implementation of vendors.
To maintain generality and avoid overlap, the GVNP SCAS intends to explicitly
address all GVNP functions that, if present in a GVNP, need to be evaluated
and hence covered by the requirements in the GVNP SCAS.
##### 5.2.3.2.3 Other functions
A GVNP will also contain functionalities not or not fully covered in 3GPP
specifications.
Examples include, but are not limited to, remote management functions.
##### 5.2.3.2.4 Operating system (OS)
The present document assumes that the functions of GVNP are implemented on
multiple VMs. Each VM which is running on a common platform requires a guest
operating system to run.
##### 5.2.3.2.5 Interfaces
Compared to generic physical network product, GVNP has also two types of
logical interfaces, i.e. execution environment interfaces and remote logical
interfaces.
The remote logical interfaces are interfaces which can be used to communicate
with the GVNP from another network node and also include the remote access
interfaces to the GVNP for its maintenance through e.g. an Element Management
(EM), a Virtualised Network Function Manager (VNFM).
A GVNP hosts the following remote logical interfaces:
\- Service interfaces that are defined in pertinent 3GPP specifications
\- Service interfaces that are not defined by 3GPP
\- Remote OAM interface
\- Interface between EM (Element Management) and VNF which proprietary
interface (see figure 5.2.3.2. 5-1)
\- EMS (Element Management System) interface
\- Interface defined by ETSI NFV specifications [11] and [12]:
\- Interface between VNF and VNMF for GVNP lifecycle management, configuration
information exchange, state information exchange necessary for network service
lifecycle management, etc. This interface refers to Ve-Vnfm in the figure
5.2.3.2.5-1.
\- An execution environment interface is an interface that can be used to
provide the GVNP with the underlying execution environment, to guarantee
hardware independent lifecycle, portability, and performance requirements of
the GVNP.
A GVNP type 1 hosts the following execution environment interface:
\- -Interface towards the underlying Virtualisation layer for execution
environment provision. This interface refers to Vn-Nf in the figure
5.2.3.2.5-1.
{width="3.1666666666666665in" height="2.547222222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2.5-1: NFV reference architectural framework
#### 5.2.3.3 Generic virtualised network product model of type 2
##### 5.2.3.3.1 Description of the GVNP model
For the virtualised network product class type 2 (i.e. implementing 3GPP
defined functionalities and virtualisation layer), the following figure
5.2.3.3.1-1 depicts the components of a generic network product model at a
high level.
{width="5.996527777777778in" height="1.7458333333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.3.3.1-1: GVNP model of type 2
Compared to the GVNP model of the type 1 in figure 5.2.3.2.1-1, the GVNP model
of the type 2 in the above figure has the Virtualisation layer in addition to
3GPP VNF. The VMs which deploy VNFCIs can be deployed in the multiple hosts,
so there may be more than one instance of virtualisation layer that provide
virtualisation resource for VNF. For simplicity, only one instance of
virtualisation layer is shown in the figure 5.2.3.3.1-1. The components in the
figure 5.2.3.3.1-1 are further described in the following clauses.
##### 5.2.3.3.2 Functions defined by 3GPP
All text from clause 5.2.3.2.2 applies to functions defined by 3GPP in the
figure 5.2.3.3.1-1.
##### 5.2.3.3.3 Other functions
All text from clause 5.2.3.2.3 applies to other functions in the figure
5.2.3.3.1-1.
##### 5.2.3.3.4 Virtualisation layer
The virtualisation layer in a GVNP abstracts the hardware resources and
decouples the VNF software from the underlying hardware. It provides the
virtualisation resources (e.g. virtualised CPU, virtualised memory etc.) and
the execution environment for the network functions of VNF [11]. The primary
tools to realize the Virtualisation layer would be hypervisors [11]. The
hypervisor can be run either directly on top of the hardware (bare metal
hypervisor) or running on top of a hosting operating system (hosted
hypervisor) [12]. In case of a hosted hypervisor, the Virtualisation layer
includes both the hosted hypervisor and the hosting operating system.
Note: The definition of hypervisor is described in ETSI GS NFV-EVE 001 [12],
i.e. the hypervisor is piece of software which partitions the underlying
physical resources and creates Virtual Machines, and isolates the VMs from
each other.
##### 5.2.3.3.5 Interfaces
For the GVNP model of the type 2, the Vn-Nf between VNF and the virtualised
layer is an internal interface. So, in addition to the interface between the
VNF and VNFM (ref. Ve-Vnfm), it has the following interface defined by ETSI
NFV specifications [11] and [13]:
\- Interface between the Virtualisation layer and VIM (ref. Nf-Vi) for
virtualisation resource allocation, synchronization of virtualised resource
state information.
\- Execution environment interface (ref. VI-Ha) which towards the underlying
hardware layer for execution environment creation.
The remote logical interfaces in clause 5.2.3.2.5 other than the above
interfaces apply to the GVNP model of the type 2.
#### 5.2.3.4 Generic virtualised network product model of type 3
##### 5.2.3.4.1 Description of the GVNP model
For the virtualised network product class model of type 3 (i.e. implementing
3GPP defined functionalities, virtualisation layer, and hardware layer), the
following figure 5.2.3.4.1-1 depicts the components of a generic network
product model of type 3 at a high level.
{width="6.240972222222222in" height="1.8034722222222221in"}
Figure 5.2.3.4.1-1: GVNP model of type 3
Compared to the GVNP model of type 2 in the figure 5.2.3.3.1-1, the GVNP model
of type 3 in the above figure has hardware layer in addition to 3GPP VNF and
virtualised layer. The VMs which deploy VNFCs can be deployed in the multiple
hosts, so hardware layer that is shown in the figure 5.2.3.4.1-1 may consist
of more than one host. The components in the figure 5.2.3.4.1-1 are further
described in the following clauses.
##### 5.2.3.4.2 Functions defined by 3GPP
All text from clause 5.2.3.2.2 applies to functions defined by 3GPP in the
figure 5.2.3.4.1-1.
##### 5.2.3.4.3 Other functions
All text from clause 5.2.3.2.3applies to other functions in the figure
5.2.3.4.1-1.
##### 5.2.3.4.4 Virtualisation layer
All text from clause 5.2.3.3.3 applies to virtualisation in the figure
5.2.3.4.1-1.
##### 5.2.3.4.5 Hardware
Hardware resources include computing, storage and network that provide
processing, storage and connectivity to VNFs through the Virtualisation layer
(e.g. hypervisor).
##### 5.2.3.4.6 Interfaces
For the GVNP model of the type 3, both interfaces (i.e. Vn-Nf and VI-Ha) are
internal interfaces. So, the interfaces which are defined by ETSI NFV
specification [11] just include the Ve-Vnfm and the Nf-Vi. The Nf-Vi
also includes hardware resource configuration and state information (e.g.
events) exchange in addition to virtualisation resource allocation,
synchronization of virtualised resource state information.
The remote logical interfaces in clause 5.2.3.2.5 other than the above
interfaces apply to the GVNP model of the type 3.
### 5.2.4 Security Problem Definition (SPD) for 3GPP virtualised network
products class
#### 5.2.4.1 Introduction
Clause 5.2.2 of TR 33.916 [2] describes the steps to be accomplished for the
SPD part of the SCAS writing phase, principles and structures for threats and
security objectives. These are general guidelines and can also be applied to
SPD analysis of 3GPP virtualised network products. In addition, clause 5 of TR
33.926 [3] describes the generic assets and threats according to the
structures described in TR 33.916 [2]. The following clauses describe the
generic assets and threats in the course of developing 3GPP security assurance
specifications for a particular virtualised network product class by referring
to the generic assets and threats in TR 33.926 [3].
#### 5.2.4.2 Generic assets and threats of GVNP for type 1
##### 5.2.4.2.1 Generic assets of GVNP for type 1
The critical assets of GVNP for type 1 that need to be protected are:
\- User account data and credentials (e.g. passwords, private key);
\- Log data;
\- Configuration data, e.g. GVNP\'s IP address, ports, VPN ID, Management
Objects (e.g. user group, command group) etc.
\- Guest Operating System, i.e. the files that make up the guest OS and its
processes (code and data);
\- GVNP Application;
\- Sufficient processing capacity: that processing powers are not consumed
close to limits;
\- The interfaces of GVNP to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
for example:
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between GVNP and OAM system
\- Interface between virtualised network function (VNF) and VNFM
\- Interface between VNF and virtualisation layer, for providing the execution
environment to run VNF
\- GVNP Software package (binary code or executable code) which includes:
\- VNFD;
\- VNF image and image description file;
\- Configuration data (e.g. manifest file as defined in [15]).
##### 5.2.4.2.2 Generic threats for GVNP of type 1
##### 5.2.4.2.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-4 .H6}
In clause 5.3.1 of TR 33.926 [3], the identified threats are grouped into
seven categories, one covering threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces and
the other six corresponding to the categories proposed by STRIDE. Since these
seven categories are for generic 3GPP network products, they are also
applicable to GVNP of type 1. In addition, GVNP of type 1 also needs to
consider the threats related to ETSI-defined interfaces. As a result, there
are eight categories of threats for GVPN of type 1. The following clauses
describe the threats according to these security categories and use the
template of threat description in clause 5.3.1 of TR 33.926 [3]. For threats
descriptions of current seven categories, the present document will focus on
the differences between GVNP threats and GNP threats which are described in TR
33.926 [3].
##### 5.2.4.2.2.2 Threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces {#threats-
relating-to-3gpp-defined-interfaces .H6}
For GVNP of type1 and GNP in TR 33.926 [3], the threats related to 3GPP-
defined interfaces are the same. So, all texts in clause 5.3.2 of TR 33.926
[3] apply to GVNP of type 1. It means that there is no need repeat the threats
relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces which are covered in 3GPP security
specifications. If threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces are found not
sufficiently covered in existing 3GPP security specifications, they need to be
addressed in the SCAS for virtualised network products.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.3 Threats relating to ETSI-defined interfaces {#threats-
relating-to-etsi-defined-interfaces .H6}
Two of the interfaces defined in ETSI NFV specification [11] are identified as
the critical assets of GVNP type 1, i.e. interface between VNF and VNFM,
interface between 3GPP VNF and virtualisation layer. The threats on these
interfaces are as follows.
\- Threats on interface between 3GPP VNF and VNFM: if the interface is not
protected, an attacker can attack all the requests/responses sent between the
VNF and the VNFM. For example, the attacker can insert, tamper or delete e.g.
scaling requests, healing requests, subscribe requests, query requests and
other management related requests sent from the instantiated GVNP of type 1 to
the VNFM, hence the virtualised resource or relevant status information
obtained by the instantiated GVNP of type 1 is not as requested. This affects
the normal operation of the instantiated GVNP of type 1, and even causes DoS
attacks, information leakage.
NOTE: The Virtualisation layer is out of 3GPP scope, but its protection will
affect the security of the upper layer it supports. If the Virtualisation
layer is compromised, the VNF on top of it could also be easily compromised.
In such case, the messages sent over the VNF-VNFM interface can be manipulated
by the compromised VNF, which is however not a threat coming from the VNF-VNFM
interface. The analysis above focuses on the threats directly placed on VNF-
VNFM interface, when it is not well protected.
\- Threats on interface between 3GPP VNF and virtualisation layer: an attacker
can attack an instantiated GVNP of type 1 through a compromised virtualisation
layer. For example, cryptographic keys or other security critical data of an
instantiated GVNP of type 1 could be stolen by an attacker with access to the
virtualisation layer, or the virtualised resource provided by the
Virtualisation layer to the instantiated GVNP of type 1 can be manipulated or
the bootloader of Guest OS of an instantiated GVNP of type 1 can be tampered
by an attacker via a compromised virtualisation layer.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4 Spoofing identity {#spoofing-identity .H6}
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.1 Default Accounts {#default-accounts .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.1 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1. The difference is that VNF is accessed through VNC (Virtual
Network Console) rather than through the physical console interface, an
attacker can use a default account to access a VNF via VNC.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.2 Weak Password Policies {#weak-password-policies .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.2 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP. However, the attacker using the weak password accesses GVNP through
VNC (Virtual Network Console) rather than through the physical console
interface.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.3 Password peek {#password-peek .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.3 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP. However, the attacker using the peeked password accesses GVNP through
VNC (Virtual Network Console) rather than through the physical console
interface.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.4 Direct Root Access {#direct-root-access .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.4 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1. There are no differences between direct root accesses for
GVNP and GNP described in TR 33.926 [3].
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.5 IP Spoofing {#ip-spoofing .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.5 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1. However, the objective of unauthorized access is a VNF, not
a computer.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.6 Malware {#malware .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.6 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.4.7 Eavesdropping {#eavesdropping .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.7 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5 Tampering {#tampering .H6}
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.1 Software Tampering {#software-tampering .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.1 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1. Different from traditional physical network products, as
the entire GVNP is instantiated by the image(s) and other information (e.g.
configuration data, software environmental parameters, licence terms
information, script, manifest file, checksum, etc. as defined in [15]) within
a software package, additional threats are analysed as follows:
_\- Threat Name_ : Software Tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
\- _Threat Description_ : Compared with GNP software, GVNP software has
additional attack surfaces, e.g. in the process of VNF package on boarding,
during which the software package of a GVNP can be tampered/altered if not
protected. An attacker, for example, can inject malicious code or tamper the
information inside the unprotected package during on boarding. Then after the
instantiation of the GVNP, the tampered code can be executed to conduct
several attacks (e.g. DoS, Information Stealing, Frauds and so on).
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GVNP type 1 as listed in clause
5.2.4.2.1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.2 Ownership File Misuse {#ownership-file-misuse .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.2 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.3 Boot tampering for GVNP of type 1 {#boot-tampering-for-
gvnp-of-type-1 .H6}
For GVNP of type 1, there is no hardware. This is different from external
device boot of GNP described in clause 5.3.4.3 of TR 33.926 [3]. The threat is
described as follows:
_\- Threat name_ : GVNP of type 1 boot tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description:_ the GVNP bootloader may be maliciously tampered by an
attacker, e.g. the attacker tampers the bootloader of GVNP through a malicious
virtualisation layer.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ guest operating system
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.4 Log Tampering {#log-tampering .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.4 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.5 OAM traffic Tampering {#oam-traffic-tampering .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.5 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.6 File Write Permissions Abuse {#file-write-permissions-
abuse .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.6 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.5.7 User Session Tampering {#user-session-tampering .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.7 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.6 Repudiation {#repudiation .H6}
##### 5.2.4.2.2.6.1 Lack of User Activity Trace {#lack-of-user-activity-trace
.H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.5.1 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7 Information disclosure {#information-disclosure .H6}
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.1 Poor key generation {#poor-key-generation .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.1 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.2 Poor key management {#poor-key-management .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.2 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.3 Weak cryptographic algorithms {#weak-cryptographic-
algorithms .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.3 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.4 Insecure Data Storage {#insecure-data-storage .H6}
_\- Threat name_ : Insecure Data Storage
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description:_ The GVNP remotely stores sensitive data (e.g.
passwords, private keys, logs) on the logical volume that the VIM allocates to
the GVNP. An attacker can retrieve these data if they have been stored in an
insecure way (e.g. clear text, unsalted hashes).
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Any sensitive data stored on the logical volume of the
GVNP
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.5 System Fingerprinting {#system-fingerprinting .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.5 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.6 Malware {#malware-1 .H6}
\- Threat name: Malware.
\- Threat Category: Information Disclosure.
\- Threat Description: A malware installed on the logical volume that the VIM
allocates to the GVNP can access to the stored sensitive data (e.g.
subscription data, logs).
\- Threatened Asset: Any sensitive data stored on the logical volume of the
GVNP.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.7 Personal Identification Information Violation {#personal-
identification-information-violation .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.7 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.8 Insecure Default Configuration {#insecure-default-
configuration .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.8 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.9 File/Directory Read Permissions Misuse {#filedirectory-
read-permissions-misuse .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.9 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.10 Insecure Network Services {#insecure-network-services
.H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.10 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.11 Unnecessary Services {#unnecessary-services .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.11 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.12 Log Disclosure {#log-disclosure .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.12 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.13 Unnecessary Applications {#unnecessary-applications .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.13 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.14 Eavesdropping {#eavesdropping-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.14 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.7.15 Security threat caused by lack of GVNP traffic isolation
{#security-threat-caused-by-lack-of-gvnp-traffic-isolation .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.6.15 of TR 33.926 [3] is generic, so it also applies
to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.8 Denial of Service {#denial-of-service .H6}
The threats in all clauses of clause 5.3.7 for TR 33.926 [3] are generic, so
they also apply to GVNP of type 1. In addition, there is DoS attack due to
changing virtualisation resource that is used by GVNP. The detailed threat
description is as follows:
_\- Threat name_ : changing virtualisation resource without authorization.
_\- Threat Category_ : DoS.
_\- Threat Description_ : There are several ways to cause a DoS attack for the
GVNP: attackers having access to a compromised virtualisation layer can change
the virtualisation resource used by the instantiated GVNP of type1 without
authorization, or a malicious VM deployed for one instance of a VNF on a host
can illegally occupy the resources of the instantiated GVNP of type1 deployed
on the same host, resulting in resource limitation of the instantiated GVNP of
type1, or attackers having access to a compromised VNFM can scale in a Type 1
or scale down the virtualisation resource used by a GVNP or even terminate a
Type 1 instance without authorization.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : GVNP applications, sufficient processing capacity.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.9 Elevation of privilege {#elevation-of-privilege .H6}
The threats in all clauses of clause 5.3.8 for TR 33.926 [3] are generic, so
they also apply to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.10 Threats relating to other functions {#threats-relating-to-
other-functions .H6}
For GVNP of type 1, other functions not defined by 3GPP need to be well-
documented by the vendor, including capabilities, purpose, internal interface
to 3GPP defined functions, and interaction with the 3GPP defined functions.
Without such documentation, all threats identified in clause 5.3.1 of TR
33.926 [3] apply.
##### 5.2.4.2.2.11 Summary of threats for GVNP of type 1 {#summary-of-threats-
for-gvnp-of-type-1 .H6}
The threats for GVNP of type 1 can be compared to TR 33.926 [3] and summarized
as following:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threat Category | Detailed threat | Comparison to | | | | TR33.926 [3] | +======================+======================+======================+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats can be | | 3GPP-defined | | applied. | | interfaces | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threats relating to | - | New threats: | | ETSI-defined | | | | interfaces | | - The threats on | | | | interface | | | | between 3GPP VNF | | | | and VNFM | | | | | | | | - The threats on | | | | interface | | | | between 3GPP VNF | | | | and | | | | virtualisation | | | | layer | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spoofing identity | Default Accounts | Threats can be | | | | applied with | | | | difference that | | | | access through VNC | | | | instead of physical | | | | console interface. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Weak Password | Same as above. | | | Policies | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Password peek | Same as above. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Direct Root Access | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | IP Spoofing | Threats can be | | | | applied with | | | | difference that | | | | objective is VNF | | | | instead of computer. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Malware | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Eavesdropping | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Tampering | Software Tampering | Different threats. | | | | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.5.1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Ownership File | Threats can be | | | Misuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Boot tampering for | Different threats. | | | GVNP of type 1 | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.5.3. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Log Tampering | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | OAM traffic | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | File Write | Threats can be | | | Permissions Abuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | User Session | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repudiation | Lack of User | Threats can be | | | Activity Trace | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | - | Different threats. | | disclosure | | See detail in | | | | clauses | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.7.4 and | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.7.6. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Denial of Service | - | Different threats. | | | | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.8. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Elevation of | - | All threats can be | | privilege | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.4.3 Generic assets and threats for GVNP of type 2
##### 5.2.4.3.1 Generic assets for GVNP of type 2
In addition to the critical assets for GVNP of type 1 described in clause
5.2.4.2.1, GVNP of type 2 also has the following critical assets:
\- Interface between virtualisation layer and hardware, for creating an
execution environment of VNFs, and collecting relevant hardware resource state
information for managing the VNFs without being dependent on any hardware
platform;
\- Interface between virtualisation layer and Virtualised Infrastructure
Manager (VIM), for resource management.
Moreover, for interface between VNF and virtualisation layer, compared to GVNP
of type 1, it is an internal interface and does not be considered.
##### 5.2.4.3.2 Generic threats for GVNP of type 2
##### 5.2.4.3.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-5 .H6}
Compared to GVNP of type 1, GVNP of type 2 has virtualisation layer besides
3GPP VNF. So the generic threats of GVNP for type 1 in clause 5.2.4.2.2 can be
basically applied to GVNP for type 2. The following clauses will describe the
critical threats for GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.2 Threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces {#threats-
relating-to-3gpp-defined-interfaces-1 .H6}
Threats from clause 5.2.4.2.2.2 also apply to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.3 Threats relating to ETSI-defined interfaces {#threats-
relating-to-etsi-defined-interfaces-1 .H6}
Since the 3GPP VNF is included in GVNP of type 2, the threats on the interface
between 3GPP VNF and VNFM in clause 5.2.4.2.2.3 apply to GVNP of type 2. In
addition, GVNP of type 2 also has following threats relating to ETSI-defined
interfaces [11]:
\- The threats on interface between virtualisation layer and hardware: an
attacker can utilize the vulnerabilities of hardware (e.g. Meltdown and
Spectre of CPU in host) to attack virtualisation layer and/or VNFs through
this interface, resulting in information disclosure or DoS etc.
\- The threats on interface between virtualisation layer and VIM: an attacker
can tamper the specific assignment of virtualised resources to cause resource
assignment errors or an attacker can intercept virtualised resources state
information leading to information disclosure.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4 Spoofing identity {#spoofing-identity-1 .H6}
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.1 Default Accounts {#default-accounts-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.1 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
In addition to using default account to access GVNP, an attacker can also
utilize default account to access VNF of GVNP for type 2 through VNC (Virtual
Network Console).
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.2 Weak Password Policies {#weak-password-policies-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.2 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
In addition to using weak password to access GVNP, an attacker can also
utilize weak password to access VNF of GVNP of type 2 through VNC (Virtual
Network Console).
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.3 Password peek {#password-peek-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.3 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
In addition to using peeked password to access GVNP, an attacker can also
utilize peeked password to access VNF of GVNP of type 2 through VNC (Virtual
Network Console).
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.4 Direct Root Access {#direct-root-access-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.4 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.5 IP Spoofing {#ip-spoofing-1 .H6}
All texts from clause 5.3.3.5 of TR 33.926 [3] also apply to GVNP of type 2.
The objectives of unauthorized access include VNF and virtualisation layer
rather than a computer.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.6 Malware {#malware-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.6 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.7 Eavesdropping {#eavesdropping-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.7 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.5 Tampering {#tampering-1 .H6}
##### 5.2.4.3.2.5.1 Software Tampering {#software-tampering-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.2.4.2.2.5.1 of the present document for GVNP of type 1
also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.5.2 Ownership File Misuse {#ownership-file-misuse-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.2 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.5.3 Boot tampering for GVNP of type 2 {#boot-tampering-for-
gvnp-of-type-2 .H6}
For GVNP of type 2, like the threat described in clause 5.3.4.3 of TR 33.926
[3], bootloader of guest OS and/or host OS may be maliciously tampered by an
attacker when it is booted from external source. In addition, the bootloader
of guest OS may also be tampered, with reference to the description in clause
5.2.4.2.2.5.3. The threat is described as follows:
_\- Threat name_ : GVNP of type 2 boot tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description:_ The bootloader of host OS and guest OS for GVNP may
be maliciously tampered by an attacker, e.g. the attacker compromises host OS
to tamper the bootloader of guest OS, or tampers the bootloader of host OS
when it is booted from external source (such as USB flash drive, memory card).
_\- Threatened Asset:_ guest operating system, host OS
##### 5.2.4.3.2.5.4 Log Tampering {#log-tampering-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.4 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.5 OAM traffic Tampering {#oam-traffic-tampering-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.5 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.6 File Write Permissions Abuse {#file-write-permissions-
abuse-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.6 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.4.7 User Session Tampering {#user-session-tampering-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.7 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.6 Repudiation {#repudiation-1 .H6}
##### 5.2.4.3.2.6.1 Lack of User Activity Trace {#lack-of-user-activity-
trace-1 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.5.1 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.7 Information disclosure {#information-disclosure-1 .H6}
The threat in all clauses of clause 5.2.4.2.2.7 also applies to GVNP of type
2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.8 Denial of Service {#denial-of-service-1 .H6}
The threat in all clauses of clause 5.3.7 for TR 33.926 [3] also applies to
GVNP of type 2.
As GVNP type 2 contains the Virtualisation layer in addition to GVNP type 1,in
addition to considering the threats from a compromised VNFM described in
clause 5.2.4.2.2.8, the Virtualisation layer of GVNP type 2 could face the
threats coming from the VIM which manages it via NFVI-VIM interface. The
detailed threat description is as follows:
_\- Threat name_ : changing virtualisation resource via a compromised VIM or
unprotected NFVI-VIM interface.
\- Threat Category: DoS.
\- Threat Description: A VIM which manages the Virtualisation layer is
responsible for assigning virtualised resource as requested. If the VIM is
compromised or the NFVI-VIM interface is not securely protected, an attacker
who compromised the VIM or breached the NFVI-VIM interface can change the
virtualised resource used by a GVNP by manipulating the allocation of
virtualised resource. For example, when an instantiated VNF is running,
attackers having access to a compromised VIM or attackers breaching the
insecure NFVI-VIM interface can misguide the Virtualisation layer to reduce
the resource of or delete a VM on which a VNFCI is running. This can result in
the reliability, availability or even illegal termination of a GVNP and hence
the denial of service.
\- Threatened Asset: GVNP applications, NFVI-VIM interface, sufficient
processing capacity.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.9 Elevation of privilege {#elevation-of-privilege-1 .H6}
The threat in all clauses of clause 5.3.8 for TR 33.926 [3] also applies to
GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.10 Threats relating to other functions {#threats-relating-to-
other-functions-1 .H6}
For GVNP of type 2, other functions not defined by 3GPP need be well-
documented by the vendor, including capabilities, purpose, internal interface
to 3GPP defined functions, and interaction with the 3GPP defined functions.
Without such documentation, all threats identified in clause 5.3.1 of TR
33.926 [3] apply.
##### 5.2.4.3.2.11 Summary of threats for GVNP of type 2 {#summary-of-threats-
for-gvnp-of-type-2 .H6}
The threats for GVNP of type 2 can be compared to TR 33.926 [3] and summarized
as following:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threat Category | Detailed threat | Comparison to | | | | TR33.926 [3] | +======================+======================+======================+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats can be | | 3GPP-defined | | applied. | | interfaces | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats relating | | ETSI-defined | | to ETSI-defined | | interfaces | | interfaces of Type 1 | | | | apply here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threats: | | | | | | | | - The threats on | | | | interface | | | | between | | | | virtualisation | | | | layer and | | | | hardware | | | | | | | | The threats on | | | | interface | | | | between | | | | virtualisation | | | | layer and VIM | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spoofing identity | Default Accounts | The threats relating | | | | to Default Accounts | | | | of Type 1 apply | | | | here. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Weak Password | Same as above. | | | Policies | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Password peek | Same as above. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Direct Root Access | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | IP Spoofing | Threats can be | | | | applied with | | | | difference that | | | | objective is VNF and | | | | virtualisation layer | | | | rather than | | | | computer. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Malware | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Eavesdropping | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Tampering | Software Tampering | Different threats. | | | | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.3.2.5.1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Ownership File | Threats can be | | | Misuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Boot tampering for | Different threats. | | | GVNP of type 2 | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.3.2.5.3. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Log Tampering | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | OAM traffic | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | File Write | Threats can be | | | Permissions Abuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | User Session | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repudiation | Lack of User | Threats can be | | | Activity Trace | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | - | Different threats. | | disclosure | | See detail in | | | | clauses | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.7.4 and | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.7.6. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Denial of Service | - | Different threats. | | | | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.3.2.8. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Elevation of | - | All threats can be | | privilege | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The threats for GVNP of type 2 can be compared to GVNP of type 1 and
summarized as following:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threat Category | Detailed threat | > Comparison to GVNP | | | | > of type 1 | +======================+======================+======================+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats can be | | 3GPP-defined | | applied. | | interfaces | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threats relating to | - | The threats on the | | ETSI-defined | | interface between | | interfaces | | 3GPP VNF and VNFM | | | | apply here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threats: | | | | | | | | - The threats on | | | | interface | | | | between | | | | virtualisation | | | | layer and | | | | hardware | | | | | | | | - The threats on | | | | interface | | | | between | | | | virtualisation | | | | layer and VIM | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spoofing identity | Default Accounts | The threats relating | | | | to Default Accounts | | | | of Type 1 apply | | | | here. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Weak Password | Same as above. | | | Policies | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Password peek | Same as above. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Direct Root Access | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | IP Spoofing | Threats can be | | | | applied. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threat: | | | | | | | | > \- The objective | | | | > of unauthorized | | | | > access includes a | | | | > virtualised layer | | | | > in addition to a | | | | > VNF. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Malware | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Eavesdropping | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Tampering | Software Tampering | > Threats can be | | | | > applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Ownership File | Threats can be | | | Misuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Boot tampering for | Threats can be | | | GVNP of type 2 | applied here. | | | | | | | | Additional threat: | | | | | | | | - an attacker | | | | tampers the | | | | bootloader of | | | | host OS when it | | | | is booted from | | | | external source. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Log Tampering | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | OAM traffic | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | File Write | Threats can be | | | Permissions Abuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | User Session | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repudiation | Lack of User | Threats can be | | | Activity Trace | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | - | Threats can be | | disclosure | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Denial of Service | - | The DoS from a | | | | virtualised layer | | | | does not apply here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threat: | | | | | | | | - The DoS comes | | | | from NFVI-VIM | | | | interface. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Elevation of | - | Threats can be | | privilege | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.4.4 Generic assets and threats for GVNP of type 3
##### 5.2.4.4.1 Generic assets for GVNP of type 3
In addition to the critical assets for GVNP of type 2 described in clause
5.2.4.3.1, GVNP of type 3 also has the following critical assets:
\- Interface between hardware and Virtualised Infrastructure Manager (VIM),
for Hardware resource configuration and state information (e.g. events)
exchange.
Moreover, for interface between virtualisation layer and hardware, compared to
GVNP of type 2, it is only considered when virtualisation layer is decoupled
from hardware.
##### 5.2.4.4.2 Generic threats for GVNP of type 3
##### 5.2.4.4.2.1 Introduction {#introduction-6 .H6}
Compared to GVNP of type 2, GVNP of type 3 has hardware besides virtualisation
layer. So the generic threats of GVNP for type 2 in clause 5.2.4.3.2.1 can be
basically applied to GVNP for type 3. The following clauses will describe the
critical threats for GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.2 Threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces {#threats-
relating-to-3gpp-defined-interfaces-2 .H6}
All texts from clause 5.2.4.2.2.2 also apply to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.3 Threats relating to ETSI-defined interfaces {#threats-
relating-to-etsi-defined-interfaces-2 .H6}
Since the 3GPP VNF and the virtualised layer is included in GVNP of type 3,
the threats on the interfaces between 3GPP VNF and VNFM, between the
virtualised layer and the VIM that described in clause 5.2.4.2.2.3 and clause
5.2.4.3.2.3 apply to GVNP of type 3 respectively. In addition, the hardware
resource configuration and state information are sent to VIM through the
internal VI-Ha interface and the Nf-Vi. GVNP of type 3 also has following
threats relating to the Nf-Vi interface defined by ETSI GS NFV 002 [11]:
\- Threats on interface between hardware and Virtualised Infrastructure
Manager (VIM) (ref. Nf-Vi): an attacker can compromise VIM to tamper with the
hardware state information (e.g. deleting hardware alarm information) to
affect the hardware\'s operation or to result in information disclosure (e.g.
an attacker can get the hardware configuration from the compromised VIM. Then,
the attacker can attack the hardware according to the configuration such as
CPU type, memory size etc.). An attacker can also tamper or intercept the
hardware resource configuration and state information if the configuration and
state information are transmitted using an insecure protocol on the NFVI-VIM
interface.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4 Spoofing identity {#spoofing-identity-2 .H6}
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.1 Default Accounts {#default-accounts-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.1 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
In addition to using default account to access GVNP, an attacker can also
utilize default account to access VNF of GVNP of type 3 through VNC (Virtual
Network Console).
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.2 Weak Password Policies {#weak-password-policies-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.2 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
In addition to using weak password to access GVNP, an attacker can also
utilize weak password to access VNF of GVNP of type 3 through VNC (Virtual
Network Console).
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.3 Password peek {#password-peek-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.3 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
In addition to using peeked password to access GVNP, an attacker can also
utilize peeked password to access VNF of GVNP of type 3 through VNC (Virtual
Network Console).
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.4 Direct Root Access {#direct-root-access-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.4 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.5 IP Spoofing {#ip-spoofing-2 .H6}
All texts from TR 33.926 [3] in clause 5.3.3.5 also apply to GVNP of type 3.
The objectives of unauthorized access include VNF and virtualisation layer in
addition to the hardware host.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.6 Malware {#malware-3 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.6 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.7 Eavesdropping {#eavesdropping-3 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.3.7 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.5 Tampering {#tampering-2 .H6}
##### 5.2.4.4.2.5.1 Software Tampering {#software-tampering-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.2.4.2.2.5.1 of the present document for GVNP of type 1
also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.5.2 Ownership File Misuse {#ownership-file-misuse-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.2 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.5.3 Boot tampering for GVNP of type 3 {#boot-tampering-for-
gvnp-of-type-3 .H6}
All texts in clause 5.2.4.3.2.5.3 also apply to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.5.4 Log Tampering {#log-tampering-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.4 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.5 OAM traffic Tampering {#oam-traffic-tampering-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.5 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.6 File Write Permissions Abuse {#file-write-permissions-
abuse-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.6 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.4.7 User Session Tampering {#user-session-tampering-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.4.7 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.6 Repudiation {#repudiation-2 .H6}
##### 5.2.4.4.2.6.1 Lack of User Activity Trace {#lack-of-user-activity-
trace-2 .H6}
The threat in clause 5.3.5.1 of TR 33.926 [3] also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.7 Information disclosure {#information-disclosure-2 .H6}
The threat in all clauses of clause 5.2.4.2.2.7 also applies to GVNP of type
3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.8 Denial of Service {#denial-of-service-2 .H6}
All texts from clause 5.3.7 of TR 33.926 [3] also apply to GVNP of type 3.
Furthermore, as GVNP type 3 contains the hardware layer in addition to GVNP
type 2, except considering the threats from a compromised VNFM and NFVI-VIM
(Nf-Vi) interface described in clauses 5.2.4.2.2.8 and 5.2.4.3.2.8
respectively, the hardware layer of GVNP type 3 could face the threats coming
from the VIM which manages it via NFVI-VIM interface. The detailed threat
description is as follows:
_\- Threat name_ : changing hardware configuration via a compromised VIM or
unprotected NFVI-VIM interface.
_\- Threat Category_ : DoS.
_\- Threat Description_ : Hardware resource configuration and state
information (e.g. events) exchange is performed through NFVI-VIM interface. If
the VIM is compromised or the NFVI-VIM interface is not securely protected, an
attacker who compromised the VIM or breached the NFVI-VIM interface can tamper
the hardware configuration and state information so that the virtualised
resource supported by the hardware layer becomes unreliable. For example,
attackers having access to a compromised VIM or attackers breaching the
insecure NFVI-VIM interface can misguide the NFVI to detach a hardware
accelerator from a VNFCI.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : GVNP applications, NFVI-VIM interface, sufficient
processing capacity.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.9 Elevation of privilege {#elevation-of-privilege-2 .H6}
The threat in all clauses of clause 5.3.8 in TR 33.926 [3] also applies to
GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.10 Threats relating to other functions {#threats-relating-to-
other-functions-2 .H6}
For GVNP of type 3, other functions not defined by 3GPP need to be well-
documented by the vendor, including capabilities, purpose, internal interface
to 3GPP defined functions, and interaction with the 3GPP defined functions.
Without such documentation, all threats identified in clause 5.3.1 of TR
33.926 [3] apply.
##### 5.2.4.4.2.11 Summary of threats for GVNP of type 3 {#summary-of-threats-
for-gvnp-of-type-3 .H6}
The threats for GVNP of type 3 can be compared to TR 33.926 [3] and summarized
as following:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threat Category | Detailed threat | Comparison to TR | | | | 33.926 [3] | +======================+======================+======================+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats can be | | 3GPP-defined | | applied. | | interfaces | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats relating | | ETSI-defined | | to ETSI-defined | | interfaces | | interfaces of Type 2 | | | | apply here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threat: | | | | | | | | - The threats on | | | | interface between | | | | hardware and | | | | Virtualised | | | | Infrastructure | | | | Manager (VIM) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spoofing identity | Default Accounts | The threats relating | | | | to Default Accounts | | | | of Type 1 apply | | | | here. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Weak Password | Same as above. | | | Policies | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Password peek | Same as above. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Direct Root Access | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | IP Spoofing | The threats relating | | | | IP Spoofing of Type | | | | 2 apply here. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Malware | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Eavesdropping | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Tampering | Software Tampering | Different threats. | | | | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.4.2.5.1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Ownership File | Threats can be | | | Misuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Boot tempering for | Different threats. | | | GVNP of type 3 | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.4.2.5.3. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Log Tampering | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | OAM traffic | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | File Write | Threats can be | | | Permissions Abuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | User Session | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repudiation | Lack of User | Threats can be | | | Activity Trace | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | - | Different threats. | | disclosure | | See detail in | | | | clauses | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.7.4 and | | | | 5.2.4.2.2.7.6. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Denial of Service | - | Different threats. | | | | See detail in clause | | | | 5.2.4.4.2.8. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Elevation of | - | All threats can be | | privilege | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The threats for GVNP of type 3 can be compared to GVNP of type 2 and
summarized as following:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Threat Category** | **Detailed threat** | **Comparison to GVNP | | | | of type 2** | +======================+======================+======================+ | Threats relating to | - | All threats can be | | 3GPP-defined | | applied. | | interfaces | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Threats relating to | - | The threats on the | | ETSI-defined | | interfaces between | | interfaces | | 3GPP VNF and VNFM, | | | | virtualised layer | | | | and VIM apply here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threat: | | | | | | | | - The threats on | | | | interface between | | | | hardware and | | | | Virtualised | | | | Infrastructure | | | | Manager (VIM) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Spoofing identity | Default Accounts | The threats relating | | | | to Default Accounts | | | | of Type 2 apply | | | | here. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Weak Password | Same as above. | | | Policies | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Password peek | Same as above. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Direct Root Access | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | IP Spoofing | The threats relating | | | | IP Spoofing of Type | | | | 2 apply here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threat: | | | | | | | | - The objectives of | | | | unauthorized access | | | | includes the | | | | hardware. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Malware | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Eavesdropping | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Tampering | Software Tampering | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Ownership File | Threats can be | | | Misuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Boot tempering for | Threats can be | | | GVNP of type 3 | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Log Tampering | Threats can be | | | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | OAM traffic | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | File Write | Threats can be | | | Permissions Abuse | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | User Session | Threats can be | | | Tampering | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Repudiation | Lack of User | Threats can be | | | Activity Trace | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information | - | Threats can be | | disclosure | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Denial of Service | - | The threats from a | | | | compromised VNFM and | | | | NFVI-VIM (Nf-Vi) | | | | interface apply to | | | | here. | | | | | | | | Additional new | | | | threat: | | | | | | | | > \- the threats | | | | > that comes from | | | | > the VIM which | | | | > manages the | | | | > hardware via | | | | > NFVI-VIM | | | | > interface. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Elevation of | - | Threats can be | | privilege | | applied. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.2.4.5 Generic assets and threats for network functions supporting SBA
interfaces
Since some 3GPP defined network functions supports SBA interface, assets and
threats that are believed to apply to all network functions supporting service
based interfaces also should be considered.
The network functions defined by 3GPP are same for GVNP and Physical GNP. So,
the generic assets and threats for virtualised network functions supporting
SBA interfaces in clause 6 of TR 33.926 could be applied to all types of GVNPs
in the present document.
### 5.2.5 Potential Security Requirements
#### 5.2.5.1 Introduction
According to the scope of a SECAM SCAS in clause 4.1.2, a SCAS contains
security requirements and associated test cases, and may contain environmental
assumptions which will be validated during product deployment. So, like GNP in
TR 33.916 [2], the countermeasures deemed relevant to threat mitigation will
also take the form of either:
\- security requirements on the network product with associated test cases; or
\- operational environment security assumptions for a given product class.
For GVNP, the operational environment security assumptions among different
product classes vary greatly, for example some sensitive 3GPP functions may
need to be run from special security domain (See clause 5.2.1 of TR 33.848
[9]) or may need to implement hardware (See clause 4.9 in TR 33.916 [2]) with
special security requirement that make it difficult, if not impossible to be
realized in a GVNP implementation or the protection of certain data may
require higher level of protection due to the extreme sensitive nature of the
data (e.g. lawful interception target lists). It may also be necessary to
consider such assumptions during testing so that stringent security
requirements can be met. Any such consideration should be well-documented as
part of both the testing environment so that the validation during product
deployment can be carried out and duplicated.
The Security Requirements clauses within the pertinent TS contain the security
requirements identified according to the threats (see figure 5.2.5.1-1).
Figure 5.2.5.1-1: Process for deriving security requirements in a SCAS
document
The security requirements include security functional requirements and
hardening requirements (see clause 5.2.1). Since SECAM tasks include Basic
Vulnerability Testing, basic vulnerability testing requirements are also
included in security requirements of a SCAS. The types of the security
requirements are same as in TR 33.916 [2].
The three types of the levels of detail for security requirements in clause
5.2.3.1.1 of TR 33.916 [2] and the relationship between these levels are
generic and are also applicable to describe the level of detail of security
requirements for a GVNP.
#### 5.2.5.2 Incorporation of security requirements from existing 3GPP and
ETSI specifications in current releases
According to GVNP model and threat analysis, the categories of potential
security functional requirements can also include the following category
extension to the three categories in clause 5.2.3.2 of TR 33.916 [2]:
\- Security functional requirements related to Virtualisation layer, hardware
and resource isolation, among others, which may be identified in TR 33.848 [9]
and ETSI specifications.
The security functional requirements in this category are within scope of SCAS
and related test cases will be proposed.
#### 5.2.5.3 Handling of security requirements
A SECAM Catalogue of General Security Assurance Requirements and associated
test cases is proposed in clause 5.2.3.3 of TR 33.916 [2] to prevent from
writing the same security requirements from scratch several times in different
network product class SCAS. This generic way is also applied to SECAM of
virtualised network product class.
Since SECAM and SCAS of physical network product class are bases for SECAM and
SCAS of virtualised network product class, the security requirements of a
virtualised network product class will refer to the security requirements
already available in the current SECAM catalogue if possible otherwise select
the new ones from the agreed sources and update the Catalogue. The template
for a security requirement description of virtualised network product also
uses the template in current SECAM which is described in TR 33.916 [2].
#### 5.2.5.4 Guidelines for writing test cases
Some general guidelines for writing test cases (e.g. describing test case,
verifiability and repeatability of test case etc.) are described in clause
5.2.3.4 of TR 33.916 [2]. These general guidelines are also used to guide
writing test case of virtualised network product class.
NOTE: All the test cases in the present document do not apply to the scenarios
where the tested interfaces are not standard compliant, e.g. when the VNF and
VNFM are provided by the same vendor who has proprietary implementation on the
interface between them.
#### 5.2.5.5 Potential security functional requirements and related test cases
for GVNP of type 1
##### 5.2.5.5.1 Introduction
The present clause describes potential security functional requirements and
the corresponding test cases, independent of a specific virtualised network
product class of type 1. According to security threats and security
requirements in the above clauses, there are threats relating to ETSI-defined
interfaces and Security functional requirements related to Virtualisation
layer, hardware and resource isolation etc. (see clause 5.2.4.2.2 and clause
5.2.5.2). So, the proposed potential security requirements for GVNP of type 1
are classified in three groups:
\- Security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP specifications and
detailed in clause 5.2.5.5.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in the 3GPP specifications but whose support is also
important to ensure a network product conforms to a common security baseline
detailed in clause 5.2.5.5.3, clause 5.2.5.5.4, clause 5.2.5.5.5 and clause
5.2.5.5.6.
\- Security functional requirements related to Virtualisation layer, hardware
and resource isolation, among others. These requirements can be called
security functional requirements deriving virtualisation for simplify and
detailed in clause 5.2.5.5.7.
The threat cooperation between GVNP of type 1 and physical network products
are summarized in clause 5.2.4.3.2.10. Except threats relating to ETSI-definer
interfaces, other threat categories can apply to threat categories for GVNP of
type 1. So, the potential security requirements of the above first and second
group will base on the security requirements in clause 4.2 of TS 33.117 [4] to
identify the different security requirements for GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.2 Potential security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
##### 5.2.5.5.2.1 Security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- general approach {#security-functional-requirements-
deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-general-approach .H6}
The clause 4.2.2 in TS 33.117 [4] describes the general approach taken towards
security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP specifications and the
corresponding test cases, independent of a specific network product class. The
general approach is generic and applies to security functional requirements
deriving from 3GPP specifications and the corresponding test cases of GVNP
type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.3 Technical baseline for potential general security functional
requirements
##### 5.2.5.5.3.1 Introduction {#introduction-9 .H6}
The technical baseline is a generic set of security requirements to be
fulfilled by all virtualised network products.
In particular these requirements counter the security threats identified in
clause 5.2.4.2.2 and they basically aim to guarantee the network product
confidentiality, integrity and availability.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.2 Protecting data and information {#protecting-data-and-
information .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.2 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity {#protecting-
availability-and-integrity .H6}
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.1 System handling during overload situations {#system-
handling-during-overload-situations .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.3.1 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.2 Boot from intended memory devices only {#boot-from-
intended-memory-devices-only .H6}
All text from TS 33.117[4], clause 4.2.3.3.2 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.3 System handling during excessive overload situations
{#system-handling-during-excessive-overload-situations .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.3.3 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.4 System robustness against unexpected input {#system-
robustness-against-unexpected-input .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.3.4 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.5 Virtualised Network product software package integrity
{#virtualised-network-product-software-package-integrity .H6}
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.5.0 Overview {#overview-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.3.5 applies to GVNP of type 1.
In addition, VNF package and VNF image integrity shall be validated when on
board, and VNF image integrity shall be validated when in instantiated. The
detailed potential security requirements and related test cases are as
following.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.3.5.1 VNF package and VNF image integrity {#vnf-package-and-
vnf-image-integrity .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : VNF package and VNF image integrity
_Requirement Description_ :
1) VNF package and image shall contain integrity validation value (e.g. MAC).
2) VNF package shall be integrity protected during on boarding and its
integrity shall be validated by the NFVO.
_Threat Reference_ : Clause 5.2.4.2.2.5.2 of the present document, \"Software
Tampering \"; TR 33.848 [9], clause 5.18, \"Key Issue 17: Software Catalogue
Image Exposure\"
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_VNF PACKAGE AND IMAGE­_ INTEGRITY
**Purpose:**
1\. To test whether the VNF package has been integrity protected or not.
2\. To test whether the VNF image has been integrity protected or not.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The virtualised network product document describes information regarding
integrity protection of VNF package and VNF images, including details of how
the integrity check is carried out, who makes the digital signatures of VNF
package, what evidence is created to prove that the integrity check has been
executed and what the result of the check is, etc.
\- A valid VNF package and a not-valid VNF package (e.g. a tampered image in
VNF package) are available.
\- A valid VNF image (i.e. a correct HASH value is attached) and a not-valid
VNF image (i.e. an incorrect HASH value is attached, e.g. the VNF image can be
tampered when the VNF image is sent from the NFVO to the VIM or when the VNF
image is stored in the image repository) are available in the image repository
of VIM.
\- There are NFVO and VIM, or simulated NFVO and VIM.
**Execution Steps**
Execute the following steps:
1\. Review the documentation provided by the vendor describing how VNF package
integrity is verified;
2\. During VNF package on boarding, the tester uploads a valid VNF package
into a NFVO. The NFVO verifies the integrity of the VNF package by validating
the digital signature of the VNF package using the certificate of VNF vendor
according to the documentation;
3\. During VNF package on boarding, the tester uploads a not-valid VNF package
into a NFVO. The NFVO validates the digital signature of the VNF package using
the certificate of VNF vendor;
4\. During VNF instantiation, the VIM selects a VNF image with a correct
integrity protection value from the image repository to instantiate the VNF
image.
5\. During VNF instantiation, the VIM selects a VNF image with an incorrect
integrity protection value from the image repository to instantiate the VNF
image.
**Expected Results:**
1\. The VNF package is successfully on boarded into the NFVO;
2\. The not-valid VNF package is not on boarded;
3\. The VNF image with a correct integrity protection value is instantiated by
the VIM;
4\. The VNF image with an incorrect integrity protection value is not
instantiated by the VIM.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Snapshots containing the result of the VNF package on boarding and the VNF
image instantiation.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.4 Authentication and authorization {#authentication-and-
authorization .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.4 applies to virtualised network
products.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.5 Protecting sessions {#protecting-sessions .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.5 applies to virtualised network
products.
##### 5.2.5.5.3.6 Logging {#logging .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.3.6 applies to virtualised network
products.
##### 5.2.5.5.4 Operating systems
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.4 is generic and applies to guest
operating systems for GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.5 Web servers
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.5 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.6 Network devices
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.7 Potential security functional requirements deriving from
virtualisation and related test cases
##### 5.2.5.5.7.1 Potential security functional requirements on GVNP lifecycle
management {#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-gvnp-lifecycle-
management .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : GVNP lifecycle management security
_Requirement Description_ :
1) VNF shall authenticate VNFM when VNFM initiates a communication to VNF.
2) VNF shall be able to establish securely protected connection with the VNFM.
3) VNF shall check whether VNFM has been authorized when VNFM access VNF\'s
API.
4) VNF shall log VNFM\'s management operations for auditing.
Note: According to the definition in ETSI GR NFV 003, VNFM is responsible for
the lifecycle management of VNF. The lifecycle management of VNF is set of
functions required to manage the instantiation, maintenance and termination of
VNF. The GVNP of type 1 is 3GPP VNF. A 3GPP VNF lifecycle management begins
when the 3GPP VNF is instantiated by a VNFM after the 3GPP VNF package is
delivered to the operator and uploaded to NFVO. It is different terminology
with the product lifecycle management process in clause 6 that includes set of
functions required to manage first commercial introduction, update, minor
release, major release, end of life.
_Threat Reference_ : Threats on interface between 3GPP VNF and VNFM, in clause
5.2.4.2.2.3
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT SECURITY
**Purpose:**
1\. To test the VNF authenticates VNFM when VNFM initiates a communication to
VNF.
2\. To test the VNF establishes secure connection with the VNFM after
successful authentication.
3\. To test the VNF check whether VNFM has been authorized when VNFM access to
VNF\'s API.
4\. To check whether VNF logs the lifecycle management operations from VNFM.
Note: This test case is optional when the VNF and VNFM belongs to the same VNF
vendor. If the VNF and VNFM belongs to the same VNF vendor and the interface
between VNF and VNFM is proprietary interface, the API level authorization is
not needed.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
1\. There is a VNFM (or simulated VNFM) in the test environment.
2\. The VNF vendor\'s document describes how VNF authenticates/authorizes
VNFM. Execution Steps
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester triggers the establishment of communication between the VNF and
the VNFM.
2\. The tester captures the communication between the VNF and the VNFM using a
tool (e.g. wireshark).
3\. The tester checks whether the VNF authenticates the VNFM or not according
to the mechanism described in the vendor\'s document. For example, the VNF can
use HTTPS to communicate with the VNFM, the VNF uses VNFM\'s certificate for
authentication.
4\. The tester checks whether the VNF establishes secure connection with the
VNFM after successful authentication. For example, a TLS connection is
established after the VNF successfully authenticates the VNFM.
5\. The tester using the VNFM to access the VNF\'s API and checks whether the
VNF authorizes the VNFM or not according to the mechanism described in the
vendor\'s document. For example, VNF can use OAuth2.0 to authorize the VNFM.
The VNF uses VNFM\'s token for authorization.
6\. The tester checks whether the VNF logs the operations from VNFM or not.
**Expected Results:**
1\. Secure communication is established between VNF and VNFM with integrity
and confidentiality protection.
2\. The VNFM successfully accesses the VNF\'s API.
3\. The VNF logs the operations from VNFM.
**Expected format of evidence:**
1\. Pcap traces contain the authentication and authorization processes.
2\. Screenshot contains the logs.
##### 5.2.5.5.7.2 Potential security functional requirements on executive
environment provision {#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-
executive-environment-provision .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : secure executive environment provision
_Requirement Description_ :
> The VNF shall support to compare the owned resource state with the parsed
> resource state from VNFD (VNF Description) by the VNFM. The VNF can query
> the parsed resource state by the VNFM from the OAM. The VNF shall send an
> alarm to the OAM if the two resource states are inconsistent. This comparing
> process can be triggered periodically by the VNF, or the administrator can
> manually trigger the VNF to perform the comparing process.
Note: The virtualisation layer provides the execution environment for the VNF.
The security of the virtualisation layer is a base of the VNF security.
Whether VNFs are run on the trusted virtualisation layer or not is based on
operator\'s decision.
_Threat Reference_ : Threats on interface between 3GPP VNF and virtualisation
layer, in clause 5.2.4.2.2.3.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SECURE EXECUTIVE ENVIRONMENT PROVISION
**Purpose:**
1\. To test whether the VNF compares the owned resource state with the parsed
resource state.
2\. To test whether the VNF send an alarm to the OAM if the two resource
states are inconsistent.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
There are a VNF, a virtualisation layer (or simulated virtualisation layer),
an OAM, a VNFM, a VIM (or simulated OAM, VNFM, VIM) on the test environment.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester utilizes the virtualisation layer to change the resource state
of VNF (e.g. change vCPU size of the VNF).
2\. The tester uses the VNF to query the parsed resource state from the OAM.
3\. The tester uses the OAM to query the parsed resource state of the VNF from
the VNFM and send the received resource state to the VNF.
4\. The tester checks whether the VNF sends an alarm to the OAM when the VNF
receives the parsed resource state from the OAM and finds that the owned
resource state and the parsed resource state are inconsistent.
**Expected Results:**
1\. The VNF send an alarm to the OAM when the VNF receives the parsed resource
state from the OAM and find that the owned resource state and the parsed
resource state are inconsistent.
**Expected format of evidence:**
1\. Screenshot contains the alarm on the OAM.
##### 5.2.5.5.7.3 Instantiating VNF from trusted VNF image {#instantiating-
vnf-from-trusted-vnf-image .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : Instantiating VNF from trusted VNF image
_Requirement Description_ :
> A VNF shall be initiated from one or more trusted images in a VNF package.
> The VNF image(s) shall be signed by an authorized party. The authorized
> party is trusted by the operators.
_Threat Reference_ : TR 33.926 [3], Clause5.3.4.1, \"Software Tampering \"; TR
33.848, Clause5.18, \"Key Issue 17: Software Catalogue Image Exposure\"
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_INSTANTIATING VNF _ TRUSTED IMAGE
**Purpose:**
> To test whether the instantiating VNF from trusted VNF image.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The virtualised network product document describes information regarding
digital signature protection of VNF images, including details of how the
signature check is carried out, who makes the digital signature of VNF image
etc.
\- One VNF package included two trusted VNF images and the VNF package carries
a correct digital signature of the VNF package.
\- Another VNF package included untrusted VNF image which carry wrong digital
signature of VNF image and the VNF package carries a correct digital signature
of the VNF package.
\- There are a NFVO, or a simulated NFVO. A certificate which is used to
verify the digital signature of VNF image has been configured in the NFVO.
This certificate is provided by the vendor and it is issued by a CA trusted by
the operator. It means the trusted VNF image is only digital signature of the
VNF image is successfully verified by using the public key in the certificate
issued by the CA trusted by the operator.
**Execution Steps:**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. Review the documentation provided by the vendor describing how digital
signature of the VNF image is verified;
2\. The tester uploads a VNF package included two trusted VNF images into a
NFVO. The NFVO verifies the VNF images by validating each digital signature of
the VNF image using the certificate of the VNF according to the documentation;
3\. The tester uploads another VNF package included un-trusted VNF image into
NFVO. The NFVO verifies the VNF image(s) by validating each digital signature
of the VNF image using the certificate of the VNF according to the
documentation.
Note: The digital signature validation of the image is also described in
clause 5.2.5.5.3.3.5.1 VNF package and VNF image integrity, but the two test
cases have the different test purposes. This test case focuses on VFN image
credibility, while clause 5.2.5.5.3.3.5.1 is concerned with VNF image
integrity.
**Expected Results:**
1\. In the step 2, the signatures of the VNF images are successfully validated
and the VNF package is successfully on boarded into the NFVO;
2\. In the step 3, the signature of the un-trusted VNF image is failed to be
validated and the VNF package is not on boarded into the NFVO;
**Expected format of evidence:**
Snapshots containing the result of the VNF package on boarding.
##### 5.2.5.5.8 Potential security requirements and related test cases to
Hardening for GVNP of type 1
##### 5.2.5.5.8.1 Introduction {#introduction-10 .H6}
The requirements proposed in the present clause aim to securing virtualised
network products (including the network functions in service-based
architecture) by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular the
identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default virtualised network
product configurations (including operating system software, firmware and
applications) are appropriately set. The hardening requirements were proposed
in TS 33.117 [4] are general and generally apply to GVNP of type 1. So, the
potential hardening requirements for GVNP of type 1 also include four aspects,
i.e. general hardening requirements (i.e. technical baseline), operating
system, web server, network devices.
Compared to the physical network products, GVNP of type 1 has not hardware,
but contains 3GPP functions, other functions and guest OS, it also has inter-
VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic in addition to than O&M traffic, control
plane traffic and data plane traffic etc. The following clauses describe how
to reduce the exposure from these new features.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2 Technical Baseline {#technical-baseline .H6}
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.1 No unnecessary or insecure services / protocols {#no-
unnecessary-or-insecure-services-protocols .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.1 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.2 Restricted reachability of services {#restricted-
reachability-of-services .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.2 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.3 No unused software {#no-unused-software .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.3 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.4 No unused functions {#no-unused-functions .H6}
As GVNP of type 1 does not contain the hardware layer, all text from TS 33.117
[4] clause 4.3.2.4 applies to GVNP of type 1, except the requirements and
testing on hardware functions.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.5 No unsupported components {#no-unsupported-components .H6}
As GVNP of type 1 does not contain the hardware layer, all text from TS 33.117
[4] clause 4.3.2.5 applies to GVNP of type 1, except the requirements and
testing on hardware components.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.6 Remote login restrictions for privileged users {#remote-
login-restrictions-for-privileged-users .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.2.7 File system Authorization privileges {#file-system-
authorization-privileges .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.7 applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.3 Operating System {#operating-system .H6}
Guest OS provided by the vendors is generally based on Linux. All hardening
requirements of OS in clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [4] are general requirements
and apply to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.4 Web Severs {#web-severs .H6}
All hardening requirements of Web Servers in clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [4] are
general requirements and the same for both the virtualised network product and
the physical network product. So, all text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.4
applies to GVNP of type 1.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.5 Virtualised Network Products {#virtualised-network-products
.H6}
##### 5.2.5.5.8.5.1 Traffic separation {#traffic-separation .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.5.1 applies to GVNP of type 1, except
for the supporting physical separation of traffic belonging to different
network domains. The detailed requirement and test case are as following.
_Requirement Name_ : Traffic Separation
_Requirement Description_ :
The virtualised network product shall support logical separation of traffic
belonging to different network domains. For example, O&M traffic and control
plane traffic belong to different network domains. See RFC 3871 [x] for
further information.
_Threat reference_ : 5.2.4.2.2.7.15 Security threat caused by lack of GVNP
traffic isolation.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_TRAFFIC_SEPARATION
Purpose:
To test whether traffic belonging to different network domains is separated.
Procedure and execution steps:
Pre-Condition:
NOTE: This test applies if the virtualised network product is meant to handle
traffic from different network domains, e.g. both O&M and control plane
traffic.
The virtualised network product has at least two separate logical interfaces
dedicated to different network domains. Virtualised network products for which
the test applies and that fail to meet this precondition fail the test by
definition.
Execution Steps
Execute the following steps:
1\. The tester checks whether the virtualised network product refuses traffic
intended for one network domain on all interfaces meant for the other network
domain, and vice versa.
2\. Step 1 is to be performed for all pairs of different network domains.
Expected Results:
The two tests should be successful.
Expected format of evidence:
A PASS or FAIL.
##### 5.2.5.5.8.5.2 Separation of inter-VNF and intra-VNF traffic
{#separation-of-inter-vnf-and-intra-vnf-traffic .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : inter-VNF and intra-VNF Traffic Separation
_Requirement Description_ :
The network used for the communication between the VNFCs of a VNF (intra-VNF
traffic) and the network used for the communication between VNFs(inter-VNF
traffic) shall be separated to prevent the security threats from the different
networks affect each other.
_Threat Reference: 5.2.4.2.2.7.15 Security threat caused by lack of GVNP
traffic isolation_
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_TRAFFIC_SEPARATION_INTER-VNF_INTRA-VNF
Purpose:
To test whether the traffics between inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic
are separated.
Procedure and execution steps:
Pre-Condition:
1\. There has a VNF instance on the test environment. This VNF instance has
more than one VNFCI (VNF component Instance). The network between VNFCIs means
intra-VNF network which is private network provided by vendor.
2\. The document which describes how to separate the inter-VNF traffic with
the intra-VNF traffic has been provided by the vendor. For example, the
different network segments are described in the document.
3\. Another VNF instance (or a simulated VNF instance) is on the test
environment and can communicate with the tested VNF instance.
Execution Steps
Execute the following steps:
1\. The tester checks whether the inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic are
separated according the document by the vendor. For example, the tester checks
whether the different network segments used by inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF
traffic respectively.
2\. The tester checks whether a VNFCI refuses inter-VNF traffic on all intra-
VNF interfaces. For example, the tester can send ping to all intra-VNF
interfaces through an inter-VNF interface.
3\. The tester checks whether a VNFCI refuses intra-VNF traffic on all inter-
VNF interfaces. For example, the tester can send ping to all inter-VNF
interfaces through an intra-VNF interface.
Expected Results:
In the step 1, the inter-VNF traffic and intra-VNF traffic are separated
according the document by the vendor. In the step 2 and step 3, the VNFCI
refuses traffic.
Expected format of evidence:
A PASS or FAIL.
#### 5.2.5.6 Potential security functional requirements and related test cases
for GVNP of type 2
##### 5.2.5.6.1 Introduction
All texts from clause 5.2.5.5.1 can be basically applied to GVNP of type 2\.
The proposed security requirements for GVNP of type 2 are described in
following clauses.
##### 5.2.5.6.2 Potential security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
##### 5.2.5.6.2.1 Security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- general approach {#security-functional-requirements-
deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-general-approach-1 .H6}
The clause 4.2.2.1 in TS 33.117 [4] also applies to security functional
requirements deriving from 3GPP specifications and the corresponding test
cases of GVNP type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.3 Technical baseline
All texts from clause 5.2.5.5.3 apply to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.4 Operating systems
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.4 also applies to guest operating
systems and host operating systems for GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.5 Web servers
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.5 also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.6 Virtualised Network devices
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.6 also applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.7 Potential security functional requirements deriving from
virtualisation and related test cases
##### 5.2.5.6.7.1 General {#general-1 .H6}
All texts in clause 5.2.5.5.7.1 apply to GVNP of type 2. In addition, GVNP of
type 2 has the following security requirements related to virtualisation
resource management, executive environment creation and VM escape which are
derived from virtualisation and related test cases.
##### 5.2.5.6.7.2 Potential security functional requirements on virtualisation
resource management {#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-
virtualisation-resource-management .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : secure virtualisation resource management
_Requirement Description_ :
1\. To prevent a compromised VIM from changing the assigned virtualised
resource, the VNF shall alert to the OAM. For example, when an instantiated
VNF is running, a compromised VIM can delete a VM which is running VNFCI, the
VNF shall alert to the OAM when the VNF cannot detect a VNFC message.
2\. A VNF shall log the access from the VIM.
Note: The VIM manages the virtualisation resource assignment and
synchronization of virtualised resource state information. In the
implementation, the VIM and the virtualisation layer are coupled and provided
by one vendor, they trust each other. Whether the VIM is trust or not is based
on operator\'s decision.
_Threat Reference:_ TBA
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SECURE VIRTUALISATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
**Purpose:**
1\. To test whether the VNF alerts to the OAM when find the abnormal
situation, e.g. a VNFCI is deleted by VIM.
2\. VNF shall log the access from the VIM.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
> There are an OAM and a NFVO (or simulated OAM and NFVO) on the test
> environment.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester logs to the VIM and deletes a VM of a VNF;
**Expected Results:**
1\. The VNF alerts to the OAM. The alert from the VNF is found in the OAM.
2\. The VNF logs the alert.
**Expected format of evidence:**
> Screenshot contains the alert in the OAM and the alert in the log of the
> VNF.
##### 5.2.5.6.7.3 Potential security functional requirements on executive
environment creation {#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-
executive-environment-creation .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : secure executive environment creation
_Requirement Description_ :
> When an attacker tampers a driver which provided by the hardware and used to
> create the executive environment, the virtualisation layer shall alert the
> driver error to the administrator for checking the error and finding the
> attack at latter.
Note: Whether the hardware is trust or not is based on operator\'s decision to
ensure the virtualisation layer and the VNF to be run on the trusted hardware.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SECURE EXECUTIVE ENVIRONMENT CREATION
**Purpose:**
> To test the virtualisation layer alerts the driver error.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
There are a virtualisation layer, a VIM (or simulated virtualisation layer, a
VIM) and a host on the test environment.
**Execution Steps:**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester tampers a driver on the server and implements the executive
environment creation.
2\. The tester checks whether the virtualisation layer alerts the driver error
or not.
**Expected Results:**
The virtualisation layer alerts the driver error.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Screenshot contains the alert.
##### 5.2.5.6.7.4 Potential security functional requirements on VM escape
{#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-vm-escape .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : VM escape protection
_Requirement Description_ :
> To defence the attack that an attacker utilizes a vulnerability of a VNF to
> attack a virtualisation layer and then control the virtualisation layer, the
> virtualisation layer shall implement the following requirements:
>
> The virtualisation shall reject the abnormal access from the VNF (e.g. the
> VNF accesses the memory which is not allocated to the VNF) and log the
> attacks.
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_VM ESCAPE PROTECTION
**Purpose:**
> To test the virtualisation layer rejects the abnormal access from the VNF
> and logs the attacks from the VNF.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
There are a virtualisation layer and a VNF on the test environment.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester logs the VNF and makes an abnormal access (e.g. the VNF
accesses the memory which is not allocated to the VNF) to the virtualisation
layer.
2\. The tester checks whether the virtualisation layer rejects the abnormal
access from the VNF and logs the attacks.
**Expected Results:**
The virtualisation layer rejects the abnormal access from the VNF and logs the
attacks.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Screenshot contains the log.
> Note: The security requirements and related test cases in clause
> 5.2.5.6y.7.4 only considered in the decoupling scenario.
##### 5.2.5.6.8 Potential Security requirements and related test cases to
Hardening for GVNP of type 2
##### 5.2.5.6.8.1 Introduction {#introduction-12 .H6}
The purpose of hardening for GVNP of type 2 is also to reduce its surface of
vulnerability. Based on the gap analysis between GVNP SECAM and GNP SECAM in
clause 4, and the GVNP model of type 2 in clause 5.2.3, the GVNP of type 2 has
the Virtualisation layer additional the GVNP of type 1. So, the security
requirements and related test cases to hardening for GVNP of type 2 are based
on the hardening requirements in TS 33.117 and the hardening requirements of
GVNP for type 1.
NOTE: The only difference between for GVNP type1 and GVNP type2 in current
report is about Operating System.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2 Technical Baseline {#technical-baseline-2 .H6}
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.1 No unnecessary or insecure services / protocols {#no-
unnecessary-or-insecure-services-protocols-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.1 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.2 Restricted reachability of services {#restricted-
reachability-of-services-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.2 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.3 No unused software {#no-unused-software-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.3 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.4 No unused functions {#no-unused-functions-1 .H6}
As GVNP of type 2 does not contain the hardware layer either, all text from
clause 5.2.5.5.8.2.4 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.5 No unsupported components {#no-unsupported-components-1
.H6}
As GVNP of type 1 does not contain the hardware layer either, all text from
clause 5.2.5.5.8.2.5 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.6 Remote login restrictions for privileged users {#remote-
login-restrictions-for-privileged-users-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.6 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.2.7 File system Authorization privileges {#file-system-
authorization-privileges-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.2.7 applies to GVNP of type 2.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.3 Operating System {#operating-system-1 .H6}
In addition to the Guest OS, the GVNP of type 2 may have host OS which is also
provided by the vendor and generally based on Linux. So, all text from TS
33.117 [4], clause 4.3.3 applies to GVNP of type 2.
NOTE: Hardening requirements for Guest OS not based on Linux is not considered
in the present document.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.4 Web Severs {#web-severs-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.4 applies to GVNP of type 2
##### 5.2.5.6.8.5 Virtualised Network Products {#virtualised-network-
products-1 .H6}
##### 5.2.5.6.8.5.1 Traffic separation {#traffic-separation-1 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.5.1 applies to GVNP of type 2, except
for the supporting physical separation of traffic belonging to different
network domains.
##### 5.2.5.6.8.5.2 Separation of inter-VNF and intra-VNF traffic
{#separation-of-inter-vnf-and-intra-vnf-traffic-1 .H6}
All text from clause 5.2.5.5.8.5.2 applies to GVNP of type 2.
#### 5.2.5.7 Potential security functional requirements and related test cases
for GVNP of type 3
##### 5.2.5.7.1 Introduction
All texts from clause 5.2.5.5.1 can be basically applied to GVNP of type 3\.
The potential security functional requirements deriving virtualisation are
detailed in clause 5.2.5.7.7.
##### 5.2.5.7.2 Potential security functional requirements deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
##### 5.2.5.7.2.1 Potential security functional requirements deriving from
3GPP specifications -- general approach {#potential-security-functional-
requirements-deriving-from-3gpp-specifications-general-approach .H6}
The clause 4.2.2.1 in TS 33.117 [4] also applies to potential security
functional requirements deriving from 3GPP specifications and the
corresponding test cases of GVNP type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.3 Technical baseline
All texts from clause 5.2.5.5.3 apply to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.4 Operating systems
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.4 also applies to guest operating
systems and host operating systems for GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.5 Web servers
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.2.5 also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.6 Network devices
All text from clause 5.2.5.5.7.3 also applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.7 Potential security functional requirements deriving from
virtualisation and related test cases
##### 5.2.5.7.7.1 General {#general-2 .H6}
All texts in clause 5.2.5.6.7.1 apply to GVNP of type 3. In addition, GVNP of
type 3 has the following security requirements related to hardware resource
management, tampering hardware resource management information and trusted
platform which are derived from virtualisation and related test cases.
##### 5.2.5.7.7.2 Potential security functional requirements on hardware
resource management {#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-hardware-
resource-management .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : secure hardware resource management
_Requirement Description_ :
> The VIM manages the hardware resource configuration and state information
> exchange. When the VIM is compromised to change the hardware resource
> configuration, an alert shall be triggered by the hardware. The
> administrator can check the alert and find the attack at latter.
_Threat Reference:_ Threats on interface between hardware and Virtualised
Infrastructure Manager (VIM) in clause 5.2.4.4.2.3, Denial of Service in
clause 5.2.4.4.2.8
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SECURE HARDWARE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
**Purpose:**
> To test the hardware alerts the error of the hardware resource configuration
> from the VIM.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
> There is a VIM (or simulated VIM), GVNP of type 3 on the test environment.
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester utilizes the VIM to make an error hardware resource
configuration (e.g. error firmware upgrade).
2\. The tester checks whether an alert is triggered or not.
**Expected Results:**
> The hardware triggers an alert.
**Expected format of evidence:**
> Screenshot contains the alert.
##### 5.2.5.7.7.3 Potential security functional requirements on tampering
hardware resource management information {#potential-security-functional-
requirements-on-tampering-hardware-resource-management-information .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : secure hardware resource management information
_Requirement Description_ :
> When a compromised Virtualisation layer tampers the hardware resource
> configuration which is received from the VIM to result in the configuration
> error of the hardware, the hardware shall trigger an alert. The
> administrator can check the alert and find the attack at latter.
Note: Whether the virtualisation layer is trust or not is based on operator\'s
decision.
_Threat Reference:_ Threats on interface between hardware and Virtualised
Infrastructure Manager (VIM) in clause 5.2.4.4.2.3
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SECURE HARDWARE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
**Purpose:**
> To test the hardware alerts the error of the hardware resource
> configuration.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
There are a virtualisation layer (or simulated virtualisation layer) and a
host, a VIM on the test environment.
**Execution Steps:**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester tampers a received hardware resource configuration that the
virtualisation layer received from the VIM.
2\. The tester checks whether the hardware alerts when the tampered hardware
resource configuration is implemented.
**Expected Results:**
The hardware alerts the error of the hardware resource configuration.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Screenshot contains the alert.
Note: The security requirement and related test cases in clause 5.2.5.7.7.3 is
only considered in the decoupling scenario.
##### 5.2.5.7.7.4 Potential security functional requirements on trusted
platform {#potential-security-functional-requirements-on-trusted-platform .H6}
_Requirement Name_ : trusted platform
_Requirement Description_ :
> The host system shall implement a Hardware-Based Root of Trust (HBRT) ((e.g.
> TPM, HSM)) as Initial Root of Trust [16]. The trust state of the platform
> shall be measured and a trusted chain shall be built [8].
_Test case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_TRUSTED PLATFORM
**Purpose:**
> To test the platform is trusted.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
There are a host which has been installed HBRT on the hardware and related
software (e.g. host OS, Guest OS etc.).
**Execution Steps**
**Execute the following steps:**
1\. The tester tampers a BIOS or a file in the host OS kernel and restart the
host.
2\. The tester checks whether the measurement is implemented or not.
**Expected Results:**
The measurement is implemented, the restart process is interrupted.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Measurement report or screenshot contains process stop.
##### 5.2.5.7.8 Security requirements and related test cases to Hardening for
GVNP of type 3
##### 5.2.5.7.8.1 Introduction {#introduction-14 .H6}
Based on the gap analysis between GVNP SECAM and GNP SECAM in clause 4, and
the GVNP model of type 3 in clause 5.2.3, GVNP of type 3 include VNF,
virtualisation and hardware, the general hardening requirements both for
software and hardware in TS 33.117 apply to the GVNP of type3.
##### 5.2.5.7.8.2 Technical Baseline {#technical-baseline-4 .H6}
The GVNP of type 3 includes hardware and software. All the general hardening
requirements from TS 33.117 [x], clause 4.3.2 applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.8.3 Operating System {#operating-system-2 .H6}
Like GVNP of type 2, GVNP of type 3 contains Guest OS and may contain Host OS,
both of which are provided by the vendor and generally based on Linux®. So,
all text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.3 applies to GVNP of type 3.
NOTE: Hardening requirements for Guest OS not based on Linux is not considered
in the present document.
##### 5.2.5.7.8.4 Web Severs {#web-severs-2 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.4 applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.8.5 Network Devices {#network-devices-2 .H6}
##### 5.2.5.7.8.5.1 Traffic separation {#traffic-separation-2 .H6}
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.3.5.1 applies to GVNP of type 3.
##### 5.2.5.7.8.5.2 Separation of inter-VNF and intra-VNF traffic
{#separation-of-inter-vnf-and-intra-vnf-traffic-2 .H6}
All text from clause 5.2.5.5.8.5.2 applies to GVNP of type 3.
## 5.3 Improvement of SCAS and new potential security requirements
Vendors, operators or other bodies can propose new potential security
requirements for addition to 3GPP SCASs for GVNPs if a new threat or
vulnerability has been identified. This gives 3GPP the flexibility to
continuously review and improve their SCASs for GVNPs.
## 5.4 Basic vulnerability testing requirements for GVNP
### 5.4.1 Introduction
The basic vulnerability testing activities such as Port Scanning,
Vulnerability Scanner by the use of vulnerability scanners are the generic
mechanisms to detect the exposures and vulnerabilities of both for the
physical network products and the virtualised network products. Currently, the
security testing tools already support vulnerability and port scanning for the
virtualised network products. So, the requirements of port scanning and
vulnerability scanning in clause 4.4 of the TS 33.117 [4] apply to GVNP.
The target of robustness and fuzz testing are the protocol stacks (e.g. http
stack) rather than the applications. The protocol stacks supported by the NF
are the same for both of virtualised and physical network products. So, all
text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.4 applied to all types of GVNPs.
Such general requirement should be applied to fit different kinds of
implementations. For example, for GVNP of type 1, as it contains VNF, BVT is
applied. For GVNP of type 2, BVT can be applied for its VNF part. If its
Virtualisation layer part has host OS, BVT is also applied for its
Virtualisation part. For GVNP of type 3, BVT can be applied for its VNF part,
Virtualisation layer part if host OS is existing, and hardware part if SNMP or
similar protocol exists. All these are based on detailed implementation of
specific GVNP.
### 5.4.2 Port Scanning
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.4.2 applied to all types of GVNPs.
### 5.4.3 Vulnerability Scanning
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.4.3 applied to all types of GVNPs.
### 5.4.4 Robustness and Fuzz testing
All text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.4.4 applied to all types of GVNPs.
# 6 Vendor development and product lifecycle processes and test laboratory
accreditation
## 6.1 Overview
According to the description from clause 4.4, there is no gap between the
scopes of SECAM accreditation for both physical network products and the
virtualised network products. GSMA F.14, F.15 and F.16 [18], [19] and [20]
described test laboratory accreditation, vendor development and product
lifecycle processes and security requirements respectively. These are generic
accreditation and processes. So, the processes of vendor development and
product lifecycle processes and test laboratory accreditation in clause 6 of
TR 33.916 [2], which provide the overview of the processes and accreditation
in GSMA NESAG are apply to the virtualised network products as well.
NOTE 1: The product development and lifecycle processes as well as test
laboratory accreditation procedure described in the present document needs to
be revisited once GSMA SECAG publishes new methodology specifications on
NESAS.
NOTE 2 : GSMA SECAG is ultimately responsible for defining the entire vendor
development, product lifecycle processes, and test laboratory accreditation,
including dispute resolution process. Therefore, it is the responsibility of
GSMA SECAG to confirm if the current process defined in GMSA is sufficient to
cover virtualised network products.
## 6.2 Audit and accreditation of Vendor network product development and
network product lifecycle management processes
Vendor network product development and network product lifecycle management
processes assurance requirements as well as related evaluation activities are
generic in clause of TS 33.117[4], and apply to both physical network product
classes and virtualised network products classes. All text from TS 33.117 [4],
clause 6.2 applied to all types of GVNPs.
NOTE: According to the gap analysis in clause 4.4, who takes the role of the
SECAM Accreditation Body for all types of the GVNPs, which defines end or
network product development and network product lifecycle management processes
assurance requirements as well as related evaluation activities, needs to be
confirmed by GSMA.
## 6.3 Audit and accreditation of test laboratories
The process for audit and accreditation of test laboratories in clause 6.2 of
TR 33.916[2] are generic and apply to all types of GVNPs.
## 6.4 Monitoring
All text from TR 33.916 [2], clause 6.4 applied to all types of GVNPs.
Note: To assure the GVNP security during testing process and after deployment,
the hardware for GVNP for type 2, or NFVI for GVNP for type 1, which is not
provided by the vendor who implements the 3GPP virtual network functions, can
be assumed to comply with the monitor process in clause 6.4 of TR 33.916 [2].
## 6.5 Dispute resolution
All text from TR 33.916 [2], clause 6.5 applied to all types of GVNPs.
Note: To assure the GVNP security during testing process and after deployment,
the hardware for GVNP for type 2, or NFVI for GVNP for type 1, which is not
provided by the vendor who implements the 3GPP virtual network functions, can
be assumed to comply with the dispute resolution process in clause 6.5 of TR
33.916 [2].
# 7 Evaluation and SCAS instantiation
## 7.1 Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) instantiation documents
creation
According to gap analysis in clause 4.3, the scope of SECAM evaluation for
3GPP physical network products applies to SECAM evaluation of 3GPP virtualised
network products. The SCAS instantiation of the virtualised network product
also consists of a set of documents provided by the vendor to give test
laboratories and operators the relevant information to understand **the
critical parts of the network product to be evaluated.**
**The content of the SCAS instantiation of the GVNP is defined and it contains
details on:**
\- Virtualised Network Product description (e.g. software version,
documentation version).
\- Scope of evaluation.
\- Mapping of SCAS security requirements to the virtualised network product
and assets in the virtualised network product.
\- References to the applicable document versions containing operational
guidance in the documentation of the virtualised network product.
\- Information needed to start the Security Compliance Testing, including
Basic Vulnerability Testing. For GVNPs of type 1, the requirements for a NFVI
supporting environment (See clause 5.9 of TR 33.848 [9]) should be included in
the information. For GVNP\'s of type 2, the requirements of a hardware
supporting environment should be included in the information.
\- Details of licenses that are required for the product to operate in the
scope of evaluation (if relevant).
The above document set is updated by the vendor until the testers (Security
Compliance Testing, Basic Vulnerability Testing) consider they have enough and
correct information to execute the required tests. Details on the content of
these documents and of the update process are provided in clause 7.2.2.
## 7.2 Evaluation and evaluation report
### 7.2.1 Network product development process and network product lifecycle
management
According to the descriptions in clause 4.3.2 and clause 4.5.2, the tasks and
ultimate output of the GVNP evaluation is same with the physical network
product evaluation. So, all text from TR 33.916, clause 7.2 basically applies
to the GVNP. The following clauses will focus on the difference from clause
7.2 in TR 33.916.
### 7.2.2 SCAS instantiation evaluation
#### 7.2.2.1 Overview
Like the physical network product, SCAS instantiation evaluation of the
virtualised network product is to check whether a SCAS instantiation written
by a vendor is a correct instantiation of the SCAS of the network product
class and whether it is a good basis for evaluating the network product.
The accredited evaluator (vendor or third-party evaluator) for security
compliance testing is responsible for SCAS instantiation evaluation before it
is used to evaluate virtualised network product. The evaluator confirms at
least that the SCAS being instantiated for a given 3GPP virtualised network
product and the virtualised network product for evaluation are consistent.
According to the clause 4.3, 4.5 and 4.6, the content and the process of SECAM
evaluation from TR 33.916 [2] apply to GVNP.
#### 7.2.2.2 Content
The content of the evaluation from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.2.2.2 applies to
virtualised network products,.
#### 7.2.2.3 Process
The process from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.2.2.3 applies to virtualised
network products. The difference is that there may be more than one vendor
involved in the decoupling scenario.
### 7.2.3 Security Compliance testing
The security compliance testing in clause 7.2.3 of TR 33.916 [2] is a generic
process, the inputs, outputs and activities from TR 33.916 [2], in clause
7.2.3 apply to virtualised network products. In addition, the accredited test
laboratory should prepare supporting environment based on virtualised product
assumption, e.g. hardware for GVNP for type 2, or NFVI for GVNP for type 1.
### 7.2.4 Basic Vulnerability Testing
According to the analyses of basic vulnerability testing requirements for
GVNP, all text from TS 33.117 [4], clause 4.4 applied to all types of GVNPs.
The process of BVT from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.2.3 is generic and applies
to the virtualised network products. In addition, the test tools of BVT should
support to detect the vulnerabilities in GVNP.
## 7.3 Self-declaration
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.3 is generic and applies to the
virtualised network products.
## 7.4 Partial compliance and use of SECAM requirements in network product
development cycle
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.4 is generic and applies to the
virtualised network products.
## 7.5 Comparison between two SECAM evaluations
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.5 applies to the virtualised network
product.
## 7.6 The evaluation of a new version
All text from TR 33.916 [2], in clause 7.6 applies to virtualised network
products.
# 8 Conclusion
## 8.1 Way forward of SECAM/SCAS for 3GPP virtualised network products
In order to ensure the security of the massive deployed virtualised 5GC
network products, SECAM and SCAS for such GVNP should be considered.
It is concluded that there is no significant gap between GNP and GVNP in terms
of SECAM/SCAS as identified in clause 4. However there are still some security
threats and requirements specific to generic virtualised network products
identified in the present document, which can serve as the basis for the SECAM
and SCAS of specific virtualised network products. To continue the work, the
following way forward is proposed:
\- for methodology part, it is proposed to capture the methodology specific to
GVNP in a new 9-series document (to pair with TR 33.916 [2]).
\- for critical assets and threats: it is proposed to capture the threats and
critical assets as described in clauses 5.2.3.2 and 5.2.4.2 for type 1,
clauses 5.2.3.3 and 5.2.4.3 for type 2, clauses 5.2.3.4 and 5.2.4.4 for type 3
specific to virtualised network product class in a new 9-series document (to
pair with TR 33.926 [3]).
\- for security requirements and test cases, it is proposed to capture the
requirements and corresponding test cases for GVNP as described in clause
5.2.5.5 for type 1, clause 5.2.5.6 for type 2, clause 5.2.5.7 for type 3 and
clause 5.4 for general BVT test in a new document (to pair with TS 33.117
[4]).
NOTE 1: Regarding GVNP type 2, the security requirements and test cases on the
interface between virtualisation layer and hardware layer, the interface
between 3GPP defined functionalities and VNFM, the interface between
virtualisation layer and VIM are considered. Regarding GVNP type 3, only the
interface between 3GPP defined functionalities and VNFM, the interface between
NFVI and VIM are considered in this present document.
NOTE 2: When run the test to GVNP type 1 and GVNP type 2, and when a test case
cannot be passed, the NFVI for GVNP for type 1, or hardware for GVNP for type
2 maybe involved to find out why the test case cannot be passed. This is
because the NFVI for GVNP for type 1, or hardware for GVNP for both type 1 and
type 2 may not go through any security assurance testing in the same rigorous
manner that is similarly applied to the security assurance testing of GVNP
type 1 and GVNP type 2. 3GPP assumes the NFVI for GVNP for type 1, or hardware
for GVNP for both type 1 and type 2 can demonstrate secure enough to meet the
security requirement specified or will be specified in TS 33.117 [4] or other
related SDO, e.g. ETSI NFV, as well as the security requirements identified is
in the present document.
#