# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the security enhancements on the support for Edge
Computing in the 5G Core network define in TR 23.748 [3], and application
architecture for enabling Edge Applications defined in TR 23.758 [4] and TS
23.558 [2].
Potential security requirements are provided and possible security
enhancements to 5GS and edge application architecture are proposed that meet
these security requirements.
NOTE: The user consent for exposure of information to Edge Applications is
addressed in TR 33.867 [20].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.748: \"Study on enhancement of support for Edge Computing in
the 5G Core network (5GC)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 23.758: \"Study on application architecture for enabling Edge
Applications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedure for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.535: \"Authentication and Key Management for Applications
(AKMA) based on 3GPP credentials in the 5G System (5GS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[10] Void.
[11] 3GPP TS 33.187: \"Security aspects of Machine-Type Communications (MTC)
and other mobile data applications communications enhancements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.122: \"Security aspects of Common API Framework (CAPIF) for
3GPP northbound APIs\".
[17] Void.
[18] IETF RFC 4279 \"Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer Security
(TLS)\".
[19] IETF RFC 8446: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.3\".
[20] 3GPP TR 33.867: \"Study on user consent for 3GPP services\".
[21] IETF RFC 7858: \"Specification for DNS over Transport Layer Security
(TLS)\".
[22] IETF RFC 8310: \"Usage Profiles for DNS over TLS and DNS over DTLS\".
[23] 3GPP TS 33.434: \"Security aspects of Service Enabler Architecture Layer
(SEAL) for verticals\".
[24] IETF RFC 7616: \"HTTP Digest Access Authentication\".
[25] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
> [26] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
> network application functions using HypertextTransfer Protocol over
> Transport Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
[27] IETF RFC 2616 (1999): \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) -- HTTP/1.1\".
[28] GSMA IoT.04: \"Common Implementation Guide to Using the SIM as \"Root of
Trust\" to Secure IoT Applications\".
[29] IETF RFC 7515: \"JSON Web Signature (JWS)\".
[30] IETF RFC 7519: \"JSON Web Token (JWT)\".
[31] IETF RFC 7662: \"OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection\".
[32] OpenID Connect 1.0: \"OpenID Connect Core 1.0 incorporating errata set
1\", http://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html.
[33] NIST SP 800-63-3. Digital Identity Guidelines. Available at:
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-63-3.pdf.
[34] NIST SP 800-63c. Federation and Assertions. Available at:
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-63c.pdf.
[35] 3GPP TS 23.548: \"5G System Enhancements for Edge Computing; Stage 2;
(Release 17)\".
[36] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\"..
[37] IETF RFC 8446: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AC Application Client
EAS Edge Application Server
ECS Edge Configuration Server
EEC Edge Enabler Client
EES Edge Enabler Server
FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name
LADN Local Area Data Network
# 4 Overview of Edge Computing (EC)
The present document studies the security enhancements on the support for Edge
Computing in the 5G Core network defined in TS 23.548 [3], and application
architecture for enabling Edge Applications defined in TS 23.558 [2].
For the EC supported in 5GC, please refer to TS 23.548 [3].
For the application architecture for enabling Edge Applications, a new
architecture is defined in TS 23.558 [2] as shown in the figure,
Figure 4-1: Architecture for enabling edge applications - reference points
representation
Within this architecture, the Edge Enabler Client (EEC) deployed in the UE
retrieves the Edge configuration information from the Edge Configuration
Server (ECS), The Edge configuration information includes the information for
the EEC to connect to the EES (e.g. EDN service area); and the information for
establishing a connection with EESs (such as URI). Based on the Edge
configuration information, EEC could also acquire the required EAS information
from the discovered EES. ECS enables other authorized EES to access their
services. Meanwhile, EES enables other authorized EAS to access their
services. The ECS, EES and EAS acts as AFs for consuming network services
directly from the 3GPP 5G Core Network entities over the service based
architecture specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [14].
For more details on enabling Edge Applications, please refer to TS 23.558 [2].
# 5 Key issues
## 5.0 General
The following key issues are defined based on the security enhancements on the
support for Edge Computing in the 5G Core network define in TR 23.748 [3] and
TS 23.548 [35], and application architecture for enabling Edge Applications
defined in TR 23.758 [4] and TS 23.558 [2], i.e.:
\- Support for Edge Computing in the 5G Core network: Key issues 4, 5, 7, 9,
and 10.
\- Application architecture for enabling Edge Applications: Key issues 1, 2,
3, 6, and 8.
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and EES
### 5.1.1 Key Issue Details
As per TR 23.558 [2], EDGE-1 reference point enables interactions between the
Edge Enabler Server and the Edge Enabler Client. EDGE-1 reference point
supports registration and de-registration of the Edge Enabler Client to the
Edge Enabler Server, retrieval and provisioning of Edge Application Server
configuration information; and discovery of Edge Application Servers available
in the Edge Data Network.
Edge Enabler server provides functionalities to Edge Enabler client over
EDGE-1 reference point such as provisioning of configuration information to
Edge Enabler Client and support the functionalities of application context
transfer.
Edge Enabler Client performs the functionalities like configuration
information retrieval from the edge enabler server and discovering of the edge
application servers available in Edge Data Network. The Edge Data Network is a
local Data Network. Edge Application Server(s) and the Edge Enabler Server are
contained within the EDN.
The UE is initially provisioned with the configurations required to connect to
the Edge Data Network. Upon initial provisioning, the Edge Enabler Client of
the UE registers with the selected Edge Enabler Server(s) from the list of
provisioned Edge Enabler Server(s). Edge Enabler Client consumes service
offered by the Edge Enabler Server, e.g. discovering Edge Application Servers
in an area of interest. The procedure enables the initialization or update of
the Edge Enabler Client context information at the Edge Enabler Server. The
Edge Enabler Client sends the Edge Enabler Client registration request to the
Edge Enabler Server. Edge Application Server discovery enables Edge Enabler
Clients to obtain information about available Edge Application Servers of
interest. The identification of the Edge Application Servers is based on
matching query filters or Application Client Profiles provided in the request.
GPSI can be used as a UE identifier inside and outside of 5G networks, as
specified in TS 23.501 [14] and TS 23.003 [15]. As specified in TS 23.558 [2],
a new edge enabler layer is defined. In order to identify the UE\'s Edge
Enabler Client, the UE uses Edge Enabler client ID as the client identifier at
the edge enabler layer. And the Edge Enabler client ID may be used along with
GPSI. Then the EEC uses two different identifiers towards the EES, EEC ID and
UE identifier (could be GPSI)). Solutions to this key issue need to clearly
state which identifier of the EEC they authenticate.
Note 1: It is not addressed here whether the EEC ID will be unique across
different UEs.
Note 2: Whether the binding issue between EEC ID and UE identifier is required
is not addressed here.
### 5.1.2 Security Threats
When Registration, Discovery, Deregistration is used without authorization,
malicious Edge enabler client receives a list of Services and topology
structure within Edge Data Network from Edge Enabler Server discovery response
message. The received information can reveal Edge Data Network\'s topology
(e.g. URI, IP address, number of Edge Application Servers, Application Server
Functionalities, API type, protocols). Malicious Edge Enabler Client may use
this information to launch attacks on Edge Data Network or use this
information for competitive reasons.
If GPSI is not authenticated, then an Edge Enabler Client that spoofs a victim
UE\'s GPSI can learn some information about the location of the victim UE\'s
location because the server lists returned to the Edge Enabler Client is
constructed considering the UE location learned from the 3GPP network.
### 5.1.3 Potential Security Requirements
Edge Enabler Server shall be able to provide mutual authentication with Edge
Enabler Client over EDGE-1 Interface.
Edge Enabler Server shall be able to determine whether Edge Enabling client is
authorized to access Edge Enabling Server\'s services.
Edge Enabler Server shall be able to authenticate the GPSI sent by the Edge
Enabler Client if the client sends the GPSI to the server.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS
### 5.2.1 Key Issue Details
As per TR 23.558 [2], the EDGE-4 reference point enables interactions between
the Edge Configuration Server (ECS) and the Edge Enabler Client. Edge
Configuration Server (ECS) (Edge Configuration Server (ECS)) provides
supporting functions needed for the Edge Enabler Client to connect with an
Edge Enabler Server(EES). EDGE-4 reference point supports provisioning of Edge
configuration information (e.g. URI or LADN service information) to the Edge
Enabler Client.
Edge Enabler Client performs the functionalities like configuration
information retrieval from the edge configuration sever over the EDGE-4
interface.
As per TR 23.558 [2], The Edge Configuration Server(ECS) can be deployed in
the MNO domain or can be deployed in 3^rd^ party domain by the service
provider in which one Edge Enabling Client may communicate with one or more
Edge Configuration Server(ECS)(s) concurrently. If the Edge Configuration
Server (ECS) is deployed by MNO, the Edge Configuration Server (ECS) provides
one or more Edge Enabling Server configuration information. If the Edge
Configuration Server (ECS) is deployed by a non-MNO Edge computing service
provider, the Edge Configuration Server(ECS) endpoint address is pre-
configured with the Edge Enabling Client. The Edge enabling client that is
configured with multiple Edge Configuration Server (ECS) endpoint addresses
(es), may perform the service provisioning procedure per the Edge
Configuration Server(ECS) of each Edge Configuration Server(ECS) multiple
times. UE can contain a single Application Client (AC) or multiple Application
Client(AC)s, which are served by a single Edge Configuration Server(ECS). In
another scenario, UE has multiple Application Client(AC)s where each
Application Client(AC) can be served by an Edge Application Server, which in
turn is served by a different Edge Configuration Server(ECS)\'s Edge Enabling
Server.
GPSI can be used as a UE identifier inside and outside of 5G networks, as
specified in TS 23.501 [14] and TS 23.003 [15]. As specified in TS 23.558 [2],
a new edge enabler layer is defined. In order to identify the UE\'s Edge
Enabler Client, the UE uses Edge Enabler client ID as the client identifier at
the edge enabler layer. And the Edge Enabler client ID may be used along with
GPSI. Then the EEC uses two different identifiers towards the EES, EEC ID and
UE identifier (could be GPSI)). Solutions to this key issue need to clearly
state which identifier of the EEC they authenticate.
Note 1 : It is not addressed here whether the EEC ID will be unique across
different UEs.
Note 2: Whether the binding issue between EEC ID and UE identifier is required
is not addressed here.
### 5.2.2 Security Threats
If access to Provisioning and configuration information is retrieved without
authentication and authorization, malicious Edge enabler client will be able
to receive a list of Edge Enabling Server configuration information and
topology structure within Edge Data Network from the provisioning response
message. The received information can reveal Edge Data Network\'s topology
(e.g. URI, FQDN, IP address, LADN service information, Application Server
Functionalities, API type, protocols).
Malicious Edge Enabler Client may use this information to launch attacks on
Edge Data Network or use this information for competitive reasons.
If GPSI is not authenticated, then an Edge Enabler Client that spoofs a victim
UE\'s GPSI can learn some information about the location of the victim UE\'s
location because the server lists returned to the application is constructed
considering the UE location learned from the 3GPP network.
### 5.2.3 Potential Security Requirements
Edge Configuration Server(ECS) Requirements:
> \- Edge Configuration Server(ECS) shall be able to provide mutual
> authentication with Edge Enabler Client over EDGE-4 Interface.
\- Edge Configuration Server(ECS) shall be able to determine whether Edge
Enabling the client is authorized to access provisioning services offered by
Edge Configuration Server(ECS).
\- Edge Configuration Server shall be able to authenticate the GPSI sent by
the Edge Enabler Client if the client sends the GPSI to the server.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: Authentication and Authorization between EES and ECS
### 5.3.1 Key Issue Details
As per 23.558 [2], the EDGE-6 reference point enables interactions between the
Edge Configuration Server (ECS) and the Edge Enabler Server. EDGE-6 supported
the registration and registration updates, deregistration, of Edge Enabler
Server information to the Edge Enabler Network Configuration Server. The Edge
Enabler Server Registration procedure allows an Edge Enabler Server to provide
information to an Edge Configuration Server to request the use of its edge
configuration capabilities. The Edge Enabler Server registration update
procedure allows an Edge Enabler Server to update the Edge Configuration
Server if there is a change in the information at the Edge Enabler Server. The
Edge Enabler Server uses the Edge Enabler Server deregistration procedure to
remove its information from the Edge Configuration Server. As per 23.558 [2],
The Edge Configuration Server(ECS) can be deployed in the MNO domain or can be
deployed in 3^rd^ party domain by the service provider in which one Edge
Enabling Client may communicate with one or more Edge Configuration
Server(ECS)(s) concurrently. One Edge Enabling Server may concurrently connect
to one or more Edge Configuration Server with a separate EDGE-6 reference
point interface. The Edge enabling server that is configured with multiple
Edge Configuration Server (ECS) endpoint addresses (es) may perform the
service registration, updates, or deregistration procedures per the Edge
Configuration Server(ECS) of each Edge Configuration Server(ECS) multiple
times. In this context, the Security Context of each of EDGE-6 interfaces
needs to be separate from each other as the trust domain may be different.
### 5.3.2 Security Threats
Without authentication or authorization, the Malicious Edge Enabling server
may be able to register with the Edge configuration server, further exposing
its services to UE\'s Edge, enabling clients and applications running on UE.
Registration updates without any confidentiality or integrity may be able to
help a Man In the middle actor impersonating the Edge configuration server to
the Edge Enabling server exposing and possibly altering the registration
updates with a falsified Edge Enabling Server profile to Edge configuration
server. Also, this attack leads to exposing the topology details, server
information within the PLMN domain. Malicious actors can use this exposed
information for the benefit of PLMN\'s or Edge Computing Service provider\'s
competitors.
### 5.3.3 Potential Security Requirements
The Edge Configuration Server and the Edge Enabling Server shall perform
mutual authentication, to register and update the server profile information.
The Edge Configuration Server shall be able to authorize the Edge Enabling
Server to register and update the server profile information.
## 5.4 Key Issue #4 Edge Data Network Authentication and Authorization
### 5.4.1 Key issue detail
The concept of edge computing is analogous to that of an (external) data
network in the sense that the UE\'s edge client and the edge application
server needs to be authenticated and authorized before UE can access the edge
data network. In the case of an edge data network, the data network itself is
much closer to the UE than a traditional data network. UE authentication and
authorization are normal part of UE network access. For UEs accessing the edge
data network, the authentication to the edge data network is in addition to
the primary authentication for 3GPP network access. However, depending on the
relationship between the edge data network operator and the 3GPP PLMN, the
authentication to the edge data network may be implicit.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
Authentication and authorization are fundamental necessities in establishing
security and providing access to the UEs by the network. Without it, there is
no security and unauthenticated and unauthorized UEs may be able to enjoy the
services provided by an edge data network that the UEs have not subscribed to.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
UEs and Edge Data Network shall be mutually authenticated. When the Edge Data
Network is outside of the 3GPP domain, non-3GPP credentials may be used.
UE\'s access to Edge Data Network shall be authorized.
Existing security mechanisms shall be re-used as much as possible (e.g.
secondary authentication or slice-specific authentication).
## 5.5 Key Issue #5 Edge Data Network User Identifier and Credential
Protection
### 5.5.1 Key issue detail
For each UE, there may be multiple sets of user identifiers and credentials
that are used between UE and different edge data networks that are different
from the long term identifiers and credentials (i.e. 5G AKA credentials) used
for primary authentication. These user identifiers and credentials used in
edge data network authentication are stored in the UE and the edge data
networks. The identifiers and credentials need to be identified and protected
in the UE, in the network, and in transition, even in the case where the edge
data network is operated by a third party.
### 5.5.2 Security threats
If user identifiers and credentials are not protected, a number of well-
documented attacks can result in the loss of privacy, user data, and other
sensitive information for the users.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
Edge data network application user identifiers and credentials shall be
protected in storage and transit.
NOTE: How edge data network application user identifiers and credentials are
provisioned in the UE is out of the scope of the present document.
## 5.6 Key issue #6: Transport security for the EDGE-1-9 interfaces
### 5.6.1 Key issue details
TS 23.558 [2], clause 6.2 describes a new architecture for enabling edge
applications, i.e.
Figure 5.6.1-1
New interfaces (i.e. EDGE-1-9) were introduced in the architecture for
enabling Edge Applications. This key issues studies the related transport
security, i.e. confidentiality, integrity, and replay-protection.
\- Type A (Between UE and Edge servers):
\- EDGE-1: between EEC and EES
\- EDGE-4: between EEC and ECS
\- EDGE-5: between EEC and Application Client(s)
NOTE: Details of the EDGE-5 is out of scope of this release of the present
document, according to TS 23.558 [2]
\- Type B (Between 3GPP core and Edge servers):
\- EDGE-2: between 3GPP Core network and EES
\- EDGE-7: between 3GPP Core network and EAS
\- EDGE-8: between 3GPP Core network and ECS
\- Type C (Between Edge servers):
\- EDGE-3: between EAS and EES
\- EDGE-6: between EES and ECS
\- EDGE-9: between EES(s)
### 5.6.2 Threats
Without confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection, an attacker may
eavesdrop or manipulate or replay the communication or initiate the MITM
attacks on the interface.
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
Confidentiality protection, integrity protection, and replay-protection shall
be supported on the EDGE-1-4, and EDGE 6-9 interfaces.
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: Security of Network Information Provisioning to Local
Applications with low latency procedure
### 5.7.1 Key issue details
In the solutions for network information provisioning to local application
procedure in TR 23.748 [3], the following two ways are proposed to perform
network information exposure to a local application:
UPF exposes the network information (i.e. QoS monitoring) to local AF via
Local NEF.
For this case, the following two alternatives proposed:
\- The EAS/AF subscribes the network information notification according to the
blue dashed line path, and the local PSA provisions the networking information
to EAS/AF via local NEF (i.e. according to the blue solid line path).
\- The EAS/AF subscribes the network information notification according to the
red dashed line path, in this case, the local NEF retrieves the UPF
information before subscribing to the event from UPF for AF which is not
showed in the figure. When the request event happens, the local PSA provisions
the networking information also to EAS/AF via local NEF (i.e. according to the
blue solid line path).
UPF exposes the network information to local AF directly.
{width="4.391666666666667in" height="1.7680555555555555in"}
\- For this case, the following two alternatives proposed:
\- The EAS/AF subscribes the network information notification according to the
blue dashed line path, and the local PSA provisions the networking information
to EAS/AF directly (i.e. according to the blue solid line path).
\- The EAS/AF subscribes the network information notification with UPF
directly (i.e. according to the red dashed line path).
A new interface between UPF and local NEF/local AF/EAS is introduced, which
has a new security issue.
NOTE: Local PSA UPF can expose the QoS monitoring results to local AF via N6.
How to deliver the information on N6 is out of scope.
### 5.7.2 Security threats
Without authentication and protection, an attacker may eavesdrop or manipulate
or replay the communication on the new interface.
### 5.7.3 Potential Security requirements
For the case that UPF exposes the network information to local AF via Local
NEF.
\- Mutual authentication mechanism between UPF and local NEF shall be
supported.
\- Confidentiality protection, integrity protection, and replay protection
shall be supported on the new interface between UPF and local NEF.
For the case that UPF exposes the network information to local AF directly:
\- The UPF enables the secure provisioning of information in the 3GPP network
by authenticated and authorized Application Functions.
Confidentiality protection, integrity protection, and replay protection shall
be supported on the interface between UPF and Application Functions.
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: authentication and authorization in EES capability
exposure
### 5.8.1 Key issue details
TS 23.558, clause 8.6 [2] describes service capability APIs exposed by the
Edge Enabler Server to the Edge Application Server(s). The service capability
APIs exposed include EES capabilities and re-exposed 3GPP Core Network
capabilities. To support EES capability exposure, the following open issues
need to be studied:
\- Whether and how to support the Edge Application Server to access the EES
capability exposure function directly, e.g. how CAPIF, as specified in 3GPP TS
23.222 [9] can be utilized, and whether there is a need to enhance
functionalities of CAPIF?
\- How the Edge Enabling Server re-exposes service API(s) to the Edge
Application Server, where the service API(s) are relying on the SCEF/NEF
northbound API(s)?
### 5.8.2 Security threats
If the access to EES capability APIs is not authenticated and authorized,
attackers would potentially be able to perform the following types of attacks:
\- Requesting service from the EES that unauthorized parties are not allowed
to consume, e.g. in order to gain user\'s privacy information
\- Flooding the EES with resource-demanding operations may lead to a Denial of
Service situation
### 5.8.3 Potential security requirements
EES capability exposure to EAS shall be authenticated and authorized.
## 5.9 Key Issue #9: Security of EAS discovery procedure
### 5.9.1 Key issue details
In the solutions for the EAS discovery procedure in TR 23.748 [3], the
following DNS based solution is proposed. The solution requires a new
Functionality, an enhanced DNS Forwarder here referred to as \"LDNSR\". LDNSR
supports Edge AS Discovery using DNS using knowledge of the 5GC connectivity
of the UE.
Figure 5.9.1-1: Options for the EAS discovery using LDNSR for PDU session
breakout
New function LDNSR is introduced for EAS discovery, and the interaction
between SMF and LDNSR is also introduced. The SMF may provide knowledge of the
5GC connectivity of the UE to LDNSR, the information about the knowledge of
the 5GC connectivity of the UE is sensitive material which should be security
protected.
In the above solution, a DNS request is sent to query the Edge Server\'s
address. If the DNS destination address is modified by the attacker, DNS
request will be sent to the compromised DNS server, then the wrong Edge Server
address may be allocated. This attack may make UE connected to a far Edge
Server and ruin the advantage of the MEC, even worse, the compromised DNS
server may lead UE to connect to a compromised Edge Server.
### 5.9.2 Security threats
Without protection, an attacker may eavesdrop or manipulate or replay the
communication on the new interface.
Without protection about the DNS message, an attacker may manipulate the DNS
message which may cause the UE is not able to find a suitable EAS.
### 5.9.3 Potential Security requirements
The interaction message between the SMF and LDNSR shall be confidentiality,
integrity, and replay protected. Secure discovery of EDGE Services should be
supported.
## 5.10 Key issue #10: Authorization during Edge Data Network change
### 5.10.1 Key issue details
TR 23.748 [3] clause 5.2 describes a key issue #2 \"Edge relocation\", which
raises an issue on \"How to handle the change of the serving EAS (without UE
mobility) to support seamless change, e.g. preventing or reducing packet
loss\". Currently, several solutions (such as solution #22-40) in TR 23.748
[3] were proposed to address this key issue.
Here, Edge Data network connectivity will be modified during the edge
relocation, which is different from changing the PDU session anchor only. When
a new PDU session is created, secondary authentication will be triggered
(distributed anchor with SSC mode 1/2/3 and multiple PDU sessions). This will
not happen when additional PSA-UPFs are added to an existing PDU session.
Authorization needs to be investigated in relation to session breakout and
ULCL as well as IPv6MH.
Specifically, it needs to be studied how the authorization provided by the
secondary authentication is addressed during Edge Data network change with
requirements on service continuity as studied in Key issue #2 of TR 23.748
[3].
This key issue is to study the authentication and authorization requirement
between the UE and the target Edge Data network during the Edge Data network
change.
### 5.10.2 Security threats
If authentication between the UE and the target EDN is not performed for the
sake of seamless change, the threats of key issue #4 apply in this key issue.
Without authorization, an unauthorized UE may be able to consume the services
provided by the target Edge Data network.
### 5.10.3 Potential security requirements
Authentication of the UE and the target Edge Data Network shall be supported
during Edge Data network relocation with seamless change.
Authorization of UE for EAS service access during Edge Data network relocation
with seamless change shall be supported.
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Solutions Key Issues
* * *
                                                                                                                                     1            2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10
Solution #1: DNS request protection x  
Solution #2: Authentication between EEC and ECS based on primary
authentication x  
Solution #3: Authentication/Authorization framework for Edge Enabler Client
and Servers x x  
Solution #4: Authentication/Authorization framework for Edge Enabler Client
and Servers x x x x  
Solution #5: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge Enabler Client
and the Edge Enabler Server x  
Solution #6: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge Enabler Client
and the Edge Enabler Server x  
Solution #7: Authentication and Authorization with the Edge Data Network x x x  
Solution #8: Authentication between EEC and EES x  
Solution #9: Authentication and authorization between EEC and ECS based on
AKMA x  
Solution #10: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge Enabler Client
and the Edge Configuration Server x  
Solution #11: Authentication between EEC and ECS x  
Solution #12: Onboarding and authentication/authorization framework for Edge
Enabler Server and Edge Configuration Server x  
Solution #13: Transport security for EDGE-1-9 interfaces x  
Solution #14: Protection of Network Information Provisioning to Local AF
directly x  
Solution #15: Network capability re-exposure via Edge Enabler Server x  
Solution #16: EEC authentication and authorization framework with ECS and EES
x x  
Solution #17: EEC/EES/ECS authentication and transport protection with TLS and
HTTP Digest with AKMA PSK x x x x  
Solution #18: Authentication and Authorization Framework for EDGE-4 interfaces
using Primary authentication and proxy interface x  
Solution #19: Authentication/authorization between UE and Edge Data Network
based on the secondary authentication x  
Solution #20: Authentication and authorization in EES capability exposure
based on CAPIF x  
Solution #21: security for the interface between the SMF and LDNSR x  
Solution #22: EC: New solution on authorization during Edge Data Network
change x Solution #23: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and
ECS/EES x x  
Solution #24: Using TLS with AKMA to protect edge interfaces x  
Solution #25: Practical authorization during Edge Data Network change x
Solution #26: GBA-based solution for EEC authentication and authorization
framework with ECS and EES x x  
Solution #27: Using TLS with Edge Security Service to protect edge interfaces
x x x  
Solution #28: Authentication between EEC and ECS based on AKMA x  
Solution #29: Using TLS with GBA to protect edge interfaces x x x  
Solution #30: An AKMA-based solution for authentication and interface
protection between EEC and EES/ECS x x x  
Solution #31: Enhancing TLS with GBA for usage with Edge x x
## 6.1 Solution #1: DNS request protection
### 6.1.1 Introduction
The key issue #9 is proposed to protect the DNS request modification attack.
In an edge computing environment, DNS request is needed to query the Edge
Server\'s address. If the DNS destination address is modified by the attacker,
then the wrong Edge Server address may be allocated. This attack may make UE
connected to a far Edge server and ruin the advantage of the MEC, even worse,
the false DNS server may lead UE to connect to a compromised Edge Server.
TS 33.501 [7] has an informative annex P.2 describing security aspects on DNS
for 5G, and it is proposed to reuse the enhanced DNS in the MEC system.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
DNS server should support DNS over (D)TLS, as specified in RFC 7858 [21] and
RFC 8310 [22]. The DNS server(s) that are deployed within the 3GPP network can
enforce the use of DNS over (D)TLS. The UE can be pre-configured with the DNS
server security information (out-of-band configurations specified in the IETF
RFCs similar to, credentials to authenticate the DNS server, supported
security mechanisms, port number, etc.), or the core network can configure the
DNS server security information to the UE. When DNS over (D)TLS is used, a TLS
cipher suite that supports integrity protection needs to be negotiated.
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution reuses the security recommendations from TS 33.501 and requires
UE and DNS server to support DNS over (D)TLS, while introducing no extra
impact to other network entities.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Authentication between EEC and ECS based on primary
authentication
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution is addressing key issue#2-Authentication and Authorization
between EEC and ECS. This solution proposes the authentication between EEC
(Edge Enabler Client) and ECS (Edge Configuration Server). To be more
specific, it is proposed to use the Kausf derived from the primary
authentication as the trust root to perform the authentication between EEC and
ECS.
It is assumed in this solution that ECS is located outside of the MNO\'s
network.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
#### 6.2.2.1 Procedure
{width="5.759722222222222in" height="3.74375in"}
Figure-6.2.2.1-1: Authentication between the EEC and ECS based on primary
authentication
The authentication procedure details are as following:
Step 0: UE performs primary authentication with the network. Then K~AUSF~ is
shared between UE and AUSF in Home network. UE performs PDU session
establishment procedure as defined in TS 23.502.
Step 1: UE generates a credential K~edge~ and K~edge~ ID using K~AUSF~ and
SUPI, and stored securely. The method to derive generate K~edge~ and K~edge~
ID is in 6.2.2.2.
Step 2: AUSF generates a credential K~edge~ and K~edge~ ID using K~AUSF~ and
SUPI, and stored securely.
Step 3: UE computes MAC~EEC~ using the K~edge~ and EEC ID (defined in TS
23.558 [2]). The method to generate MAC~EEC~ is in 6.2.2.3.
Step 4: UE sends Application Registration request (EEC ID, MAC~EEC,~ K~edge~
ID) to ECS. Whether this message is send using NAS or user plane is based on
SA2\'s decision.
Step 5: ECS sends Authentication verification (EEC ID, MAC~EEC~, K~edge~ ID)
to NEF for verification.
Step 6: NEF discovers the AUSF based on K~edge~ ID, and sends Authentication
verification (EEC ID, MAC~EEC~, K~edge~ ID) to AUSF for MAC~EEC~ verification.
Note 1: How to discover the AUSF is not addressed here.
Step 7: AUSF retrieves K~edge~ using K~edge~ ID, and verify MAC~EEC~ using the
(K~edge~ and EEC ID).
Step 8: If verification in AUSF succeed, then AUSF sends Authentication
verification response(success) back to NEF, otherwise, AUSF sends
Authentication verification response(fail) to NEF.
Step 9: NEF sends Authentication verification response(success/fail) from AUSF
to ECS.
Step 10: Based on the verification results, ECS decides whether to accept or
reject the authentication request, and sends Authentication Request
accept/rejection to EEC in the UE.
Note 2: How the AUSF can be aware of each specific K~edge~ per UE is not
addressed here.
#### 6.2.2.2 Derivation of K~edge~ and K~edge~ ID
K~edge~ is generated using KDF defined in Annex B.2.0 of TS 33.220 [8]. When
deriving a K~edge~ from K~AUSF~, the following parameters should be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = xxxx(to be allocated by 3GPP)
\- P0 = \,
\- L0 = length of \.
The input key KEY should be K~AUSF~.
K~edge~ ID is generated by AUSF and UE, and uniquely identify only one
K~edge~.
K~edge~ ID should contain the \"routing indicator\|\| service identifier part
\|\| uniqueness part\".
\- The routing indicator part is used by ECS to find the correct NEF,
\- The service identifier part is used to represent different service, and it
could be the string of the service name or the EAS ID defined in TS 23.558.
The uniqueness part is used to make sure there is no collision among different
K~edge~ IDs for different EECs.
Note: It is not addressed here how to generate the uniqueness part.
#### 6.2.2.3 Generation of MAC~EEC~
When deriving MAC~EEC~ in the UE and AUSF, the following parameters should be
used to form the input S to the SHA-256 hashing algorithm:
\- P0 = K~edge~,
\- P1 = EEC ID,
The input S should be equal to the concatenation P0\|\|P1 of the P0 and P1.
The MAC~EEC~ is identified with the **32** least significant bits of the
output of the SHA-256 function.
### 6.2.3 Solution Evaluation
Not addressed here.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Authentication/Authorization framework for Edge Enabler
Client and Servers
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication and
Authorization of EEC in key issue #1 and key issue #2, Key issue #6(for
EDGE-1, EDGE-4 interfaces).
The Edge Configuration Server (ECS) act as the token server for issuance and
validation of access tokens to the UE and also to the EES and optionally EAS.
Access tokens are issued to EEC for the Edge Computing service, after
verification of the UE authenticity using AKMA service. AKMA service is used
as to use the network access credentials for the UE\'s authentication. Access
token is used for authorization of the UE to access/obtain the Edge Computing
service.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
> 6.3.2.1 Authentication and Authorization procedure between EEC and ECS/EES
Figure 6.3.2-1: Authentication/Authorization framework for Edge Enabler Client
and Servers
Step 1: The UE performs the procedures as defined in TS 23.502 [5] to get the
5GC network access.
Step 1A: At the end of the network access authentication procedure (Primary
authentication and key agreement TS 33.501, clause 6.1)), the UE and the AUSF
are in possession of the key K~AUSF~.
Step 2A-2C: The UE and the AUSF derives the AKMA key as specified in TS 33.535
[6]. The AUSF provides the AKMA key to the AAnF as specified in TS 33.535 [6].
Step 2D-2J: The UE initiates the Initial provisioning procedure with the ECS
and includes AKMA Key ID. ECS is Application Function (AF) for the AAnF as
specified in TS 33.535 [6]. The ECS contacts the AAnF (using AKMA key ID) to
obtain the corresponding key K~ECS~ (K~AF~) of the UE, if it does not hold a
valid K~ECS~ of the UE or the AKMA Key ID provided by the UE is different from
the previous AKMA Key ID. The AAnF provides the derived key (K~AF~) to the ECS
for the Edge Computing service. The K~ECS~ is the AKMA Application Key (K~AF~)
and derived as specified in TS 33.535 [6] by both the UE and the ECS.
The key K~ECS~ is used by the ECS to derive the key K~ECS-PSK~. The K~ECS-PSK~
is derived as defined in clause 6.3.2.1 of the present document, which is used
as the PSK to establish TLS between the EEC and the ECS. Once the K~ECS-PSK~
is derived, the ECS includes the Counter~ECS~ used to derive the K~ECS-PSK~,
to the UE in the initial provisioning response message. On receiving the
initial provisioning response message, the UE derives K~ECS-PSK~, as derived
by the AUSF using the received Counter~ECS~ value.
Step 2K: EEC establish the TLS session with the ECS, to secure the
communication. TLS is used to provide integrity protection, replay protection
and confidentiality protection for EDGE-4 interface. Mutual authentication is
performed between the EEC and the ECS using TLS, based on pre-shared keys
(K~ECS-PSK~) following RFC 4279 [18] for TLS 1.2 and RFC 8446 [19] for TLS
1.3.
Step 2L-2M: Once TLS session is created successfully, the EEC initiates the
service provisioning procedure with the ECS (as specified in clause 8.3 in TS
23.558 [2]) over the established TLS. If the UE is authorised to access the
EES, then the ECS generates (as detailed in clause 6.3.2.2 of the present
document) and provide the access token and ID token to the UE over the
established TLS session. Additionally, the ECS may provide EES root CA
certificate to the EEC, which is used to validate the EES\'s certificate.
Step 3: The UE performs EEC registration (as specified in clause 8.4.2 in TS
23.558 [2]) and discovery (as specified in clause 8.5 in TS 23.558 [2]) with
the EES.
Step 3A: Before sending the access token and ID token to the EES, the UE and
the EES establish a secure TLS connection using EES server certificate. Edge
Configuration Server may provide EES root CA certificate during the initial
provisioning procedure (Step 2M) to the EEC to validate the EES\'s
certificate. TLS provides integrity protection, replay protection, and
confidentiality protection over the EDGE-1 interface. It is required to
protect and to provide the access token to an authentic EES.
Step 3C-3E: The UE initiates EEC registration procedure with the EES,
including the access token and ID token obtained from the ECS in Step 2J. The
access token and ID token included in registration request provides
authentication and the authorization check for the EEC registration request by
verifying of the access token and ID token issued by the ECS to the UE. The
EES obtains the token validation service from the ECS.
Step 3F-3I: When the UE initiates EAS discovery procedure with the EES by
including the same access token and ID token obtained from the ECS in Step 2M,
if it is valid. Again the EES obtains the access token validation service from
the ECS. The EES also optionally requests and obtains the token(s) from the
ECS for the UE to grant access to the EAS(s). Then in response to the request,
the EES optionally includes the EAS access grant token(s), with relevant
information like validity time, to the UE.
If the obtained tokens from the ECS (in Step 2M) is not valid (due to time
limitation), then the EEC requests ECS for a new access token as shown in
figure 6.3.2-1. The token request message includes the necessary parameters to
identify the EEC security context and parameters for authenticity
verification. After verification of the authenticity, the ECS provides new
tokens to the EEC, in response to the request.
NOTE : The authentication and authorization between AC and EAS is out of scope
of the present document. For completeness, steps 4A-4F only detail a possible
procedure to be used in application layer.
Steps 4A-4F: The UE obtains service from EAS, by producing the access token
and ID token obtained from the EES, over the secure TLS connection. The UE
also obtains security policy and the relevant tokens from the EES in Step 3I.
Before sending the access token and ID token to the EAS, the UE and the EAS
establish a secure channel using EAS server certificate. It is required to
protect and to provide the access token and ID token to an authentic EAS. The
EAS obtains the token validation service from the ECS via EES. After
successful validation of the tokens, the UE obtains the Edge Computing service
from the EAS.
6.3.2.2 K~ECS-PSK~ derivation
K~ECS-PSK~ generation is performed using the key derivation function (KDF)
specified in Annex B.2.0 of TS 33.220 [8]. When deriving a K~ECS-PSK~ from
K~ECS~, the following parameters, K~ECS~ and Counter~ECS~ are used to form the
input S to the KDF.
To generate the K~ECS-PSK~, the ECS use a counter, called a Counter~ECS~. The
EEC and the ECS associates a 16-bit counter, Counter~ECS~, with the key
K~ECS~. The ECS initializes the Counter~ECS~ to 0x00 0x01 when the K~ECS~ is
derived. The EEC and the ECS maintains the Counter~ECS~ for lifetime of the
K~ECS~. The ECS sets the Counter~ECS~ to 0x00 0x02 after the first derived
K~ECS-PSK~, and monotonically increment it for each additional derived K~ECS-
PSK~.
The Counter~ECS~ is incremented by the ECS for every new computation of the
K~ECS-PSK~. The Counter~ECS~ is used as freshness input into K~ECS-PSK~
derivations, to mitigate the replay attack. The ECS sends the value of the
Counter~ECS~ (used to generate the K~ECS-PSK~) to the EEC. The EES accepts
Counter~ECS~ value that is greater than stored Counter~ECS~ value. The ECS
suspends the Initial provisioning procedure, if the Counter~ECS~ associated
with the K~ECS~ is about to wrap around. When a fresh K~ECS~ is generated, the
Counter~ECS~ at the ECS is reset to 0x00 0x01 and the ECS resumes the Initial
provisioning procedure.
6.3.2.3 Access token generation
The access token is opaque to EEC and is consumed by the EES. The access token
shall be encoded as a JSON Web Token as defined in IETF RFC 7519 [30]. The
access token shall include the JSON web digital signature profile as defined
in IETF RFC 7515 [29]. The access tokens shall convey the standards-based
claims as defined in IETF RFC 7662 [31].
NOTE: Additional claims to be conveyed by access token is up to the EDGE
service requirement.
6.3.2.4 ID token
The ID Token can be a JSON Web Token (JWT) and contain the standard claims as
defined in by the OpenID Connect 1.0 specification [32] and are required for
EDGE service implementation.
NOTE: Additional claims to be conveyed by ID token is up to the EDGE service
requirement.
### 6.3.3 Solution evaluation
This solution reuses AKMA service as defined in TS 33.535 to use the network
access credentials for the UE\'s authentication for Edge service. ID token and
Access token are used for authentication and authorization of the UE
respectively to obtain the Edge Computing service. These methods (OAuth2.0 and
OpenID Connect 1.0) are already being utilized in Mission Critical Services
(see TS 33.180), SEAL based procedures (see TS 33.434) and Service-Based
procedures in TS 33.501 (OAuth 2.0).
## 6.4 Solution #4: Authentication/Authorization framework for Edge Enabler
Client and Servers
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication and
Authorization of EEC in key issue #1 and key issue #2, Key issue #6(for
EDGE-1, EDGE-4 interfaces). The solution should work for all the scenarios
described in 23.558 [2]. e.g. MNO Owned ECSP and non-MNO owned ECSP. Another
scenario where the solution should be beneficial where UE already has a
business relationship (e.g. subscribed to services) with ECSP and MNO has a
business relationship ECSP then UE should use existing
authentication/authorization methodologies to connect to ECSP to avail
services.
Note: Secondary Authentication is performed in this solution.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
Figure 6.4.2-1: Secondary Authentication Based Authentication/Authorization
framework for Edge Enabler Client and Servers
The procedure includes the following steps:
Step 0: UE pre-configuration: If the ECS deployed by MNO is contracted with
one or more ECSP(s), the ECS provides EES configuration information of MNO
owned, and ECSP owned EESs via MNO ECS as described in clause 8.3.3.2 in
23.558 [2]. If a non-MNO ECSP deploys the ECS, the ECS endpoint address may be
configured with the EEC. An EEC that is aware of multiple ECSP\'s ECS endpoint
addresses may perform the service provisioning procedure per ECS ECSP multiple
times. As part of provisioning EEC may have installed ECS\'s TLS certificates.
Step 1: Primary Authentication: In this step, UE performs primary
authentication with the network.
Step 2a, 2b: PDU session: As a result of UE initiating the service
provisioning procedure with the ECS (as specified in clause 8.3 in TS 23.558
[2]), UE establishes a PDU session. This PDU Session may be established either
to a well-known or pre-configured S-NSSAI or DNN, or the 5GC derives the
S-NSSAI by using the registration for UE to network in step 1. Based on this
information, the AMF selects an SMF, which in turn selects a PSA that provides
a data connection to the Edge Cloud Service Provider\'s (Edge Data Network\'s)
AAA Server. SMF continues secondary authentication as per clause 11.1.2 in
33.501[7]. ECS may act as DN-AAA Server.
Step 3a, 3b: After successful UE-requested PDU Session Establishment
authentication/authorization by an EDN-AAA server, the device discovers and
connects to a ECS server address (that was preconfigured in the UE in step 0
or is derived from the application identifier and/or Service Provider
Identifier provided by the user in step 1) for provisioning EEC with ECS. The
UE performs EEC registration (as specified in clause 8.4.2 in TS 23.558 [2])
and Discovery (as specified in clause 8.5 in TS 23.558 [2]) with the EES.
EEC establish the TLS session with the ECS, to secure the communication. TLS
is used to provide integrity protection, replay protection and confidentiality
protection for EDGE-4 interface. Certificate-based Mutual authentication is
performed between the EEC and the ECS using TLS, following RFC 5246 [25] for
TLS 1.2 and RFC 8446 [19] for TLS 1.3 After successfully establishing the
secure session over EDGE-4 as in step 2, the Edge Enabling Client should send
an Initial Provisioning request with Access Token Request message to the Edge
Configuration Server as per the OAuth 2.0 specification. The Edge
Configuration Server should verify the Access Token Request message per OAuth
2.0 specification. If the Edge Configuration Server successfully verifies the
Access Token Request message, the Edge Configuration Server should generate an
access token specific to the Edge Enabling Client and return it in an Initial
Provisioning Response (Access Token Response) message.
Step 4.a: On EDGE-1, the Edge Enabling Client authenticates to the Edge
Enabling Server by establishing a TLS session with the Edge Enabling Server
based on the Server (Edge Enabling Server) side certificate authentication or
certificate-based mutual authentication) as indicated by Edge Configuration
Server. Edge Configuration Server may provide Edge Enabling Client\'s root CA
certificate during the registration response (as specified in clause 8.4 in TS
23.558[2]) to the Edge Enabling Server to validate the Edge Enabling Client\'s
certificate. TLS provides integrity protection, replay protection, and
confidentiality protection over the EDGE-1 interface. It is required to
protect and to provide the access token to an authentic EES.
Step 4.b: The UE initiates the EEC registration procedure with the EES,
including the access token obtained from the ECS in Step 3.b. The
authorization check for the EEC registration request is performed by verifying
the access token issued by the ECS to the UE. The EES obtains the access token
validation service from the ECS. In another option, the access token
validation service by the ECS could be replaced by an authorization service by
the ECS that does not require a token to be issued by the ECS to the UE but
details are not in scope of this solution.
Step 5: EEC requests a service (e.g. Discovery) with access token obtained in
step 4. The Edge Enabling Server should validate the access token. The Edge
Enabling Server verifies the integrity of the access token by verifying the
Edge Configuration Server signature. If validation of the access token is
successful, the Edge Enabling Server should verify the Edge Enabling Client\'s
Service request against the authorization claims in the access token, ensuring
that the Edge Enabling Client has access permission for the requested service.
e.g. When the UE initiates the EAS discovery procedure with the EES by
including the same access token obtained from the ECS in Step 3.b if it is
valid. Again, the EES obtains the access token validation service from the
ECS. The EES also optionally requests and obtains the access token(s) from the
ECS for the UE to grant access to the EAS(s). In response to the request, the
EES optionally includes the EAS access grant token(s), with relevant
information like validity time, to the UE.
If the obtained access token from the ECS (in Step 3.b) is not valid, then the
EEC requests ECS for a new access token, as shown in figure 6.3.X-1. The
access token request message includes the necessary parameters to identify the
EEC security context and parameters for authenticity verification. After
verifying the authenticity, the ECS provides a new access token to the EEC in
response to the request.
NOTE: The authentication and authorization between AC and EAS is out of scope
of the present document. Step 6 is only a possible procedure to be used in
application layer for completeness.
Step 6: The UE obtains service from EAS by producing the access token obtained
from the EES over the secure TLS connection. The UE also obtains security
policy and the relevant access token from the EES in Step 5. Before sending
the access token to the EAS, the UE and the EAS establish a secure channel
using the EAS server certificate. It is required to protect and to provide the
access token to an authentic EAS. The EAS obtains the access token validation
service from the ECS via EES. After successful validation of the access token,
the UE obtains the Edge Computing service from the EAS.
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
The above solution proposes reusing the authentication and authorization
between UE and Edge Data network using existing secondary authentication
mechanisms as defined in TS 33.501. There is no impact on network entities and
existing procedures.
After establishing the authentication and authorization using secondary
authentication with Edge AAA server, EDGE-1, Edge-4 interfaces are further
protected using TLS. TLS provides integrity protection, replay protection, and
confidentiality protection over the EDGE-1 and Edge 4 interfaces.
An access token mechanism provides authorization for Edge-1. The solution can
be amended by an authorization service by the ECS instead of an access token
mechanism.
Solutions comply with all app-based platforms and the majority of deployed
application solutions on the Internet today, which rely on the basic principle
where a network server (in the role of Authenticator) authenticates the device
(in the role of Supplicant) by communicating with a backend Authentication
Server. The key benefit of this Solution compared with AKMA based solutions
proposed in the present document is that the additional system impact on
enabling AKMA on the ECSP network is avoided. Also, it avoids putting a burden
on the ECSP to support AKMA.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge Enabler
Client and the Edge Enabler Server
### 6.5.1 Introduction
The following solution addresses the security requirement for the key issue #1
on Authentication and Authorization between the EEC and the EES.
In clause 8.3.2.3 of TS 23.558[2], before the service provisioning procedure,
the Edge Enabler Client should been authorized to communicate with the Edge
Configuration Server. From the security perspective, three security
requirements are specified for the access of UE to Edge Data Network.
\- It needs to ensure that only PLMN authorized UE can access to the Edge Data
Network.
\- It needs to ensure that only edge computing service authorized UE can
access to the Edge Data Network.
\- The URI or address information of Edge Enabler Server is the entry
information for Edge Data Network when the ECS is within the MNO.
This solution proposes a mechanism to reuse the secondary authentication for
the authorization of the PLMN PDU session establishment for the authentication
between the EEC and the EES.
Based on the secondary authentication procedure, the client is authenticated
by the EES. The EES will allocate the Edge Application Server information to
the client. Then the client can use this URI information of the Edge
Application Server to consume the edge service.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
Figure 6.5.2-1: Authentication and Authorization between the EEC and the EES
For this solution implement, there is a prerequisite: both the UE and the EES
support the secondary authentication.
The procedure assumes that the Edge Configuration Server is deployed by the
MNO. In this case, the EES is the authentication server in the Edge Data
Network.
1\. The UE registers in the operator network and perform the primary
authentication procedure. After primary authentication, the UE has the
information of Edge Configuration Server.
Note 1: How the ECS is involved in the primary authentication is to be
clarified.
2 When the UE triggers the edge service it sends the PDU session establishment
request to the AMF to setup the PDU session for the services provided by Edge
Data Network. The SMF should trigger EAP Authentication procedure and perform
the role of the EAP Authenticator.
3-4. The steps 3, 4, are the same as steps 5a-5b in clause 11.1.2 of TS
33.501[7].
5\. The secondary authentication procedure is required to perform if the SMF
check the UE has not been authenticated and authorized by the EES. The EES is
the authentication server (AAA) of the Edge Data Network.
Note 2: How to make SMF aware that it should communicate with EES for
secondary authentication is to be clarified.
6\. This step is the same as steps 8-15 in clause 11.1.2 of TS 33.501[7].
7\. After the successful completion of the secondary authentication procedure,
the EES sends EAP Success message to the SMF including the registration
response.
8\. The SMF sends a Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer to the AMF with the
received information.
9\. The AMF forwards NAS SM PDU Session Establishment Response message
including EAP Success.
### 6.5.3 Solution evaluation
This solution reuses the secondary authentication procedure to address the
security requirement for the key issue #1. This solution provides the
authentication between the EEC and the EES in case where the ECS is deployed
by the MNO.
In this solution, the authentication of EEC by the EES is based on the
authentication of UE with User ID (EAP ID), the EES needs to check the mapping
relationship between the UE ID and the EEC ID additionally.
Note 1: The mapping relationship between the UE ID used during the secondary
authentication and the EEC ID is not addressed here.
Note 2: It is not addressed here how the EEC is authenticated with the
relationship between EEC ID and User ID.
The SMF checks whether the UE should be authenticated by the EES or not.
The EES plays the role of EDN-AAA server and support secondary authentication.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge Enabler
Client and the Edge Enabler Server
### 6.6.1 Introduction
The following solution addresses the security requirement for the key issue #1
on Authentication and Authorization between the EEC and the EES.
In clause 8.3.2.3 of TS 23.558 [2], before the service provisioning procedure,
the Edge Enabler Client should be authorized to communicate with the Edge
Configuration Server. From the security perspective, three security
requirements are specified for the access of UE to Edge Data Network:
\- It needs to ensure that only PLMN authorized UE can access to the Edge Data
Network.
\- It needs to ensure that only edge computing service authorized UE can
access to the Edge Data Network.
\- The URI or address information of Edge Configuration Server is the entry
information for Edge Data Network when the ECS is deployed by the ECSP.
When the Edge Configuration server is deployed by the ECSP, the ECS
information is preconfigured in the UE. This solution proposes a mechanism how
the Edge Enabler Client is authenticated and authorized by the Edge Enabler
Server when the Edge Configuration server is deployed by the ECSP. The
secondary authentication for the authorization of the PLMN PDU session
establishment will be reused as service authentication. The SMF should perform
the role of the EAP Authenticator and communicates with the ECS (AAA).
Based on the secondary authentication procedure, the client is authenticated.
The ECS will allocate the Edge Enabler Server information to the EEC. Then the
client can use this URI information of the Edge Enabler Server to communicate
with the Edge Date Network. It takes advantage of the secondary authentication
between EEC and ECS to realize the authentication between the EEC and the EES.
The authorization between the EEC and the EES is performed via the ECS.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
Figure 6.6.2-1: Authentication and Authorization between the EEC and the EES
For this solution implement, there is a prerequisite: both the UE and the ECS
support the secondary authentication.
The procedure assumes that the Edge Data Network is deployed by the ECSP. Both
the ECS and the EES stores the mapping between the EEC ID and GPSI for each
EEC. The ECS will store the allowed EES list and the subscription expiration
time.
Note 1: It is not addressed here whether the ECS and the EES can obtain a
mapping between the EEC ID and GPSI for each EEC.
1\. The UE registers in the operator network and perform the primary
authentication procedure.
2\. When the UE trigger the edge service it sends the PDU session
establishment request to the AMF to setup the PDU session for the services
provided by Edge Data Network.
3-4. The steps 3, 4 are the same as steps 5a-5b in clause 11.1.2 of TS
33.501[7]. The secondary authentication procedure is required to perform if
the SMF check the UE has not been authenticated and authorized by the ECS. The
ECS is the authentication server of the Edge Data Network.
Note 2: How to make SMF aware that it should communicate with ECS for
secondary authentication is to be clarified.
6\. This step is the same as steps 8-15 in clause 11.1.2 of TS 33.501[7].
7\. After the successful completion of the authentication procedure, the ECS
sends EAP Success message to the SMF including the GPSI.
8\. The SMF sends a Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer to the AMF with the
received information.
9\. The AMF forwards NAS SM PDU Session Establishment Response message along
with EAP Success and the GPSI to the UE/EEC.
10\. The EEC sends Edge Enabler Client registration request to the EES.
11\. The EES should verify the mapping between the EEC ID and GPSI. Then the
EES requests to validate the authorization of the EEC from the ECS with the
EEC ID. The ECS will check whether the EEC has been authorized to access to
the EES for edge computing service with GPSI corresponding to the EEC ID.
12\. If the EEC is authorized, the ECS responses to the EES with the service
authorization response message.
13\. After successful service authorization verification, the EES sends Edge
Enabler Client registration response to the EEC.
### 6.6.3 Solution evaluation
This solution reuses the secondary authentication procedure to address the
security requirement for the key issue #1. This solution provides the
authentication between the EEC and the EES in case of the ECS is deployed by
the ECSP.
In this solution, the authentication of EEC by the EES is based on the
authentication of UE with user ID (EAP ID), the EES needs to check the mapping
relationship between the UE ID and the EEC ID additionally.
Note 1: The mapping relationship between the UE ID used during the secondary
authentication and the EEC ID is not addressed here.
Note 2: It is not addressed here how the EEC is authenticated with the
relationship between EEC ID and UE ID.
The SMF checks whether the UE should be authenticated by the ECS or not.
The ECS plays the role of EDN-AAA server and support secondary authentication.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Authentication and Authorization with the Edge Data
Network
### 6.7.1 Solution overview
The solution addresses the following key issues:
\- Key issue #1: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and EES
\- Key issue #2: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS
\- Key issue #6: Transport security for the EDGE-1-9 interfaces
The solution is based on the K~AMF~ generated during the primary
authentication. The network function that receives a registration request is
querying the previous network function for authentication and the key for
setting up an IPsec SA. Messages are protected with a MAC-I, which is also
used to authenticate the UE.
The preferred ECS deployment scenario of the solution is, when the ECS is
located in the serving network or hosted by a 3^rd^ party service provider,
since the services are to be hosted close to the UE\'s access point of
attachment, to achieve an efficient service delivery through the reduced end-
to-end latency and load on the transport network. In case of special roaming
scenarios where the ECS is only located in the HPLMN while the UE is in a
VPLMN, the K~ECS~ is then derived from the VPLMN K~AMF~.
NOTE: Edge Computing typically applies to non-roaming and LBO roaming
scenarios.
In this solution it is assumed that the EEC ID is known to the UE and
configured in the subscription profile. If the EEC ID is not configured in the
UE/AMF, the AMF cannot identify the corresponding UE profile, thus the EEC ID
needs to be provisioned in advance of the procedure.
6.7.2 Solution details
Figure 6.7.2-1: Authentication and Authorization with the Edge Data Network
1\. The UE performs normal primary authentication and registration to the
network. The UE is MEC capable and may indicate this in the MEC capabilities
to the AMF during the registration procedure.
2\. The UE establishes a PDU Session for IP connectivity.
3\. If the UE is MEC capable and intends to use the MEC service, then the UE
generates a MEC Key Identifier (MKI) for the MEC service and derives a key
K~ECS~ for authentication with the ECS from the AMF key K~AMF~ taking the MKI
as input to the KDF. The lifetime of the keys may depend on the MEC
application and configuration in the UE, or be synchronized with K~AMF~
change. The MKI is assumed to be a counter. If the UE wants to use different
MEC services at the same or different ECS, EES and EAS, the MKI is used to
identify the particular key and to ensure the keys are different per service.
The UE and AMF initialize the Counter~ECS~ when the K~ECS~ is derived and the
counter is stored for the lifetime of the K~ECS~.
4\. The UE sends an Application Authentication Request with a MKI, MAC-I~ECS~
, GUAMI and a EEC ID to the ECS. The MAC-I~ECS~ is computed in a similar way
as e.g. the SoR-MAC-I~AUSF~ as defined in Annex A.17 of TS 33.501 [7]. The
MAC-I~ECS~ is based on the payload of the Application Authentication Request,
which form the input Application Authentication Request Data, a counter of the
ECS messages Counter~ECS,~ and the key K~ECS~ to the KDF. The MAC-I~ECS~ is
identified with the 128 least significant bits of the output of the KDF. The
UE monotonically increment Counter~ECS~ for each additional calculated
MAC-I~ECS~. GUAMI is provided by the ME (from the allocated GUTI) to the EEC
along with the K~ECS~. The GUAMI has the form according to 23.003 of\ \
= \\ \\\
With this information it is possible to find the same AMF with the NEF as also
selected by the gNB/N3IWF, since also in a similar case of IDLE mode mobility,
the new gNB where the UE switches into CONNECTED mode needs to select the same
AMF as well. There is no privacy issue with the GUAMI since it is a pure
network entity identifier and not identifying any UE. The GUAMI is already
transmitted over the air interface as part of the 5G-GUTI.
NOTE 1: In case the registration request is sent to the ECS just before an AMF
relocation, the request will be routed to the old AMF, which rejects the
request.
5\. The UE is not authenticated at the ECS and the ECS sends a Key Request
including the entire Application Registration Request to the NEF, which is
selected based on EEC ID. The NEF selection is specified in TS 23.502 and the
ECS may determine the IP address(es)/port(s) of the NEF by performing a DNS
query using the EEC ID, or by using a locally configured NEF
identifier/address.
6\. The NEF authorizes the request from the ECS and identifies the AMF based
on the GUAMI. The NEF stores the contact of the ECS (e.g. IP address, source
NAI of the ECS etc.) with the EEC ID in order to route the answer from the AMF
back to the ECS.
7\. The NEF forwards the Key Request including the entire Application
Authentication Request to the AMF.
8\. The AMF derives the key K~ECS~ from the AMF key K~AMF~, taking the MKI as
input to the KDF and verifies the MAC-I~ECS~ of the Application Authentication
Request, i.e. it computes with the key K~ECS~ the MAC-I over the Application
Authentication Request payload in the similar way as the UE and compares the
result with the MAC-I~ECS~ included in message. If both are identical, the
message can be authenticated to be sent by the UE, and the AMF monotonically
increments Counter~ECS~.
9\. The AMF sends a Key Response to the ECS, including the result of the
authentication as well as the K~ECS~.
10\. Based on the authentication result the ECS decides whether to accept or
to reject the Application Authentication Request from the UE. The ECS sends
the Application Authentication Response message to the UE including the
authentication result and protects the message with a MAC-I~ECS~ based on the
received key K~ECS~ in a similar way as the UE protected the payload of the
message in step 4. The ECS associates the K~ECS~ to the requested service
based on the MKI.
11\. The UE verifies the MAC-I~ECS~ and if authentication result and
verification of the message are successful, then the UE establishes an IPsec
SA between the UE and ECS by using the ECS key K~ECS~. All messages are now
confidentiality and integrity protected by the IPsec tunnel.
12\. The UE derives the key K~EES~ from the key K~ECS~ using a MEC Key
Distinguisher flag and the MKI as input to the KDF. In case different EES are
used for different services, the UE uses a MKI~EES~ as the MKI in a similar
way as for the ECS, i.e. incrementally counting the EES requests.
13\. The UE sends an Application Registration Request with the MKI and a
MAC-I~EES~ to the EES. The MAC-I~EES~ is computed based on the payload of the
Application Registration Request, which form the input Application
Registration Request Data, and the key K~EES~ to the KDF. The MAC-I~EES~ is
identified with the 128 least significant bits of the output of the KDF.
14\. The UE is not authenticated at the EES and the EES sends a Key Request
with the MKI to the ECS. The selection of the ECS may be based on the UE ID.
15\. The ECS identifies the UE based on the UE ID and derives the key K~EES~
in a similar way as the UE in step 10. The MKI is used to identify the
particular key and to ensure the keys are different per service at the same or
different EES. The ECS verifies the MAC-I~EES~ of the Application Registration
Request, i.e. it computes with the key K~EES~ the MAC-I over the Application
Registration Request payload in the similar way as the UE and compares the
result with the MAC-I~EES~ included in message. If both are identical, the
message can be authenticated to be sent by the UE.
16\. The ECS sends a Key Request Response to the EES, including the result of
the authentication as well as the K~EES~.
17\. Based on the authentication result the EES decides whether to accept or
to reject the Application Registration Request from the UE. The EES sends the
Application Registration Response message to the UE including the
authentication result and protects the message with a MAC-I~EES~ based on the
received key K~EES~ in a similar way as the UE protected the payload of the
message in step 15. The EES associates the K~EES~ to the requested service
based on the MKI.
18\. The UE verifies the MAC-I~EES~ and if authentication result and
verification of the message are successful, then the UE establishes an IPsec
SA between the UE and EES by using the EES key K~EES~. All messages are now
confidentiality and integrity protected by the IPsec tunnel.
NOTE 2: The authentication and authorization between AC and EAS is out of
scope of the present document.
The following steps 19 -- 25 only present a possible procedure to be used in
application layer for completeness.
19\. The UE derives the key K~EAS~ from the key K~EES~ using a MEC Key
Distinguisher flag and the MKI as input to the KDF. In case different EAS are
used for different services, the UE uses a MKI~EAS~ as the MKI in a similar
way as for the ECS, i.e. incrementally counting the EAS requests.
20\. The UE sends an Application Registration Request with a MAC-I~EAS~ to the
EAS. The MAC-I~EAS~ is computed based on the payload of the Application
Registration Request, which form the input Application Registration Request
Data, and the key K~EAS~ to the KDF. The MAC-I~EAS~ is identified with the 128
least significant bits of the output of the KDF.
21\. The UE is not authenticated at the EAS and the EAS sends a Key Request
with the MKI to the EES. The selection of the EES may be based on the UE ID.
22\. The EES identifies the UE based on the UE ID and derives the key K~EAS~
in a similar way as the UE in step 17. The MKI is used to identify the
particular key and to ensure the keys are different per service at the same or
different EAS. The EES verifies the MAC-I~EAS~ of the Application Registration
Request, i.e. it computes with the key K~EAS~ the MAC-I over the Application
Registration Request payload in the similar way as the UE and compares the
result with the MAC-I~EAS~ included in message. If both are identical, the
message can be authenticated to be sent by the UE.
23\. The EES sends a Key Request Response to the EAS, including the result of
the authentication as well as the K~EAS~.
24\. Based on the authentication result the EAS decides whether to accept or
to reject the Application Registration Request from the UE. The EAS sends the
Application Registration Response message to the UE including the
authentication result and protects the message with a MAC-I~EAS~ based on the
received key K~EAS~ in a similar way as the UE protected the payload of the
message in step 22. The EAS associates the K~EAS~ to the requested service
based on the MKI.
25\. The UE verifies the MAC-I~EAS~ and if authentication result and
verification of the message are successful, then the UE establishes an IPsec
SA between the UE and EAS by using the EAS key K~EAS~. All messages are now
confidentiality and integrity protected by the IPsec tunnel.
### 6.7.3 Solution evaluation
The solution is based on the K~AMF~ generated during the primary
authentication. The network function that receives a registration request is
querying the previous network function for authentication and the key for
setting up an IPsec SA. Messages are protected with a MAC-I, which is also
used to authenticate the UE.
The AMF needs to provision the GUAMI to the UE. To authenticate requests from
the UE at the ECS, the ECS queries the AMF to verify the received MAC-I and to
retrieve the K~ECS~. The AMF needs to understand the Key Request (including
EEC ID, MKI, etc.) from the ECS and support the generation of K~ECS~. The
K~ECS~ is used to establish an IPsec SA between the UE and ECS.
To authenticate requests from the UE at the EES, the EES queries the ECS to
verify the received MAC-I and to retrieve the K~EES~. The K~EES~ is used to
establish an IPsec SA between the UE and EES.
The UE needs to send in all MEC registration requests the MAC-I for
authentication.
The UE needs to support the generation of MKI, K~ECS~, K~EES~.
EEC ID verification is performed in the AMF based on the information in the
key request from the EEC. If the subscription information from the UDM also
contains specific information about the ECS, the AMF can perform ECS
authorization as well.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Authentication between EEC and EES
### 6.8.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication
between EEC and EES in key issue #1.
In this solution, UE knows to use AKMA with EES via interact with ECS before
communication with EES. If the EES deployed by MNO is considered to be trusted
by the operator, the EES interacts directly with AAnF. Otherwise, the EESs not
allowed by the operator to access directly the Network Functions should use
the NEF to interact with AAnF.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
{width="6.208333333333333in" height="2.720138888888889in"}
Figure 6.8.2-1 Authentication between the EEC and EES based AKMA
0a. UE performs primary authentication with the network. Then K~AUSF~ is
shared between UE and AUSF in Home network. If the AUSF receives the AKMA
indication from the UDM, the AUSF should generate the AKMA Anchor Key
(K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from K~AUSF~ after the primary authentication
procedure is successfully completed.
0b. After AKMA key material is generated, the AUSF should send the generated
A-KID, and K~AKMA~ to the AAnF.
1-2. The UE initiates the service provisioning procedure with the ECS. The ECS
provides Edge Enabler Server Information (EES ID (i.e. FQDN or IP address(es)
of EES), AKMA capability) to the UE. The AKMA capability indicates the EES
support to use AKMA.
3\. When the UE determines to communicate with EES, if the UE supports AKMA,
the UE derives the AKMA key and the K~EES~(i.e. Kaf) as specified in TS 33.535
[6] based on the received AKMA capability.
4\. The UE computes the MAC-I over the request message using the K~EES~ and
sending Edge Enable Client registration request with A-KID and MAC-I.
NOTE 1: TLS based on AKMA PSK solution is defined in other solutions.
5\. Upon receiving the request, the Edge Enabler Server discovers the AAnF or
NEF.
NOTE 2: In the case of architecture without CAPIF support, the EES is locally
configured with the API termination points for the service. In the case of
architecture with CAPIF support, the EES obtains the service API information
from the CAPIF core function via the Availability of service APIs event
notification or Service Discover Response as specified in TS 23.222 [9].
6\. The EES contacts AAnF directly or via NEF to obtains the corresponding key
K~EES~ of the UE (as defined in TS 33.535 [6]).~.~
7\. The EES verifies the MAC-I using the K~EES~, when the verification is
succeed, and if the UE is authorized to perform the operation. The EES
computes MAC-I over the response message using K~ECS~ and sends Edge Enable
Client registration response with the MAC-I to the UE.
### 6.8.3 Solution evaluation
This solution requires the ECS to provide the AKMA capability of EES(s) to the
UE, then the UE can determine to use AKMA when establish connection with EES.
This solution also requires that the EEC and EES supports the AKMA.
Authentication of apps in the UE before accessing to the key is out of scope
of this solution.
For the case of multiple EECs in UE, if the EECs connects to different EESes,
separate application key K~AF~ is used. If the EECs connects to the same EES,
the same application key K~AF~ is used, how to resolve the key collision is
not defined in this solution.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Authentication and authorization between EEC and ECS based
on AKMA
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #2. It is assumed that the key used for
authentication between EEC and ECS is negotiated based on AKMA. Then, the EEC
should initiate the service provisioning request with EEC ID included. To
prevent EEC ID impersonation, the ECS should verify the authenticity of UE\'s
EEC ID before performing authorization based on the EEC ID. Considering the
ECS can determine the authenticity of UE\'s A-KID based on AKMA procedure, it
can confirm the authenticity of UE\'s EEC ID in case the association between
A-KID and EEC ID can be verified. This solution further transforms the
association between A-KID and EEC ID to the association between A-KID and GPSI
based on the pre-configured association between EEC ID and GPSI in ECS.
Afterwards, the ECS interworks with 5GC to verify the association between
A-KID and GPSI.
After successful verification, the ECS may retrieve the edge computing related
profile for the EEC from the 3GPP Core Network or from its local database for
edge computing. Then, the ECS can determine the EEC\'s authorization based on
the profile.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
Figure 6.9.2-1: Authentication/Authorization between Edge Enabler Client and
ECS
Pre-conditions:
\- The EEC and ECS have shared A-KID and K~AF~ via AKMA (as specified in TS
33.535 [1]).
\- The ECS or the 5GC is configured with the edge computing related profile
for the EEC.
\- The ECS and the 5GC share an UE identifier (i.e. GPSI) to identify the EEC.
\- The ECS stores the association between EEC ID and UE identifier. This
association is pre-configured in the ECS by the ECS administrator.
Step 1: UE initiates the service provisioning procedure with EEC ID included
(as specified in clause 8.3 in TS 23.558 [2]).
Step 2: The ECS retrieves GPSI from EEC ID according to the preconfigured
association.
Step 3: In order to prove the authenticity of the UE\'s GPSI, the ECS sends an
association check request to UDM (if the ECS is located out of 5GC, the
request should be sent via NEF), including the GPSI and A-KID.
Step 4: In order to verify the association of GPSI and A-KID, the UDM first
contacts the AUSF to obtain the corresponding SUPI of the A-KID. Afterwards,
the UDM verifies the association of the GPSI and A-KID according to the
association between SUPI and GPSI.
Step 5: The UDM sends the association verification response back to the ECS.
Step 6: On successful verification, the ECS retrieves the edge computing
related profile for the EEC either from the 5GC or from its local database.
Afterwards, the ECS can determine the EEC\'s authorization based on EEC\'s
profile.
Step 7: The ECS sends the provisioning response back to EEC.
### 6.9.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution fully addresses the security requirement for authentication
between EEC and ECS in the key issue #2 based on the AKMA.
This solution requires the ECS or the 5GC is configured with the edge
computing related profile for the EEC and the ECS and the 5GC share an UE
identifier (i.e. GPSI) to identify the EEC
This solution also requires that the EEC and ECS support the AKMA. The
solution assumes the association between EEC ID and UE ID (i.e. GPSI) which is
pre-configured in the ECS by the ECS administrator and verifies the
association during service provisioning which requires updates to the service
of UDM and AAnF.
This solution does not apply to the case when there are multiple EECs in one
UE.
The authentication of EEC before giving the Kaf in the UE is out of scope.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge
Enabler Client and the Edge Configuration Server
### 6.10.1 Introduction
The following solution addresses the security requirement for the key issue #2
on Authentication and Authorization between the EEC and the ECS.
In clause 8.3.2.3 of TS 23.558 [2], before the service provisioning procedure,
the Edge Enabler Client should been authorized to communicate with the Edge
Configuration Server. From the security perspective, two security requirements
are specified for the access of UE to Edge Data Network.
It needs to ensure that only authorized UE in the PLMN can access to the Edge
Configuration Server.
It needs to ensure that only edge computing service authorized UE can access
to the Edge Data Network.
This solution proposes a solution to address how the Edge Enabler Client is
authorized to achieve the URI or address information of Edge Configuration
Server after authentication when the Edge Configuration Server is deployed by
the MNO. It reuses the primary authentication for the service authentication.
The service authorization is performed via the 5GC.
Based on the primary authentication procedure, the AMF will allocate the Edge
Configuration Server information to the UE. Then the Edge Enabler Client can
use this URI information of the Edge Configuration Server to communicate with
the Edge Configuration Server.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
Figure 6.10.2-1: Authentication and Authorization between the Edge Enabler
Client and the Edge Configuration Server
The procedure assumes that the Edge Configuration Server is deployed by the
MNO.\ The authentication between the Edge Enabler Client and the Edge
Configuration Server reuses the 5G primary authentication procedure in the
PLMN. The UE can obtain information to access the Edge Configuration Server
via the registration accept message. The Authorization information of the Edge
Enabler Client is retrieved from the UDM in the 5GC.
1\. The UE sends a Registration Request with edge computing service
capability.
2\. The UE and the 5G core network preform the primary authentication
procedure as described in clause 6.1.2 of TS 33.501[7].
3\. The AMF sends UE the Registration Accept message with suitable ECS address
information.
4\. The Edge Enabler Client sends service provisioning request to the ECS.
5\. The ECS verifies the binding between the EEC ID and the GPSI. Then the ECS
obtains service authorization of the Edge Enabler Client from the UDM via the
NEF. The UDM stores an indicator whether the user is allowed to use edge
computing service and the allowed ECS list. The indicator can be used as the
service authorization information for the EEC. The subscription expiration
time and the binding between the EEC ID and the GPSI may also be stored in the
UDM. When the ECS sends request, the GPSI is included in the request message.
Note: It is not addressed here how the ECS verifies the binding between EEC ID
and GPSI, and how the UDM stores the binding between EEC ID and GPSI.
6\. The UDM will check whether the user has been authorized to access to the
ECS for edge computing service with GPSI corresponding to the EEC ID. If the
user is authorized, the UDM responses with the service authorization response
message to the ECS via the NEF.
7\. The ECS sends service provisioning response to the Edge Enabler Client.
### 6.10.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirements of key issue #2 on
Authentication and Authorization between the EEC and the ECS.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Authentication between EEC and ECS
### 6.11.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication
between EEC and ECS in key issue #2.
In this solution, UE knows to use AKMA with ECS via interactions with 3GPP
network before communication with ECS. If the ECS deployed by MNO is
considered to be trusted by the operator, the ECS interacts directly with
AAnF. Otherwise, the ECSs not allowed by the operator to access directly the
Network Functions should use the NEF to interact with AAnF.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
{width="6.2in" height="2.8in"}
Figure 6.11.2-1 Authentication between the EEC and ECS based AKMA
0a. UE performs primary authentication with the network. Then K~AUSF~ is
shared between UE and AUSF in Home network. If the AUSF receives the AKMA
indication from the UDM, the AUSF should generate the AKMA Anchor Key
(K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from K~AUSF~ after the primary authentication
procedure is successfully completed.
0b. After AKMA key material is generated, the AUSF should send the generated
A-KID, and K~AKMA~ to the AAnF.
1) During PDU Session Establishment, the SMF provides Edge Configuration
Server Information (ECS ID (i.e. FQDN or IP address(es) of ECS), AKMA
capability) to the UE. The AKMA capability indicates the ECS support to use
AKMA.
2) When the UE determines to communicate with ECS, if the UE supports AKMA,
the UE derives the AKMA key and K~ECS~(i.e. K~AF~) as specified in TS 33.535
[6] based on the received AKMA capability.
3) UE computes the MAC-I over the request message using the K~ECS~ and sends
service provision request with A-KID, MAC-I.
NOTE 1: TLS based on AKMA PSK solution is defined in other solutions.
4) Upon receiving the request, the Edge Configuration Server discovers the
AAnF or NEF.
NOTE 2 : In the case of architecture without CAPIF support, the ECS is locally
configured with the API termination points for the service. In the case of
architecture with CAPIF support, the ECS obtains the service API information
from the CAPIF core function via the Availability of service APIs event
notification or Service Discover Response as specified in TS 23.222 [9].
5A-5B. The ECS contacts AAnF directly or via NEF to obtain the corresponding
key K~ECS~ (K~AF~) of the UE(as defined in TS 33.535).
6\. The ECS verifies the MAC-I based on the K~ECS~, when the verification is
succeed, and if the UE is authorized to perform the operation. Then the ECS
computes MAC-I over the response message using K~ECS,~ and sends a service
provisioning response with the MAC-I to the UE.
### 6.11.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirement for authentication between
EEC and ECS in the key issue #2 based on the AKMA.
This solution requires the 5GC to provide the AKMA capability of ECS(s) to the
UE, then the UE can determine to use AKMA when establish connection with ECS.
This solution also requires that the EEC and ECS supports the AKMA.
Authentication of apps in the UE before accessing to the key is out of scope
of this solution.
The key isolation between multiple EECs connected to the same ECS is not
addressed in this solution.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Onboarding and authentication/authorization framework
for Edge Enabler Server and Edge Configuration Server
### 6.12.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Onboarding of EES
with ECS, as described in Key issue 3. The solution proposes a framework and
procedure that the Edge Enabling Server and the Edge Configuration Server
follows to secure and authenticate the Registration, update, and
deregistration of the Edge Enabling Server to the Edge Configuration Server.
As per [2], ECS can be owned by MNO or ECSP. ECSP can have its own
authentication/authorization independent of MNO. ECSP may also have its own
EES. The Edge Configuration Server (ECS) can be deployed in the MNO domain or
can be deployed in 3rd party domain by the service provider in which one Edge
Enabling Client may communicate with one or more Edge Configuration Server
(ECS)(s) concurrently. One Edge Enabling Server may concurrently connect to
one or more Edge Configuration Server with a separate EDGE-6 reference point
interface. The Edge enabling server that is configured with multiple Edge
Configuration Server (ECS) endpoint addresses (es) may perform the service
registration, updates, or deregistration procedures per the Edge Configuration
Server (ECS) of each Edge Configuration Server (ECS) multiple times. In this
context, the Security Context of each of the EDGE-6 interfaces needs to be
separate from each other as the trust domain may be different. In this
solution, the trust relationship is based on a business relationship for each
EDGE-6 interface described above.
As a prerequisite to this procedure (step 1), the solution assumes that
Onboarding credential information is obtained by EES within the same PLMN
domain or from a third party domain. EES uses onboarding credentials to
authenticate and establish a secure TLS communication with the Edge
Configuration Server during the registration process. The credential
information includes details of the Edge Configuration Server Address and Root
CA certificate, and it may also include an onboarding token (e.g. OAuth 2.0
access token). Security profiles for TLS implementation and usage follow the
provisions given in TS 33.310 [13], Annex E and F.
Note: ECS address that is not belonging to the credentials, is out of scope of
the present document.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
Figure 6.12.2-1: Authentication/Authorization framework for EES with ECS
Step 1-2: The Edge Enabling Server and Edge Configuration Server should
establish a secure session based on TLS (Server-side certificate
authentication). The Edge Enabling Server should use the credential
information obtained in step 1 to establish the TLS session with the Edge
Configuration Server.
Step 3: After the successful establishment of the TLS session, the Edge
Enabling Server should send an Edge Enabler Server Registration message to the
Edge Configuration Server along with the credential (OAuth access token) and
EES Profile. The Edge Enabling Server generates the key pair {Private Key,
Public key} and provides the public key along with the Onboard Edge Enabling
Server request.
Step 4: The Edge Configuration Server should validate the enrolment credential
(OAuth token). After successful verification of credentials (OAuth Token),
Edge Configuration Server may generate Edge Enabling Server\'s certificate on
its own, for the assigned Edge Enabling Server identity and public key. For
subsequent authentication procedures with the Edge Configuration Server, the
Edge Enabling server may use this certificate to establish a secure connection
and authentication with the Edge configuration Server. When the third party
issues edge Enabling Server\'s client certificate, then in Step 3, the Edge
Enabling Server can include the certificate in the Onboard Edge Enabling
Server request message. If the Edge Configuration Server trusts the issuer of
the Edge Enabling Server\'s client certificate, then the Edge Configuration
Server includes the provided certificate in the Edge Enabling Server\'s
profile in step 4. It is up to the Edge Computing Service Provider domain
policy to accept the third party\'s client certificates.
Step 5: The Edge Configuration Server should respond with a Registration
response message. The response should include the Edge Configuration Server
assigned Edge Enabling Server Registration ID, Edge Enabling Server
Authentication and authorization information (if generated in step 4), Edge
Enabling Server\'s certificate.
### 6.12.3 Solution evaluation
EDGE-6 interface is protected using TLS. TLS provides integrity protection,
replay protection, and confidentiality protection over the EDGE-6 interface.
An O-Auth token mechanism provides authorization for EES authorization with
ECS. The solution provides a mutual authentication mechanism and authorization
mechanism between EES and ECS to register and update the server profile
information.
With the above analysis, the solution meets the security requirements for Key
issue 3.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Transport security for EDGE-1-9 interfaces
### 6.13.1 Introduction
This solution addressed the transport security requirements for EDGE-1-9
interfaces in key issue #6. Generally, NDS/IP should be used here for data
protection.
### 6.13.2 Solution details
#### 13.2.0 General
There are three types of interfaces related with edge application architecture
defined in TS 23.558 [2]. Hence, the transport security will be discussed
separately within three subclauses.
#### 6.13.2.1 Type A
Interfaces of type A (Between UE and Edge servers) are as follows:
\- EDGE-1: between EEC and EES
\- EDGE-4: between EEC and ECS
\- EDGE-5: between EEC and Application Client(s)
For the EDGE-1 and EDGE-4, it is proposed to use the TLS specified in TS
33.210 [12] if HTTP protocol is selected.
NOTE: For the other protocols of EDGE-1 and EDGE-4, the protection protocol
can be defined during the normative phase.
According to TS 23.558 [2], details of the EDGE-5 is out of scope of that
document. As the EDGE-5 is an internal interface within the UE, the security
of EDGE-5 can be left for implementation.
#### 6.13.2.2 Type B
Interfaces of Type B (Between 3GPP core and Edge servers) are as follows:
\- EDGE-2: between 3GPP Core network and EES
\- EDGE-7: between 3GPP Core network and EAS
\- EDGE-8: between 3GPP Core network and ECS
How to protect the interface between 3GPP Core network and EES/ECS/EAS,
depends on the functionality, which will be performed on this interface.
As defined in TS 23.558 clause 6.4.2, it says.
_EDGE-2 reference point enables interactions between the Edge Enabler Server
and the 3GPP Core Network. It supports:_
_a) access to 3GPP Core Network functions and APIs for retrieval of network
capability information, e.g. via SCEF and NEF APIs as defined in 3GPP TS
23.501 [2], 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], 3GPP TS 29.522 [4], 3GPP TS 23.682 [17], 3GPP
TS 29.122 [5], and with the EES acting as a trusted AF in 5GC (see 3GPP TS
23.501 [2] clause 5.13, 3GPP TS 23.503 [12])._
_NOTE: EDGE-2 reference point reuses 3GPP reference points or interfaces of
EPS or 5GS considering different deployment models._
Similarly, EDGE-7/8 is used to support the same functionality as the EDGE-2.
Therefore, For EDGE-2/7/8:
\- if the NEF APIs is selected, security aspects of Network Exposure Function
including the protection of NEF-AF interface and support of CAPIF defined in
TS 33.501 clause 12 [10] can be reused here to protect the EDGE-2/7/8
interfaces, i.e. use of TLS.
\- if the SCEF APIs is selected, the Security procedures for reference point
SCEF-SCS/AS defined in TS 33.187 clause 5.5 [11] can be reused here, i.e. use
of TLS.
NOTE: Transport security protection of EDGE-2/7/8 can take the other
deployment models in the future.
#### 6.13.2.3 Type C
Interfaces of type C (Between Edge servers) are as follows:
\- EDGE-3: between EAS and EES. The supported functionalities include EAS
registration, de-registration, etc.
\- EDGE-6: between EES and ECS. The supported functionalities include EES
registration.
\- EDGE-9: between EES(s). The supported functionalities include discovery of
target EAS.
As all the exchanged data of EDGE-3/6/9 is in the application layer, transport
security protection on the SBI interface can be reused here. Hence TLS should
be used as specified in TS 33.210 [12], unless security is provided by other
means, e.g. physical security. A SEG may be used to terminate the NDS/IP IPsec
tunnels.
For the EDGE-3, if the CAPIF capability is consumed by the EAS, the interface
security defined in the TS 33.501 clause 12 can be reused here to protect the
CAPIF related data transferred in the EDGE-3 interfaces, i.e. TLS should be
used.
NOTE 1: Regardless of whether TLS is used or not, NDS/IP as specified in TS
33.210 [12] and TS 33.310 [13] can be used for network layer protection.
### 6.13.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution address all the types of interface in the key issue #6.
For the type A interface (EDGE-1/4), TLS can be reused if HTTP protocol is
selected.
For the type B interface (EDGE-2/7/8), security aspects of Network Exposure
Function can be reused if NEF APIs is selected and the security procedures for
reference point SCEF-SCS/AS can be reused if SCEF APIs is selected.
For the type C interface (EDGE-3/6/9), transport security protection on the
SBI interface can be reused.
## 6.14 Solution #14: Protection of Network Information Provisioning to Local
AF directly
### 6.14.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the security requirement for the case that the UPF
exposes information to local AF directly in the key issue 7.
NOTE: The interface between local UPF and local AF is N6 and how to deliver
the information on N6 is out of scope.
### 6.14.2 Solution details
{width="6.2in" height="3.5840277777777776in"}
Figure 6.14.2-1: Protection of Network Information Provisioning to Local AF
1\. AF establish a TLS session with the NEF, to secure the communication
between the AF and NEF.
2a-2b. The AF generates a Key-ID for the UE and derives a K~LE~. The Key-ID is
used to identify the K~LE~, and the K~LE~ is used to protect the message
transmission between UPF and AF. The AF provides the Key-ID to NEF in the
request service.
3-4. The NEF initiates the policy authorization with PCF, including the K-ID
and K~LE~ received from the AF. PCF initiates the PDU session modification
procedure as defined in clause 4.3.3.2 of TS 23.502 [3] and provides the Key-
ID and K~LE~ to the SMF.
5\. SMF sends the notification information with Key-ID and K~LE~ to the UPF.
6\. When the QoS monitoring information is received from RAN, the UPF
generates MAC-I over the message using the K~LE~ to prove its authenticity.
The UPF sends the message including Key-ID and MAC-I to AF.
7\. The AF retrieves the K~LE~ based on the received Key-ID and verify the
MAC-I.
### 6.14.3 Solution evaluation
This solution fully addresses the security requirement for the case that UPF
exposes the network information to local AF directly described in Key issue#7.
This solution is based on the K~LE~ generated between the NEF and AF. The AF
derives the Key-ID for the K~LE~ and provides the Key-ID to NEF during network
information provisioning subscription procedure. And the NEF provides the Key-
ID and K~LE~ via PCF to SMF and further to UPF.
When the UPF determines to provision the network information to AF via N6, the
UPF uses the K~LE~ to protect the network information and provides the Key-ID
to AF for retrieving the K~LE~ and verifying the MAC-I.
## 6.15 Solution #15: Network capability re-exposure via Edge Enabler Server
### 6.15.1 Introduction
In clause 5.8 of the present document, it describes the key issue on service
capability APIs exposed by the Edge Enabler Server to the Edge Application
Server(s). It states that the Edge Application Server(s) should be
authenticated and authorized, otherwise attackers would potentially be able to
perform unauthorized access or trigger DoS attacks .This solution is proposed
to address the security requirement for authentication and authorization in
EES capability exposure in key issue #8.
In this solution, it is proposed the Edge Enabler Server check whether the EAS
is allowed to be authorized for the service capability re-exposure by the 5GC
and the UE (EES capabilities and 3GPP Core Network capabilities) via the NEF.
### 6.15.2 Solution details
1\. The Edge Application Server sends API request message to the Edge Enabler
Server with the UE Identifier, related service exposure information and the
Edge Application Server ID.
2\. If the service can be provided by EES directly, the Edge Enabler Server
will check whether the EAS has the authorization token, and it will provide
the exposure information to the authorized EAS as specified in clause 8.6.2 in
TS 23.558[2]. If the request service is provided EES indirectly, as the EES
has not been authorized by 5G core network for the service exposure bases on
SLA, the Edge Enabler Server should request the NEF to verify whether the
service is allows to be exposed to the EAS by the EES with EAS ID. The
authentication and authorization between the EES and the NEF reuses the
mechanisms specified in clause 12 in TS 33.501[7].
3\. The NEF sends the verification response with the information whether the
exposure is allowed or not for the request EAS.
4\. If the EAS is authorized, the Edge Enabler Server responds to the Edge
Application Server with service exposure information to the EAS.
Figure 6.15.2-1: The authorization for service capability APIs exposure to EAS
### 6.15.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirement for authentication and
authorization in EES capability exposure in key issue #8.
## 6.16 Solution #16: EEC authentication and authorization framework with ECS
and EES
### 6.16.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for
authentication/authorization between EEC and ECS/EES in the key issue #1, and
key issue #2. In this solution, the AKMA, and TLS is reused as the building
blocks for the EEC authentication framework if the EDGE-4 is deployed based on
the UP connection. NAS and SBI interface protection is reused if the EDGE-4 is
deployed based on the CP connection. For the authorization, the Oauth is
selected for the authorization between EEC and EES.
### 6.16.2 Solution details
Figure 6.16.2-1: EEC authentication and authorization framework with ECS and
EES
It is assumed that AKMA, TLS, and OAuth is supported by the UE, ECS, and EES.
Step 1-3. UE with EEC functionality registers in the 5G network, and retrieves
ECS information (i.e. ECS Id and AKMA capability) from 5GC. The AKMA
capability indicates the ECS support to use AKMA.
There are two options for the authentication and data protection between EEC
and ECS.
Option A (The EDGE-4 is deployed based on the UP connection):
Step 4-6. The UE determines to use AKMA based on the received AKMA capability,
AKMA defined in the TS 33.535 [6] is reused here to negotiate the pre-shared
key K~ECS~ between UE and ECS. Here the A-KID sent from the UE is
authenticated by the ECS based on the AKMA mechanism.
Step 7a. EEC and ECS establish the TLS security tunnel based on the pre-shared
key K~ECS~. The authentication is fulfilled based on the TLS.
Option B (The EDGE-4 is deployed based on the CP connection):
Step 7b. The protection between EEC and ECS relies on the NAS and SBI
interface protection. The authentication is implicitly performed as the
primary authentication.
NOTE 1: CP connection option between EEC and ECS is not addressed in the
present document.
NOTE 2: The following EDGE-4 data could be protected based on Option A or
Option B according to its connection option.
Step 8. EEC sends the Provisioning request message to the ECS, including its
EEC ID, application info.
Step 9. ECS determines the EES info (including EES Id, AKMA capability), and
generate the Oauth token with the following claims, i.e. EEC ID, ECS ID, EEC
info, the authorized services.
NOTE 3: Whether the EEC ID could use the edge service can be authorized based
on the local policy. The token for consuming the ECS service may not be
needed.
Step 10. ECS sends the token and EES info back to the EEC via the Provisioning
response message.
Step 11. Similar with step 4-6, pre-shared key K~EES~ is negotiated between
EEC and EES.
Step 12. EEC and EES establish the TLS security tunnel based on the pre-shared
key K~EES~. The authentication is fulfilled based on the TLS.
Step 13. EES sends the EEC registration/ discovery request message to the EES,
including the token.
Step 14. EES authorizes the EEC based on the verification of the token.
Step 15. If the verification successes, the EES sends the EEC registration/
discovery response message back to the EEC.
### 6.16.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution fully addresses the security requirement for authentication
between EEC and ECS in the key issue #1 based on the AKMA and TLS, and fully
address the security requirement for authentication and authorization between
EEC and ECS in key issue #2 based on AKMA, TLS and Oauth.
This solution requires that the EEC, ECS, and EES support the AKMA, TLS and
Oauth mechanism. Similar with the SBA authorization, the ECS plays the
authorization server role, EEC plays the EES service consumer, and the EES
plays the service producer role within the Oauth architecture.
How to authenticate the EEC ID is not captured in this solution.
The key isolation issue between multiple EECs connected to the same ECS is not
addressed in this solution.
## 6.17 Solution #17: EEC/EES/ECS authentication and transport protection with
TLS
### 6.17.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the Key Issues
\- KI#1 \"Authentication and Authorization between EEC and EES\",
\- KI#2 \"Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS\",
\- KI#3 \"Authentication and Authorization between EES and ECS\", and
\- KI#6 \"Transport security for the EDGE-1-9 interfaces\".
It proposes
\- To use TLS as specified in RFC 5246 [25] and RFC 8446 [19] for
authentication and transport protection of the EDGE-1 (EEC-EES), EDGE-3 (EAS-
EES), EDGE-4 (EEC-ECS), EDGE-6 (EES-ECS) and EDGE-9 (EES-EES) interfaces,
\- To use token-based authentication as another solution option for the
authentication of the EEC by the ECS and EES,
\- To use _an existing challenge-response protocol like e.g._ HTTP Digest as
specified in RFC 7616 [24] with AKMA pre-shared key for authentication of the
GPSI used in communication between EEC and EES/ECS, and
\- To use the IP address to GPSI translation API as another solution option
for the authentication of the GPSI.
### 6.17.2 Solution details
#### 6.17.2.1 Authentication and transport protection for the EDGE-1, EDGE-3,
EDGE-4, EDGE-6 and EDGE-9 interfaces
This solution proposes to align the protection of the EDGE-1, EDGE-3, EDGE-4,
EDGE-6 and EDGE-9 interfaces with similar mechanisms in existing 3GPP security
specifications. It seems that especially the security mechanisms in TS 33.434
[23], i.e. the security mechanisms for SEAL, are applicable here. In TS 33.434
[23], the security mechanisms are different for the signalling control plane
and for the application plane interfaces. For the signalling control plane, TS
33.434 [23] specifies that HTTPS nees to be used, e.g. in clause 5.1.1.3 IM-
UU:
\"IM-UU reference point is used between the identity management client and the
identity management server. The IM-UU between the Identity Management client
and the Identity management server is protected using HTTPS as defined in [3],
[4] and [5]. The profile for TLS implementation and usage follows the
provisions given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [6], annex E.\"
EDGE-1, EDGE-3, EDGE-4, EDGE-6 and EDGE-9 are the interfaces between EEC, EES,
ECS and EAS. They can be seen as control plane interfaces for the application
traffic between Application Client and EAS. Hence it seems reasonable that the
security mechanisms should align with the signalling control plane security
mechanisms in TS 33.434 [23]. However, the application protocol for the EDGE
interfaces is not yet determined. Although HTTP is common practice, it seems
premature to specify the usage of HTTPS. Instead it is proposed to use TLS. If
HTTP is chosen as application protocol, then this solution proposes to use
HTTPS.
Summing up, the proposed security mechanism for EDGE-1, EDGE-3 EDGE-4, EDGE-6
and EDGE-9 is:
\"EDGE-1, EDGE-3, EDGE-4, EDGE-6 and EDGE-9 are protected using TLS as
specified in RFC 5246 [25] and RFC 8446 [19]. The profile for TLS
implementation and usage follow the provisions given in 3GPP TS 33.310 [13],
annex E.\"
Regarding the identifiers used on these interfaces, TS 23.558 [2], clause 7.2,
specifies different identifiers that could be relevant to this solution. More
specifically:
\- EDGE-1: TLS client is EEC (identified by EECID), TLS server is EES
(identified by EESID).
\- EDGE-3: TLS client is EAS (identified by EASID), TLS server is EES
(identified by EESID).
\- EDGE-4: TLS client is EEC (identified by EECID), TLS server is ECS
(identifier not specified in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- EDGE-6: TLS client is EES (identified by EESID), TLS server is ECS
(identifier not specified in TS 23.558 [2]).
\- EDGE-9: TLS client is EES (identified by EESID), TLS server is EES
(identified by EESID).
Note 1 : TS 23.558 does not specify an identifier for the ECS.
Note 2: TS 23.558 specifies that the EASID identifies the application on the
EAS, not the specific EAS. For example, all Edge SA6Video Servers will share
the same EASID.
Another solution for the authentication of the EEC by the ECS and EES is the
usage of tokens instead of TLS certificate of the EEC. For this option, the
following solution is proposed:
\- Solution for the interface EDGE-4: The authentication of the ECS and the
transport security of the interface are realized by using TLS with server
authentication using the server\'s certificate issued by CAs in the PKI. For
the first authentication of the EEC by the ECS, the token, including the EEC
ID, provided by the ECSP of the EEC or by a trusted new entity (that could or
could not be collocated with the ECSP) to the EEC is used. In the case of
provision of token by the ECSP, it is assumed that there is a business
relationship between the ECSPs of the EEC and ECS, ECSP of the EEC provisions
an initial access token to the EEC, and the ECS can verify the token. After
the authentication of the EEC, the ECS provides a token to the EEC in the
initial access to be used for the next establishment of the communication
between them. In the other accesses than the initial access, the ECS decides
on whether a new access token is necessary or not, considering information
such as the expiration time of the token.
\- Solution of the interface EDGE -1: The authentication of the EES and the
transport security of the interface are realized by using TLS with server
authentication using the server\'s certificate issued by CAs in the PKI. For
the authentication of the EEC by the EES, the EEC first gets a token from the
ECS for this purpose and sends the token to the EES. It is assumed that there
is a business relationship between the ECSPs of the ECS and EES and the EES
can verify the token.
This token based solution is based on the federated identity concept. In this
concept, the client authenticates itself towards to the identity provider and
the authentication result is asserted to the relying party. NIST defined
guidelines on digital identity and federation and assertions in [33] and [34].
One of the assertion technologies that can be used to realize federated
identity is Open ID Connect [32] tokens as stated in [34]. Also, this token
based solution for authentication is not new in 3GPP and already used in some
architectures such as CAPIF, Mission Critical Security and SEAL architectures.
Open ID Connect usage in SEAL architecture [23] can be taken as an example
implementation of this technology.
#### 6.17.2.2 Authentication of the GPSI in EEC-EES/ECS communication
TS 23.558 [2] specifies different interactions between EEC and EES/ECS that
use the UE ID for identifying the UE. The UE ID is specified in clause 7.2.6
of TS 23.558 [2]. The only example for the UE ID is the GPSI.
The GPSI also requires authentication. This solution proposes to use AKMA for
the generation of a shared key K~ECUEID~ = K~AF~ between the UE and the
EES/ECS, i.e. AKMA AF. The EEC and EES/ECS can then use the K~ECUEID~ for
authentication of the GPSI.
In order to use the shared K~ECUEID~ for authentication of the GPSI towards
the EES/ECS, a modern but simple existing challenge-response protocol seems
most appropriate. If HTTP is used as application protocol, HTTP Digest as
specified in RFC 7616 [24] would be a good candidate.
_The identifier used for the K~AF~ is the A-KID in AKMA where A-KID is a
temporary identifier. To verify the GPSI the following steps are executed. It
is a pre-condition that the AAnF needs to be preconfigured with whether an AF
can retrieve a specific GPSI._
_1\. The EEC sends GPSI in addition to the A-KID to EES/ECS if the GPSI is
available to the EEC. EES/ECS verifies the GPSI received from EEC with the one
locally configured (if available)._
_2\. The EES/ECS send the A-KID and an indicator requesting GPSI, the
application information associated with the expected GPSI and the AF_ID to the
AAnF via NEF or directly depending on the location of EEC/ECS._
_The EES/ECS can retrieve the application information from the EEC or from a
local configuration and policy._
_3\. The AAnF fetches the GPSI associated with the application information
from the UDM based on the SUPI which is part of AKMA context in the AAnF._
_The UDM can have UE\'s subscription data provisioned with multiple GPSIs,
each of which could be associated with specific application information._
_4\. Depending on the location of the EES/ECS (inside the operator\'s network
or outside)_ the AAnF or NEF checks whether the EES/ECS is authorized to get
the GPSI and whether the EES/ECS is authorized to get the GPSI associated with
the provided application information, based on the configured local policy.
_If the check is successful, the AAnF/NEF provides the K~AF~ and the GPSI to
the EES/ECS. Otherwise sends a related failure message._
NOTE 1: The format of application information needs to be defined by 3GPP and
aligned with the application function. The definition of it is left to
normative work.
NOTE 2: Analysis can be done in user consent study. Also, the same principle
with the IP address to GPSI translation API, where GPSI is sent to the
servers, can be applied here.
_5\. The EES/ECS checks whether the GPSI sent by the EEC and the GPSI received
from the AAnF /NEF are same or not. If the check is successful, the K~AF~
(K~ECUEID~) is used for authentication as mentioned above._
_Another solution option to authenticate the GPSI is the usage of IP address
to GPSI translation API (UE identifier API)._
_1\. The EEC sends GPSI to the EES/ECS if the GPSI is available to the EEC._
_2\. The EES/ECS invokes the UE identifier API inputting the UE IP address and
the application information associated with the expected GPSI. Note that, the
EES/ECS can retrieve the application information from the EEC or from local
configuration and policy._
_3\. The NEF authorizes that the EES/ECS is entitled to use the UE identifier
API and the application information to get the application specific GPSI,
based on local policy. If the GPSI is not available in the NEF, then NEF first
locates the SUPI from the UE IP address and then fetches the GPSI associated
with the application information from the UDM._
_NOTE 3: How the NEF locates the UE ID from the UE IP address is out of scope
of_ the present document._._
_Note that, the UDM can have UE\'s subscription data provisioned with multiple
GPSIs, each of which could be associated with specific application
information._
_4\. The NEF sends the application specific GPSI to the EES/ECS after
successful authorization._
_5\. The EES/ECS checks whether the GPSI sent by the EEC and the GPSI received
from the NEF are same or not._
### 6.17.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the following key issues:
\- KI#1 \"Authentication and Authorization between EEC and EES\",
\- KI#2 \"Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS\",
\- KI#3 \"Authentication and Authorization between EES and ECS\", and
\- KI#6 \"Transport security for the EDGE-1-9 interfaces\".
For KI#6, it is proposed to use TLS which is one of the commonly chosen and
also preferred technology in existing mechanisms such as SEAL.
For authentication of servers, it is proposed to use TLS certificates of the
servers (EES and ECS).
For authentication of EEC, two alternative options are proposed: 1) usage of
EEC TLS certificate 2) usage of tokens provisioned by the provider of the EEC
or another trusted entity for the onboarding of the EEC, provided by the ECS
for the access to the EES. These are common methods used in mobile application
worlds. Also token based solution for onboarding is an existing mechanism used
in CAPIF framework for onboarding the API invokers. When token based solution
is compared with TLS certificate based solution, it seems that token based
solution is the most appropriate one because for mobile applications it is
easier to handle tokens than to handle certificates.
For authentication of GPSI of the UE where the EEC runs, two alternative
solutions are proposed: 1) Usage of AKMA and HTTP digest protocol 2) IP
address to GPSI translation (UE identifier API). Since IP address to GPSI
translation API seems enough for authentication of GPSI, option #2 can be
preferred to have a simple solution. IP address to GPSI translation can work
only when the access is over 3GPP. If the EEC sends the GPSI to the EES/ECS,
the procedures to configure the GPSI(s) in the UE as well as their respective
services needs to be specified. If the EEC sends the GPSI to the EES/ECS, then
the EEC needs to be aware of which GPSI to provide to which Ua* protocol in
the case of multiple GPSIs are available to the EEC.
Overall, solution #17 proposes the usage of common existing mechanisms to
address the key issues.
The AKMA based options in the solution require some updates to the AKMA
technical specification TS 33.535, including a _pre-configuration in AAnF with
whether an AF can retrieve a specific GPSI_ , for the retrieval of the
application specific GPSI and authorization of the AFs before giving the
application specific GPSI to the AFs.
Analysis about user consent can be done in user consent study. It should be
noted that this issue is not specific to this solution and is mainly related
to the requirements, so it is valid for all solutions proposed for the
requirements. Also, the same principle with the IP address to GPSI translation
API can be considered here.
## 6.18 Solution #18: Authentication and Authorization Framework for EDGE-4
interfaces using Primary authentication and proxy interface
### 6.18.1 Introduction
The solution addresses the following key issue:
\- Key issue #2: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS
This solution enables authentication and authorization (Proxy AA) with an ECS
during registration after primary authentication successful completion. The
solution is based on the K~AMF~ generated during the primary authentication.
### 6.18.2 Solution details
Figure 6.18.2-1: Authentication and Authorization with the Edge Data Network
1\. The UE performs normal primary authentication and registration to the
network. The UE is MEC capable and may indicate this in the MEC capabilities
to the AMF during the registration procedure.
2\. The UE establishes a PDU Session for IP connectivity (Additional
information IE in UL NAS transport message with request type PDU Session
Establishment request includes EEC ID). If the UE is MEC capable, then the UE
and the AMF derive a key K~Proxy~ for authentication with the ECS from the AMF
key K~AMF~. AMF pushes the EEC ID and K~Proxy~ to the Proxy AA network
function in one of the options. Proxy AA network function maintains a mapping
of EEC ID and K~Proxy~.
Note: In case of Option 2, Proxy AA can identify the serving AMF by
identifying \"Allocated AMF for the registered UE\" field in the \"UE context
in AMF data\" as per TS 23.502 [5] 5.2.3.3.1.
Note 1: It is not addressed in the present document how proxy AA gets UE
context.
Note 2: Whether the Kamf can be used to derive the Kecs in case ECS is
deployed by the home network is not addressed in the present document.
Note 3: It is not addressed in the present document how this solution works if
the EEC ID is not unique across different UEs.
3\. The UE sends an Application Registration Request with a MAC-I~Proxy~ to
the ECS. The MAC-I~Proxy~ is computed similarly as, e.g. the SoR-MAC-IAUSF, as
defined in Annex A.17 of TS 33.501. The MAC-I~Proxy~ is based on the
Application Registration Request\'s payload, which forms the input Application
Registration Request Data, and the key K~Proxy~ to the KDF.
4\. a. The UE is not authenticated at the ECS, and the ECS sends a Verify
Request including the Application Registration Request with the MAC-I~Proxy~
to the Proxy AA through NEF, which then either verifies by retrieving context
its own stored mapping (step 2 option 1) or it sends a key request to AMF by
selecting serving AMF based on UE ID the serving AMF and forwards the message
to this AMF.
4\. b. The AMF replies with K~Proxy~ to Proxy AA, which then stores this in
its database. Proxy AA verifies the MAC-I~Proxy~ of the Application
Registration Request, i.e. it computes with the key K~Proxy~ the MAC-I over
the Application Registration Request payload the UE and compares the result
with the MAC-I~Proxy~ included in the message. If both are identical, the
message can be authenticated to be sent by the UE.
4\. c. Proxy AA Devices K~ECS~ from K~Proxy~.
4.d. The Proxy AA sends a Key Response to the ECS, including the result of the
authentication and the K~ECS~.
5\. Based on the authentication result, the ECS decides whether to accept or
to reject the Application Registration Request from the UE. The ECS sends the
Application Registration Response message to the UE, including the
authentication result, and protects the message with a MAC-I~ECS~ based on the
received key K~ECS~ in a similar way as the UE protected the payload of the
message.
6\. The UE derives K~ECS~ from K~Proxy~ and verifies the MAC-I~ECS~. The rest
of the procedure will proceed from step 10 of solution 6.7 in 33.839.
### 6.18.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirement of key issue #2:
Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS.
## 6.19 Solution #19: Authentication/authorization between UE and Edge Data
Network based on the secondary authentication
### 6.19.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for
authentication/authorization between UE and Edge Data Network in the key issue
#4.
### 6.19.2 Solution details
The Edge Data Network can be regarded as a particular Data Network in the edge
computing scenario. Therefore, secondary authentication defined in the TS
33.501 [7] clause 11 can be reused here for authentication/authorization
between UE and Edge Data Network. A high level of the procedure is given in
the following figure.
Figure 6.19.2-1: Initial EAP Authentication with an external AAA server
Re-authentication defined in the TS 33.501 [7] clause 11.1.3 also applies
here.
### 6.19.3 Solution Evaluation
The proposed solution meets all the requirement of Key issue #4.
The secondary authentication is reused for authentication and authorization
between UE and Edge Data Network. Hence, there is no impact of the existing
security procedures.
## 6.20 Solution #20: Authentication and authorization in EES capability
exposure based on CAPIF
### 6.20.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for authentication and
authorization in EES capability exposure in the key issue #8.
### 6.20.2 Solution details
As defined in the TS 23.558 [2] clause 8.7.3, it says that
\"_The Edge Enabler Server may re-expose the network capabilities of the 3GPP
core network to the Edge Application Server(s) as per the CAPIF architecture
specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [6]._
_Depending on the deployment models (centralized or distributed) employed,_
_\- the Edge Enabler Server assumes the role of the API exposing function (may
also acts as the API topology hiding entry) as described in 3GPP TS 23.222
[6]; and_
_\- the Edge Application Server assumes the role of an API invoker._ \"
Therefore, CAPIF functional security model defined in the TS 33.122 [16] can
be reused here for the authentication and authorization.
Figure 6.20.2-1: CAPIF functional security model
For the edge computing scenario, the EES can be regarded the API exposing
function in API provider domain1 or API provider domain 2, which depends on
the EES deployment. And EAS can be regarded as the API invoker.
Therefore, authentication and authorization mechanism defined in the TS 33.122
clause 6.5 could be reused here to meet the authentication and authorization
requirement between EES and EAS. In general, the authentication could be
realized based on the TLS-PSK, TLS-PKI, or TLS with OAuth token.
For the TLS-PSK, and TLS-PKI, the CAPIF core function as an NF managed by the
operator could forward the pre-shared key or the security information related
with TLS-PKI to the EAS. Then EAS could authenticate with the EES. Then, the
following authorization procedure is referring to the TS 23.222 [9] clause
8.17.
For the TLS with OAuth token, the authentication could be based on the TLS,
and the authorization could be based on the Oauth mechanism.
### 6.20.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution fully addresses the security requirement for authentication and
authorization in EES capability exposure in the key issue #8. This solution
reuses the existing authentication and authorization in EES capability
exposure based on CAPIF.
## 6.21 Solution #21: security for the interface between the SMF and LDNSR
### 6.21.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the transport security requirements for the
interaction message between the SMF and LDNSR in key issue #9. In SA2, it was
agreed that the interface between the SMF and LDNSR is based on SBI.
### 6.21.2 Solution details
In clause 13.1 of TS 33.501[7], it defines how to protect the interaction
message transferred in SBI, and it is proposed to reuse the mechanism on the
interface between the SMF and LDNSR.
TLS should be used for the interaction message between the SMF and LDNSR as
specified in clause 6.2 of TS 33.210[12], unless security is provided by other
means, e.g. physical security.
NOTE 1: Regardless of whether TLS is used or not, NDS/IP as specified in TS
33.210 [12] and TS 33.310 [13] can be used for network layer protection.
NOTE 2: If interfaces are trusted (e.g. physically protected), it is for the
PLMN-operator to decide whether to use cryptographic protection.
### 6.21.3 Solution evaluation
This solution fully addresses the transport security requirements for the
interaction message between the SMF and LDNSR in key issue #9. This solution
reuses the security mechanism on the SBI interface between the SMF and LDNSR.
Hence, no new mechanisms is required.
## 6.22 Solution #22: Authorization during Edge Data Network change
### 6.22.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for
authentication/authorization during Edge Data Network change in the key issue
#10.
For the Edge Data Network (EDN) change scenario, the edge service consumed by
the UE will be relocated from the source EDN to the target EDN. If the
secondary authentication for authorization is performed between UE and the
source EDN, the issue is whether the secondary authentication between UE and
target EDN is required or not. Considering the authorization requirement
defined in key issue #10 and seamless change required in the key issue #2 of
TR 23.748 [3], this solution gives out a simple authorization method between
UE and target EDN, maintaining the seamless change requirement.
### 6.22.2 Solution details
Figure 6.22.2-1: Authorization during the EDN relocation
Pre-requisite:
\- The S-EDN stores the signing key used for token computation. And the T-EDN
stores the verification key used for token verification. The two keys could be
pre-configured or shared by the same service application or DN-AAA.
\- The T-EDN trusts that the UE has already been authorized by the S-EDN, if
the token including the UE ID, the IDs of S-EDN and T-EDN provided by the
S-EDN is successfully verified.
Step 1. UE sends the Registration request to the AMF and registers in the
network.
Step 2. UE initiates the PDU session1 establishment procedure. It is assumed
that secondary authentication is performed during the PDU session
establishment procedure.
Step 3. SMF detects that EDN relocation is required, and determines the T-EDN
info.
NOTE 1: Void
NOTE 2: EDN relocation detection and T-EDN info determination will be decided
in the TR 23.748 [3], and are out of scope of the present document.
Step 4. SMF selects the T-UPF.
Step 5. SMF performs the N4 session configuration with the T-UPF.
Step 6. SMF sends the Authorization request to the S-EDN via S-UPF, including
the GPSI, T-EDN info.
Step 7. S-EDN assures that the UE identified by the GSPI is already
successfully authorized, then generates an authorization token, based on the
signing key. Here, the token includes the ID of the S-EDN, the ID of the
T-EDN, and the UE ID, where the UE ID could be the GPSI of the UE.
Step 8. S-EDN sends the Authorization response message to the SMF via S-UPF,
including the token.
Step 9. (Optional) According to the TR 23.748 [3] clause 4.2, SSC #2 and SSC
#3 mode could be used to optimize traffic routing here for distributed anchor
point and multiple PDU session cases.
In case of SSC #2 mode, the SMF will release the existing PDU session, and
trigger the UE to establish the PDU session2 for the T-EDN according to TS
23.502 [5] clause 4.3.5.1, by sending the PDU Session Release Command message
to the UE which contains the PDU Session ID and Cause indicating that a PDU
Session re-establishment to the same DN is required. In case of SSC #3 mode,
according to TS 23.502 [5] clause 4.3.5.2, the SMF will trigger the UE to
establish a new PDU session by sending the N1 SM container (PDU Session
Modification Command (Cause, PCO (PDU Session Address Lifetime value)))) where
the Cause indicates that a PDU Session re-establishment to the same DN is
required.
Step 10. (Optional) If a new PDU session is required for the T-EDN, then UE
initiates the PDU session2 establishment procedure for the T-EDN. Otherwise,
steps 9, 13 and 14 are skipped.
NOTE 3: The detailed procedure on how the PDU session2 establishment is
triggered refers to the TR 23.748 [3].
Step 11. SMF send the Authorization request to the T-EDN via T-UPF, including
the token.
Option A: For the Distributed anchor point and Multiple PDU session scenario,
step 9 and step 10 will be performed. The SMF could send the Authorization
request to the T-EDN, if the SMF in the new PDU session is not changed. The
SMF could use the SUPI, DNN and S-NSSAI received from AMF to check whether the
UE is the same, or not.
Option B: For the Session Breakout case, Step 9 and Step 10 are optional. The
SMF could send the authorization request to the T-EDN.
Step 12. T-EDN verifies the authorization token based on the verification key.
NOTE 4: The token generation and verification could refer to the token
mechanism defined in TS 33.501 [7] for SBA.
Step 13. If the authorization verification successes, T-EDN sends the
Authorization response message to the SMF via T-UPF, including the success
indication.
Step 14. After receiving the success indication, the SMF proceeds with the
following PDU session establishment procedure.
Step 15. SMF sends the PDU session2 establishment response to the UE.
### 6.22.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution fully addresses the security requirement for
authentication/authorization during Edge Data Network change in the key issue
#10. This solution reuses the Oauth token based mechanism. In this solution,
the S-EDN plays the role of the authorization server, which generates the
Oauth token for the SMF if the original security authentication is
successfully performed with the SMF. And SMF will forward the token to the
T-EDN.
The solution defines that the S-EDN should compute the authorization token,
and send it to the T-EDN. Then T-EDN should have the key to verify the
received token. The implemented token in CT4 including the claims,
computation, and verification could be reused here, to avoid any further
discussion on the implementation of Oauth.
For the Distributed Anchor Point and Multiple PDU sessions scenario, this
solution applies if the SMF is not changed during the re-anchoring (SSC#2 and
SSC#3).
For the Session breakout scenario, this solution applies.
The impact of the solution is that it requires the S-EDN and T-EDN to support
the Oauth mechanism, and SMF to redirect the authorization information to
T-EDN.
## 6.23 Solution #23: Authentication and Authorization between EEC and ECS/EES
### 6.23.1 Solution overview
This solution uses AKMA to addresses the KI#1 \"Authentication and
Authorization between EEC and EES\" and KI#2 \"Authentication and
Authorization between EEC and ECS\". Besides, a mechanism is proposed for
authentication of the GPSI used in communication between EEC and EES/ECS
### 6.23.2 Solution details
Authentication between EEC and ECS/EES is achieved via AKMA. As GPSI is used
as a user identifier for interactions between EEC and EES/ECS, the GPSI also
requires authentication. To verify the GPSI the following steps are executed:
0\. The EEC and ECS/EES complete the AKMA procedures and derive the shared
A-KID and K~AF~.
1\. The EEC sends GPSI to ECS/EES in provisioning request.
2\. To verify the received GPSI, the EES/ECS sends the A-KID and the GPSI to
the AAnF via NEF or directly depending on the location of EEC/ECS.
3\. The AAnF fetches the GPSI from the UDM based on the SUPI which is a part
of AKMA context identified by the A-KID in the AAnF.
4\. The AAnF checks whether the GPSI sent by the EEC and the GPSI received
from the UDM are same or not. If the check is successful, the AAnF provides
validated result to the EES/ECS. Otherwise AAnF sends a failure message.
### 6.23.3 Solution evaluation
As the verification of GPSI is performed after the AKMA procedure, the
solution does not impact the AKMA. The 5GC does not send the GPSI to ECS/EES.
The only impact is enhancing the AAnF with GPSI validation service, which
requires two more communication rounds that adding the GPSI to existing AKMA
messages.
The UE needs to be aware of which GPSI to provide to which Ua* protocol in the
case of multiple GPSIs are available.
The AF has to be authorised by the AAnF to receive GPSI or validate GPSI.
In the rear case that there is a primary authentication between the AKMA and
GPSI validation protocols, the AF could require a new A-TID from the UE for
the GPSI validation.
The requirements on the UE are:
\- Only the authorized application in the UE can get the GPSI.
NOTE 1: How this requirement is satisfied is out of scope of 3GPP.
NOTE 2: Analysis about user consent can be done in an user consent study.
Summing up, this solution meets the requirements of KI#1 and KI#2.
## 6.24 Solution #24: Using TLS with AKMA to protect edge interfaces
### 6.24.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the EDGE-1 and EDGE-4 parts of key issue #6.
### 6.24.2 Solution details
#### 6.24.2.1 General
The solution proposes to use TLS with AKMA generated keys to protect EDGE-1
and EDGE-4. Profile of the Ua protocols for GBA (TS 33.220 [8]) are provided
in the following clauses as examples to describe that protection.
NOTE 1: Standardisation of profile for TLS with AKMA is under discussion. It
is not proposed to update the below profile in the present document if there
is a specific work item for that work.
The solution proposed differs from solution #16 in not requiring an exchange
of messages between EEC and ECS/EES to agree on the shared AKMA generated key
before creating the TLS session.
NOTE 2: EEC authentication is not in the scope of this solution.
#### 6.24.2.2 Shared key-based UE authentication with certificate-based AF
authentication
##### 6.24.2.2.1 General
The clause provides details needed to define solution similar to the Ua
protocol given in 3GPP TS 33.222 [26] rather than providing changes to Ua
protocol given in TS 33.222 [26].
##### 6.24.1.2.2 Procedures
The procedures are similar to those given in clause 5.3.0 of TS 33.222 [26]
with the AKMA AF taking the role of the NAF from GBA (see TS 33.220 [8]), with
the following changes.
At step 2, the client adds the constant string \"3gpp-akma\" to the \"User-
Agent\" HTTP header as product tokens as specified in IETF RFC 2616 [27].
At step 3, if the AF selects AKMA for deriving the key, then the AF includes
the \"3GPP-bootstrapping-akma\" within the WWW-Authenticate header field.
At step 5 given AKMA has been selected for keying, the client sends a response
with an Authorization header field where Digest is inserted using the A-KID as
username. K~AF~ is used as password in the Digest calculation.
At step 6 given AKMA has been selected for keying, the AF verifies the value
of the password attribute using K~AF~ retrieved from AAnF using the A-KID
received as username attribute in the query. If the AF is not able to obtain
the AF-specific key when using AKMA mode, the AF responds with an appropriate
error message not containing the realm attributes from step 3.
#### 6.24.2.3 Shared key-based mutual authentication between UE and AF
##### 6.24.2.3.1 General
The clause provides details needed to define solution similar to the Ua
protocol given in 3GPP TS 33.222 [26] rather than providing changes to Ua
protocol given in TS 33.222 [26].
##### 6.24.2.3.2 Procedures
The procedures are similar to those given in clause 5.4.0 of TS 33.222 [26]
with the AKMA AF taking the role of the NAF from GBA (see TS 33.220 [8]), with
the following changes.
At step 2, the AF includes a constant string \"3GPP-AKMA\" as a PSK-identity
hint to indicate that AKMA based keying is supported.
At step 3, the UE may use an AKMA generated key if support was indicated by
the AF. To use as AKMA generated key, the UE derives the TLS premaster secret
from K~AF~ and sends a ClientKeyExchange message including a PSK identity
consisting of \"3GPP-AKMA\" and the A-KID.
At step 4, if the AF receives the \"3GPP-AKMA\" prefix and the A-KID in the
ClientKeyExchange messages it fetches the AF specific shared secret (K~AF~)
from the AAnF using the A-KID. The AF derives the TLS premaster secret from
the AF specific key (K~AF~).
### 6.24.3 Solution evaluation
This is a straightforward method for providing the security for these
interfaces which will be usable for many other applications. The solution
requires the UE and ECS/ESS to support TLS using AKMA. Editor\'s Note: Impact
of multiple ECC in UE is FFS.
## 6.25 Solution #25: Practical authorization during Edge Data Network change
### 6.25.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for
authentication/authorization during Edge Data Network change in the key issue
#10.
For the Edge Data Network (EDN) change scenario, the edge service consumed by
the UE will be relocated from the source EDN to the target EDN. If the
secondary authentication for authorization is performed between UE and the
source EDN, the issue is whether the secondary authentication between UE and
target EDN is required or not. Considering the authorization requirement
defined in key issue #10 and seamless change required in the key issue #2 of
TR 23.748 [3], this solution gives out a practical authorization method
between UE and target EDN based on the assumed trust mode between 5GC (SMF)
and AF, maintaining the seamless change requirement.
### 6.25.2 Solution details
Figure 6.25.2-1: Authorization during the EDN relocation
Pre-requisite:
\- Trust mode between SMF and T-EDN is assumed in this solution. The T-EDN
trusts the authorization information provided by the operator, i.e. the
success indication.
Step 1. UE sends the Registration request to the AMF and registers in the
network.
Step 2. UE initiates the PDU session1 establishment procedure. It is assumed
that secondary authentication is performed during the PDU session
establishment procedure. SMF store the UE app ID using during the secondary
authentication.
Step 3. SMF detects that EDN relocation is required, and determines the T-EDN
info.
NOTE 1: EDN relocation detection and T-EDN info determination will be decided
in the TR 23.748 [3], and are out of scope of the present document.
Step 4. (Optional) In case of SSC #2 mode, the SMF will release the existing
PDU session, and trigger the UE to establish the PDU session2 for the T-EDN
according to TS 23.502 [5] clause 4.3.5.1, by sending the PDU Session Release
Command message to the UE which contains the PDU Session ID and Cause
indicating that a PDU Session re-establishment to the same DN is required. In
case of SSC #3 mode, according to TS 23.502 [5] clause 4.3.5.2, the SMF will
trigger the UE to establish a new PDU session by sending the N1 SM container
(PDU Session Modification Command (Cause, PCO (PDU Session Address Lifetime
value)))) where the Cause indicates that a PDU Session re-establishment to the
same DN is required.
Step 5. (Optional) If a new PDU session is required for the T-EDN, then UE
initiates the PDU session2 establishment procedure for the T-EDN. Otherwise,
steps 5 are skipped.
Step 6. SMF selects the T-UPF and sends the Authorization request to the T-EDN
via T-UPF, including the UE app ID, GPSI, success indication, where success
indication is to indicate the UE has already been successfully authenticated
during the secondary authentication with S-EDN.
Option A: For the Distributed anchor point and Multiple PDU session scenario,
step 4 and step 5 will be performed. The SMF could send the Authorization
request to the T-EDN, if the SMF in the new PDU session is not changed. The
SMF could use the SUPI, DNN and S-NSSAI received from AMF to check whether the
UE is the same, or not.
Option B: For the Session Breakout case, Step 9 and Step 10 are optional. The
SMF could send the authorization request to the T-EDN.
Step 7. T-EDN authorizes the UE according to UE app ID, GPSI, success
indication, and assures that UE has already been successfully authenticated
during the secondary authentication with S-EDN. Then the secondary
authentication is not required.
Step 8. If the authorization verification successes, T-EDN sends the
Authorization response message to the SMF via T-UPF.
Step 9. After receiving the success indication, the SMF proceeds with the
following PDU session establishment procedure.
Step 10. SMF sends the PDU session2 establishment response to the UE.
### 6.25.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution assumes that a trust mode is established between the 5G network
and EDN.
For the Distributed Anchor Point and Multiple PDU sessions scenario, this
solution applies if the SMF is not changed during the re-anchoring (SSC#2 and
SSC#3).
For the Session breakout scenario, this solution applies.
The impact of the solution is that it requires the SMF to forward the
authorization information to T-EDN.
Note: Further evaluation is needed.
## 6.26 Solution #26: GBA-based solution for EEC authentication and
authorization framework with ECS and EES
### 6.26.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for
authentication/authorization between EEC and ECS/EES in the key issue #1, and
key issue #2. In this solution, GBA as specified in 3GPP TS 33.220 [8], and
TLS is reused as the building blocks for the EEC authentication framework if
the EDGE-4 is deployed based on the UP connection. NAS and SBI interface
protection is reused if the EDGE-4 is deployed based on the CP connection. For
the authorization, the Oauth is selected for the authorization between EEC and
EES.
### 6.26.2 Solution details
Figure 6.26.2-1 GBA-based EEC authentication and authorization framework with
ECS and EES
It is assumed that GBA, TLS, and OAuth is supported by the UE, ECS, and EES.
Step 1-3. UE with EEC functionality registers in the 5G network.
There are two options for the authentication and data protection between EEC
and ECS.
Option A (The EDGE-4 is deployed based on the UP connection):
Step 4. The UE determines to use GBA based on the received GBA capability, and
GBA as defined in the TS 33.220 [2] is used here to negotiate the pre-shared
key K~ECS~ between UE and ECS, where ECS plays the role of a NAF.
Step 5a. EEC and ECS establish the TLS security tunnel based on the pre-shared
key K~ECS~. The authentication is fulfilled based on the TLS.
Option B (The EDGE-4 is deployed based on the CP connection):
Step 5b. The protection between EEC and ECS relies on the NAS and SBI
interface protection. The authentication is implicitly performed as the
primary authentication.
NOTE 0: CP connection option between EEC and ECS depends on the conclusion of
CT1 and SA6.
NOTE 1: the following EDGE-4 data could be protected based on Option A or
Option B according to its connection option.
Step 6. EEC sends the Provisioning request message to the ECS, including its
EEC ID, application info.
Step 7. ECS determines the EES info (including EES Id, GBA capability), and
generate the OAuth token with the following claims, i.e. EEC ID, ECS ID, EEC
info, the authorized services.
Editor\'s Note: It is ffs which identifier for the UE/EEC is included in the
token.
NOTE 2: Whether the EEC ID could use the edge service can be authorized based
on the local policy. The token for consuming the ECS service may not be
needed.
Step 8. ECS sends the token and EES info back to the EEC via the Provisioning
response message.
Step 9. Similar with step 4, pre-shared key K~EES~ is negotiated between EEC
and EES, where EES plays the role of a NAF.
Step 10. EEC and EES establish the TLS security tunnel based on the pre-shared
key K~EES~. The authentication is fulfilled based on the TLS.
Step 11. EES sends the EEC registration/ discovery request message to the EES,
including the token.
Step 12. EES authorizes the EEC based on the verification of the token.
Step 13. If the verification successes, the EES sends the EEC registration/
discovery response message back to the EEC.
### 6.26.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution fully addresses the security requirement for authentication
between EEC and ECS in the key issue #2 based on GBA and TLS, and fully
address the security requirement for authentication and authorization between
EEC and EES in key issue #1 based on GBA, TLS and Oauth.
User identity privacy is addressed during GBA usage. GBA, as specified in 3GPP
TS 33.220 [12], defines mechanisms to protect user identity privacy.
Additionally, GBA may be run over a secure transport (e.g. Uu).
This solution requires that the EEC, ECS, and EES support GBA, TLS and OAuth
mechanism. Similar with the SBA authorization, the ECS plays the authorization
server role, EEC plays the EES service consumer, and the EES plays the service
producer role within the OAuth architecture.
How to authenticate the EEC ID is not captured in this solution.
The key isolation issue between multiple EECs connected to the same ECS is not
addressed in this solution.
## 6.27 Solution #27: Using TLS with Edge Security Service to protect edge
interfaces
### 6.27.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key Issue #1, Key Issue #2, and the EDGE-1, EDGE-4
parts of Key Issue #6.
This solution relies on framework defined by GSMA to protect communications
between UE and servers with the establishment of TLS sessions leveraging the
presence of the USIM to provision server certificates in the User Equipment,
confer clause 3 of GSMA IoT.04 [28].
To protect EDGE-1 and EDGE-4, the Edge Security Service plays the role of the
IoT Security Service described in clause 3 of GSMA IoT.04 [28], the Edge
Server Middleware plays the role of IoT Server Middleware, the SIM with Edge
Security Applet plays the role of SIM with IoT Security Applet, and the Edge
Device Middleware plays the role of IoT Device Middleware.
### 6.27.2 Solution details
Figure 6. 27.2-1: Using TLS with Edge Security Service to protect edge
interfaces
**Pre-requisites:**
UE contains AC, EEC, and SIM with Edge Security Applet.
\- The SIM with Edge Security Applet plays the role of SIM with IoT Security
Applet defined in clause 3 of GSMA IoT.04 [28].
\- To have SIM with Edge Security Applet, there is no need to change UICC on
the field if this UICC supports asymmetric crypto and OTA features.
ECS contains Edge Server Middleware.
\- The Edge Server Middleware plays the role of IoT Server Middleware
described in clause 3 of GSMA IoT.04 [28].
EES contains Edge Server Middleware.
\- The Edge Server Middleware plays the role of IoT Server Middleware
described in clause 3 of GSMA IoT.04 [28].
\- API between EEC and SIM with Edge Security Applet is defined in clause 3 of
GSMA IoT.04 [28].
\- API between Edge Security Service and Edge Server Middleware is defined in
clause 3 of GSMA IoT.04 [28].
\- APIs between Edge Security Service and SIM with Edge Security Applet
corresponds to existing API defined for Over-The-Air (OTA) SIM management.
\- EES profile contains EES certificate.
**Procedure:**
Step 1: The EEC sends Initial Provisioning request to the ECS in order to
trigger client certificate provisioning. The requested client certificate is
to be used to perform mutual authentication between the EEC and the ECS.
Step 2: The ECS sends to the Edge Security Service ECS certificate and
Security Profile corresponding to the ECS. The Security Profile associated to
the SIM contains all necessary data to establish TLS tunnel between the ECS
and EEC thanks to the SIM with Edge Security Applet.
Step 3: The Edge Security Service checks whether ECS-related data have already
been downloaded to SIM with Edge Security Applet, checks the client
certificate validity, and determines whether ECS-related data have to be
downloaded to the SIM with Edge Security Applet.
Step 4: The Edge Security Service sends response to the ECS indicating whether
ECS-related data have to be downloaded to the SIM
Step 5: If the Edge Security Service response in step 4 indicates that no ECS-
related data have to be downloaded to the SIM, then the ECS continues the
procedure with step 9. Otherwise, the ECS continues the procedure with step 6.
Step 6: The ECS requests to the 3GPP core via Edge 8 to trigger the SIM with
Edge Security Applet.
Step 7: The SIM with Edge Security Applet sends \"Open channel\" command.
Step 8: The Edge Security Service downloads to the SIM with Edge Security
Applet client certificate enabling to establish TLS tunnel between EEC and the
ECS, and optionally ECS certificate or root certificate.
Step 9: Establishment of TLS tunnel between the EEC and the ECS thanks to the
SIM with Edge Security. There is mutual authentication between EEC and ECS.
Step 10: The EEC sends Service Provisioning Request to the ECS.
Step 11: The ECS sends Service Provisioning Response. Among the response data
there are list of EEEs and Access Token.
Step 12: The EEC sends to the ECS a Client Certificate Provisioning request
for selected EES. The requested client certificate is to be used to perform
mutual authentication between the EEC and the selected EES.
Step 13: The ECS sends to the Edge Security Service a Security Profile
corresponding to the EES, and EES certificate. The Security Profile associated
to the SIM contains all necessary data to establish TLS tunnel between the EES
and EEC thanks to the SIM with Edge Security Applet.
Step 14: The Edge Security Service checks whether EES-related data have
already been downloaded to the SIM with Edge Security Applet, checks the
client certificate validity, determines whether EES-related data have to be
downloaded to the SIM with Edge Security Applet.
Step 15: the Edge Security Service sends response indicating whether EES-
related data have to be downloaded to the SIM
Step16: If the Edge Security Service response in step 15 indicates that no
EES-related data have to be downloaded to the SIM, then the ECS continues the
procedure with step 19. Otherwise, the ECS continues the procedure with step
17.
Step 17: The ECS request to the 3GPP core via Edge 8 to trigger the SIM with
Edge Security Applet.
Step 18: The SIM with Edge Security Applet sends \"Open channel\" command.
Step 19: The Edge Security Service downloads to the SIM with Edge Security
Applet client certificate enabling to establish TLS tunnel between EEC and the
EES, and optionally EES certificate or root certificate.
Step 20: Establishment of TLS tunnel between the EEC and EES thanks to the SIM
with Edge Security. There is mutual authentication between EEC and EES.
Step 21: The EEC sends EEC Registration request to the EES. The request
contains Access Token.
Step 22: Validation of Access Token by the ECS.
Step 23: The EES sends response to the EEC Registration Request.
### 6.27.3 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue #1, Key Issue #2, and the EDGE-1, EDGE-4
parts of Key Issue #6.
The solution introduces an additional server (Edge Security Service) compared
to architecture defined by SA6. The Edge Security Service is connected to the
ECS via a new interface.
The solution impacts the ME.
The solution enables the provisioning of ECS and EES certificates in the User
Equipment.
To have SIM with Edge Security Applet, there is no need to change UICC on the
field if this UICC supports asymmetric crypto and OTA features.
## 6.28 Solution #28: Authentication between EEC and ECS based on AKMA
### 6.28.1 Introduction
This solution addressed key issue#2 Authentication and Authorization between
EEC and ECS.
This solution proposes the authentication between EEC (Edge Enabler Client)
and ECS (Edge Configuration Server) based on AKMA. To be more specific, it is
proposed to use the K~AKMA~ derived from the AKMA procedure as the trust root
to perform the authentication between EEC and ECS.
It is assumed in this solution that ECS is located outside of the MNO\'s
network.
### 6.28.2 Solution details
#### 6.28.2.1 Procedure
{width="6.504166666666666in" height="3.4868055555555557in"}
Figure-6.28.2.1-1. Authentication between the EEC and ECS based on AKMA
The authentication procedure details are as following:
Step 0: UE performs primary authentication with the network. Then K~AUSF~ is
shared between UE and AUSF in Home network.
Step 1.1: UE generates K~AKMA~ and A-KID following AKMA procedure in TS 33.535
and stores them securely.
Step 1.2: AAnF generates K~AKMA~ and A-KID following AKMA procedure in TS
33.535 and stores them securely.
Step 2: Every EEC in this UE fetches the K~AKMA~ and generates K~edge~ from
K~AKMA~ and EEC ID.
NOTE: In this way, there will be one K~AKMA~ and multiple K~edge~ in every UE.
Step 3: Every EEC computes MAC~EEC~ using the K~edge~ and EEC ID.
Step 4: UE sends Application Registration request (EEC ID, MAC~EEC~, A-KID) to
ECS.
Step 5: ECS sends Authentication verification (EEC ID, MAC~EEC~, A-KID) to
AAnF for verification.
Step 6: AAnF retrieves K~AKMA~ using A-KID and calculates K~edge~ using
K~AKMA~ and EEC ID, then verify MAC~EEC~ using the (K~edge~ and EEC ID).
Step 7: If AAnF verification success, then AAnF sends Authentication
verification response(success) back to ECS, otherwise, AAnF sends
Authentication verification response(fail) to ECS.
Step 8: Based on the verification results, ECS decides whether to accept or
reject the authentication request, and sends Authentication Request
accept/rejection to EEC in the UE.
Note 1: It is not addressed in the present document how EEC ID is
authenticated.
Note 2: It is not addressed in the present document whether ECS could perform
the authentication instead of AAnF.
#### 6.28.2.2 Derivation of K~edge~ and K~edge~ ID
K~edge~ is generated using KDF defined in Annex B.2.0 of TS 33.220 [8]. When
deriving a K~edge~ from K~AKMA~, the following parameters should be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = xxxx(to be allocated by 3GPP)
\- P0 = \,
\- L0 = length of \.
The input key KEY should be K~AKMA~.
#### 6.28.2.3 Generation of MAC~EEC~
When deriving MAC~EEC~ in the UE and AAnF, the following parameters should be
used to form the input S to the SHA-256 hashing algorithm:
\- P0 = K~edge~,
\- P1 = EEC ID,
The input S should be equal to the concatenation P0\|\|P1 of the P0 and P1.
The MAC~EEC~ is identified with the **32** least significant bits of the
output of the SHA-256 function.
### 6.28.3 Solution Evaluation
This solution requires AAnF to perform the verification of the MAC~EEC~.
This solution applies to the case when there are multiple EECs in one UE.
## 6.29 Solution #29: Using TLS with GBA to protect edge interfaces
### 6.29.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the EDGE-1 and EDGE-4 parts of key issue #6. It also
addresses security requirement for mutual authentication of Key Issue #1 and
Key Issue #2.
### 6.29.2 Solution details
#### 6.29.2.1 General
The solution proposes to use TLS with GBA generated keys to protect EDGE-1 and
EDGE-4.
GBA (Generic Bootstrapping Architecture), as specified in 3GPP TS 33.220 [8],
is a generic mechanism enabling the establishment of shared keys between the
UE and any Application Function (named Network Application Function in GBA
description) thanks to 3GPP user authentication (AKA-based authentication).
ECS and EES play the role of NAFs (Network Application Function) in GBA.
#### 6.29.2.2 Shared key-based UE authentication with certificate-based AF
authentication
##### 6.29.2.2.1 General
The EEC and ECS/EES can establish a TLS tunnel using GBA shared key as
specified in clause 5.3.0 of 3GPP TS 33.222 [26].
#### 6.29.2.3 Shared key-based mutual authentication between UE and AF
##### 6.29.2.3.1 General
The EEC and ECS/EES can establish a TLS tunnel using GBA shared key as
specified in clause 5.4.0 of 3GPP TS 33.222 [26].
### 6.29.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the security requirement for mutual authentication
between EEC and EES in Key Issue #1, the security requirements for mutual
authentication between EEC and ECS in Key Issue #2, and the security
requirements of Key Issue #6.
The solution requires that EEC, ECS and EES support GBA and TLS.
The GBA keys to establish TLS tunnel could be either Ks_(ext/int)_NAF keys, or
keys derived from Ks_(ext/int)_NAF.
Note 1: It is not addressed in the present document whether GBA guideline may
need to be revisited due to application technology evolution in the UE.
Note 2: Evaluation on the application authentication in the UE is not
addressed in the present document.
## 6.30 Solution #30: An AKMA-based solution for authentication and interface
protection between EEC and EES/ECS
### 6.30.1 Solution overview
This solution partially addresses key issue #1 and #2 from the authentication
perspective and addresses the EDGE-1 and EDGE-4 protection of key issue #6.
This solution _presents a mechanism that can be placed on top of AKMA feature
to prevent key collision by providing different keys to the clients_.
### 6.30.2 Solution details
The procedure flow of the solution is depicted in Figure 6.30.2-1 and the
steps are explained below.
Figure 6.30.2-1: A method for authentication and interface protection between
EEC and EES/ECS
Step 0. UE and 3GPP network run primary authentication and derive K~AKMA~. UE
learns the A-KID and K~AKMA~.
Step 1. K~AF~ is derived as defined in AKMA procedure. K~EEC~ is derived from
K~AF~ and EEC-ID as K~EEC~ = KDF(K~AF~, EEC-ID). K~EEC~ and E(K~AF~, EEC-ID)
are revealed to the EEC where E(K~AF~, EEC-ID) is the encryption of EEC-ID
under the key K~AF~.
Step 2. The EEC sends a session establishment request to the EES/ECS,
including the parameters A-KID and E(K~AF~, EEC-ID).
Step 3. The EES/ECS request K~AF~ from the network. In this request, EES/ECS
sends A-KID and AF-ID.
Step 4. The network executes the authentication and authorization for the
EES/ECS as defined in the AKMA procedure and if the result is successful then
derives the K~AF~ such that K~AF~ = KDF (K~AKMA~, EES-ID/ECS-ID).
Step 5. The network sends K~AF~ and expire time for the key to the EES/ECS.
Step 6. Using the K~AF~ key, the EES/ECS decrypts the encrypted EEC-ID and
also derives K~EEC~ such that K~EEC~ = KDF(K~AF~, EEC-ID).
Step 7. The EEC and the EES/ECS use K~EEC~ in Ua* protocol, instead of K~AF~.
### 6.30.3 Solution evaluation
_This solution provides a mechanism that can be placed on the top of AKMA
feature to handle the case that there are multiple EEC in UE. The solution
does not have any impact on AAnF and on the AKMA feature and can be
implemented with a new Ua* protocol for AKMA._
Note: Further evaluation is needed.
## 6.31 Solution #31: Enhancing TLS with GBA for usage with Edge
### 6.31.1 Solution overview
This solution address key issues #1 and #2 on authenticating the mobile
subscription for the cases when access to the edge services is granted based
on the used mobile subscription.
The enhancement to TLS with GBA is that all EEC are given different keys for
use with the ECS/EES that is acting as a GBA NAF (see TS 33.220 [8]). A
similar enhancement works for AKMA (see TS 33.535 [6]).
NOTE: It is not addressed in the present document whether this enhancement is
needed.
### 6.31.2 Solution details
The solution proposes to use TLS with GBA exactly as described in TS 33.220
[8] and TS 33.222 [26] with the following exceptions:
\- The Ks(_int/ext)_NAF is not used directly in the TLS or Digest protocol but
an additional key, Ks_NAF_unique, is derived from Ks(_int/ext)_NAF and a
random number. This new key, Ks_NAF_unique, is used directly in the TLS or
Digest protocol exactly as Ks(_int/ext)_NAF.
\- In the UE, the GBA client (that handles the Bootstrapping, the derivation
of Ks(_int/ext)_NAF keys and passing the relevant key to the application) does
not pass Ks(_int/ext)_NAF to the application but instead generates a random
number and derive Ks_NAF_unique from Ks(_int/ext)_NAF and the generated random
number. The GBA client then passes Ks_NAF_unique and the random number to the
application in the UE.
NOTE 1: The generation of Ks_NAF_unique can be specified in the normative
phase.
\- The application in the UE uses Ks_NAF_unique as it would the
Ks(_int/ext)_NAF and passes the random number to the NAF. For Digest this is
done in the \'cnonce\' information element and for TLS this is done as part of
the random number sent in the ClientHello message.
NOTE 2: The random number can form only part of that IE as long as it clearly
specified which part.
\- The NAF fetches Ks(_int/ext)_NAF from the BSF as normal. The NAF uses the
random number received to derive Ks_NAF_unique and uses this key as it would
the Ks(_int/ext)_NAF.
A similar enhancement works for AKMA.
### 6.31.3 Solution evaluation
The solution provides a method of ensuring different keys are available for
different EEC clients in the UE. It does not provide authentication of the EEC
client. Compared to legacy TLS with GBA, there is some extra processing in the
UE and NAF.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusions for Key Issue #1
It is proposed to optionally use TLS with AKMA as specified in TS 33.535 [6]
and TLS with GBA as specified in TS 33.222 [9] for authentication between EEC
and EES.
NOTE : For authentication between EEC and ECS, additional TLS authentication
methods can be used. Details of other TLS authentication methods that uses
other than 3GPP subscription credential(s) (e.g. client certificate based TLS
authentication) is out of scope of 3GPP.
For the Authorization issue between EEC and EES, it is suggested to use the
access token generated by the ECS for the EES service authorization described
in the step 2L-2M of solution #3, or the static authorization by the EES for
the normative work.
For the GPSI Verification issue, it is proposed to use IP translation to
verify the GPSI as described in solution #17.
Client authentication and key diversity will be addressed in the normative
work.
Note: How to select between options, and which network/UE side elements need
to support which options is not addressed in the present document.
## 7.2 Conclusions for Key Issue #2
It is proposed to optionally use TLS with AKMA as specified in TS 33.535 [6]
and TLS with GBA as specified in TS 33.222 [9] for authentication between EEC
and ECS.
NOTE 1: For authentication between EEC and ECS, additional TLS authentication
methods can be used. Details of other TLS authentication methods that uses
other than 3GPP subscription credential(s) (e.g. client certificate based TLS
authentication) is out of scope of 3GPP.
For the Authorization issue between EEC and ECS, it is suggested to use the
static authorization by the ECS for the normative work.
For the GPSI Verification issue, it is suggested to use IP translation to
verify the GPSI as described in solution #17.
Client authentication and key diversity will be addressed in the normative
work.
Note 2: How to select between options, and which network/UE side elements need
to support which options is not addressed in the present document.
## 7.3 Conclusions for Key Issue #3
Solution #12 is endorsed for the normative phase for mutual authentication,
authorization between Edge Configuration Server and the Edge Enabling Server
to register and update the server profile information. It is also proposed to
use static authorization for the ECS service authorization required by the
EES.
NOTE: It is not addressed in the present document whether the security
requirement of ECSP defined in the solution #12 is applicable.
## 7.4 Conclusions for Key Issue #4
Solution #19 that proposes to reuse the secondary authentication to solve key
issue #4 is endorsed for conclusion. Since secondary authentication is already
supported in TS 33.501 [7], no normative works is required.
## 7.5 Conclusions for Key Issue #5
Key issue #5 requires that the edge data network application user identifiers
and credentials are protected in storage and in transit. It is concluded that
no normative works is required, since protection in storage/in transit of user
identifiers and credentials belonging to application layer is out of scope of
this study..
## 7.6 Conclusions for Key Issue #6
There are three types of interface in the Key issue #6.
For the type A interface (EDGE-1/4), Solution #13 that was proposed to reuse
TLS if HTTP protocol is selected.
Editor\'s Note: Further conclusion for the type A interface is FFS.
For the type B interface (EDGE-2/7/8), Solution #13 that was proposed to reuse
security aspects of Network Exposure Function can be reused if NEF APIs is
selected and the security procedures for reference point SCEF-SCS/AS can be
reused if SCEF APIs is selected. No new normative work is required.
For the type C interface (EDGE-3/6/9), Solution #13 that was proposed to reuse
transport security protection on the Web service API interface can be reused.
No new normative work is required.
## 7.7 Conclusions for Key Issue #7
Key issue #7 described that security of Network Information Provisioning to
Local Applications with low latency procedure is required for two cases, i.e.
UPF exposes the network information to local AF via Local NEF, UPF exposes the
network information to local AF directly.
For the first case, it is proposed to reuse the CAPIF /NEF security mechanism
for the data exposure from UPF to the local AF via local NEF.
For the second case, the solution #14 proposed a new mechanism based on NEF
for the key derivation between UPF and AF. However, considering that the Note
added in TS 23.548, i.e. \"NOTE 1: Local PSA UPF can expose the QoS monitoring
results to local AF via N6. How to deliver the information on N6 is out of SA2
scope\", it is proposed to not define any normative work for this issue in
this release.
## 7.8 Conclusions for Key Issue #8
Solution #20 that was proposed to reuse the CAPIF functional security model
for authentication and authorization in EES capability exposure, is endorsed
for normative phase.
For the case that CAPIF is not used, it is suggested to use the mutually
authenticated TLS defined in in RFC 5246 [36] and RFC 8446 [37]. The TLS
profile follows the profile given in clause 6.2 of TS 33.210 [12], and the
authorization is based on local authorization policy at the EES.
NOTE: Adaptations of the security protocol dependent on the lower layer
protocols could be necessary, e.g. HTTPS instead of TLS if HTTP is used.
## 7.9 Conclusions for Key Issue #9
Solution #21 that was proposed to reuse the SBI based security for interaction
message protection between the SMF and LDNSR, is endorsed for normative phase
to include the security requirement of the new interface.
To address the security requirement of the secure discovery of EDGE services,
Solution #1 that proposes to reuse security aspects on DNS for 5G defined in
TS 33.501 [7] informative annex P.2, is endorsed for normative phase. No new
normative work is required.
## 7.10 Conclusions for Key Issue #10
Secondary authentication and authorization, as specified in TS 33.501 [7]
clause 11.1 and TS 23.502 [5] clause 4.3.2.3, addresses authorization of UEs
when the Edge Data Network is relocated. No new normative work is required.
#