# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The ability to store various security parameters is standardised for the ARPF
and the UDR. However, the security of this storage and the security related to
transporting security parameters from the UDR to the UDM/ARPF are not defined.
The present document provides the background and lists potential solutions for
identified key issues.
# 1 Scope
The present document details the following:
\- The security assumptions relating to security communication in 5G.
\- The security assumptions related to protecting subscriber privacy.
\- The home network parameters that are relevant to securing the communication
in 5G and protecting subscriber privacy.
\- Key Issues, threats and requirements relevant to securing the communication
in 5G and protecting subscriber privacy.
\- Solutions that potentially resolve the key issues described.
The present document does not describe the storage of security parameters in
the UE or the serving network or the transportation of secure information
between the home network and the serving network.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security Architecture and Procedures for 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TS 35.205: \"Specification of the MILENAGE algorithm set: An example
algorithm set for the 3GPP authentication and key generation functions f1,
f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*; Document 1: General\".
[4] 3GPP TS 35.231: \"Specification of the Tuak algorithm set: A second
example algorithm set for the 3GPP authentication and key generation functions
f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*; Document 1: Algorithm specification \".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.632: \"User Data Interworking, Coexistence and Migration\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
aspects of non-3GPP accesses\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"3G security; Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Generic Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.505: \"5G System; Usage of the Unified Data Repository
services for Subscription Data\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); 3G
security; Security architecture\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1], 3GPP TS 33.501 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], or 3GPP TS 33.501 [2].
**Authentication subscription data** : part of the subscription data
supporting authentication.
**DOS attack** : Denial of service attack where a service is unavailable due
to too many requests to use the service.
**Subscription data** : data required by UDM/ARPF for supporting
authentication, access and mobility, session management and other procedures
within the 5GC.
NOTE 1: Subscription data can be stored in and retrieved from UDR over Nudr as
defined in 3GPP TS 29.505 [11].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 33.501 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and 3GPP TS 33.501 [2].
# 4 Security assumptions relating to communication security in 5G
## 4.1 Overview
As defined in TS 33.501 [2], the UDM plays a key role in primary
authentication and the privacy feature by supporting the ARPF and SIDF
functionality.
The ARPF and SIDF functionality requires the use of certain security
parameters. The security parameters used for the ARPF functionality
(authentication subscription data) are specified in clause 5.1. When UDM makes
use of the UDR to manage subscription data, part of the security parameters
required by the ARPF and SIDF may be stored in UDR as described in clause 4.2.
## 4.2 Models for ARPF and UDR setup
### 4.2.1 Model #A: Security parameters stored only in the ARPF
Model #A is the model where security parameters for the execution of primary
authentication are stored only at the ARPF. This model corresponds to a fully
stateful ARPF deployment model where UDR is not used for securing security
parameters.
### 4.2.2 Model #B: Security parameters stored only in the UDR
Model #B is the model where security parameters for the execution of primary
authentication are stored only at the UDR. This model corresponds to a
maximally stateless ARPF deployment model where UDR is used for storing all
security parameters.
### 4.2.3 Model #C: Security parameters stored both in the ARPF and the UDR
Model #C is the model where the security parameters for the execution of
primary authentication common across subscribers within a PLMN are stored in
the ARPF and the security parameters specific to individual subscribers are
stored in the UDR. This model corresponds to a stateless ARPF deployment model
where UDR is used for storing subscriber specific security parameters.
NOTE: Security parameters common across subscribers are, e.g., OP value \-- if
Milenage is used, TOP value -- if TUAK is used. Security parameters specific
to individual subscribers are, e.g., long term key, SQN, OPc value -- if
Milenage is used, TOPc -- if TUAK is used.
## 4.3 Primary Authentication
3GPP TS 33.501 [2] defines primary authentication to enable mutual
authentication between the UE and the network. It uses the pre-shared long-
term Key which is bind to a unique SUPI to authenticate each other. The long-
term Key is stored in the USIM and the ARPF of home network separately. The
ARPF processes the K only in its secure environment, the ARPF is a service
offered by UDM.
Two methods including EAP-AKA\' and 5G-AKA are defined for primary
authentication, which method is used for mutual authentication is determined
by the ARPF/UDM. The authentication methods are stored in the ARPF. The other
security parameters (e.g. SQN, AMF) in addition to the K required for the
primary authentication are also held by the ARPF.
During the registration procedure, the AMF determines to trigger the primary
authentication on--demand for the UE. If the primary authentication is
required, the AMF requests it from the AUSF. Upon request from the AMF, the
AUSF executes authentication of the UE. In the primary authentication
procedure, the ARPF is required for key storage, authentication methods
storage, and key derivation.
## 4.4 Secondary Authentication
3GPP TS 33.501 [2] defines secondary authentication for a DN to authenticate
and/or authorize a UE to access the DN. The EAP framework based authentication
is introduced for secondary authentication between the UE and the DN-AAA
server in the DN.
During the PDU session establishment procedure, the SMF (in non-roaming and
Home Routed roaming cases, the H-SMF; in LBO case, the V-SMF) determines
whether the secondary authentication is required via exchanging with UDM. If
secondary authentication is required, the SMF triggers EAP authentication
procedure. The UE and the DN AAA server exchange EAP message for secondary
authentication. On the network side, the credential of the UE for secondary
authentication is stored in DN-AAA.
In the secondary authentication procedure, the ARPF is not involved.
## 4.5 Privacy
3GPP TS 33.501 [2] defines a mechanism for subscription identifier privacy
over-the-air. It uses the SUCI which is a privacy preserving identifier
generated at the UE and containing the concealed SUPI, using a Home Network
Public Key securely provisioned in the USIM and in control of the home
network.
The Home Network Private Key used for subscriber privacy is protected from
physical attacks in the UDM: TS 33.501 clause 6.2.2.1, specifies that \"_the
ARPF holds the home network private key that is used by the SIDF to deconceal
the SUCI and reconstruct the SUPI_ \".
In the network side, the SIDF (Subscription Identifier De-concealing Function)
is responsible for de-concealment of the SUCI using a Home Network Private
Key. The SIDF is a service offered by UDM and holds the Home Network Public
Key Identifier(s) for the private/public key pair(s) used for subscriber
privacy.
# 5 Parameters relevant to securing 5G communication
## 5.1 Overview
Authentication subscription data is data that:
\- is needed for the generation of authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF (as
described in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2]); and
\- is stored in the 5G core network.
NOTE 1: Other data related to authentication, but that does not need to be
stored in the 5G core network is not authentication subscription data.
For AKA-based authentication, the authentication subscription data consists
of:
\- the long term key K;
\- the sequence number SQN;
\- (optionally) the authentication management field AMF;
NOTE 2: it is an operator policy whether the authentication management field
AMF is stored or generated; therefore it is optionally included in the set of
authentication subscription data.
\- additional parameters depending on the authentication algorithm used (e.g.
OP or OPc if MILENAGE (cf. 3GPP TS 35.205 [3]) is used, TOP or TOPc if TUAK
(cf. 3GPP TS 35.231 [4]) is used, other parameters for proprietary
algorithms);
\- the authentication method used;
\- the authentication algorithm used (e.g. MILENAGE, TUAK, proprietary
algorithm).
Authentication subscription data may be specific per SUPI (e.g. long term key
K, sequence number SQN, MILENAGE parameter OPc, TUAK parameter TOPc), or it
may be generic (e.g. MILENAGE parameter OP, TUAK parameter TOP).
TS 29.505 [11] specifies the usage of the Unified Data Repository, Nudr,
services for subscription data. The present document provides the resource
definition and data model for subscription data used over the Nudr Service
Based Interface.
When it comes to the definition of resources related to subscription
authentication material, TS 29.505 [11] defines the
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data type supporting primary authentication as
follows:
NOTE 3: The term \'authentication subscription data\' as used in the present
document does not correspond exactly to the use of the term
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data as used in TS 29.505 [11].
Table 4.2.3-1: TS 29.505 [11], Table 5.4.2.2-1: Definition of type
AuthenticationSubscription
+---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _Attribute |_ Data type _|_ P _|_ Cardinality _|_ Description _| | name_ | | | | | +===============+===============+=====+===============+===============+ | _authenti |_ AuthMethod _|_ M _|_ 1 _|_ String | | cationMethod _| | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | A | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | Method (\ | | | | | | \"5G_AKA\", | | | | | | \"EAP | | | | | | _AKA_PRIME, | | | | | | \"EAP_T | | | | | | LS\"...).\"_ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _enc |_ string _|_ C _|_ 0..1 _|_ The | | PermanentKey _| | | | encrypted | | | | | | value | | | | | | (hexstring) | | | | | | of the | | | | | | permanent | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | key (K) (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS 33 | | | | | | .501 [9])._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _It shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | method is | | | | | | \"5G_AKA\" | | | | | | or | | | | | | \"EAP_A | | | | | | KA_PRIME\"._ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _protectio |_ string _|_ C _|_ 0..1 _|_ Identifies a | | nParameterId _| | | | parameter set | | | | | | securely | | | | | | stored in the | | | | | | UDM(ARPF) | | | | | | that can be | | | | | | used to | | | | | | decrypt the | | | | | | en | | | | | | cPermanentKey | | | | | | (and | | | | | | encOpcKey or | | | | | | encTopcKey if | | | | | | present). | | | | | | Values and | | | | | | their meaning | | | | | | are | | | | | | H | | | | | | PLMN-operator | | | | | | specific._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _It shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | method is | | | | | | \"5G_AKA\" | | | | | | or | | | | | | \"EAP_A | | | | | | KA_PRIME\"._ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _se |_ Se | _C_ | _0..1_ | _String | | quenceNumber_ | quenceNumber _| | | containing | | | | | | the SQN as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 33 | | | | | | .102 [14]._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _It shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | method is | | | | | | \"5G_AKA\" | | | | | | or | | | | | | \"EAP_A | | | | | | KA_PRIME\"._ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _auth |_ string _|_ C _|_ 0..1 _|_ Hexstring | | enticationMan | | | | containing | | agementField _| | | | the | | | | | | A | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | management | | | | | | field as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | 3GPP TS 3 | | | | | | 3.501 [9]._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _It shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | method is | | | | | | \"5G_AKA\" | | | | | | or | | | | | | \"EAP_A | | | | | | KA_PRIME\"._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _Pattern: | | | | | | \'\^[A-Fa-f | | | | | | 0-9]{4}\$\'_ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _algorithmId_ | _string_ | _C_ | _0..1_ | _Identifies a | | | | | | parameter set | | | | | | securely | | | | | | stored in the | | | | | | UDM(ARPF) | | | | | | that provides | | | | | | details on | | | | | | the algorithm | | | | | | and | | | | | | parameters | | | | | | used to | | | | | | generate | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | vectors. | | | | | | Values and | | | | | | their meaning | | | | | | are | | | | | | H | | | | | | PLMN-operator | | | | | | specific._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _It shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the | | | | | | a | | | | | | uthentication | | | | | | method is | | | | | | \"5G_AKA\" | | | | | | or | | | | | | \"EAP_A | | | | | | KA_PRIME\"._ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _encOpcKey_ | _string_ | _O_ | _0..1_ | _Hexstring of | | | | | | the encrypted | | | | | | OPC Key._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _Presence | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | provided | | | | | | value | | | | | | (decrypted) | | | | | | shall be used | | | | | | instead of | | | | | | the value | | | | | | derived from | | | | | | OP and K._ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+ | _encTopcKey_ | _string_ | _O_ | _0..1_ | _Hexstring of | | | | | | the encrypted | | | | | | TOPC Key._ | | | | | | | | | | | | _Presence | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that the | | | | | | provided | | | | | | value | | | | | | (decrypted) | | | | | | shall be used | | | | | | instead of | | | | | | the value | | | | | | derived from | | | | | | TOP and K._ | +---------------+---------------+-----+---------------+---------------+
As shown, the _AuthenticationSubscription_ data type includes only the
security parameters defined at individual subscriber\'s basis required for the
execution of AKA such as:
\- Long term Key(s), including encPermanentKey and optionally
encOpcKey/encTopcKey.
\- Sequence Number, SQN (sequenceNumber).
\- Authentication Management Field, AMF (authenticationManagementField).
\- The identifier of the authentication algorithm (algorithmId).
The _algorithmId_ attribute does not contain all the related information but
it rather contains a string which refers to a parameter set securely stored in
the UDM/ARPF. The _algorithmId_ attribute identifies the authentication
algorithm as well as other related parameters associated to the authentication
algorithm which do not need to be specific for individual subscriber\'s (e.g.
settings for the constants _c_ and/or _r_ for MILENAGE) are referred to in the
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data resource by the _algorithmId_ attribute.
## 5.2 Milenage AKA authentication
To enable Milenage authentication algorithm, the following parameters are
needed:
\- OP (the operator variant algorithm configuration field);
\- OPc (value derived from OP and K);
\- c1,c2,c3,c4,c5 (value XORed onto intermediate variables);
\- r1,r2,r3,r4,r5 (value used to define amounts by which intermediate
variables are cyclically rotated);
## 5.3 TUAK AKA authentication
To enable TUKA authentication algorithm, the following parameters are needed:
\- TOP (the operator variant algorithm configuration field);
\- TOPc (value derived from TOP and K);
\- ALGONAME (value specified as the ASCII representation of the string
\"TUAK1.0\");
\- the length of K (K is a 128-bit or 256-bit subscriber key that is an input
to the functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*);
\- the length of MAC-A (MAC-A is a 64-bit, 128-bit or 256-bit network
authentication code that is the output of the function f1);
\- the length of MAC-S (MAC-S is a 64-bit, 128-bit or 256-bit
resynchronization authentication code that is the output of the function f1*);
\- the length of RES (RES is a 32-bit, 64-bit, 128-bit or 256-bit signed
response that is the output of the function f2);
\- the length of CK (CK is a 128-bit or 256-bit confidentiality key that is
the output of the function f3);
\- the length of IK (IK is a 128-bit or 256-bit integrity key that is the
output of the function f4);
## 5.4 EAP methods for authentication
The present document covers the AKA based authentication mechanisms. Thus EAP-
AKA\' is covered by the present document.
## 5.5 Proprietary authentication algorithms
The definition of the _AuthenticationSubscription_ data type allows for the
use of proprietary authentication algorithms and SQN schemes. These
proprietary authentication algorithms may use additional parameters from the
ones currently stored in UDR as defined in TS 29.505 [11]. The API
extensibility mechanisms defined in TS 29.500 [12] for any JSON object of any
API can be used to store these additional parameters in UDR if needed.
The analysis of additional parameters required by proprietary authentication
algorithms is out of scope of the present document.
## 5.6 AMF related parameters
To enable AKA-based authentication, the following AMF related parameters are
needed: SUCI or SUPI;
The serving network name;
## 5.7 Counter related parameters
To enable AKA-based authentication, the following counter related parameters
are needed:
\- sqnScheme (scheme for generation of Sequence Numbers);
\- sqn (value containing the SEQ part of SQN, and the IND part which is filled
with 0\'s. When the sqnScheme is \"TIME_BASED\", the SEQ part is the DIF
value.);
\- lastIndexes (a map of integer values map(integer), where the integer is the
last used value of IND);
\- indLength (number of bits of the IND part of SQN).
# 6\. Key Issues
## 6.1 Key Issue #1: Separation of authentication subscription data from
subscription data
### 6.1.1 Key issue details
The Unified Data Repository (UDR) is located in the same PLMN as the NF
service consumers are storing or retrieving data from UDR using Nudr services.
Data stored in the UDR are subscription data, authentication subscription
data, policy data, structured data for exposure, and application data (see
3GPP TS 29.505).
Nudr is an intra-PLMN interface and allows NF consumers to use its service to
retrieve, create, update, subscribe for change notifications, unsubscribe for
change notifications and delete data stored in the UDR, based on the set of
data applicable to the consumer.
### 6.1.2 Security threats
UDR can be accessed by several NFs. If authentication subscription data is
accessible in the same branch of the data model as subscription data, also
other NFs than UDM may be able to access those data.
### 6.1.3 Potential security requirements
Sensitive data such as authentication subscription data should be
compartmentalized from subscription data.
For authentication subscription data, which are sensitive data, the access
shall be limited to UDM only.
## 6.2 Key Issue #2: protection of long-term key during storage in UDR
### 6.2.1 Key issue details
In case the long-term key, which is part of the authentication subscription
data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF, is stored in
the UDR separate from the UDM/ARPF, then this key needs to be protected. This
key issue addresses this need.
### 6.2.2 Security threats
If the stored long-term key can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS
attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
If the stored long-term key is obtained, then it can be used to access
previously recorded communications.
If the stored long-term key retrieved from a subscriber\'s authentication
subscription data can be copied to another subscriber\'s authentication
subscription data, then this can result in stealing network access from the
first subscriber.
### 6.2.3 Potential security requirements
The long-term key in the UDR shall be protected against retrieval by
unauthorized network elements and by unauthorized persons.
The long-term key shall be protected against unauthorized modification after
storage in the UDR.
It shall be prevented that the long-term key is copied from one subscriber\'s
authentication subscription data to another subscriber\'s authentication
subscription data.
## 6.3 Key Issue #3: protection of long-term key during transfer out of UDR
### 6.3.1 Key issue details
In case the long-term key, which is part of the authentication subscription
data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF, is transferred
out of the UDR to the UDM/ARPF, then this key needs to be protected during its
transfer. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.3.2 Security threats
If the long-term key can be modified during transfer out of the UDR to the
UDM/ARPF, this can cause a DOS attack by generating invalid authentication
vectors in the UDM/ARPF.
If the long-term key is obtained during transfer out of the UDR, then it can
be used to access previously recorded communications.
### 6.3.3 Potential security requirements
The long-term key shall be protected during transfer out of the UDR against
eavesdropping by unauthorized network elements and by unauthorized persons.
The long-term key shall be protected against modification during transfer out
of the UDR.
## 6.4 Key Issue #4: protection of Milenage OPc value during storage in UDR
### 6.4.1 Key issue details
In case the Milenage OPc value, which is part of the authentication
subscription data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF --
in case Milenage [3] is used -- is stored in the UDR separate from the
UDM/ARPF, then this value needs to be protected. This key issue addresses this
need.
### 6.4.2 Security threats
OPc values are one of the sensitive data items needed to populate USIMs. If
OPc values are obtained by unauthorized network elements or by unauthorized
persons, this increases the risk of unauthorized USIM creation.
If the stored OPc value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS
attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
### 6.4.3 Potential security requirements
The OPc value shall be protected against retrieval by unauthorized network
elements and by unauthorized persons.
The OPc value shall be protected against unauthorized modification during
storage in the UDR.
## 6.5 Key Issue #5: protection of Milenage OPc value during transfer out of
UDR
### 6.5.1 Key issue details
In case the Milenage OPc value, which is part of the authentication
subscription data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF --
in case Milenage [3] is used -- is transferred out of the UDR to the UDM/ARPF,
then this value needs to be protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.5.2 Security threats
OPc values are one of the sensitive data items needed to populate USIMs. If
OPc values are obtained by unauthorized network elements or by unauthorized
persons, this increases the risk of unauthorized USIM creation.
If the stored OPc value can be modified during transfer out of the UDR, this
can cause a DOS attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription
data.
### 6.5.3 Potential security requirements
The OPc value shall be protected during transfer out of the UDR against
eavesdropping by unauthorized network elements and by unauthorized persons.
The OPc value shall be protected against modification during transfer out of
the UDR.
## 6.6 Key Issue #6: protection of Milenage OP value during storage in UDR
### 6.6.1 Key issue details
In case the Milenage OP value, which can be used to generate the OPc value
that is part of the authentication subscription data needed to generate
authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF -- in case Milenage [3] is used -- is
stored in the UDR separate from the UDM/ARPF, then this value needs to be
protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.6.2 Security threats
If the OP value can be obtained by an unauthorized network element or an
unauthorized person, it can be used -- in combination with long-term keys --
to create subscriber specific Milenage OPc values. These OPc values are one of
the data items needed to populate USIMs.
If the stored OP value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS attack
by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
### 6.6.3 Potential security requirements
If the OP value is stored in the UDR, then the OP value shall be protected
against retrieval by unauthorized network elements and by unauthorized
persons.
If the OP value is stored in the UDR, then the OP value shall be protected
against unauthorized modification after storage in the UDR.
## 6.7 Key Issue #7: protection of Milenage OP value during transfer out of
UDR
### 6.7.1 Key issue details
In case the Milenage OP value, which can be used to generate the OPc value
that is part of the authentication subscription data needed to generate
authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF -- in case Milenage [3] is used -- is
transferred out of the UDR to the UDM/ARPF, then this value needs to be
protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.7.2 Security threats
If the OP value can be obtained by an unauthorized network element or an
unauthorized person, it can be used -- in combination with long-term keys --
to create subscriber specific Milenage OPc values. These OPc values are one of
the data items needed to populate USIMs.
If the stored OP value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS attack
by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
### 6.7.3 Potential security requirements
If the OP value is stored in the UDR, then the OP value shall be protected
during transfer out of the UDR against eavesdropping by unauthorized network
elements and by unauthorized persons.
If the OP value is stored in the UDR, then the OP value shall be protected
against modification during transfer out of the UDR.
## 6.8 Key Issue #8: protection of sequence number SQN~HE~ during storage in
UDR
### 6.8.1 Key issue details
In case the sequence number SQN~HE~, which is part of the authentication
subscription data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF is
stored in the UDR separate from the UDM/ARPF, then this sequence number needs
to be protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.8.2 Security threats
If the SQN~HE~ can be obtained by an unauthorized network element or an
unauthorized person, it can be used to identify and track a subscriber.
### 6.8.3 Potential security requirements
The SQN~HE~ shall be protected against retrieval by unauthorized network
elements and by unauthorized persons.
## 6.9 Key Issue #9: protection of sequence number SQN~HE~ during transfer out
of UDR
### 6.9.1 Key issue details
In case the sequence number SQN~HE~, which is part of the authentication
subscription data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF is
transferred out the UDR to the UDM/ARPF, then this sequence number needs to be
protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.9.2 Security threats
If the SQN~HE~ can be obtained by an unauthorized network element or an
unauthorized person, it can be used to identify and track a subscriber.
### 6.9.3 Potential security requirements
The SQN~HE~ shall be protected during transfer out of the UDR against
eavesdropping by unauthorized network elements and by unauthorized persons.
## 6.10 Key Issue #10: protection of TUAK TOPc value during storage in UDR
### 6.10.1 Key issue details
In case the TUAK TOPc value, which is part of the authentication subscription
data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF -- in case TUAK
[4] is used -- is stored in the UDR separate from the UDM/ARPF, then this
value needs to be protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.10.2 Security threats
TOPc values are one of the sensitive data items needed to populate USIMs. If
TOPc values are obtained by unauthorized network elements or by unauthorized
persons, this increases the risk of unauthorized USIM creation.
If the stored TOPc value can be modified in the UDR, this can cause a DOS
attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription data.
### 6.10.3 Potential security requirements
The TOPc value shall be protected against retrieval by unauthorized network
elements and by unauthorized persons.
The TOPc value shall be protected against unauthorized modification during
storage in the UDR.
## 6.11 Key Issue #11: protection of TUAK TOPc value during transfer out of
UDR
### 6.11.1 Key issue details
In case the TUAK TOPc value, which is part of the authentication subscription
data needed to generate authentication vectors in the UDM/ARPF -- in case TUAK
[4] is used -- is transferred out of the UDR to the UDM/ARPF, then this value
needs to be protected. This key issue addresses this need.
### 6.11.2 Security threats
TOPc values are one of the sensitive data items needed to populate USIMs. If
TOPc values are obtained by unauthorized network elements or by unauthorized
persons, this increases the risk of unauthorized USIM creation.
If the stored TOPc value can be modified during transfer out of the UDR, this
can cause a DOS attack by invalidating regular authentication subscription
data.
### 6.11.3 Potential security requirements
The TOPc value shall be protected during transfer out of the UDR against
eavesdropping by unauthorized network elements and by unauthorized persons.
The TOPc value shall be protected against modification during transfer out of
the UDR.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Solution #1: Authorization and Isolation of Authentication Data using
existing techniques.
### 7.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue#1 on \"Separation of authentication
subscription data from subscription data\".
The solution proposes the use of a UDR dedicated for subscription data and
further isolation of the authentication data within this UDR based on internal
implementation techniques.
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to already to be
defined in 3GPP TSs and does not require any additional specification work.
### 7.1.2 Solution details
As defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [10] the UDR is located in the same PLMN as the
NF service consumers storing in and retrieving data from it using Nudr. This
is, Nudr is an intra-PLMN interface.
The only NF service consumers that are defined to use UDR as per 3GPP TS
23.502 [13] are UDM (for subscription data), PCF (for policy subscription
data), NEF (for exposure and application data) and NRF/SCP (for NF Group ID
mapping data). It is possible however that multiple UDRs are deployed in the
network, each of which can accommodate different data sets or subsets, (e.g.
subscription data, subscription policy data, data for exposure, application
data) and/or serve different sets of NFs. This is, it is possible to deploy a
UDR dedicated to store subscription data used and accessed only by UDM. In
this case, the UDR profile stored in the NRF can indicate that ONLY UDM NFs
are authorized to discover UDR instances storing subscription data (i.e. NF
consumers other than UDM will not be able to discover UDR instances handling
subscription data nor authentication subscription data).
Even in the case where the same UDR is deployed to support storage of data for
multiple NF consumers (e.g. UDM, PCF and NEF), UDR can authorize the access of
specific data resources for specific operations (e.g. read, modify) on a per
NF type basis using the OAuth 2.0 based Authorization Framework defined in
3GPP 33.501 [2] for Release 16.
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in 3GPP 33.501 [2] is
being enhanced in Release 16 to support the generation and validation of
authorization tokens including authorization not only at service level but
also to service operation and resource level. This allows the possibility to
generate OAuth 2.0 tokens to retrieve _AuthenticationSubscription_ data ONLY
to UDM NF type of service consumers.
Finally, based on implementation-specific means, it is possible that the
storage of the _AuthenticationSubscription_ data resources within a UDR NF
instance are managed in specific storage resources within the UDR NF instance
as described in 3GPP TS 29.500 [12] and 3GPP TS 29.505 [11]. This can allow
that the security parameters defined within the _AuthenticationSubscription_
data type could be isolated from the rest of storage resources used for
storing other subscription profile information within the UDR NF instance not
only from a traffic reference point (i.e. via Nudr) but also from Provisioning
and OAM interfaces.
### 7.1.3 Evaluation
This solution proposes that the isolation of authentication subscription data
from subscription data can be based on existing capabilities defined by 3GPP
TSs without the need for any additional specification work.
The resource-based authorization introduced to the OAuth 2.0 authorization
framework during release 16 ensures that the access to the authentication
subscription data can be limited.
Authentication subscription data can be additionally compartmentalized from
subscription data as described in 3GPP TS 29.500 [12] and 3GPP TS 29.505 [11].
## 7.2 Solution #2: Protection of LTK during storage in UDR.
### 7.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue#2 on \"protection of long-term key during
storage in UDR \".
The solution describes how the long-term key in the UDR can be protected
against modification by any network function and retrieval by unauthorized
network elements over Nudr using the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework
defined in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2] in Release 16.
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to already to be
defined in 3GPP TSs and does not require any additional specification work.
### 7.2.2 Solution details
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in 3GPP 33.501 [2] is
being enhanced in Release 16 to support the generation and validation of
authorization tokens including authorization not only at service level but
also to service operation and resource level. This allows the possibility to
generate OAuth 2.0 tokens to retrieve _AuthenticationSubscription_ data ONLY
to UDM/ARPF NF type of service consumers.
UDR will in any case prevent the modification of LTK within the
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data resource by the UDM/ARPF over Nudr as
defined in 3GPP TS 29.505 [11]:
Table 5.2.1-1 provides an overview of the resources and applicable HTTP
methods.
Table 5.2.1-1: Resources and methods overview
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | _Resource |_ Resource URI _|_ HTTP method _|_ Description _| | name_ | | | | +================+================+===============+================+ | _Authenticatio |_ /sub | _GET_ | _Retrieve a | | nSubscription_ | scription-data | | UE\'s | | | /{ueId}/authen | | authentication | | | tication-data/ | | subscription | | | authentication | | data _| | | -subscription_ | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | | | _PATCH_ | _Update a | | | | | UE\'s | | | | | authentication | | | | | subscription | | | | | data_ | | | | | | | | | | _Updates shall | | | | | be limited to | | | | | the | | | | |__se | | | | | quenceNumber_ _| | | | | attribute. | | | | | Attempts to | | | | | patch any | | | | | other | | | | | attribute | | | | | shall be | | | | | rejected by | | | | | the UDR._ | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
The long-term key should be additionally provisioned and stored encrypted in
UDR. This solution does not cover security requirements (e.g. encryption
algorithms) for this.
### 7.2.3 Evaluation
Solution#2 in TR 33.845 [1] proposes that the protection of the LTK during
storage in UDR relies on the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined
in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2].
The capability for resource-based authorization introduced to the OAuth 2.0
authorization framework during release 16, fulfils the related security
requirements to protect against unauthorized retrieval or modification of the
LTK while stored in the UDR when accessing the UDR from other SBA connected
NFs, but it does not fulfil the security requirement to protect against other
ways of accessing the UDR.
## 7.3 Solution #3: Protection of LTK over Nudr
### 7.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue#3 on \"protection of long-term key during
transfer out of UDR\".
The solution is based on storing the long-term key encrypted in UDR and
transferring it also encrypted over Nudr. As any other SBA reference point,
Nudr is additionally protected using TLS as defined in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2].
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to already to be
defined in 3GPP TSs and does not require any additional specification work.
### 7.3.2 Solution details
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in 3GPP 33.501 [2] is
being enhanced in Release 16 to allows the possibility to generate OAuth 2.0
tokens to retrieve _AuthenticationSubscription_ data ONLY to UDM/ARPF NF type
of service consumers.
This solution proposes that the protection of the long-term key while provided
to the UDM/ARPF over Nudr is two-fold:
\- In the first place, the long-term key is provisioned and stored in UDR in
encrypted form. This solution does not cover actual mechanisms to perform such
encryption (e.g. encryption algorithms, key length, etc. ...).
\- Secondly, as any other SBA reference point, the Nudr is protected using TLS
as defined in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2].
These two protection levels make impossible for any intermediate actor to
eavesdrop or modify the long-term key while in transit over Nudr.
### 7.3.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the transfer
of the long-term key between the UDR and the UDM/ARPF in three ways:
\- transporting the long-term key in encrypted form during its transfer from
UDR to UDM/APRF, and
\- additionally, protecting the transfer of the long-term key over Nudr based
on secure encrypted transport mechanisms (such as HTTPS).
\- the OAuth tokens allow for the long-term key to only be retrieved by the
UDM/ARPF
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long-term keys. That is, the
decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never
leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required
security of the decryption key can be achieved as it is done in pre-5G
networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be
desirable to export a protected copy of the decryption key to a backup
location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.4 Solution #4: Encrypted storage of the long-term key in the UDR
### 7.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #2 on \"protection of long-term key during
storage in UDR\".
In order to protect the long-term key during storage in the UDR, the long-term
key is stored in encrypted form in the UDR. During primary authentication, the
UDM/ARPF retrieves the authentication subscription data for the UE which
includes the encrypted long-term key as stored in UDR. That is, the long-term
key is never provided by the UDR in clear text and there is no need for the
UDR to decrypt the long-term key.
At generation of a long-term key an encryption key is used that is shared with
the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication. The
generation of a long-term key can be performed in the network of an operator
or it can be performed at the facility where USIMs are being provisioned.
### 7.4.2 Solution details
The long-term key is stored in encrypted form if stored in the UDR. The
encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the
encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy
requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the encryption/decryption
key(s) is operator dependent.
### 7.4.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the long-term
key in one way:
\- storing the long-term key in encrypted form in the UDR
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long-term keys. That is, the
decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never
leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required
security of the decryption key can be achieved as it is done in pre-5G
networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be
desirable to export a protected copy of the decryption key to a backup
location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.5 Solution #5: Encrypted transfer of the long-term key between UDR and
UDM/ARPF
### 7.5.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #3 on \"protection of long-term key during
transfer out of UDR\".
As described in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.8.1, the long-term key used for
authentication and security association setup purposes shall be protected from
physical attacks and shall never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF
unprotected. If stored in the UDR, the long-term key is always transported in
encrypted form during its transfer from UDR to UDM/ARPF.
### 7.5.2 Solution details
The long-term key is transferred in encrypted form between UDR and UDM/ARPF.
The encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the
encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy
requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE 1: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the
encryption/decryption key(s) is operator dependent.
The transfer of the encrypted long-term key over the Nudr interface is
protected at transport level using the security mechanisms defined in 3GPP TS
33.501 [2], clause 13.1, as any other SBA interface.
During transfer, a key identifier is associated to the encrypted long-term key
to enable identification of the decryption key in the UDM/ARPF.
NOTE 2: The implementation of how to identify the decryption key is out of
scope of 3GPP.
### 7.5.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the transfer
of the long-term key between the UDR and the UDM/ARPF in two ways:
\- transporting the long-term key in encrypted form during its transfer from
UDR to UDM/APRF, and
\- additionally, protecting the transfer of the long-term key over Nudr based
on secure encrypted transport mechanisms (such as HTTPS).
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long term keys. This is, the
decryption key is required to be protected from physical attacks and never
leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required
security of the decryption key can be achieved as it is done in pre-5G
networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be
desirable to export a protected copy of the decryption key to a backup
location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.6 Solution #6: Storage of the LTK in the UDR
### 7.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue#2, \"protection of long-term key during
storage in UDR \".
The solution trusts the access tokens created using the OAuth 2.0 based
authorization framework to protect the long-term key from retrieval by
unauthorised NFs, and that modification of the long-term key is restricted to
the _sequenceNumber_ attribute.
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to be defined in
3GPP and does not require any additional specification work.
### 7.6.2 Solution details
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in 33.501[2], clause
13.4.1, is enhanced in Release 16 to support the generation and validation of
authorization tokens, including authorization at resource level. This allows
the possibility of generating OAuth 2.0 access tokens to restrict retrieval of
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data to UDM/ARPF NF type service consumers only,
preventing unauthorised access by other NF type. Such access tokens can be
required by the UDM to access the long-term key.
As defined in TS 29.505 [11], Clause 5.2.1, Table 5.2.1-1, any modification of
the long term key with the _AuthenticationSubscription_ data resource by the
UDM/ARPF over Nudr is limited to the _sequenceNumber_ attribute, and attempts
to modify any other attribute shall be rejected by the UDR.
### 7.6.3 Evaluation
This Solution proposes that the protection of the long-term key during storage
in UDR relies on the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in TS
33.501 [2], and upon the restricted modification of the
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data type.
The capability for resource-based authorization introduced to the OAuth 2.0
authorization framework during release 16 ensures that the access to the
authentication subscription data can be limited, and fulfils the security
requirements to protect against unauthorized retrieval or modification of the
long-term key while stored in the UDR when accessing the UDR from other SBA
connected NFs, but it does not fulfil the security requirement to protect
against other ways of accessing the UDR. The _AuthenticationSubscription_ data
type editing restrictions further protect against modification from any
entity.
## 7.7 Solution #7: Transfer of the LTK out of the UDR
### 7.7.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue#3, \"protection of long-term key during
transfer out of UDR \".
The solution trusts the access tokens created using the OAuth 2.0 based
authorization framework to protect the long-term key from retrieval by
unauthorised NFs and to ensure it is only transported along the Nudr
interface, the TLS protection on the Nudr interface, and that modification of
the long-term key is restricted to the _sequenceNumber_ attribute.
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to already to be
defined in 3GPP and does not require any additional specification work.
### 7.7.2 Solution details
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in TS 33.501[2], clause
13.4.1, is enhanced in Release 16 to support the generation and validation of
authorization tokens, including authorization at resource level. This allows
the possibility of generating OAuth 2.0 access tokens to restrict retrieval of
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data to UDM/ARPF NF type service consumers only,
for which the long-term key will be transported along the Nudr interface. As
with any other SBA reference point, Nudr is protected at transport level using
TLS as defined in 3GPP TS 33.501[2] clause 13.1.
As defined in TS 29.505 [11], any modification of the long term key with the
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data resource by the UDM/ARPF over Nudr is
limited to the _sequenceNumber_ attribute, and attempts to modify any other
attribute shall be rejected by the UDR.
### 7.7.3 Evaluation
This Solution proposes that the protection of the long-term key during
transfer out of the UDR relies on the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework
defined in TS 33.501 [2], and upon the restricted modification of the
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data type.
The capability for resource-based authorization introduced to the OAuth 2.0
authorization framework during release 16 ensures that the access to the
authentication subscription data can be limited, and fulfils the security
requirements to protect against unauthorized retrieval or modification of the
long-term key while being transferred out of the UDR. The
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data type editing restrictions further protect
against modification from any entity.
## 7.8 Solution #8: Encrypted transfer of Milenage OPc value between UDR and
UDM/ARPF
### 7.8.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #5 on \"protection of Milenage OPc value
during transfer out of UDR\".
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OPc value is always transported in
encrypted form during its transfer from UDR to UDM/ARPF.
### 7.8.2 Solution details
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OPc value is transferred in encrypted form
between UDR and UDM/ARPF. The encryption algorithm used and the method for the
handling of the encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security
policy requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE 1: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the
encryption/decryption key(s) is operator dependent.
The transfer of the encrypted Milenage OPc value over the Nudr interface is
protected at transport level using the security mechanisms defined in TS
33.501 [2], clause 13.1, as any other SBA interface.
During transfer, a key identifier is associated to the encrypted Milenage OPc
value to enable identification of the decryption key in the UDM/ARPF.
NOTE 2: The implementation of how to identify the decryption key is out of
scope of 3GPP.
### 7.8.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the transfer
of the Milenage OPc value between the UDR and the UDM/ARPF in two ways:
\- transporting the OPc value in encrypted form during its transfer from UDR
to UDM/APRF, and
\- additionally, protecting the transfer of the OPc value over Nudr based on
secure encrypted transport mechanisms (such as HTTPS).
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long term keys, as specified in TS
33.501 [2], clause 5.8.1. That is, the decryption key is required to be
protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the
UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required security of the decryption key can be
achieved as it is done in pre-5G networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security
Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be desirable to export a protected copy of the
decryption key to a backup location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.9 Solution #9: Encrypted transfer of Milenage OP value between UDR and
UDM/ARPF
### 7.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #7 on \"protection of Milenage OP value
during transfer out of UDR\".
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OP value is always transported in encrypted
form during its transfer from UDR to UDM/ARPF.
### 7.9.2 Solution details
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OP value is transferred in encrypted form
between UDR and UDM/ARPF. The encryption algorithm used and the method for the
handling of the encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security
policy requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE 1: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the
encryption/decryption key(s) is operator dependent. The transfer of the
encrypted Milenage OP value over the Nudr interface is protected at transport
level using the security mechanisms defined in TS 33.501 [2], clause 13.1, as
any other SBA interface.
During transfer, a key identifier is associated to the encrypted Milenage OP
value to enable identification of the decryption key in the UDM/ARPF.
NOTE 2: The implementation of how to identify the decryption key is out of
scope of 3GPP.
### 7.9.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the transfer
of the Milenage OP value between the UDR and the UDM/ARPF in two ways:
\- transporting the OP value in encrypted form during its transfer from UDR to
UDM/APRF, and
\- additionally, protecting the transfer of the OP value over Nudr based on
secure encrypted transport mechanisms (such as HTTPS).
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long term keys, as specified in TS
33.501 [2], clause 5.8.1. That is, the decryption key is required to be
protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the
UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required security of the decryption key can be
achieved as it is done in pre-5G networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security
Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be desirable to export a protected copy of the
decryption key to a backup location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.10 Solution #10: Encrypted storage of Milenage OPc value in the UDR
### 7.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #4 on \"protection of Milenage OPc value
during storage in UDR\".
If the Milenage OPc value is stored in the UDR, it is stored in encrypted form
in the UDR. During primary authentication, the UDM/ARPF retrieves
authentication subscription data for the UE which can include the Milenage OPc
value as stored in UDR. That is, the Milenage OPc value is never provided by
the UDR in clear text and there is no need for the UDR to decrypt the Milenage
OPc value.
At generation of the Milenage OPc value an encryption key is used that is
shared with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication.
The generation of the Milenage OPc value can be performed in the network of an
operator or it can be performed at the facility where USIMs are being
provisioned.
### 7.10.2 Solution details
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OPc value is stored in encrypted form. The
encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the
encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy
requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the encryption/decryption
key(s) is operator dependent.
### 7.10.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the Milenage
OPc value in one way:
\- storing the OPc value in encrypted form in the UDR.
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long-term keys, as specified in TS
33.501 [2], clause 5.8.1. That is, the decryption key is required to be
protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the
UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required security of the decryption key can be
achieved as it is done in pre-5G networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security
Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be desirable to export a protected copy of the
decryption key to a backup location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.11 Solution #11: Encrypted storage of Milenage OP value in the UDR
### 7.11.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #6 on \"protection of Milenage OP value
during storage in UDR\".
If the Milenage OP value is stored in the UDR, it is stored in encrypted form
in the UDR. During primary authentication, the UDM/ARPF retrieves
authentication subscription data for the UE which can include the Milenage OP
value as stored in UDR. That is, the Milenage OP value is never provided by
the UDR in clear text and there is no need for the UDR to decrypt the Milenage
OP value.
At selection of the Milenage OP value an encryption key is used that is shared
with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication. The
selection of the Milenage OP value can be performed in the network of an
operator or it can be performed at the facility where USIMs are being
provisioned.
### 7.11.2 Solution details
If stored in the UDR, the Milenage OP value is stored in encrypted form. The
encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the
encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy
requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the encryption/decryption
key(s) is operator dependent.
### 7.11.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the Milenage
OP value in one way:
\- storing the OP value in encrypted form in the UDR.
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long-term keys, as specified in TS
33.501 [2], clause 5.8.1. That is, the decryption key is required to be
protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the
UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required security of the decryption key can be
achieved as it is done in pre-5G networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security
Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be desirable to export a protected copy of the
decryption key to a backup location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.12 Solution #12: Access control for protection of SQN~HE~ during storage
in UDR
### 7.12.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #8 on \" protection of sequence number
SQN~HE~ during storage in UDR\".
This solution is based on the observation that encrypted storage of the
SQN~HE~ value when stored in the UDR is not needed. Standard access control
mechanisms are sufficient for protecting the SQN~HE~ value during storage in
the UDR.
For access by other NFs, the solution is based on the use of access tokens
created using the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework. The solution trusts
these access tokens to protect SQN~HE~ from retrieval by unauthorized NFs.
### 7.12.2 Solution details
The SQN~HE~ value is protected during storage in the UDR via standard access
control mechanisms (e.g. username/password, ACL lists, etc.). For access by
other NFs, the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework is used.
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in TS 33.501 [2], clause
13.4.1, is being enhanced in Release 16 to support the generation and
validation of authorization tokens, including authorization at resource level.
This allows the possibility of generating OAuth 2.0 access tokens to restrict
retrieval of _AuthenticationSubscription_ data to UDM/ARPF NF type service
consumers only, preventing unauthorised access by other NF types. Such access
tokens can be required by the UDM/ARPF to access SQN~HE~.
### 7.12.3 Evaluation
For the use of the OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework, capabilities are
used that are defined or planned to be defined in 3GPP specifications. This
solution does not require (additional) changes to normative specifications.
## 7.13 Solution #13: Encrypted storage of TUAK TOPc value in the UDR
### 7.13.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #10 on \"protection of TUAK TOPc value
during storage in UDR\".
If the TUAK TOPc value is stored in the UDR, it is stored in encrypted form in
the UDR. During primary authentication, the UDM/ARPF retrieves authentication
subscription data for the UE which can include the TUAK TOPc value as stored
in UDR. That is, the TUAK TOPc value is never provided by the UDR in clear
text and there is no need for the UDR to decrypt the TUAK TOPc value.
At generation of the TUAK TOPc value an encryption key is used that is shared
with the UDM/ARPF where it is decrypted during primary authentication. The
generation of the TUAK TOPc value can be performed in the network of an
operator or it can be performed at the facility where USIMs are being
provisioned.
### 7.13.2 Solution details
If stored in the UDR, the TUAK TOPc value is stored in encrypted form. The
encryption algorithm used and the method for the handling of the
encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security policy
requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the encryption/decryption
key(s) is operator dependent.
### 7.13.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the TUAK TOPc
in one way:
\- storing the TOPc in encrypted form in the UDR.
This solution requires that the UDM/ARPF stores the decryption key. The
storage of the decryption key at the UDM/ARPF is subject to the same security
requirements as if the ARPF would store the long-term keys, as specified in TS
33.501 [2], clause 5.8.1. That is, the decryption key is required to be
protected from physical attacks and never leave the secure environment of the
UDM/ARPF unprotected. This required security of the decryption key can be
achieved as it is done in pre-5G networks (e.g. by using a Hardware Security
Module in the UDM/ARPF). It may be desirable to export a protected copy of the
decryption key to a backup location, to aid recovery if necessary.
## 7.14 Solution #14: OAuth 2.0 secured transfer of SQN~HE~ out of UDR
### 7.14.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue#9, \"protection of sequence number SQN~HE~
during transfer out of UDR\".
The solution trusts the access tokens created using the OAuth 2.0 based
authorization framework to protect SQN~HE~ from retrieval by unauthorised NFs
and to ensure it is only transported along the Nudr interface, along with the
TLS protection on the Nudr interface.
This solution is based on capabilities defined or planned to be defined in
3GPP TSs and does not require any additional specification work.
### 7.14.2 Solution details
The OAuth 2.0 based authorization framework defined in TS 33.501[2], clause
13.4.1, is enhanced in Release 16 to support the generation and validation of
authorization tokens, including authorization at resource level. This allows
the possibility of generating OAuth 2.0 access tokens to restrict retrieval of
_AuthenticationSubscription_ data to UDM/ARPF NF type service consumers only,
preventing unauthorised access by other NF types, for which SQN~HE~ will be
transported along the Nudr interface. As with any other SBA reference point,
Nudr is protected at transport level using TLS as defined in TS 33.501[2]
clause 13.1.
### 7.14.3 Evaluation
This solution does not require changes to normative specifications.
## 7.15 Solution #15: Encrypted transfer of TUAK TOPc value between UDR and
UDM/ARPF
### 7.15.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #11 on \"protection of TUAK TOPc value
during transfer out of UDR\".
If stored in the UDR, the TUAK TOPc value is always transported in encrypted
form during its transfer from UDR to UDM/ARPF.
### 7.15.2 Solution details
If stored in the UDR, the TUAK TOPc value is transferred in encrypted form
between UDR and UDM/ARPF. The encryption algorithm used and the method for the
handling of the encryption/decryption key(s) needs to conform to the security
policy requirements of the operator. This solution recommends the use of NIST
approved algorithms.
NOTE 1: The selection of the encryption algorithm and the
encryption/decryption key(s) is operator dependent.
The transfer of the encrypted TUAK TOPc value over the Nudr interface is
protected at transport level using the security mechanisms defined in TS
33.501 [2], clause 13.1, as any other SBA interface.
During transfer, a key identifier is associated to the encrypted TUAK TOPc
value to enable identification of the decryption key in the UDM/ARPF.
NOTE 2: The implementation of how to identify the decryption key is out of
scope of 3GPP.
### 7.15.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the KI by protecting the transfer
of the TUAK TOPc value between the UDR and the UDM/ARPF in two ways:
# 8 Conclusions
The conclusions of the study are the following:
1\. With respect to ARPF deployment, Model #A and Model #C as defined in
clause 4.2 of the present document need to be supported by 3GPP. It is not
expected that Model #B will be supported by 3GPP.
2\. Regarding the separation of authentication subscription data from other
subscription data (Key Issue #1), it is concluded that there is no need for
new normative text (according to the evaluation of Solution #1).
3\. Regarding the protection of the long-term key, Milenage OPc values, and
TUAK TOPc values during storage in UDR (Key Issues #2, #4, #10), it is
concluded to add normative text based on Solution #4 (for long-term key),
Solution #10 (for OPc), and Solution #13 (for TOPc)
4\. Regarding the protection of the SQN~HE~ during storage in UDR (Key Issue
#8), it is concluded that there is no need for new normative text (according
to the evaluation of Solution #12).
5\. Regarding the protection of the long-term key, Milenage OPc values, and
TUAK TOPc values during transfer between UDR and UDM/ARPF (Key Issues #3, #5,
and #11), it is concluded to add normative text based on Solution #5 (for
long-term key), Solution #8 (for OPc), and Solution #15 (for TOPc).
6\. Regarding the protection of the SQN~HE~ during transfer between UDR and
UDM/ARPF (Key Issue #9), it is concluded that there is no need for new
normative text (according to the evaluation of Solution #9).
7\. Regarding the protection of the Milenage OP value during storage in UDR
and during transfer between UDR and UDM/ARPF, the conclusion is there is no
need for new normative text, since ARPF deployment Model #B is not expected to
be supported by normative text in 3GPP specifications. However if
operators/vendors want to store the OP value in, or transfer the OP value out
of, the UDR, then it is recommended to be done in encrypted form according to
solutions #9 and #11.
8\. All decryption keys relating to the long-term key, Milenage OPc values and
TUAK TOPc values are required to be protected from physical attacks and never
leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF unprotected, which can be
achieved as done in pre-5G networks. Using a Hardware Security Module in the
UDM/ARPF would be one method for achieving this. Exporting a protected copy of
the decryption keys to a backup location is recommended.
9\. For supporting the UDICOM option where the HSS generates the 5G
authentication vectors (see TS 23.632 [5], clause 5.2.2), it is needed to
allow the Home Network Private Key to be stored in the UDM.
###### ### Annex A: Models for ARPF deployment
# A.1 General
This clause describes the different deployment models for ARPF considering the
following aspects:
\- Existing architectural decision in TS 33.501 [2] that defines the ARPF as a
function provided by the UDM.
\- Deployment of the UDM as a fully stateless NF, where subscription data
(including the subscription credentials) is stored in the UDR. Stateful
deployment options where subscription credentials are stored within the
UDM/ARPF are depicted but these do not require any further analysis within the
scope of the present document.
\- Coexistence with Authentication vector generation functions in other
domains (i.e. HSS/AuC).
# A.2 ARPF deployment options in 3GPP TS 33.501 [2] and TS 23.501 [10]
In TS 33.501 [2], the ARPF is defined as a function to be provided within the
UDM.
For interworking with EPC (and IMS), in TS 23.501 [10], the HSS and the UDM
are also defined as a combined NF, i.e. HSS+UDM where interactions between the
HSS and the UDM are not specified. The HSS also includes the function to
generate authentication vectors in EPS, IMS, GBA and GPRS/UMTS domains; i.e.
the AuC.
The HSS+UDM may be deployed as a stateful or stateless NF.
Figure A.2-1 shows the ARPF deployment option when the HSS+UDM is deployed as
a stateful NF and subscription credentials are stored within the HSS+UDM (i.e.
within the AuC+ARPF).
Figure A.2-1: Stateful ARPF deployment
Figure A.2-2 shows the ARPF deployment option when the HSS+UDM is deployed as
a stateless NF and subscription credentials are stored in the UDR (i.e. EPS +
5GS UDR).
Figure A.2-2: Stateless ARPF deployment
# A.3 ARPF deployment options in UDICOM
TS 23.632 [5], defines the Stage 2 architecture, procedures, flows and Network
Function Services for User Data Interworking, Coexistence and Migration
(UDICOM) between the 5G System and EPS (and IMS).
In the context of UDICOM, HSS and UDM are defined as separate NFs interacting
with each other using SBA based interactions over a new NU1 reference point.
However, since the subscription credentials is only stored centralized in one
single place within the system, the UDICOM TS 23.632 [5] defines various
options for the generation of authentication vectors.
Figure A.3-1 shows the ARPF deployment option in the context of UDICOM when
the HSS and the UDM are deployed as stateful NFs and subscription credentials
are stored within the UDM/ARPF.
Figure A.3-1: Stateful ARPF+AuC deployment in UDM according to UDICOM (TS
23.632 [5])
Figure A.3-2 shows the ARPF deployment option in the context of UDICOM when
the HSS and the UDM are deployed as stateless NFs and subscription credentials
are stored within the 5GS-UDR.
Figure A.3-2: Stateless ARPF+AuC deployment in UDM according to UDICOM (TS
23.632 [5])
In these cases (stateful and stateless ARPF+AuC deployment in UDM), the HSS
requests authentication vectors for EPS/IMS/GBA-AKA to the UDM via the new
UDICOM NU1 reference point using Nudm services. The UDM does not only support
the ARPF functionality but also acts as AuC to generate authentication vectors
as defined in TS 33.401 [6], TS 33.402 [7], TS 33.203 [8] and TS 33.220 [9].
Figure A.3-3 shows the ARPF deployment option in the context of UDICOM when
the HSS and the UDM are deployed as stateful NFs and subscription credentials
are stored within the HSS/AuC instead.
Figure A.3-3: Stateful AuC+ARPF deployment in HSS according to UDICOM (TS
23.632 [5])
Figure A.3-4 shows the ARPF deployment option in the context of UDICOM when
the HSS and the UDM are deployed as stateless NFs and subscription credentials
are kept within the EPS-UDR.
Figure A.3-4: Stateless AuC+ARPF deployment in HSS according to UDICOM (TS
23.632 [5])
In these cases (stateful and stateless AuC+ARPF deployment in HSS), the UDM
requests authentication vectors for 5G-AKA or EAP-AKA\' to the HSS via the new
UDICOM NU1 reference point using Nhss services. The HSS does not only support
the AuC functionality but also acts as ARPF to generate authentication vectors
as defined in TS 33.501 [2]. In these cases, the functionality related to the
storage of the Home Network Private Key is always a function provided by the
UDM.
Note: The separation of ARPF from UDM conflicts with TS 33.501 [2], clause
6.2.2.1 and clause 5.8.2, which state respectively, that the ARPF holds the
Home Network Private Key, whereas the SIDF is a service offered by the UDM.
Finally, Figure A.3-5 shows the ARPF deployment option in the context of
UDICOM when the HSS and the UDM are deployed as stateless NFs and subscription
credentials are stored within a common EPS+5GS-UDR.
Figure A.3-5: Stateless ARPF deployment in UDM according to UDICOM (TS 23.632
[5]
In this case, the ARPF is function provided by the UDM while the AuC remains
as a function provided by the HSS. HSS/AuC and UDM/ARPF generates
authentication vectors for their respective domains accessing to the
subscription credentials stored in the common EPS+5GS UDR. The UDICOM NU1
reference point is not used for authentication vector retrieval but it is
still required to fulfil HSS and UDM interworking related to other use cases
(e.g. intersystem mobility).
#