# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains a study on the security aspects of Uncrewed
Aerial Systems (UASs). TS 22.125 [2] contains the service requirements for UAS
while TR 23.754 [3] is studying aspects like the UAS connectivity,
identification and tracking and TR 23.755 [4] studies UAV services and
application layer features. The security study of the present document
provides key issue including security threat and potential requirements
related to the work in these other specifications and develops and analyses
solutions to these key issues. Finally the study provides some conclusions for
potential normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.754: \" Study on supporting Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS)
connectivity, Identification and tracking\".
[4] 3GPP TR 23.755: \"Study on application layer support for Unmanned Aerial
Systems (UAS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.273: \"5G System (5GS) Location Services (LCS)\".
[6] ASTM F3411 19: \"Standard Specification for Remote ID and Tracking\",
http://www.astm.org/cgi-bin/resolver.cgi?F3411.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
The following definitions are adopted from TS 22.125 [2] with Unmanned change
into Uncrewed:
**Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS)**
**UAV controller (UAV-C)**
The following definitions are adopted from TR 23.754 [3] with Unmanned change
into Uncrewed:
**Third Party Authorized Entity (TPAE)**
**Command and Control (C2) Communication**
**CAA (Civil Aviation Administration)-level UAV Identity**
**Networked Remote ID**
**Broadcast Remote ID**
The following definitions are adopted from TR 23.755 [4] with Unmanned change
into Uncrewed:
**UAS Service Supplier (USS)**
**UAS Traffic Management (UTM)**
**Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (UAV)**
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
TPAE Third Party Authorized Entity
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
UAVC UAV Controller
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
USS UAS Service Supplier
UTM UAS Traffic Management
# 4 Overview of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS)
The main objective of 3GPP systems is to facilitate non-3GPP entities UAS
Service Supplier (USS) and/or UAS Traffic Management (UTM), which supply
services to civil aviation authority (CAA), and provide UAS Remote
Identification (Remote ID) services. UAS Remote ID refers to a UAS in flight
provides identification and tracking information that can be received by
regulatory agencies.
_An Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS) is composed of an Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
(UAV) and a UAV controller (UAVC)._
TPAE is the Third Party Authorized Entity which can monitor UAVs, access and
track UAV data, and make controls to UAVs.
A UAV can be controlled by either a UAVC, TPAE, or UTM.
_Clause 4 of TS 23.754 [3] provides some architectural assumptions and
requirements and an overall reference architecture for the supporting UAS._
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: UAS authentication and authorization
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
Each UAS consists of one UAV Controller (i.e. UAVC) and one UAV.
As stated in Architectural Assumptions of TR 23.754 [3], each UAV is assigned
two types of IDs as follows, in addition to UE ID (e.g. SUPI) and Credentials
used for registration in 3GPP networks:
\- Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) level UAV ID assigned by USS/UTM and used
for Remote Identification and Tracking.
\- 3GPP UAV ID assigned by the 3GPP system and used by the 3GPP system to
identify the UAV.
The 3GPP Core Network is aware of the CAA-level UAV ID and the mapping between
the CAA-level UAV ID and the 3GPP UAV ID (see TR 23.754 [3]).
To support Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) regarding connectivity,
identification and tracking, the 3GPP system (e.g. AMF, gNB) should be aware
of these UAV identities and the special nature of a drone, i.e. a potentially
high and fast flying object and whether UAV or UAVC roles are authorized in
the drone domain, i.e. after UAV and UAVC have been successfully authenticated
and authorized, information from the UTM/USS/AF needs to be provided to the
3GPP system providing connectivity. This allows the 3GPP system to set certain
policies. In case of unsuccessful Authentication and Authorization, the 3GPP
system may act and de-register the UE or terminate existing PDU connections.
However, the use case of a drone when not active in UAS operation performing
software updates using 3GPP system needs to be also considered, in which case
deregistering and termination of the existing connections may be not
appropriate.
The 3GPP UAV ID is used by the UAV to access the services provided by 3GPP
systems, e.g. Remote Identification. The UAV is authenticated to prevent
illegal access to the UAS services provided by 3GPP systems. On the other
hand, the 3GPP system should allow authentication of USS/UTM to prevent false
USS/UTM.
Further, the 3GPP system also enables UTM/USS to revoke UAV authorization and
indicates to 3GPP system revoked UAVs/UAVCs.
> NOTE: Authentication and Authorization by USS/UTM to access UAS services
> provided by 3GPP systems applies to both UAV and networked UAVC. Non-
> networked UAVC are not in scope of this KI.
### 5.1.2 Threats
If UAS authentication is not performed, unauthorized UEs/UAVs may access the
UAS services provided by 3GPP and consume resources meant for authorized
UEs/UAVs. It is notable that the unauthorized UEs may be a regular UE or a UAV
with 3GPP ID/credentials. They may be able to access 3GPP networks using 3GPP
credentials, but do not have credentials for access UAS services.
If 5GC would not be notified of UAS authentication result, 5GS may allow
access UAVs in their system that are not authorized.
If the UAS authentication process is not standardized there may be costly
proprietary solutions which may result in potential security risks with
respect to proprietary solutions.
If 3GPP system is not capable to receive revocation of UTM/USS authorization,
UTM/USS might not be able to take appropriate measures to deal with
misbehaving UAVs and they might cause accidents or become attack vectors.
A fake USS/UTM may allow unauthorized UAVs to operate.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
A UAV or networked UAVC shall be authenticated and authorized in addition to
Primary Authentication before being allowed to access UAS services provided by
3GPP systems.
The 3GPP system shall enable UAV or networked UAVC authentication and
authorization by the UTM/USS utilizing the 3GPP system.
The 3GPP system shall enable revocation of UAV or networked UAVC authorization
by the UTM/USS utilizing the 3GPP system.
The 3GPP system shall ensure that the USS/UTM is authorized to provide the
authorization of the UAV or networked UAVC.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Pairing authorization for UAV and UAVC
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
Each UAS consists of one UAV Controller (i.e. UAVC) and one UAV.
It is required in TR 23.754 [3] that
  * 3GPP system enables UTM to associate/pair the UAV and UAVC.
  * Pairing is authorized by the USS/UTM and the result is made known to the PLMN
  * Pairing between UAV and UAVC for the use of their connection may be at least authorized
This key issue discusses the detailed 3GPP security procedure for the pairing
authorization of UAV and UAVC.
### 5.2.2 Threats
If pairing authorization of UAV and UAVC is not performed securely before
establishment of a connection between the UAV and UAVC, an unauthorized UAVC
may be able to communicate with the UAV and perform an unauthorized flight
which could cause tremendous risks to the security of UAS and public safety.
If 3GPP system is not capable to receive revocation of the connectivity
pairing authorization from UTM/USS, then UTM/USS might not be able to take
appropriate measures to deal with misbehaving UAVs and they might cause
accidents or become attack vectors.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
3GPP system shall support enabling authentication and authorization by the
USS/UTM of a UAV and UAVC pairing before enabling a data connection between
the UAV and UAVC
3GPP system shall provide means for the UTM/USS to revoke a UAV and UAVC
pairing authorization in order to close the connection between the UAV and
UAVC.
NOTE: The authorization decision for pairing a UAV and a UAVC is always done
by the USS/UTM. The 3GPP system will support the USS/UTM to enforce that
decision.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: TPAE authentication and authorization
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
TPAE refers to the Third Party Authorized Entity. It has been introduced as
part of the Reference Architecture in TR 23.754 [3], as illustrated in the
figure below.
Figure 5.3.1-1
TPAE is one component of the Remote Identification framework, where TPAE can
monitor UAVs, access and track UAV data, and make controls to UAVs, overruling
UAVC if necessary. TPAE may be treated as a UE, NF, or third party entity,
depending on application scenarios. The access based on 3GPP systems and
interfaces to the 3GPP systems, e.g. so called UAV2, UAV4, and UAV 7 are being
studied in TR 23.754 [3] (UAV2 semantics are outside SA2 study, but UAV
identification information is within the scope).
Since TPAE may take control of UAVs and potentially overrules UAVC, it is
authenticated and authorized differently from a normal UAVC, UAV, or UE.
### 5.3.2 Threats
Without authentication and authorization, potential attackers may hijack a UAV
through 3GPP networks.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
The TPAE shall be authorized and authenticated by 3GPP systems
The TPAE shall be authorized and authenticated by USS/UTM.
NOTE 1: TPAE authorization and authentication is not in scope of the present
document.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: Location information veracity and location tracking
authorization
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
The UAV can report to USS/UTM various types of location information including
absolute positioning, e.g. GNSS coordinates and/or relative positioning, such
as Cell, tracking area based coordinates nearby UAVs at the particular time
instance. The USS/UTM may make decisions based on the reported location
information.
When reporting location information to the USS/UTM via application layer
mechanisms such as Networked Remote ID, a UAV may report false location
information to the USS/UTM which could results in the UTM/USS making an
incorrect decision.
### 5.4.2 Threats
The Location Information that is reported by the UAV to the USS/UTM may be
spoofed and forged by the following ways:
1\. Externally, e.g. false location information derived from spoofed GNSS
transmitter, spoofed neighbour Cell IDs is reported to the USS/UTM.
2\. Internally, e.g. a compromised UAV reports forged Location Information
regardless of received e.g. GNSS signals or neighbour Cell IDs.
3\. Hybrid attack, i.e., both, externally and internally.
USS/UTM may make decisions based on the reported location information. When
UAV or UAV Controller reports false location information to the USS/UTM, UEs
and/or USS/UTM may make decisions that are based on falsified Location
Information. For example, the UAV may deviate from an authorized flight path
(e.g. unnoticed) or prevent authorities to adequately correlate a UAV under
observation with its remote ID information (e.g. UAV visible in an area but
not present in that area based on Remote ID USS information). Such decisions
may lead to costly cyber-physical and/or kinetic attacks.
If an unauthorized entity (e.g. competitor USS/UTM) can obtain UAV location
information from the 3GPP system (e.g. for a list of UAVs in a target
geographic area), the attacker can use that information to mount privacy
attacks on UAV and/or collect sensitive flight information.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
3GPP system shall provide means to mitigate against UAVs or networked UAV
controller location spoofing.
3GPP system shall support to authorize a USS/UTM to request UAV location
information.
## 5.5 Key issue #5: Privacy protection of UAS identities
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
3GPP system will enable UAV and UAV-C to transmit identities and other
potentially sensitive information (e.g. UE capability of the UAV controller,
position, owner identity, owner address, owner contact details, owner
certification, UAV operator identity, UAV operator license, UAV operator
certification, UAV pilot identity, UAV pilot license, UAV pilot certification
and flight plan). The 3GPP system will enable UAV or UAV controller to
preserve the privacy of UAS identities when transmitted over broadcast or
towards USS/UTM.
TR 22.125 [2] in Clause 5.1 General has the following requirements:
> _[R-5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide UTM with the
> identity/identities of a UAS._
>
> _[R-5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send UTM the UAV data
> which can contain: unique identity (this may be a 3GPP identity), UE
> capability of the UAV, make & model, serial number, take-off weight,
> position, owner identity, owner address, owner contact details, owner
> certification, take-off location, mission type, route data, operating
> status._
>
> _[R-5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall enable a UAS to send UTM the UAV
> controller data which can contain: unique identity (this may be a 3GPP
> identity), UE capability of the UAV controller, position, owner identity,
> owner address, owner contact details, owner certification, UAV operator
> identity, UAV operator license, UAV operator certification, UAV pilot
> identity, UAV pilot license, UAV pilot certification and flight plan._
>
> _[R-5.1-007] Based on regulations and security protection, the 3GPP system
> shall enable a UAS to send UTM the identifiers which can be: IMEI, MSISDN,
> or IMSI, or IP address._
>
> _[R-5.1-008] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE in a UAS to send the
> following identifiers to a UTM: IMEI, MSISDN, or IMSI, or IP address_
TS 22.125 [2] in Clause 5.2.2, Decentralized UAS traffic management, has the
following requirement:
_[R-5.2.2-003] The 3GPP system shall enable UAV to preserve the privacy of the
owner of the UAV, UAV pilot, and the UAV operator in its broadcast of identity
information._
TS 22.125 [2] in Clause 5.4, Security, has the following requirement:
> _[R-5.4-005] The 3GPP system shall support confidentiality protection of
> identities related to the UAS and personally identifiable information._
With support of a 3GPP system studied and reported in TR23.754 [3], the
following identities are being defined with respect to UAS Remote
Identification:
CAA-level UAV ID assigned by USS/UTM and used for Remote Identification and
Tracking.
3GPP UAV ID assigned and used by the 3GPP system to identify the UAV
This key issue studies whether security solutions for 3GPP systems are
required to protect the CAA-Level UAV ID, 3GPP UAV ID, and/or other
information (e.g. locations etc.) for privacy.
### 5.5.2 Threats
If an attacker can glean the UAV and UAV-C identities and other information
while transmitted, such attacker can maliciously employ the knowledge of UAV
and UAV-C identities to mount privacy attacks on UAV and UAV-C (e.g. tracking
attack). For example, an attacker may be able to collect and analyse flight
information of a particular UAS operations revealing sensitive business
practices, such as the flight profile of an individual UAS over time (see
FAA\'s proposed rule on Remote Identification of Unmanned Aircraft Systems
[6]).
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide means for mitigating linkability and
trackability attacks on UAV and UAV controller identities during
communications with USS/UTM.
The 3GPP system shall provide means for mitigating linkability and
trackability attacks on UAV and UAV controller identities during C2
communications.
The 3GPP system shall enable UAV and UAV controller to preserve the privacy of
UAS owner/operator/pilot, including associated PII.
## 5.6 Key issue #6: Security protection of information in remote
identification and between UAV/UAVC and UTM/USS
### 5.6.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.754 [3], UAV remote identification (Remote ID) procedure is
discussed. In this procedure, the UAVs send the messages with flight
information (e.g. height, direction, speed, time of flight, etc.) to the
receiving party (i.e. UTM/USS, a TPAE or another UAV). The information may be
sent in broadcast or unicast. Upon receiving the UAV flight information, a
receiving party verifies the validity of the Flight Information and may use
such information for e.g. collision avoidance.
Apart from protecting the Remote ID between UAS and UTM/USS, 3GPP TS 22.125
[2] gives several security-related requirements for protecting other exchanged
information between UAS and UTM/USS (e.g. UE capability of the UAV controller,
position, owner identity, owner address, owner contact details, owner
certification, UAV operator identity, UAV operator license, UAV operator
certification, UAV pilot identity, UAV pilot license, UAV pilot certification
and flight plan) and user identity. TS 22.125 [2] in Clause 5.4 specifics the
security requirement to protect data transport between UAS and UTM
(R-5.4-001), and TS 22.125 [2] in Clause 5.1 has the requirements (R-5.1-002
to R-5.1-004, R-5.1-007 to R-5.1-008 and R-5.1-017) of UAS identity
protection.
To sum up, 3GPP system needs to secure the information exchange (e.g. flight
information, user identity, etc) between UAV/UAVC and the receiving party
(i.e. UTM/USS, TPAE and other UAV) within the scope of 3GPP, this involves the
Remote ID and general information exchanging procedures.
### 5.6.2 Threats
If the messages with flight information are modified or replayed by attackers,
the received party (i.e. a TPAE or UTM/USS) may be spoofed to believe the UAV
appear to perform other than what they actually did. In the worst case, a
collision may happen between different UAVs.
If an attacker can glean and modify the UAV and UAV-C identities and other
information during its transport from the 3GPP system to the UTM/USS entity,
such attacker can maliciously use the knowledge of and the ability to modify
UAV and UAV-C identities to mount attacks on UAV and UAV-C identities\'
confidentiality and integrity (e.g. subscription fraud, impersonation attacks,
and hiding problematic/misbehaving UAS).
An attack on integrity or confidentiality of the information exchanged between
UAV or UAV-C and USS/UTM may lead to catastrophic loss of overall UAS
integrity (e.g. with potential risks to public safety).
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall provide the means for the USS/UTM to transport security
information to the UE to secure communication between UAV and TPAE/UTM/USS.
NOTE: UAS-specific and general exchanged information do not include C2.
## 5.7 Key issue #7: Security of command and control (C2) communication
### 5.7.1 Key issue details
The TS 22.125 [2] describes about the UAS reference model where an UAS is
composed of one UAV controller and one UAV. A UAV can be controlled by a UAV
controller connected via the 3GPP mobile network to perform the desired UAV
operations through the command and control (C2) signalling which is an
application data. Further TR 23.754 [3] clarifies in the architectural
assumptions that Connectivity for Command and control of a UAV may be between
the UAV and, mutually exclusively, an UAV controller (UAV-C), or a Third Party
Authorized Entity (TPAE), or the UAS Service Supplier/UAS Traffic Management
(USS/UTM). Therefore, C2 to a UAV may be either over UAV3 or, UAV4 or UAV9
interface. The Command and control traffic exchanged with UAV over various
interfaces if not protected (Confidentiality, and integrity) will give way for
the attackers to take control of the UAV operations leading to more critical
outcomes such as hijacking of UAVs, tracking of UAVs, potential misoperation
and accidents. The protection of C2 traffic over the UAV radio link alone may
be insufficient since the peer UAV controller may be connected via a different
PLMN or a different access technology, using a different security policy for
User Plane traffic (e.g. with no integrity and/or no confidentiality
protection). In general, the security of the UAV controller connection may be
outside the control of the MNO who provides the service to the UAV.
### 5.7.2 Threats
The lack of C2 communication security between UAV and other parties such as
UAV-C, TPAE and USS/UTM over UAV3, UAV4 and UAV9 may let the attackers to
eavesdrop and control the UAV operations thereby leading to UAV hijack and
misoperations.
As the UAV controller could be connected via a different PLMN or using a
different access technology with a different security policy (e.g. with no
integrity and/or no confidentiality protection) the C2 communication security
with the UAV may be compromised via the UAV controller connection.
### 5.7.3 Potential security requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide means for the USS/UTM to transport security
information to the UE to secure C2 Communication as part of the UAS Security.
NOTE: The method and security information used to establish C2 security and
how to apply C2 Security is up to USS/UTM and is outside the scope of 3GPP.
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
Solutions **KI#1** **KI#2** **KI#3** **KI#4** **KI#5** **KI#6** **KI#7**
* * *
#1: UAS authentication and authorization x  
#2: UAS authentication and authorization using User Plane x  
#3: UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM with AMF as authenticator
x  
#4: UAV authentication and authorization using EAP-based PDU secondary
authentication x  
#5: UAV authentication and authorization using API-based PDU secondary
authentication x x x x  
#6: Obtaining UAV location information from the PLMN x  
#7: UAS authentication, authorization and security aspects x x  
#8: Using 5G location result for location information verification x  
#9: UAS enabled authentication x  
#10: Authentication and authorization of UAVs x  
#11: UAV and UAVC pairing authorization through bound IDs x  
#12: UAV location privacy protection x x x  
#13: Authorization of UAV/UAVC when connected to EPS x x  
#14: Authorization of UAV/UAVC pairing when connected to 5GS x  
#15: UAV and UAV-C Pairing Authorization and Security Aspects x x  
#16: Preventing malicious revocation from unauthorized UTM/USS x
## 6.1 Solution #1: UAS authentication and authorization
### 6.1.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the key issue #1.
This solution assumes each UAV or UAVC is provisioned with a PLMN UE ID (SUPI)
and the corresponding credential so that it can be authenticated (primary
authentication) by the PLMN as a normal UE. In addition, UAV or UAVC is
provisioned with a UAS ID and corresponding credentials to perform UAS
authentication and authorization (UAA) with USS/UTM.
The UAA is mandatory for UAA or UAVC and is based on EAP framework, where AMF
is taking the role of the transparent Authenticator.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
#### 6.1.2.1 Registration
The call flow of this solution is shown in the figure below.
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: UAA procedure
1\. UAV (or UAVC) sends registration request to AMF. It may indicate that this
is a registration for UAS.
NOTE 1: A new IE or an extension of an existing IE can be used to indicate UAA
is requested. The IE can be defined in stage 3 and in coordination with CT.
2\. AMF initiates Primary authentication as a normal UE
3\. After successful Primary authentication, AMF checks whether UAV (or UAVC)
requires UAA. This may be based on the subscription information retrieved from
UDM in step 2
4\. AMF returns a Registration Accept message to the UAV and indicates that
UAA is pending.
5\. UAA starts with EAP message exchanges.
a. AMF may optionally request UAS ID from UE.
b. UAV (or UAVC) responses with UAS ID. It may indicate whether this is a UAV
or UAVC.
c. AMF sends UAA requests to UFES (as defined in TR 23.754 [3]) with UAS-ID
and UAV or UAVC indicator in the EAP message. In addition, UAA request
contains GPSI for USS/UTM to identify the UAV. GPSI is bound to UAS-ID. UFES
locates the corresponding USS and forwards the UAA requests to it.
d. USS/UTM response with EAP messages to AMF through UFES accordingly
e. EAP messages may continue based on the EAP method used.
f. ...
Note 2: The EAP authentication method used by UTM is out of scope of 3GPP
6\. Based on the EAP authentication outcome, USS/UTM sends the results to AMF
through UFES. If successful, USS/UTM sends the EAP-Success message, together
with UAV/UAVC\'s GPSI and UAS-ID that can uniquely identity the UAV/UAVC.
7\. AMF stores the results, together with SUPI (converted from GPSI), UAS-ID,
and UAV/UAVC indicator
8\. AMF triggers the UE Configuration Update procedure. The message AMF sent
to UE includes the UAS-ID and may include an indication it is for a UAV (or
UAVC), if needed.
#### 6.1.2.2 Revocation
USS/UTM may trigger revocation of UAA at any time. The call flow is shown in
the figure 6.1.2.2-1.
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: UAA revocation procedure
1\. The USS/UTM sends the UAA revocation request to AMF through UFES to revoke
the UAS service for a UAV. The UAV is identified by the GPSI and UAS-ID in the
UAA revocation Request.
NOTE: UFES is an NF interfacing USS/UTM and it can locate AMF serving the UAV.
2\. The AMF may inform UAV with the UAA revocation message.
3\. The AMF responses USS that the UAV\'s authentication and authorization is
revoked.
4\. The network may deregister the UAV if needed, as per current procedure.
### 6.1.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue #1 (the fourth requirement for the fake
USS/UTM has not been addressed).
In this solution, each UAV is assumed to be provisioned with UE ID (i.e. SUPI
by PLMN) as well as UAS ID (by USS/UTM), together with corresponding
credentials for authentication. The UAS authentication and authorization (UAA)
with USS/UTM is performed after UAV is authenticated with the network (using
UE ID).
This solution supports multiple UAA methods to meet potential different
authentication requirements from USS/UTM. EAP framework can be used to carry
the UAA messages.
This solution supports revocation triggered by USS/UTM at any time.
## 6.2 Solution #2: UAS authentication and authorization using User Plane
### 6.2.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the key issue #1. It introduces a new 3GPP Application
Function placed in user-plane (UAS AF) which validates that the UAV/networked-
UAVC (networked-UAVC is the UAVC connected via 3GPP) has a valid UAV
subscription and includes relevant UAV subscription information and UAV
application information to be sent to the USS/UTM to support the USS/UTM for
the authentication and authorization of the UAV/networked-UAVC. Throughout
this key issue, unless otherwise specified, \"UAVC\" is used for \"networked-
UAVC\".
This solution assumes that each UAV or UAVC is provisioned with a PLMN UE ID
and the corresponding credentials to be used in primary authentication by the
PLMN as a normal UE. Also, the UEs are provisioned with a CAA level ID and
corresponding credentials to be used in UAS authentication and authorization
(UAA) by USS/UTM. The credentials used in UAS A&A and A&A method are out of
3GPP scope.
The solution allows the execution of A&A procedure between UAV and USS/UTM
where 3GPP provides communication between UAV and USS/UTM. For this
communication, first the UAV needs to execute primary authentication, so the
UAV and 3GPP execute mutual authentication. Then when the UAV wants to get UAV
related service, 3GPP system allows the UAV to communicate with the UAS AF
located in the inside of the operator network. The UAS AF and the USS/UTM
communicates via NEF framework which requires mutual authentication. As a
result, there is a hop-by-hop mutual authentication between UAV and USS/UTM
during UUAA procedure. The A&A protocol is out of 3GPP scope and this protocol
may provide additional mutual authentication between UAV and USS/UTM using
their credentials which are out of 3GPP scope.
Also, this solution includes an authorization revocation mechanism that allows
the authorization revocation triggered by USS/UTM.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
#### 6.2.2.0 General
The authentication and authorization procedures for 5GS and EPS are presented
in clause 6.2.2.1 and 6.2.2.2, respectively.
#### 6.2.2.1 Procedure for 5GS
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: UAV Authentication and Authorization procedure for 5GS
1\. Primary authentication is performed.
2\. A PDU session is established for the UE\'s A&A request. The connection is
allowed only between UAV/UAVC and UAS AF.
NOTE 1: The default policy for the PDU session on activation is to block any
traffic from the UE except to the UAS AF.
NOTE 2: UAV/UAVC may want to connect to a DNN other than USS/UTM for some
needs such as software updates. These type of PDU session request are out of
this solution\'s scope.
3\. UAV/ UAVC sends the request for authentication and authorization to the
UAS AF over the user plane, e.g. including UAV/UAVC identity, USS/UTM identity
(if available), and application level information, transparent to 3GPP and out
of 3GPP scope, to be used by the USS/UTM when authenticating the UAV.
4\. The UAS AF gets the relevant subscription information from PCF or UDM with
support from existing BSF functionality via SBA interfaces.
5\. UAS AF checks if the UAV has a valid aerial subscription based on the
subscription information received from PCF or UDM. The UAS-AF learns the 3GPP
UAV ID/GPSI from the BSF lookup and adds it to the CAA-Level UAV-ID and
application level information that is forwarded to the USS/UTM.
NOTE 3: Correlation of the 3GPP UAV ID and CAA-Level UAV-ID is performed by
the USS/UTM.
If the check is successful, the UAS AF determines the USS/UTM serving the
UAV/UAVC based on the USS/UTM identity provided in the request in Step 3 and
the predefined list stored in UAS AF with valid USS/UTM identities including
URLs to corresponding requests. If the requested identity is not in the list,
the request from the UAV will be rejected. Otherwise, UAS AF sends A&A request
towards the UTM/USS. The UAS AF provides 3GPP identities/information for the
UAV including the GPSI and the CAA-Level UAV ID and any application level
information the UAV has provided to the 3GPP system to the USS/UTM needed for
further interaction between USS/UTM and 5GS regarding the PDU session. The
request can contain an indication about the used mobile operator and 3GPP
UAV/UAVC identity. Additionally, it forwards also the UAV/UAVC specific
information received in the UAS A&A request. For the communication between UAS
AF and USS/UTM, the NEF or the Common API framework (CAPIF) is used.
6\. An authentication and authorization procedure is executed between UAV/UAVC
and USS/UTM. UAS AF relays the messages in this A&A procedure providing
API\'s, which use well-known web security mechanisms such as HTTPS, for the
UAV-application and USS/UTM. USS/UTM considers the combined information from
the UAV/UAVC and from the mobile network operator of the UAV/UAVC while
performing the procedure. Note that if the information sent to the USS/UTM
before this step is enough for the authentication & authorization procedure,
there may be no need for extra message exchange between the UAV/UAVC and
USS/UTM.
NOTE 4: The credentials and the method used in the UAS AA are out of 3GPP
scope.
7\. USS/UTM sends UAS A&A result to UAS AF.
> If the A&A result is successful, then USS/UTM may provide application
> specific information to be used for secure communication establishment
> between UAV and UTM/USS. This information is transparent to the network and
> the content is out of 3GPP scope. The network relays this information from
> the UTM/USS to the UAV.
>
> If the A&A is unsuccessful, USS/UTM may inform the UAS AF about the action
> to take e.g. whether the PDU session established in Step 2 will be
> terminated.
8\. The UAS AF sends the response to the UAV.
9\. If the result of the A&A in Step 6 is successful, the UAS AF informs the
SMF to modify the PDU session established in Step 2 such that the UAV/UAVC can
communicate to the USS/UTM.
> If A&A is not successful in Step 6, the UAS AF may inform the SMF to
> terminate the PDU session established in Step 2 according to the response
> from USS/UTM in Step 7.
NOTE 5: This solution does not enable/support authorization of UAV and UAVC
pairing.
#### 6.2.2.2 Procedure for EPS
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: UAV Authentication and Authorization procedure for EPS
1\. Attach and a PDN connection activation procedures are performed. As the
UAV has a subscription indicating UAV capability the PCRF generates a PCC rule
indicating UAV application and header enrichment policy.
2\. UAV sends UAS A&A request to the UAS AF.
3\. PGW detects the UAV application traffic and adds UAV subscription
information.
NOTE: In case of end-to-end security between UAV and UAS AF, to enable the PGW
to add UAV subscription information, a HTTP(S) proxy functionality in the PGW
is integrated under the assumption that TLS is used for end-to-end security.
The certificate of the UAS-AF needs to be provisioned to the PGW. The PGW
terminates TLS for HTTPS-requests towards to the UAS-AF and then apply header-
enrichment.
4\. UAS AF checks if the UAV has a valid aerial subscription based on the
subscription information received from the PGW.
> If the check is successful, the UAS AF based on the UTM/USS identity, looks
> up the corresponding UTM/USS URL and triggers a request towards the UTM/USS.
> If the check is unsuccessful a response is sent to the UAV rejecting the
> request. The UAS AF can include information to the UTM/USS needed for
> further interaction between UTM/USS using network APIs and EPS regarding the
> PDU session.
5\. UTM/USS performs authentication and authorization steps which are
transparent to the network. In this communication, the UAS AF and PGW relay
the traffic between UAV and UTM/USS.
6\. If the A&A in step 5 is successful, UTM/USS triggers a accept response to
UAS AF acknowledging the request including an application specific information
such as a security context to be used in the establishment of secure
connection between UAV and UTM/USS. The transfer of this information is
transparent to the network and the content of it is out of 3GPP scope.
If the A&A is un-successful, a response is sent to the UAV rejecting the
request.
7\. The UAS AF sends the response to the UAV.
8\. UAV triggers a set-up of a secure connection to UTM/USS e.g. using the
information received in step 7.
#### 6.2.2.3 Authorization revocation mechanism
When the USS/UTM wants to trigger authorization revocation, it calls the NEF
API (AsSessionWithQoS) used to activate, modify, and revoke policies for
specific data flows on a specific PDU-session/PDN-connection. UAS AF provides
related information needed by the USS/UTM to call that API, during the
authentication and authorization procedure.
During the authentication and authorization procedure, UAS AF provides the UE-
IP of the UAV to the USS/UTM. After successful authentication and
authorization by the USS/UTM, the USS/UTM calls AsSessionWithQoS to activate
the authorized policies for the PDU-session and then waits for a notification
on that they have been successfully enforced. Then the USS/UTM sends the A&A
result back to the UAS-AF which will forward the result to the UAV.
### 6.2.3 Solution evaluation
This solution fully addresses key issue #1 having no effect on the current NAS
procedures and UAV UE proposing a UP solution.
This solution provides a user plane solution while TR 23.754 [3] concludes on
using control plane based UUAA procedures.
This solution requires a new function (UAS AF) that requires updates on AMF
and PCF for the subscription information requests.
It uses web-based interface for the communication between UAS AF and USS/ UTM.
## 6.3 Solution #3: UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM during
Registration
### 6.3.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key Issue#1 \"UAS Authentication and Authorization\".
This solution is applicable to 5GS and to both UAV and networked UAV-C.
This solution enables an authentication and authorization (A&A) with a USS/UTM
during registration after primary authentication successful completion in a
procedure similar to Network Slice Specific Authentication and Authorization
(NSSAA). An API-based authentication procedure is triggered by AMF following a
Registration procedure based on the UE subscription and capabilities
information. The procedure for authentication and authorization (A&A) by the
USS/UTM is performed using non-3GPP credentials (e.g. CAA-level UAV ID,
certificate). The AMF forwards transparently the authentication messages
between the UAV and the USS/UTM. The solution proposes an A&A Proxy function
to be used for A&A communication with USS/UTM. This A&A Proxy function may be
integrated in the UAS-NF as defined in TR 23.754 [3] clause 8.
The USS/UTM may initiate UAV authorization revocation at any time after
successful completion of authorization procedure.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
#### 6.3.2.1 UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM
The procedure for UAV Authentication and Authorization by USS/UTM during
registration, is depicted in Figure 6.3.2.1-1. The same procedure may be used
with a networked UAV-C.
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: Procedure for UAV authentication and authorization with
USS/UTM during registration
**Pre-condition: UAV is configured with a long-term UAV ID (e.g. serial
number, CAA registration id) and credentials used for authentication by
USS/UTM. The UAV ID and credentials are obtained by means outside of 3GPP
scope**
1\. The UE sends a Registration Request message including its UE id, a UAV id
and UAV communications capabilities. UE may provide a USS/UTM address if
available.
NOTE 1: If the UAV id is subject to privacy protection, existing partial
cyphering mechanisms may be used to protect it during initial Registration
transmission.
2\. If the UE is not already authenticated by the network, a primary
authentication procedure is performed.
3\. The AMF determines whether a UAV A&A by USS/UTM is required based on:
\- Subscription information (i.e., whether the UE is authorized for UAS
operations).
\- If the UAV is undergoing A&A by USS/UTM procedure or UAV has previously
performed such procedure successfully and the authorization was allowed and
still valid.
4\. AMF sends in the Registration Accept message a pending UAV A&A indication.
UE refrains from establishing PDU Session dedicated to UAS communications
until the successful completion of the following A&A steps. The Registration
Accept message may include some other configuration information such as
allowed UAS communication modes/types (e.g. network assisted, direct). The UE
sends a Registration Complete if this is an initial Registration.
5\. AMF triggers an API-based UAV A&A by USS/UTM procedure. UE is
authenticated using UAV credentials (e.g. CAA-level UAV ID, certificate).
During the procedure, the AMF provides the USS/UTM with a 3GPP UAV ID (e.g.
GPSI as External id) and AMF may receive a CAA-level UAV id (e.g. a temporary
Session id) from USS/UTM. The AMF stores the CAA-level UAV id in the UE
context. The AMF may use the CAA-level UAV id to determine whether to perform
UAV A&A as described in step 2. The AMF provides the CAA-level UAV id and to
the UE in the following step.
NOTE 2: It is assumed that the AMF may communicate with the USS/UTM using an
A&A proxy function (similar to NSSAAF). This proxy function provides USS/UTM
discovery/address resolution, authentication messages routing and protocol
translation capabilities. Authentication of USS/UTM is supported by the A&A
proxy by means of provisioned aviation domain certificates. USS/UTM address
may be obtained from a trusted resolution function that can resolve the
USS/UTM address from the CAA-level UAV ID (if USS/UTM address was not provided
by the UE in step 1).
6\. Upon successful UAV A&A by USS/UTM, AMF initiates the UE Configuration
Update procedure to deliver authorized UAS Configuration parameters to the UE.
The UAS Configuration may include the following parameters to be used for UAS
communication setup: the CAA-level UAV ID, S-NSSAI/DNN. The CAA-level UAV ID
is used for remote or broadcast Remote ID.
7\. The UE establishes a PDU Session using authorized UAS parameters as
provided in step 6 (e.g. CAA-level UAV ID).
8\. The UE receives a PDU Session Establishment Accept message authorizing UAS
communications.
9\. The UE exchanges UAS traffic with peer UAV-C.
NOTE 3: PDU Session establishment and UAS communications steps above may be
subject to additional pairing with UAV-C authorization. Additional details for
pairing authorization are assumed to be covered in solutions for KI#2.
#### 6.3.2.2 USS/UTM triggered UAV authorization revocation
The procedure for UAV authorization revocation by USS/UTM is depicted in
Figure 6.3.2.2-1.
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Procedure for USS/UTM triggered UAV authorization revocation
Pre-condition: UAV has been previously authorized by USS/UTM according to
procedure 6.3.2.1.
1\. The USS/UTM determines that the UAV authorization is to be revoked.
2\. The USS/UTM sends an Authorization revocation request to the A&A Proxy
providing the 3GPP UAV ID of the target UAV.
3\. The Proxy A&A determines the AMF serving the UAV by requesting UDM
providing the 3GPP UAV ID and forwards the request to the AMF.
4\. The AMF checks if there are any active PDU session used for UAS
communications (used with USS/UTM and/or UAV-C).
5\. [Conditional] If above check is positive, the AMF initiates a PDU session
release procedure for all applicable PDU sessions.
6\. The AMF initiates a UCU procedure to revoke authorization information that
was stored in the UE based on procedure 6.3.2.1 or initiate a DeRegistration
procedure indicating the cause of deregistration.
7\. The AMF sends an Authorization revocation response to the A&A Proxy
confirming revocation of UAV authorization.
8\. The A&A Proxy forwards the Authorization revocation response to the
USS/UTM providing the 3GPP UAV ID and CAA-level UAV ID confirming revocation
of authorization for the specified UAV.
### 6.3.3 Solution evaluation
This solution is aligned with TR 23.754 [3] conclusions for UAV authentication
and authorization by USS/UTM (UUAA) during Registration, including the usage
of a generic (API based) procedure using a UAS NF.
This solution fully addresses the requirements of Key Issue #1:
\- The solution uses a generic (i.e., API based) procedure for UUAA during
Registration via a Proxy A&A (UAS NF). The UE includes its CAA-level UAV ID to
register for UAS services. After a successful primary authentication, the AMF
triggers a UUAA if the UE has a valid Aerial subscription and if there is no
UUAA ongoing or a valid result from a successful prior UUAA run. The AMF
triggers UUAA after sending a Registration Accept message indicating a pending
UUAA. The authentication method and content of authentication message used for
UUAA are not in 3GPP scope.
\- The solution enables the revocation of UAV authorization by the USS/UTM.
The revocation request is received by the UAS NF which notifies the AMF. AMF
may trigger a PDU Session release for the relevant PDU Sessions (used for
communication USS/UTM and/or for C2 communications) and/or a DeRegistration
procedure.
\- Authentication of USS/UTM is handled by the Proxy A&A function by means of
provisioned aviation domain certificates. USS/UTM address may be obtained from
UE or from a trusted resolution function which provides a USS/UTM address
based on a CAA-level UAV ID.
API based procedure introduces a new mechanism compared to existing EAP
framework.
NOTE 1: Usage of API based is used to address an explicit requirement from the
UTM community
NOTE 2: How and whether to protect the transparent containers used for UAV-USS
communication during UUAA will be determined during the normative phase.
NOTE 3: IETF/3GPP protocols are readily available for EAP based mechanism to
protect the transparent containers.
## 6.4 Solution #4: UAV authentication and authorization using EAP-based PDU
secondary authentication
### 6.4.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key Issue#1 \"UAS Authentication and Authorization\".
This solution is applicable to 5GS and EPS for both UAV and networked UAV-C.
This solution enables a secondary authentication with a USS/UTM, reusing
existing mechanisms defined for the PDU secondary authentication by an
external DN-AAA procedure. An EAP-based secondary authentication is triggered
by SMF during a PDU Session establishment procedure based on the UE
subscription information and local policies. The authentication and
authorization (A&A) by the USS/UTM procedure is performed using non-3GPP
credentials (e.g. CAA-level UAV ID, certificate). The SMF acts as the EAP
authenticator while the USS/UTM acts as the DN-AAA server. The same procedure
can be supported in EPC by UE providing the UAV ID in a PCO and with the PGWc
enhanced to support PDU secondary authentication by a DN-AAA feature (as per
solutions in TR 23.754 [3]).
NOTE 1: Support for equivalent to PDU Secondary authentication by DN-AAA in
EPS is not covered in this solution.
NOTE 2: For simplicity, only the non-roaming case is represented in this
solution. Home Routed scenario is also supported using similar principles as
for the PDU secondary authentication by external DN-AAA (i.e., V-SMF acting as
a proxy for H-SMF acting as the authenticator).
The USS/UTM may initiate UAV authorization revocation at any time after
successful completion of authorization procedure.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
#### 6.4.2.1 UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM
The procedure for UAV A&A by USS/UTM based on PDU secondary authentication is
depicted in Figure 6.4.2.1-1. The same procedure may be used with a networked
UAV-C.
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Procedure for UAV authentication and authorization with
USS/UTM PDU Session establishment
0\. The UE has successfully completed a primary authentication and is
registered with the network.
1\. UE sends a PDU session establishment request message that may include the
following parameters: a long-term UAV ID (CAA-level UAV ID) that is
communicated to the USS/UTM. The UE may also provide a USS/UTM address. AMF
sends corresponding request to SMF.
NOTE 1: It is assumed the UE has obtained prior to this procedure the CAA-
level UAV ID from a CAA and has been configured with a USS/UTM address by
means outside of 3GPP scope
2\. The SMF determines whether the UE is allowed for UAS operations based on
subscription information and local policies.
3\. The SMF triggers an EAP-based authentication procedure towards the
USS/UTM. SMF resolves the address of the USS/UTM based on provided CAA-level
UAV ID or USS/UTM address (if provided). During the procedure, the SMF
provides the USS/UTM with a 3GPP UAV ID (e.g. GPSI as External id) and
receives from the USS/UTM a new assigned CAA-level UAV ID (e.g. a temporary
Session id) upon successful authentication and authorization.
NOTE 2: Details of the authentication of the USS/UTM (or its address provided
by the UE) by the network are not provided by this solution.
4\. Upon successful authorization by USS/UTM, the SMF sends a PDU session
establishment accept message that includes the new CAA-level UAV ID. The SMF
provides the USS/UTM with IP address allocated for the PDU Session as
specified for PDU secondary authentication by an external DN-AAA procedure (as
per TS 23.502 clause 4.3.2.3).The SMF maintains the session with the USS/UTM
for further updates of the PDU session that may be triggered by the USS/UTM
(e.g. UAV authorization revocation triggered by USS/UTM as described in clause
6.3.2.2).
5\. The UE may additionally establish a separate PDU Session dedicated for UAS
communications. A separate PDU session is necessary if a separate DNN from the
one used to communicate with USS/UTM is used for communication with a UAV-C
(e.g. while the first PDU session is being used for network Remote ID and
tracking functionality). The UE provides the CAA-level UAV ID obtained from
successful authorization by USS/UTM.
6\. The UE receives a PDU Session Establishment Accept message authorizing UAS
communications.
NOTE 3: Additional details for pairing authorization performed over first or
second PDU Session are assumed to be covered in solutions for KI#2
7\. The UE exchanges UAS traffic with peer UAV-C.
#### 6.4.2.2 USS/UTM triggered UAV authorization revocation
Pre-condition: UAV has been previously authorized by USS/UTM according to
procedure 6.4.2.1. The SMF serving the UAV for UAS communications is
maintaining a session with the USS/UTM.
The procedure for USS/UTM triggered authorization revocation is similar to
authorization revocation by DN-AAA server for a PDU session subject to
secondary authentication and authorization by a DN-AAA server.
The USS/UTM may decide to revoke the authorization for a PDU session used for
UAS communications. The USS/UTM sends an authorization revocation request
message to the SMF providing the 3GPP UAV ID and the IP address of the UE
allocated to the PDU session.
The SMF releases the PDU session and sends an authorization revocation
response to the USS/UTM message providing the 3GPP UAV ID and CAA level UAV ID
for the specified UAV.
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
This solution has not been evaluated.
## 6.5 Solution #5: UAV authentication and authorization and pairing
authorization using API-based PDU secondary authentication
### 6.5.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the following key issues:
\- Key Issue#1 \"UAS Authentication and Authorization\".
\- Key Issue#2 \"Pairing authorization for UAV and UAVC\".
\- Key Issue#6 \"Security protection of information in remote identification
and between UAV/UAVC and UTM/USS\".
\- Key Issue#7 \"Security of command and control (C2) communication\".
This solution is applicable to 5GS and EPS for both UAV and networked UAV-C.
This solution enables a secondary authentication with a USS/UTM reusing the
high-level procedure defined for the PDU secondary authentication by an
external DN-AAA. An API-based secondary authentication is triggered by SMF
using a Proxy A&A function during a PDU Session establishment procedure, based
on the UE subscription information and local policies. This Proxy A&A function
may be integrated in the UAS-NF as defined in TR 23.754 [3] clause 8. The
authentication and authorization (A&A) by the USS/UTM procedure is performed
using non-3GPP credentials (e.g. CAA-level UAV ID, certificate). Such an API
based authentication enhancement is proposed to provide a broader support for
DN-AAA such as USS/UTM that may not support EAP/Diameter authentication
protocol.
NOTE: For simplicity, only the non-roaming case is represented in this
solution. Home Routed scenario is also supported using similar principles as
for the PDU secondary authentication by external DN-AAA (i.e., V-SMF acting as
a proxy for H-SMF acting as the authenticator).
The USS/UTM may initiate UAV authorization revocation at any time after
successful completion of authorization procedure.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
#### 6.5.2.1 UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM
The procedure for UAV A&A by UTM using API-based PDU secondary authentication
is depicted in Figure 6.5.2.1-1. The same procedure may be used with a
networked UAV-C.
Figure 6.5.2.1-1: Procedure for UAV authentication and authorization with
USS/UTM during PDU session establishment (API-based authentication)
0\. The UE has successfully completed a primary authentication and is
registered with the network.
1\. UE sends a PDU session establishment request message that may include the
following parameters: a long-term UAV ID (CAA-level UAV ID), a DNN/S-NSSAI for
communicating with USS/UTM. The UE may also provide a USS/UTM address. AMF
selects SMF based on UE\'s subscription information and DNN/S-NSSAI values.
S-NSSAI/DNN may be specifically used for UAS operations with well-known values
or default values configured in the UE by the network. AMF sends corresponding
request to SMF.
NOTE 1: It is assumed the UE has obtained prior to this procedure the CAA-
level UAV ID from a CAA and has been configured with a USS/UTM address by
means outside of 3GPP scope
2\. The SMF determines whether the UE is allowed for UAS operations based on
subscription information and local policies.
3\. The SMF triggers an API-based authentication procedure towards the
USS/UTM. The SMF communicates with the USS/UTM via a Proxy A&A function (e.g.
NEF) that provides an authentication API functionality. SMF or the Proxy A&A
is responsible for resolving the address of the USS/UTM based on provided CAA-
level UAV ID or USS/UTM address (if provided). The Proxy A&A function may
authenticate USS/UTM using provisioned aviation domain certificates. The
USS/UTM address may be obtained from a trusted resolution function that
resolves the USS/UTM address based on the UE provided CAA Level UAV ID (if
USS/UTM address was not provided by UE in step 1). During the procedure, the
SMF/Proxy A&A provides the USS/UTM with a 3GPP UAV ID (e.g. GPSI as an
External id) and receives from the USS/UTM a new assigned CAA-level UAV ID and
authorization token and/or key material upon successful authentication and
authorization. Multiple round-trips may be exchanged between the UAV and
USS/UTM via SMF/Proxy A&A based on the authentication method supported by
USS/UTM. During this procedure, the Proxy A&A obtains information about UAV
connectivity (e.g. serving SMF ID, PDU Session ID, UAV IP address) to enable
further updates of the PDU session that may be triggered by the USS/UTM (e.g.
UAV authorization revocation triggered by USS/UTM as described in clause
6.5.2.2).
NOTE 2: How the token and/or key material is generated by the USS/UTM is
outside the scope of 3GPP. The USS/UTM can for example bind the token/key
material to both 3GPP UAV ID and CAA UAV level ID.
4\. Upon successful authorization by USS/UTM, the SMF sends a PDU session
establishment accept message that includes the new CAA-level UAV ID and
authorization token and/or key material from USS/UTM.
5\. The UE may additionally establish a separate PDU Session dedicated for UAS
communications or modify/reuse existing PDU Session used for UAV A&A with
USS/UTM. A separate PDU session is necessary if a separate DNN from the one
used to communicate with USS/UTM is used for communication with a UAV-C (e.g.
while the first PDU session is being used from network Remote ID
functionality). The UE provides the CAA-level UAV ID obtained following the
successful authorization by USS/UTM. If a UAV-C identity is known to the UAV,
it may provide it during the procedure (i.e., PDU Session establishment or
modification) to request pairing authorization from USS/UTM. USS/UTM notifies
of pairing authorization outcome (e.g. with authorized UAV-C IP address) to
the SMF (e.g. via Proxy A&A function/UAS-NF). SMF performs the configuration
of the PDU Session accordingly (e.g. ACL for enforcement of pairing with UAV-C
authorization).
NOTE 3: If the UAV-C identity is not known to the UAV, then it is expected
that the pairing may be initiated by the peer UAV-C. The UAV may be informed
of pairing authorization during a network triggered PDU Session modification
triggered when USS/UTM notifies the SMF of the pairing authorization outcome
and/or by application layer signalling between USS/UTM and UAV (outside of
3GPP scope).
6\. The UE receives a PDU Session Establishment Accept message authorizing UAS
communications. The UE may receive a new CAA-level UAV ID and optionally key
material from the USS/UTM as part of a successful pairing authorization. The
security parameters above (token and/or key material) when provided by the
USS/UTM to the UAV are transported in transparent containers (i.e., not
processed by the intermediate entities).
7\. The UE establishes a secure application layer communication with the
USS/UTM using the authorization token and/or key material obtained previously
to further obtain UAS communication configuration from USS/UTM or perform
network Remote ID reporting. The USS/UTM checks the validity of the presented
authorization token.
NOTE 4: The secure application layer communication between the UAV and USS/UTM
is outside of the scope of 3GPP.
8\. The UE exchanges UAS traffic with peer UAV-C. The UAV and UAV-C may setup
a secure connection based on key material received from USS/UTM as described
in above steps.
#### 6.5.2.2 UAV authorization revocation
The procedure for UAV authorization revocation by USS/UTM is depicted in
Figure 6.5.2.2-1.
Figure 6.5.2.2-1: Procedure for USS/UTM triggered UAV authorization revocation
Pre-condition: UAV has been previously authorized by USS/UTM according to
procedure 6.5.2.1.
1\. The USS/UTM determines that the UAV authorization is to be revoked.
2\. The USS/UTM sends an Authorization revocation request to the A&A Proxy
providing the 3GPP UAV ID and IP address of the PDU session allocated for the
target UAV.
3\. The Proxy A&A determines the SMF serving the UAV based on information
maintained from procedure 6.5.2.1 and forwards the request to the SMF.
4\. The SMF initiates a PDU session release procedure for the applicable PDU
sessions.
7\. The SMF sends an Authorization revocation response to the A&A Proxy
confirming revocation of UAV authorization.
8\. The A&A Proxy forwards the Authorization revocation response to the
USS/UTM providing the 3GPP UAV ID and CAA-level UAV ID confirming revocation
of authorization for the specified UAV.
### 6.5.3 Solution evaluation
This solution is aligned with TR 23.754 [3] conclusions for UUAA and pairing
authorization using a PDU Session establishment/modification procedure,
including the usage of a generic (API based) procedure via a UAS NF.
This solution fully addresses all requirements of Key Issue #1:
\- The solution uses a generic (i.e., API based) procedure for secondary
authentication of UAV by USS/UTM during PDU Session establishment (i.e., in
addition to primary authentication). The UE provides its CAA-level UAV ID in
the PDU Session establishment request to indicate it wants to access UAS
services. The SMF triggers UUAA via a Proxy A&A (UAS NF), if the UE has a
valid Aerial subscription. The authentication method and authentication
messages content used during UUAA are in not in 3GPP scope.
\- The solution enables the revocation of UAV authorization by the USS/UTM
function via the UAS NF. The revocation may trigger a corresponding PDU
Session release.
\- Authentication of USS/UTM is handled by the Proxy A&A function by means of
provisioned aviation domain certificates. USS/UTM address may be obtained from
the UE or from a trusted resolution function which provides a USS/UTM address
based on a CAA-level UAV ID.
This solution fully addresses all requirements of Key Issue #2:
\- The solution enables UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization by USS/UTM. The
pairing authorization is requested from USS/UTM during a PDU Session
establishment/modification procedure. When pairing authorization is granted by
USS/UTM, the SMF configures the PDU Session to allow C2 communication based on
UAV-C peer connectivity authorization information provided by USS/UTM.
\- Revocation of pairing follows similar principles as for UAV authorization
revocation.
This solution fully addresses all requirements of Key Issue #6:
\- The solution enables the transport of security information (e.g. token, key
material) from the USS/UTM to the UE to secure communications between UAV and
USS/UTM. The transport of the security information is enabled during a PDU
Session establishment procedure (with UUAA). The content of the security
information is not in 3GPP scope.
This solution fully addresses all requirements of Key Issue #7:
\- The solution enables the transport of security information (token, key
material) from the USS/UTM to the UE to secure C2 communications with UAV-C or
USS/UTM. The transport of the security information is enabled during a PDU
Session establishment/modification procedure (with UUAA and/or pairing
authorization). The content of the security information is not in 3GPP scope.
API based procedure introduces a new mechanism compared to existing EAP
framework.
NOTE 1: Usage of API based is used to address an explicit requirement from the
UTM community.
NOTE 2: How and whether to protect the transparent containers used for UAV-USS
communication during UUAA will be determined during the normative phase.
NOTE 3: IETF/3GPP protocols are readily available for EAP based mechanism to
protect the transparent containers.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Obtaining UAV location information from the PLMN
### 6.6.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key issue #4: Location Information veracity.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
The solution proposes to use the currently supported location service to
provide network-based location information to the USS/UTM.
Figure 6.6.2-1: Obtaining UAV location information from the PLMN
Step 1-3 shows the procedure for the UTM/USS to obtain a network-based
location for the UAV.
1\. The USS/UTM sends the location request to UFES to request the UAV location
from network. The USS/UTM includes the relevant identity of the UAV when the
USS/UTM is requesting location information about an individual UE or a
geographic area when trying to find the information of all UAVs in an area.
2\. UFES uses the provided identity to obtain the identities needed to request
location from the rest of the network. UFES gets the relevant UAV(s) location
from AMF or GMLC by the current location services supported by AMF or GMLC.
3\. UFES checks that the USS/UTM is authorized to receive the location
information for a UAV.
\- USS/UTM is authorized to receive the location information of a group of
UAVs in a particular geographic area or of an individual UAV if it has
authorized the UAV(s) for service.
\- Furthermore, a USS/UTM can be authorized to receive the data about all
UAV\'s in a particular geographic area (e.g. such an authorization is pre-
provisioned in the UFES based on regulatory requirements). The details of
providing such an authorization are left to implementation/deployments.
> The UFES provides the authorized UAV(s) location information to USS/UTM for
> the relevant UAV. USS/UTM can use the output received at step 3 to verify
> the location reported by the UAV.
A similar solution is possible when the UAV is connected to EPS.
### 6.6.3 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a mitigation against UAV location spoofing as it
ensures that network-based location information about a UAV is available to
the USS/UTM.
_The solution also supports the authorization of USS/UTMs to receive only the
UAV location information about either UAVs under the USS/UTM control or if all
the UAVs in a geographic if specifically authorized to receive this
information._
## 6.7 Solution #7: UAS authentication, authorization and security aspects
### 6.7.1 Solution overview
The solution address key issue #1 and #6.
This solution assumes the following based on TR 23.754 [3] Clause 4.2
Architecture assumptions:
\- A UAV is assigned, a CAA-level UAV Identity by functions in the aviation
domain (e.g. USS) or by functions in the USS/UTM.
\- The 3GPP CN is aware of the CAA-level UAV Identity. A mapping is possible
in the mobile operator network and in the UAS application layer outside of
3GPP between the 3GPP UAV ID and the CAA-level UAV ID.
The solution also further assumes that, the long-term security credentials for
UAV were also assigned and provided along with the CAA-level UAV ID by the
USS/UTM which is out of 3GPP scope.
This solution is applicable to EPC and 5GS.The solution addresses the
following:
\- Enables USS/UTM to authenticate and authorize the UAV(s) to access and use
the USS/UTM services securely.
NOTE: The same mechanism can be applied to a networked UAV Controller when
required.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
Figure 6.7.2-1: UAS authentication and authorization (UAA) procedure
Step 1. As a precondition the UAV is registered with the USS/UTM by the UAS
operator using any method outside the 3GPP scope. During this registration,
the UAV is configured with the CAA-level UAV ID, the USS routing information
(which may also be part of CAA-level UAV ID), and the required long-term
credentials to enable UAS security. These are the credentials that are
provisioned into the UAV to form the root of the UAS security. The credentials
may include symmetric key(s) or public/private key pair (example. with
certificates) depending on the implementation which is out of 3GPP scope.
Step 2a-b. The UAV sends registration request to AMF and a primary
authentication is performed as specified in TS 33.501.
Step 2c. After a successful primary authentication, the AMF based on the UE
(UAV) subscription information fetched from the UDM/UDR determines to trigger
UAS authentication and authorization (UAA).
NOTE 1: The UAA can also be performed when an UAV requests a PDU session
establishment for any UAS service (i.e., USS/UTM) by including the CAA-Level
UAV ID in the PDU Session establishment Request message where the UAA related
message exchange is performed involving the SMF.
Step 2d. AMF sends to UE (UAV) an UAS authentication Required Indicator or a
pending UAA indication in the Registration Accept message.
Step 3a. AMF may optionally send an UAS ID request to the UAV over the NAS
transport.
Step 3b. The UAV responds to AMF with a UAS ID response containing CAA-level
UAV ID and optionally USS routing information (if routing information is not
part of CAA-level UAV ID).
Step 3c. Based on the USS routing Information, the AMF sends a UAS
Authentication request message (i.e., over a service-based interface) to the
UFES. The GPSI can be used for external identification of UAV. The routing to
a UFES and USS/UTM and external ID usage need to be aligned with SA2
agreements during the normative work.
NOTE 2: The new 3GPP UAS Network Function specified in SA2 TR 23.754 [3]
conclusion is referred as UFES in this solution. The actual naming for the new
3GPP UAS Network Function which handles the UAS related operational message
exchange between 5GS/EPS and USS/UTM can be defined during the normative
phase.
Step 3d. The UFES forwards the received UAS authentication request message to
the appropriate USS/UTM.
Step 3e. The USS/UTM performs authentication method specific message exchange
with the UAV to enable mutual authentication. The authentication method used
for UAA is up to USS/UTM and it is out of 3GPP scope.
Step 3f. The USS/UTM on performing a successful UAS authentication, verifies
the preconfigured CAA Level UAV ID based on the stored UAV subscription, if
required assign a new CAA Level UAV ID to the UAV. Further the USS/UTM assigns
a UAS ID to uniquely identify the UAS formed by the UAV and associated UAV-C
information based on UAS subscription. The method of UAS-ID assignment is out
of 3GPP scope. Further the USS/UTM sgenerate a UAS root security context
(based on a method out of 3GPP scope) from the long-term credential available
as part of UAS subscription information in the USS/UTM to enable UAS security
and an UAS root security identifier (e.g. bound to the security context) is
generated to uniquely identify the UAS root security context in the USS/UTM.
To enable authorization of UAV for various UAS service following a UAS
registration (example., flight authorization request, PDU session
establishment for C2 and Pairing of UAV with UAV-C etc.), the USS/UTM
generates an Authorization Token (Auth Token) (e.g. it can be bound to the UAS
ID, UAV-CAA-Level ID, optional UAV-C ID). The USS/UTM also assigns a lifetime
(a validity period or time duration) for the authorization token for it to be
used by the 3GPP network to authorize the UAV for various subsequent UAS
services. The USS/UTM after successful UAS authentication, locally stores the
External ID of UAV (i.e., GPSI), CAA-level UAV ID, authentication status
information, UAS ID, Auth Token, lifetime along with UAS Security Context and
its identifier. The UAS root security context (e.g. a key) and its
corresponding identifier forms the UAS security context. Optionally, if the
UAV has no preconfigured UAV-C ID, the USS/UTM may also provide the UAV-C ID
for the UAV along with the UAV authentication response.
Step 3g. In response to the successful UAS authentication, the USS/UTM sends
the UAS authentication response message to the UFES. The UAS authentication
response message includes an authentication result with Success Indication,
GPSI, CAA Level UAV ID, UAS ID, UAS security context, Auth Token and lifetime.
Step 3h. The UFES receives the UAS authentication response message containing
Success Indication, GPSI, CAA Level UAV ID, UAS ID, UAS security context, Auth
Token and lifetime as part of the UAS information for the UAV. The UFES stores
the received UAS information for the UAV and the parameters exactly stored at
UFES will be defined during the normative phase. Further, the UFES forwards
the received UAS authentication response message to the AMF.
Step 3i. The AMF receives the UAS authentication response message and locally
stores the received authentication result with Success Indication, CAA Level
UAV ID, UAS ID, Auth Token and lifetime as part of the UAS information for the
UAV to enable subsequent UAS service authorization at the 3GPP network.
Step 3j. The AMF forwards the received UAS authentication response message to
the UAV.
Step 3k. The UAV receives the UAV authentication response message and on
receiving a \'Success Indication\', the UAV generates the UAS Security context
(UAS root security context and identifier) similar to the USS/UTM from the
long-term credential preconfigured in the UAV. If the locally generated UAS
security context and received UAS security context matches, then the UAV
considers the UAS authentication as successful and locally stores the received
CAA Level UAV ID, UAS ID, Auth Token, lifetime, UAS root security context and
its identifier along with the most recently derived K~UAS~ as part of UAS
Security Context. The UAV uses the UAS root security context identifier to
uniquely identify the UAS root security context. The UAS root security context
can be used by the UAV and USS/UTM to set up secure connection.
Step 4. The AMF may trigger UE parameter update procedure as specified in TR
23.754 [3].
UAS Authentication and Authorization (UAA) Revocation:
Figure 6.7.2-2: UAS authentication and authorization (UAA) Revocation
procedure
Step 1. The USS/UTM determines to revoke UAS authentication and authorization
corresponding to an UAV identified with CAA Level UAV-ID and sends an UAA
Revocation Notification with GPSI and CAA Level UAV ID to the corresponding
UFES using a service operation message.
Step 2. The UFES fetches the serving AMF ID corresponding to the GPSI of the
UAV from the UDM by invoking Nudm_UECM_Get Request/Response message based on
TS 23.502 Clause 5.2.3.2.4.
Step 3. The UFES sends the received UAA Revocation Notification message to the
AMF with the CAA level UAV ID.
Step 4a-b. The AMF on receiving the UAA Revocation Notification, if there is
any related active PDU session corresponding to the UAV, initiates a PDU
Session release based on TS 23.502 Clause 4.3.4.
Step 5. The AMF further enables the UAA revocation with the UE using the UE
Configuration update procedure. The AMF sends CAA Level UAV ID along with the
UAA Revocation indication to the UAV in the UE Configuration update command.
Step 6. The UAV on receiving the UAA Revocation indication, deletes all the
UAS authorization and security information locally stored corresponding to its
CAA Level UAV ID.
Step 7. The UAV further sends to AMF, a UE Configuration update complete
message with a UAA Revocation acknowledgement along with the CAA Level UAV ID.
Step 8. The AMF on receiving the UAA Revocation acknowledgement and CAA Level
UAV ID, deletes locally stored UAS authorization and security information
corresponding to the UAV ID.
Step 9a. The AMF further sends an UAA Revocation acknowledgement message with
Success Indication, GPSI and CAA Level UAV ID to the UFES.
Step 9b. The UFES removes UAV related information (if any) locally stored
related to the UAV.
Step 10. The UFES further sends the received UAA Revocation acknowledgement
message with the received Success Indication, GPSI and CAA Level UAV ID to the
USS/UTM.
Step 11. The USS/UTM on receiving the UAA Revocation acknowledgement message
with Success Indication, GPSI and CAA Level UAV ID, updates the UAS
authentication status and related information locally stored for the UAV.
Applicability to EPS:
The UAS Authentication and Authorization procedure and revocation procedure
described in this section can be applicable to EPS, with the adaptation of
MME, SMF+PGW-C, UPF+PGW-U and HSS+UDM respectively as described in the steps
below. UFES can act as a UAS NF or UAS control function in the 3GPP network
which can be a standalone network function, or a service offered by the SCEF
in the EPS instead of NEF in the 5GS. For the UAA revocation procedure, the
MME, S-GW+PGW-C and HSS will be involved in EPS. The message name used in EPS
procedure can be aligned with SA2 where required during the normative work.
The steps related to UAA for an UAV in EPS scenario is described as follows:
Step 1. The precondition is applicable as described for 5GS case.
Step 2. The UAV sends Attach request to MME and an authentication and key
agreement is performed. The UAV can send a CAA level UAV ID with USS Routing
information, Flight path data and target UAV-C information if any during the
attach request or after authentication in a NAS message.
Step 3. The MME, based on the subscription information, selects the Default
APN for connectivity with the USS/UTM based on 23.754 [3]. The MME can send to
SMF+PGW-C via SGW, a create session request which contains the CAA level UAV
ID and flight path data and target UAV-C information if any and 3GPP UAV ID
(i.e., an external identifier). The MME receives a create session response
form SMG+PGW-C and an attach accept is provided to the UAV.
Step 4. The SMF+PGW-C sends a UAV authentication request to the UFES (or a UAS
NF as mentioned in 23.754 [3]) with CAA level UAV ID and flight path data and
target UAV-C information if any and 3GPP UAV ID.
Step 5. The UFES forwards the received UAS authentication request message to
the appropriate USS/UTM.
Step 6. The USS/UTM performs authentication method specific message exchange
with the UAV to enable mutual authentication. The authentication method used
for UAA is up to USS/UTM and it is out of 3GPP scope. Then Step 3f and 3g
(Figure 6.7.2-1) is similar as described for 5GS.
Step 7. In response to the successful UAS authentication, the USS/UTM sends
the UAS authentication response message to the UFES. The UAS authentication
response message includes an authentication result with Success Indication,
3GPP UAV ID, CAA Level UAV ID, UAS ID, UAS security context, Auth Token and
lifetime.
Step 8. The UFES receives the UAS authentication response message and may
store any received UAS information for the UAV. Further, the UFES forwards the
received UAS authentication response message to the SMF+PGW-C.
Step 9. The SMF+PGW-C sends update bearer request with the information
received in UAS authentication response message to the MME.
Step 10. The MME forwards the received UAS authentication response message to
the UAV in a NAS message. The UAV receives the UAV authentication response
message and then the process in UAV is same as described in step 3k (Figure
6.7.2-1) for 5GS and sends a response to MME.
Step 11. The MME further confirms to SMF+PGW-C with update bearer response.
The MME/SMF+PGW-C locally stores the received authentication result with
Success Indication, CAA Level UAV ID, UAS ID, Auth Token and lifetime as part
of the UAS information for the UAV to enable subsequent UAS service
authorization at the 3GPP network. The SMF+PGW-C can set the traffic filters
to allow traffic between UAV and USS/UTM based on the authentication result
The UAA revocation in EPS for any UAV can be performed as follows:
Step 1. The USS/UTM determines to revoke UAS authentication and authorization
corresponding to an UAV identified with CAA Level UAV-ID and sends an UAA
Revocation Notification with 3GPP UAV ID (i.e., external identifier) and CAA
Level UAV ID to the corresponding UFES.
Step 2. The UFES sends the received UAA Revocation Notification message to the
SMF+PGW-C (the serving PGW can be identified based on TR 23.754 [3]).
Step 3. The SMF+PGW-C on receiving the UAA Revocation Notification, initiates
a PDN connection release and during the PDN connection release procedure, it
provides to UAV via the SGW and MME, the CAA level UAV ID and UAA Revocation
indication based on the received UAA Revocation Notification message.
Step 4. The UAV on receiving the UAA Revocation indication, can delete all the
UAS authorization and security information locally stored corresponding to its
CAA Level UAV ID.
Step 5. The UAV further responds to MME, with a UAA Revocation acknowledgement
along with the CAA Level UAV ID.
Step 6. The MME sends the received UAA Revocation acknowledgement and CAA
Level UAV ID, to SMF+PGW-C, which can delete the locally stored UAV
information.
Step 7. The SMF+PGW-C send the UAA Revocation acknowledgement along with the
CAA Level UAV ID to the UFES.
Step 8. The UFES removes UAV related information (if any) locally stored
related to the UAV. The UFES further sends the received UAA Revocation
acknowledgement message with the received Success Indication, GPSI and CAA
Level UAV ID to the USS/UTM.
Step 9. The USS/UTM on receiving the UAA Revocation acknowledgement message
with Success Indication, GPSI and CAA Level UAV ID, updates the UAS
authentication status and related information locally stored for the UAV.
### 6.7.3 Solution evaluation
The solution allows USS/UTM (post successful UAA) to send the UAS security
context (a security information and identifier), UAS ID, Auth Token and
lifetime to the UAV. Following a successful UAA, the solution requires
generation of authorization information (i.e., Auth Token) by USS/UTM to allow
authorization information to be provided to the UAV to enable further UAS
service authorization. The UAS security context can be used to set up secure
connection between UAV and USS/UTM. As TR 23.754 [3] allows sending new CAA
level UAV ID to UAV, a dedicated identifier is most crucial to be provided by
the USS/UTM to identify the security context provided to the UAV. The Auth
Token can be used to enable authorization of UAV for subsequent UAS service.
The UAS ID can allow identification of an UAS formed by the UAV, USS/UTM and
UAV-C as applicable (UAS ID generation is up to USS/UTM and it is outside the
scope of 3GPP).
AMF in 5GS and SMF+PGW-C in EPS: On a successful UAA, store information such
as authentication result (i.e., success) along with information received in
UAS authentication response (i.e., CAA level UAV ID, UAS ID, Auth Token and
lifetime. Optionally UAVC ID if received), which can enable subsequent UAS
service authorization.
On a UAA Revocation Notified by USS/UTM, release PDU session/PDN Connection by
indicating UAA Revocation Indication and CAA Level UAV ID to UAV. Delete any
UAV related information locally stored related to CAA level UAV ID.
UE: On a successful UAA, store information such as authentication result
(i.e., success) along with information received in UAS authentication response
(i.e., CAA level UAV ID, UAS Security Context, UAS ID, Auth Token and
lifetime. Optionally UAVC ID if received), which can enable subsequent UAS
service authorization and security set up.
On receiving UAA Revocation Indication and CAA Level UAV ID, delete all
information related to UAA such as UAS Security Context, UAS ID, Auth Token,
lifetime, and any CAA level UAV ID (if meant for temporary use).
Credentials used by UAV and UTM/USS are out of 3GPP scope.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Using 5G location result for location information
verification
### 6.8.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key Issue 4 to support the location Information
veracity. USS/UTM requests the location service to 5GS with a requirement of
high reliability. If the network-assisted positioning method as defined in
clause 6.11.2 in TS 23.273 [5] is chosen, the location result will not depend
on the UE\'s report. The location result from 5GS can be utilized to verify
the location information which is reported from UE side.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
5GS already provides the location service (LCS). Location information for one
or multiple target UEs may be requested by and reported to an LCS client or an
AF within or external to a PLMN. The procedure of the location information
veracity can be described as follows:
1) USS/UTM receives the location information which is reported by UE via the
application layer. If UTM/USS decides to check and verify the location
information, UTM/USS sends a request to the GMLC for a location and optionally
a velocity for the target UE which may be identified by a GPSI. The LCS
request also carries the requirement of high reliability, which indicates the
5GS to select the positioning method which is not based on the UE\'s report.
2) GMLC continues with the location service procedure as defined in clause
6.1.2 in TS 23.273 [5] and indicates LMF to select Network Assisted
Positioning method. Network Assisted Positioning method relies on the location
measurement from NG-RAN nodes.
3) The LMF invokes the Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service
operation towards the AMF to request the transfer of a Network Positioning
message to a NG-RAN node (gNB or ng-eNB) in the NG-RAN. The target NG-RAN node
obtains and returns the position related information.
4) The LMF calculates the location result and responds to GMLC.
5) USS/UTM acquires the location information from GMLC and verifies the
information from the application layer. USS/UTM may make decisions to control
the UAV/UAVC based on the verification result.
NOTE: If USS/UTM is regarded as AF, it does not directly interact with GMLC
and the interaction may be done via NEF or UFES.
### 6.8.3 Solution evaluation
This solution fulfils the requirement in Key Issue 4.
The solution reuses the existing location service provided by 5GS. The Network
Assisted Positioning method can be regarded as trusted as it does not rely on
the UE\'s report. Based on the result of the verification, USS/UTM may make
decisions to control the corresponding UAV/UAVC.
## 6.9 Solution #9: UAS enabled authentication
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #1 UAS Authentication and Authorization.
When a UAV type UE registers to 5GS, it will after a first successful
authentication also register with USS/UTM. The solution proposes to optimize
for UAS authentication.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
When a UAV type UE sends a registration request, it includes in SUCI an
indication \"UAV type\" (step 1) to indicate to the 5GS that additional
authentication is needed. After successful authentication, the AUSF provides
in its authentication response this UAV type information to AMF (step 2). By
this, the AMF knows that the UE is a UAV type UE that also wants to connect to
USS/UTM system. I.e. this is to indicate to the serving network the service,
for which the UAV enabled UE wants to be authenticated and AMF requests the
UAV ID from the UE (step 3).
The 3GPP system is aware of the \'CAA-level UAV ID\' and its mapping with 3GPP
UAV ID. If the UAV-type UE (UAV/UAV-C) has successfully authenticated to 5GS,
it shares within the SMC response its \'CAA level UAV ID\' with AMF (step 4).
NOTE: SMC message is extended to support UAS IDs.
AMF retrieves 3GPP UAV ID from UDM database (step 5). A mapping of SUPI, CAA
level UAV ID and 3GPP UAV ID is performed in UDM (step 6) and 3GPP UAV ID is
provided back to AMF (step 7). Now UAV/UAV-C authentication and authorization
towards UTM/USS can be triggered by AMF (step 8).
This solution has the following open issues:
\- -whether the storage of CAA-level UAV Id in UDM is needed in addition to
CAA-level UAV Id storage in UAS NF;
\- which intermediate functions are involved between AMF and USS/UTM; and
\- whether a communication between UAV and UTM is needed in steps 8 and 9.
{width="7.172916666666667in" height="6.345138888888889in"}
Figure 6.9.2-1: UAS enabled authentication flow
After successful authentication and authorization by UTM/USS, UAV
authentication and authorization response is sent to AMF with external
identifier (step 9). In case of failure, UAV Authentication & Authorization
response is sent to AMF with a failure status. AMF updates UAV authentication
and authorization results to UDM (step 10). Also, the UAV/UAV-C is informed
with registration accept or reject message (step 11).
If the UDM did not have an entry for the \'CAA-level UAV ID\', i.e. it is a
non-registered UAV-type UE, then depending on operator policy the UAV/UAV-C
may be registered in UDM, the UE becomes a subscriber for a service and a 3GPP
UAV ID is provided.
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
This solution has not been evaluated.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Authentication and authorization of UAVs
### 6.10.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key issue #1: UAS Authentication and Authorization.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
#### 6.10.2.1 General
The solution uses a UAV Flight Enablement Subsystem (UFES) as a single point
of contact between the PLMN and USS/UTM in order to limit the impact on the
3GPP system, although it is not strictly necessary for authentication and
authorization solution to work. The authentication and authorization
procedures are shown when connected in 5G and the authentication/authorization
takes place after registration, but similar procedures could be used during
registration and during PDU connection establishment with the SMF playing the
role of the AMF. The procedure in clause 6.10.2.2 are used to authenticate and
authorized UAV so connectivity for UAS services can be enabled.
#### 6.10.2.2 Authentication and authorization of a UAV
Figure 6.10.2.2-1 shows how the UAV can be authenticated and authorized by the
USS/UTM to access the 3GPP network as a UAV, i.e. it is assumed in these flow
that the authentication and authorization will happen.
Figure 6.10.2.2-1: Authentication and authorization of a UAV
The steps are as follows:
1\. The UAV sends a Registration Request to the AMF requesting to register as
UAV. The UE includes USS/UTM routing information in the Registration Request
message.
NOTE 1: How the UE signals it is requesting to register as a UAV is left to
stage 3 specification.
NOTE 2: The details of the how the USS/UTM is selected from USS/UTM routing
information is left to the stage 3 specification. One possibility is a CAA-
level UAV ID. If this is not supplied this ID can be requested during steps 6a
and step 6b when authenticating and authorizing the UAV.
2\. Primary authentication and NAS security establishment are performed.
3\. The AMF sends the Registration Accept message to the UAV indicating that
the UAV needs to be authorized by the USS/UTM.
NOTE 3: At this point the UAV has restricted access to PDU sessions.
4\. Based on subscription information and local policies, the AMF requests UAV
authentication and authorization from UFES including the USS/UTM routing
information. The UFES is selected using the USS/UTM routing information.
5\. The UFES triggers an authentication and authorization request including
the CAA-level UAV ID if available from the USS/UTM. The correct USS/UTM is
selected using the USS/UTM routing information and a USS/UTM will only be
selected if it has been authorized to act as one. The UFES includes the 3GPP
UAV ID in the request.
NOTE 4: Whether the 3GPP UAV ID is sent from the AMF or retrieved (from other
network entities) using the SUPI is left to stage 3 specification.
6a. and 6b. There can be several round trips required for authentication of
the UAV by the UTMs depending on the authentication method used by the USS/UTM
and UAV. The authentication method and the content of messages used for
authentication are out of scope of 3GPP. The content of the messages is
carried in containers that are passed along and not processed by the entities
between the UAV and USS/UTM.
7\. On a successful authentication and authorization of the UAV, the USS/UTM
stores the 3GPP UAV ID with the CAA-level UAV ID. The UTMS/USS informs the
UFES that the UAV has been successfully authenticated and authorized by the
USS/UTM. The USS/UTM includes authorization information for both the network
and the UAV.
8\. The UFES further informs the AMF that the UAV has been successfully
authenticated and authorized by the USS/UTM. The UFES passes the received
authorization information onto the AMF.
9\. The AMF stores the network authorization information as part of the UE
context. The network authorization information further contains the
information whether USS/UTM authentication and authorization is required
during future registrations and whether to allow UE to establish PDU
session(s) dedicated for the UAS service with or without further USS/UTM
authentication and authorization.
NOTE 5: The lifetime of the authorization, e.g. permanent till revocation or
one time authorization, is left to the normative phase.
The AMF triggers a UE Configuration Update (UCU) procedure to inform the UE
that the UAV authentication and authorization has been successful. The UCU
procedure contains the UAV authorization information. Part of the contents of
the UAV authorization information may be passed to the UAV without
modification by any entities between USS/UTM and UAV. The UAV uses the UAV
authorization information to check if it is authorized by the network to act
as a UAV and also to receive any needed aviation information if any, e.g. a
CAA-level UAV ID.
NOTE 6: Before step 9, the UE has restricted access to PDU sessions. After
step 9, there are no restrictions, although a further authentication and
authorization might be required during PDU session establishment.
#### 6.10.2.3 Revocation
Figure 6.10.2.3-1 show how the authorization can be revoked.
Figure 6.10.2.3-1: UAV revocation
The steps are as follows:
1\. The USS/UTM decide to revoke the UAV\'s authorization.
2\. The USS/UTM sends an Authorization Revoke request to the UFES including
the 3GPP UAV ID of the UAV to be revoked.
3\. The UFES passes the Authorization Revoke request to the AMF.
4\. The AMF revokes the authorization to act like an UAV. A consequence of the
revocation is to release of all connections.
NOTE: Messages used to perform revocation are left to stage 3. Whether all
connections or only connections dedicated to the UAS service are released is
left for the normative phase.
5\. The AMF confirms to the UFES that the revocation has happened.
6\. The UFES confirms to the USS/UTM that the revocation has happened.
### 6.10.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue #1 during registration to a 5G network. The
solution provides a method for the USS/UTM to authenticate and authorize a UAV
before the UAV can access UAS services from the 3GPP system. The solution also
provides a method of revoking the authorization and only authorized USS/UTMs
can provide the authorizations for UAVs.
## 6.11 Solution #11: UAV and UAVC pairing authorization through bound IDs
### 6.11.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the key issue #2: Pairing authorization for UAV and
UAVC.
This solution assumes UAV and UAVC are equipped with SUPI and credentials from
PLMN. The pairing authorization is performed after UAV or UAVC is
authenticated by 3GPP systems through Primary authentication. It is performed
when UAV is being authenticated/authorized, or after it has been
authenticated/authorized by USS/UTM.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
#### 6.11.2.1 UAV and UAVC pairing authorization
A general overview of the procedure involving UAV and UAVC paring
authorization is shown in Figure below.
Figure 6.11.2.1-1: A general overview on UAV and UAVC pairing authorization
0\. Provisioning:
a. UAV and UAVC: provisioned with UAV IDs and corresponding credentials, e.g.
their private/public key pairs and certificates issued by UAS service
providers/operators. Regarding pairing, there are two options considered: 1)
provision is not required, it will be provisioned at USS/UTM 2) pairing is
provisioned at both UAV and UAVC, e.g. indicated using certificates.
b. USS/UTM: provisioned with its private/public key pairs. The UAS service
providers/operators have registered their public keys or their root CAs with
USS/UTM so that USS/UTM can verify their issued certificates. Regarding
pairing, similarly, there are two options: 1) pairing of UAV and UAVC has been
provisioned and UAV-ID and UAVC-ID are bound together; 2) no pairing
information provisioned.
NOTE 1: UAV and UAVC pairing are not be determined by other parties than
USS/UTM or UAS itself, e.g. between UAV and UAVC. The provisioning is out of
scope of 3GPP.
1\. Primary Authentication: UE1 (UAV) and UE2 (UAVC) are equipped with SUPI
and 3GPP credentials and need to perform Primary Authentication as normal UEs
before getting UAS services.
2\. For UAS-type UE, UAS authentication is performed for UAV.
NOTE 2: UAV authentication is not addressed in this solution. This step is to
indicate pairing is for authenticated and authorized UAV.
3\. USS/UTM authorize UAV and UAVC pairing:
a. Case 1 (pairing information is provisioned at USS/UTM): based on bound UAV-
ID and UAVC-ID to determine whether pairing request from UAV (with UAV-ID and
GPSI) or UAVC (with UAVC-ID and GPSI) can be authorized.
b. Case 2 (UAV-ID and UAVC-ID are paired and bound): based on bound
information sent from UAV or UAVC to determine whether pairing request from
UAV (with UAV-ID and GPSI) or UAVC (with UAVC-ID and GPSI) can be authorized.
USS/UTM may need to verify the certificates presented by UAV/UAVC.
NOTE 3: UAV (or UAVC) does not send GPSI to AMF. Instead, it sends UE ID (e.g.
GUTI or SUCI) as a normal UE and AMF will convert the UE ID into GPSI.
3-1. UAV sends a pairing request message, e.g. in a PDU Establishment Request
message to USS through the network (e.g. AMF or SMF and UFES). The message
will include UAV-ID and its UE ID (e.g. GUTI). For Case 2, it includes UAV-ID
(and UE ID if available) of the paired UAVC as well.
3-2. USS determines whether to authorize the pairing of UAV and UAVC
3-3. USS informs PLMN and UAV the authorization results. The message includes
UAV-ID and GPSI of the UAV. and It may include the UAVC-ID and GPSI of the
paired UAVC if available. Based on the results, the PLMN (e.g. SMF) may
determine whether the PDU session is authorized for UAV and UAVC
communications.
NOTE 4: Step 3 and step 2 may be combined depending on scenarios.
4\. UAVC communicates with UAV through UPF (UP).
#### 6.11.2.2 Revocation
USS/UTM may trigger revocation pairing of UAV and UAVC pairing at any time.
The call flow is shown in the figure 6.11.2.2-1.
Figure 6.11.2.2-1: UAS pairing revocation procedure
1\. The USS/UTM sends the UAA revocation request to SMF through UFES to revoke
the UAVC pairing for a UAV. The UAV and UAVC are identified by their GPSI and
UAS-ID respectively in the UAA revocation Request.
NOTE: UFES is an NF interfacing USS/UTM and it can locate SMF serving the UAV.
2\. The SMF may inform UAV or UAVC with the UAA pairing revocation message.
3\. The SMF responses USS that the pairing of UAV and UAVC has been revoked.
### 6.11.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue #2.
In this solution, pairing information is assumed to be pre-provisioned, 1)
provisioned at USS/UTM; 2) provisioned at UAV/UAVC (the provisioning is not
scope of 3GPP). Pairing authorization is performed at USS/UTM after UAV is
authenticated by PLMN. Pairing authorization is sent to PLMN with associated
IDs (e.g. GPSI and/or UAV IDs).
This solution supports pairing revocation triggered by USS/UTM at any time.
Further evaluation on SMF enforcing authorization of C2 traffic is needed.
## 6.12 Solution #12: UAV location privacy protection
### 6.12.1 Solution overview
The contribution proposes a solution to address the following key issues:
\- KI#5 \" Privacy protection of UAS identities \".
\- The fake USS/UTM issue part of KI#1 is also addressed in this solution.
\- KI#4 for the location tracking authorization.
Solution #25 in TR 23.754 [3], adopted as the basis for normative work for UAV
location tracking, includes the support for a new \"unknown UAV tracking\"
feature. This feature allows a given USS/UTM to obtain a list of UAVs that are
present in a specified target area. Currently, solution#25 does not have any
provision to prevent exposure of UAV location information to unauthorized
USS/UTM (e.g. competitor USS/UTM).
This solution proposes enhancements to solution #25 to ensure that only
authorized entities (e.g. USS/UTM serving the UAV) can obtain location
information for a UAV or set of UAVs from the 3GPP system.
The solution assumes (as per TR 23.754 [3] clause 8.5) that UAV location
information is provided to USS/UTM via a UAVF which may encompass the NEF/SCEF
functionality.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
#### 6.12.2.1 USS/UTM identifier association with individual UAV during UAV
A&A
During a UAV A&A procedure, UAVF and/or AMF stores a USS/UTM identifier (e.g.
FQDN or IP address of the USS/UTM) and associates it with the 3GPP UAV ID
(e.g. GPSI) and the CAA level UAV ID of the UAV that is successfully
authenticated and authorized. The USS/UTM identifier may be obtained from the
UE during the UAV A&A procedure (e.g. in Registration or PDU Session
establishment request). The UAVF authenticate the USS/UTM using aviation
domain provisioned certificates. If the UE did not provide a USS/UTM address,
the UAVF may also resolve the USS/UTM address based on the UE provided CAA
Level UAV ID by means of a trusted resolution function (UAVF may play the role
of such resolution function when 3GPP assisted CAA-level UAV ID allocation is
used).
During UAV location tracking procedure, the UAVF which verifies that the
location tracking request is authorized (i.e., checks that identifier of the
USS/UTM making the request matches the USS/UTM identifier previously
associated with the 3GPP UAV ID during UAV A&A procedure).
NOTE: It is assumed that the location request from USS/UTM can be
authenticated by UAVF (e.g. using aviation domain provisioned certificates).
#### 6.12.2.2 Verification of USS/UTM authorization for unknown UAV location
tracking
When receiving an \"unknown UAV\" location tracking request from a USS/UTM,
The UAVF checks the validity of the request (described in clause 6.12.2.1)
before forwarding the request to the appropriate location tracking function
(e.g. AMF, GMLC). The request includes an indication that the request is for
any (e.g. unknown) UAV(s) in the target area.
The AMF obtains location information of all the UAVs in the given area. The
AMF may perform filtering of UEs in that area such as to select only those
that fulfil relevant UAV selection criteria (e.g. with a valid UAV
subscription and/or that have been authorized by a USS/UTM, as per TR 23.754
[3] clause 8.5). The AMF sends the location information to the UAVF for each
of the UAVs that are in the given area including the 3GPP UAV ID for each UAV.
For each UAV, the UAVF selects UAVs whose 3GPP UAV ID is associated a USS/UTM
identifier that matches the USS/UTM id from the location request and sends the
UAV location information to the USS/UTM accordingly.
Alternatively, the AMF may perform filtering on the UEs in the given area such
as to select only UEs that are UAVs served by the requesting USS/UTM (assuming
AMF has stored USS/UTM identifier as described in 6.X.2.1 or UAVF provides it
to AMF in the location request).
### 6.12.3 Solution evaluation
This solution complements solution#25 in TR 23.754 adopted for normative work
for UAV location tracking.
This solution addresses Key Issue #5 requirement on linkability and
trackability attacks on UAV by preventing the exposure of sensitive UAV
information to unauthorized entities during location tracking procedures. UAV
information provided in response to location tracking request includes one or
more UAV identifier (3GPP UAV ID, CAA-level UAV ID) and geographical location.
The \"fake USS/UTM\" issue from Key Issue #1 is addressed as follows: USS/UTM
is authenticated by UAVF (UAS NF) using aviation domain provisioned
certificates. USS/UTM address is provided by UE or by a trusted resolution
function (using the CAA-level UAV ID provided by the UAV).
This solution addresses Key Issue #4 requirement on location tracking
authorization by checking that the USS/UTM making the location request is
authorized for such request (i.e., has been associated with the UAV during
UUAA). For location tracking of a set of UAVs in a given geographical area
(i.e., \"unknown\" UAV tracking mode), the AMF and/or UAVF (aka UAS NF)
performs a filtering of the relevant UAVs in the area to only send information
about UAVs that have been associated with the USS/UTM.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Authorization of UAV/UAVC when connected to EPS
### 6.13.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key issues #1: and Key issue #2: Pairing authorization
for UAV and UAVC.
### 6.13.2 Solution details
#### 6.13.2.1 General
The solution uses a UAV Flight Enablement Subsystem (UFES) as a single point
of contact between the PLMN and USS/UTM in order to limit the impact on the
3GPP system, although it is not strictly necessary for authentication and
authorization solution to work. The authentication and authorization
procedures are shown when connected to EPS and the
authentication/authorization takes place during PDN connection establishment.
The procedure in clause 6.13.2.2 are used to authenticate and authorize a UAV.
#### 6.13.2.2 Authentication and authorization
Figure 6.13.2.2-1 shows how the UAV can be authenticated and authorized by the
USS/UTM when connected to EPS.
Figure 6.13.2.2-1: Authentication and authorization of a UAV connection to EPS
The steps are as follows:
1\. The UAV sends an Attach Request to the MME. The UAV includes the Aviation
Connectivity payload which contains the allocated CAA-Level UAV ID and
flight/pairing information in the message.
2\. The MME authenticates the UAV and establishes the security.
3\. The MME determines the subscription is an aerial subscription and selects
the SMF+PGW-C to establish the default bearer.
4\. The MME sends a Create Session Request message to the SMF+PGW-C. The
message includes the Aviation Connectivity payload.
5\. The SMF+PGW-C responds with a Create Session Response. At this point the
UAV is restricted from sending user plane traffic.
6\. The MME sends an Attach Accept message to the UAV.
7\. The UAV responds with an Attach Complete message to the MME.
8\. The SMF+PGW-C requests a UAV authentication and authorization from the
UFES and includes the Aviation Connectivity payload in the request.
9\. The UFES forwards the information to the USS/UTM. Only authorized USS/UTMs
will be used in order to ensure only legitimate entities can provide
authorization for UAVs.
10a. and 10b. There can be several round trips required for authentication of
the UAV by the USS/UTM depending on the authentication method used by the
USS/UTM and UAV. The authentication method and the content of messages used
for authentication are out of scope of 3GPP. The content of the messages is
carried in containers that are passed along and not processed by the entities
between the UAV and USS/UTM.
11\. On a successful authentication and authorization of the UAV, the USS/UTM
stores the 3GPP UAV ID with the CAA-level UAV ID. The USS/UTM informs the UFES
that the UAV has been successfully authenticated and authorized by the
USS/UTM. The USS/UTM includes authorization information for both the network
and the UAV.
12\. The UFES further informs the SMF+PGW-C that the UAV has been successfully
authenticated and authorized by the USS/UTM. The UFES passes the received
authorization information onto the SMF+PGW-C. The SMF+PGW-C stores the network
authorization information as part of the UE context. The network authorization
information further contains the information whether USS/UTM authentication
and authorization is required during future registrations and whether to allow
UE to establish PDN connections(s) dedicated for the UAS service with or
without further USS/UTM authentication and authorization. The network part of
the authorization data contains authorization information applicable to
existing PDN connections, which influence SMF+PGW-C decisions for the traffic
on these connections. For example, the information may indicate to disable all
connectivity of the UAV except for the connectivity to USS/UTM.
13\. The SMF+PGW-C sends the Update Bearer Request message to the MME and
include the UAV authorization information. The MME responds with the Update
Bearer Response message. The SMF+PGW-C also set the traffic filters to allow
traffic based on the received authorization information.
14\. The MME passes the UAV authorization information to the UAV to inform the
UAV that the authorization was successful. The UAV authorization information
contains any needed aviation information, e.g. a new CAA-level UAV ID.
15\. If using different PDN connections for C2 traffic, the UAV triggers a PDN
connection set-up procedure which may include a further UAV authentication and
authorization.
16\. C2 traffic can start to pass between UAV and UAVC.
#### 6.13.2.3 Revocation
Figure 6.13.2.3-1 shows how the authorization for some connectivity can be
revoked.
Figure 6.13.2.3-1: UAV connectivity revocation
1\. The USS/UTM decides to revoke the UAV\'s authorization for some
connectivity.
2\. The USS/UTM sends an Authorization Revoke request to the UFES including
the 3GPP UAV ID and details of the connectivity (e.g. UAV-C\'s IP address) to
be revoked (e.g. a pairing with a UAV-C is no longer needed).
3\. The UFES passes the Authorization Revoke request to the relevant
SMF+PGW-C(s) which are selected based on the details of the connectivity to be
revoked.
NOTE: SMF+PGW-C selection details are left for the normative phase.
4\. The SMF+PGW-C removes the connectivity of the UAV based on the received
details (e.g. prevents the UAV from communicating with the UAV-C).
5\. The SMF+PGW-C confirms to the UFES that the revocation of connectivity has
happened.
6\. The UFES confirms to the USS/UTM that the revocation of connectivity has
happened.
### 6.13.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issues #1 and key issue #2 for a UAV connected to
a 4G core network. The solution provides a method for the USS/UTM to
authenticate and authorize a UAV before the UAV can access UAS services from
the 3GPP system and in particular before a connection between a paired UAV and
UAV-C can be enabled. The solution also provides a method of revoking the
authorization and ensure only legitimate USS/UTMs can provide the
authorizations for UAVs.
## 6.14 Solution #14: Authorization of UAV/UAVC pairing when connected to 5GS
### 6.14.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses Key issue #2: Pairing authorization for UAV and UAVC.
### 6.14.2 Solution details
#### 6.14.2.1 General
The solution uses a UAV Flight Enablement Subsystem (UFES) as a single point
of contact between the PLMN and USS/UTM in order to limit the impact on the
3GPP system, although it is not strictly necessary for authentication and
authorization solution to work. The authentication and authorization
procedures are shown when connected to 5GS and the
authentication/authorization takes place during PDU connection establishment.
The procedure in 6.14.2.2 are used to authenticate and authorize a UAV to
allow pairing with a UAVC.
#### 6.14.2.2 Pairing authentication and authorization
Figure 6.14.2.2-1 shows how the UAV can be authenticated and authorized by the
USS/UTM to allow a connection with a paired UAVC. The flows assume that the
UAV has already connected to 5GS and been authorized to act as a UAV (see for
example solution #6.8).
Figure 6.14.2.2-1: Authentication and authorization of a connection between a
UAV and UAVC
In the following steps, if multiple PDU sessions are established for UAV to
USS/UTM and UAV to UAVC communications, respectively, the first PDU session
established is for UAV to USS communications. In case of multiple PDU
sessions, the UAV provides the information related to authorizing the pairing
between the UAV and UAVC only during the establishment of the PDU session for
UAV to UAVC communications.
The steps are as follows:
1\. The UAV sends a PDU Session Establishment Request to the SMF with an
indication that the PDU session is for UAV operation. The UAV also include the
Aviation Connectivity payload which contains the allocated CAA-Level UAV ID
and flight/pairing information.
2\. The SMF obtains the SM information from the UDM.
3\. The SMF requests a UAV authentication and authorization from the UFES and
includes the Aviation Connectivity payload in the request.
4\. The UFES forwards the information to the USS/UTM.
5a. and 5b. There can be several round trips required for authentication of
the UAV by the USS/UTM depending on the authentication method used by the
USS/UTM and UAV. The authentication method and the content of messages used
for authentication are out of scope of 3GPP. The content of the messages is
carried in containers that are passed along and not processed by the entities
between the UAV and USS/UTM.
6\. On a successful authentication and authorization of the UAV, the USS/UTM
stores the 3GPP UAV ID with the CAA-level UAV ID. The UTMS/USS informs the
UFES that the UAV has been successfully authenticated and authorized by the
USS/UTM. The USS/UTM includes authorization information for both the network
and the UAV.
7\. The UFES further informs the SMF that the UAV has been successfully
authenticated and authorized by the USS/UTM. The UFES passes the received
authorization information onto the SMF. The SMF stores the network
authorization information as part of the UE context. The network authorization
information further contains the information whether USS/UTM authentication
and authorization is required during future registrations and whether to allow
UE to establish PDU session(s) dedicated for the UAS service with or without
further USS/UTM authentication and authorization. The network part of the
authorization data contains authorization information applicable to existing
PDU sessions, which influence SMF decisions for the traffic of PDU sessions.
For example, the information may indicate to disable all connectivity of the
UAV except for the connectivity to USS/UTM.
8\. The SMF triggers a PDU Session Establishment Accept message to the UE. The
message procedure contains the UAV authorization information. Part of the
contents of the UAV authorization information may be passed to the UAV without
modification by any entities between USS/UTM and UAV. The UAV authorization
information contains any needed aviation information, e.g. a new CAA-level UAV
ID.
9\. If multiple PDU sessions are used, then the UE triggers a PDU
establishment for C2 traffic. This follows steps 1 to 8. In the case of C2
traffic, the USS/UTM provides the necessary information on the UAV-C to allow
the network to set the traffic filters in the PDU session to allow
connectivity to the UAV-C.
10\. The SMF establishes the necessary flow(s) to enable the communication
between the UAV and UAVC and C2 traffic can be sent between the UAV and UAVC.
#### 6.14.2.3 Revocation
Figure 6.14.2.3-1 shows how the authorization for some connectivity can be
revoked.
**Figure 6.14.2.3-1: UAV connectivity revocation**
1\. The USS/UTM decides to revoke the UAV\'s authorization for some
connectivity.
2\. The USS/UTM sends an Authorization Revoke request to the UFES including
the 3GPP UAV ID and details of the connectivity (e.g. UAV-C\'s IP address) to
be revoked (e.g. a pairing with a UAV-C is no longer needed). Before
proceeding with the revocation, the UFES checks that the USS/UTM was the one
that authorized the UAV.
3\. The UFES passes the Authorization Revoke request to the relevant SMF(s)
which are selected based on the details of the connectivity to be revoked.
NOTE: SMF selection details are left for the normative phase.
4\. The SMF removes the connectivity of the UAV based on the received details
(e.g. prevents the UAV from communicating with the UAV-C). This is performed
using PDU session release (e.g. when removing one of multiple PDU sessions) or
PDU session modification (e.g. when restricting connectivity in the single PDU
case).
5\. The SMF confirms to the UFES that the revocation of connectivity has
happened.
6\. The UFES confirms to the USS/UTM that the revocation of connectivity has
happened.
### 6.14.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue #2 for a UAV connected to a 5G core network.
The solution provides a method for the USS/UTM to authenticate and authorize a
UAV before the UAV can obtain connectivity from the 3GPP system and in
particular before a connection between a paired UAV and UAV-C can be enabled.
The solution also provides a method or revoking the authorization.
## 6.15 Solution #15: UAV and UAV-C Pairing Authorization and Security Aspects
### 6.15.1 Solution overview
This solution address key issues #2 and #7. Further, the solution takes into
account the following SA2 TR 23.754 [3] Clause 4.2 Architectural Assumptions.
\- For networked UAV controllers and non-networked UAV controllers, pairing
between the UAV and the UAV controller for the use of UAV3 or UAV5 may be at
least authorized, or even authenticated. The pairing
authorization/authentication, when performed, is authorized by the USS/UTM,
not by the 3GPP system. The 3GPP system enables such authorization process.
The result of such authorization/authentication are made known to the MNO in
order to enable the USS/UTM to enable the connectivity between the UAV and the
UAV controller.
The solution enables UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization to ensure only
authorized UAV and UAV-C to establish data connection for C2 communication
between them. Further the solution also enables UAV and UAV-C pairing
revocation when determined and notified by the USS/UTM.
### 6.15.2 Solution details
The authorization of UAV and UAV-C pairing can be performed by the USS/UTM
(after a successful primary authentication and during/after a successful UAS
authentication) when a UAV initiates a PDU session establishment or when the
UAV modifies the existing PDU session to set up C2 connection with the UAV-C
for enabling the UAS service as shown in Figure 6.15.2-1. At this step, it is
considered that UAV and UAV-C has already performed successful UAS
registration with the USS/UTM (and has UAS authorization and security
information provided by the USS/UTM). The UAV includes Pairing authorization
request information containing UAV-C ID, Auth Token, UAS ID, Security context
ID in addition to its CAA-level UAV ID in the PDU session establishment
request message (or in PDU session modification request) to SMF along with the
UAV operation request and SMF can send the UAV operation Request along with
the received Pairing authorization request information to the UFES and the
UFES forwards the same to the USS/UTM. UAV operation Request procedure can be
based on agreements from SA2 23.754 [3]. The USS/UTM on receiving the Pairing
authorization request information along with UAV operation request can perform
the UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization and session security set up. Pairing
authorization can also be referred C2 Association authorization. The solution
considers that, the UAV-C information (i.e., a UAV-C ID) with which the UAV
can form an UAS can be available in the USS and it can also be prepositioned
to the UAV along with the CAA-level UAV ID provisioning (out of 3GPP scope) as
a precondition.
UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization and session security set up procedure is
described as follows.
As a precondition, the UAV and UAV-C is registered to the 3GPP network and
both UAV and UAV-C has successfully performed UAS Authentication and
authorization with the USS/UTM and established a PDU Session with the USS/UTM.
Alternatively, the UAV-C may be connected to the USS/UTM over internet.
1\. The UAV sends to the AMF, a PDU Session establishment Request with Pairing
Authorization Request Information. Pairing Authorization Request Information
includes UAV ID, Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV Authorization Token (the one
received during successful UAA from USS/UTM), UAS Security Context Identifier
(the one received during the successful UAA from USS/UTM to uniquely identify
the UAS security context information established between UAV and USS/UTM).
2\. The AMF on receiving the PDU Session establishment Request with Pairing
Authorization Request Information, checks if the UAV-ID is authorized to
request pairing authorization based on the locally stored UAS authentication
and authorization results, authorization information (Token) and UAV-C ID (if
available). If both the received Pairing authorization request information and
locally stored information matches, the AMF considers the check as successful
and perform step 3. If the AMF does not find any UAS authentication results or
if the authentication result or authorization information locally stored does
not match with the received authorization information, then the AMF triggers
UAA as in Solution#7.
3\. The AMF sends Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Request to the SMF with the
received Pairing Authorization Request Information which includes UAV ID,
Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV Authorization Token, UAS Security Context
Identifier and 3GPP UAV ID (i.e., GPSI).
Figure 6.15.2-1: UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization
4\. The SMF sends the received Pairing Authorization Request to the UFES (in a
service operation message) with UAV ID, Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV
Authorization Token, UAS Security Context Identifier along with GPSI and UAV
IP address (based on TR 23.754 [3]).
5\. The UFES sends the received Pairing Authorization Request to the USS/UTM
(in a service operation message) with UAV ID, Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV
Authorization Token, UAS Security Context Identifier along with GPSI and UAV
IP address.
6\. The USS/UTM verifies the information received in the Pairing Authorization
Request with the locally stored information and if the verification is
successful, the USS/UTM determines to authorize pairing for the UAV.
Optionally Step 7-10 can be skipped and only step 10 is performed if the UAV-C
is connected to the USS/UTM over internet.
7\. The USS/UTM sends to the UAV-C identified with the UAV-C ID (via the 3GPP
network or over internet) a Pairing Authorization Request, which includes UAV
ID, UAV-C ID and UAS ID.
8\. The UAV-C in response sends to USS/UTM, a Pairing Authorization Response
message which includes UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV-C IP address, and UAV-C
Authorization Token.
9\. The USS/UTM verifies the information such as UAV-C ID, UAS ID, and UAV-C
Authorization Token received in the Pairing Authorization Response message by
checking with the locally stored information. If the received authorization
information match with the locally stored information, the USS/UTM considers
the UAV-C pairing authorization as successful.
10\. The USS/UTM sends a Pairing Authorization Acknowledgement/Notification
message to the UAV-C, which contains Pairing Success Indication, UAV ID, UAV-C
ID, UAS ID, and Session Security Information (i.e., to set up session
security), UAV IP address.
11\. Further the USS/UTM sends a Pairing Authorization Response/Accept message
to the UFES in response to receiving step 5. The Pairing Authorization
Response contains Pairing Success indication, UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID,
Session Security Information, GPSI, and UAV-C IP address.
12\. The UFES sends the received Pairing Authorization Response to the SMF,
which contains Pairing Success indication, UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID, Session
Security Information, GPSI and UAV-C IP address.
13\. The SMF locally stores the information received in the Pairing
Authorization Response as part of pairing authorization status information.
Further performs N4 session set up for the authorized pair of UAV and UAV-C.
14\. The SMF sends Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext Response to the AMF with
the received Pairing Authorization Response Information which includes Success
Indication, UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID, and Session Security Information.
15\. The AMF optionally stores the UAV ID and UAV-C ID along with the pairing
authorization status and UAS ID.
16\. The AMF sends a PDU Session Establishment Accept message to the UAV over
the N1 interface and the PDU Session Establishment Accept message includes the
received Authorization Response Information which includes Success Indication,
UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID, and Session Security Information.
The UAV and UAV-C uses the received session security information to set up a
secure connection between UAV and UAV-C for the C2 connection.
In case of modifying the existing PDU session during pairing authorization,
the steps 1-3 and steps 14-16 will use PDU session modification related
message (i.e., PDU session modification request/response message instead of
PDU session initiation request/response and PDU session update SM context
message instead of PDU session create SM context message accordingly.). The
SMF performs the configuration of the PDU Session accordingly to enforce
pairing based on the received UAV-C authorization Pairing Authorization
Response.
Pairing Authorization Revocation:
Figure 6.15.2-2: UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization revocation
UAV and UAV-C pairing revocation is shown in Figure 6.15.2-2 and the steps
involved in the pairing revocation is described as follows.
1\. The USS/UTM when it determines to revoke UAV/UAV-C pairing (also known as
C2 pairing or C2 association), the USS/UTM sends a Pairing Revocation
Notification to the UFES with the GPSI, CAA Level UAV ID and UAV-C ID.
2\. The UFES uses the Nudm_UECM_Get Request/Response service operation to
fetch the serving SMF information corresponding to the GPSI. Further, the UFES
sends the received Pairing Revocation Notification message to the serving SMF,
which contains GPSI, CAA Level UAV ID, and UAV-C ID.
3\. The SMF on receiving the Pairing Revocation Notification, checks if there
is any active PDU Session corresponding to the indicated CAA level UAV ID with
a UAV-C ID. If there is any active PDU Session, the SMF performs PDU Session
release procedure for the associated PDU Session IDs using the existing
procedure in TS 23.502 Clause 4.3.4.3. with the following adaptations.
4a. The SMF sends a PDU Session Release command to the AMF including the PDU
Session ID along with a suitable cause value and a pairing revocation
information containing CAA level UAV ID and UAV-C ID based on the received
pairing revocation notification.
4b. The AMF forwards the PDU Session Release command to the UAV which includes
PDU Session ID, with a suitable cause value, and a pairing revocation
information containing CAA level UAV ID and UAV-C ID.
5\. The UAV on receiving the PDU Session Release command with a pairing
revocation information will delete the locally stored pairing authorization
information (token, lifetime, identifiers or any related information) and
associated security information for the UAV and UAV-C pairing indicated in the
revocation information.
6\. The UAV sends a PDU Session Release acknowledgement message to the AMF by
including the Pairing Revocation Ack indication and CAA Level UAV ID.
7\. The AMF deletes locally stored pairing information (such as pairing
authorization information and paired UAV and UAV-C IDs if available) for the
UAV corresponding to its CAA Level UAV ID. Further the AMF sends a PDU Session
Release Acknowledgement message to the SMF with the GPSI, received Pairing
Revocation Ack indication and CAA Level UAV ID.
8\. The SMF on receiving the Pairing Revocation Ack indication deletes locally
stored pairing information (such as pairing authorization information and
paired UAV and UAV-C IDs) if available for the UAV corresponding to its CAA
Level UAV ID.
9\. Further, the SMF sends a Pairing Revocation Acknowledgement to the UFES
with the received GPSI, Success Indication, and CAA Level UAV ID.
10\. The UFES forwards the received Pairing Revocation Acknowledgement to the
USS/UTM with the received Success Indication, GPSI and CAA Level UAV ID.
Pairing Revocation related to UAV-Controller (UAV-C) Change:
NOTE 1: SA2 Conclusion specifies that, \'For UAVC replacement, solution #27
may be taken in addition to improve KI#6.\'. Therefore, the adaptation
described in this section can be used for UAVC replacement when required.
1\. The UAV is communicating with UAV-C1 after a successful pairing
authorization.
2\. The USS/UTM determines to change the UAV-C for a UAV (the determination
aspects at USS/UTM are out of 3GPP scope) and sends to SMF via UFES a UAV
Operation update message with 3GPP UAV ID, new authorization data (i.e., CAA
level UAV ID, new UAV-C2 info (example., ID and IP address), session security
information and new UAS ID if any), pairing authorization indication and Cause
indicating UAV-C Change.
NOTE 2: SA2 defines the content of UAV and UAVC pairing information, e.g. 3GPP
UAV IDs and corresponding IP addresses and how the IP addresses of UAV and
UAVC are available to the USS/UTM is up to SA2 as specified in Solution#27.
3\. The SMF initiates PDU session modification procedure (via the serving AMF
with the UAV) by sending to AMF, N1 SM container with PDU session Modification
command along with the received Pairing authorization indication, new
authorization data and a suitable cause value based on the received UAV-C
change indication.
4\. The AMF forwards the PDU session modification command message to the UAV
along with the received Pairing authorization indication, new authorization
data and a suitable cause value based on UAV-C change indication.
5\. The UAV updates the pairing information based on the received new
authorization data and sends a PDU Session Modification Command Ack to AMF.
The AMF can update the locally stored pairing information if any (such as
paired UAV and UAV-C information, authorization status based on new
authorization data received) and forwards the received PDU Session
Modification Command Ack to SMF. The SMF can also update the locally stored
pairing information if any and updates N4 session of the UPF(s) that are
involved by the PDU Session Modification for the new authorized pair of UAV
and new UAV-C2 (based on UAV and UAV-C information received from USS/UTM).
6\. The UAV communicates with the UAV-C2.
Applicability to EPS:
The UAV/UAV-C (i.e., C2) Pairing authorization and Revocation procedure
described in this section can be applicable to EPS, with the adaptation of
using MME, SMF+PGW-C, UPF+PGW-U and HSS+UDM respectively. 3GPP NF/UFES can act
as a UAS NF or UAS control function in the 3GPP network which can be a
standalone network function, or a service offered by the SCEF in the EPS. The
message name used in EPS procedure can be aligned with SA2 where required
during the normative work. The UAV and UAV-C pairing authorization when
connected to EPS is described as follows.
1\. The UAV sends to MME, a PDN connection Request with Pairing Authorization
Request Information. Pairing Authorization Request Information includes UAV
ID, Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV Authorization Token (the one received during
successful UAA from USS/UTM), UAS Security Context Identifier (the one
received during the successful UAA from USS/UTM to uniquely identify the UAS
security context information established between UAV and USS/UTM).
2\. The MME on receiving the PDN connectivity Request with Pairing
Authorization Request Information, checks if the UAV-ID is authorized to
request pairing authorization based on the locally stored UAS authentication
and authorization results, authorization information (Token) and UAV-C ID (if
available). If both the received Pairing authorization request information and
locally stored information matches, the MME considers the check as successful
and perform step 3. If the MME does not find any UAS authentication results or
if the authentication result or authorization information locally stored does
not match with the received authorization information, then the AMF triggers
UAA as in Solution#7.
3\. The MME sends Create Session Request to the SMF+PGW-C via S-GW with the
received Pairing Authorization Request Information which includes UAV ID,
Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV Authorization Token, UAS Security Context
Identifier and 3GPP UAV ID (i.e., an external identifier).
4\. The SMF+PGW-C sends the received Pairing Authorization Request to the UFES
which contains UAV ID, Target UAV-C ID, UAS ID, UAV Authorization Token, UAS
Security Context Identifier along with 3GPP UAV ID and UAV IP address (based
on TR 23.754 [3]).
5\. The UFES sends the received Pairing Authorization Request to the USS/UTM.
6-10. Steps 6-10 can be performed as described for 5GS.
11\. Further the USS/UTM sends a Pairing Authorization Response/Accept message
to the UFES in response to receiving step 5. The Pairing Authorization
Response contains Pairing Success indication, UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID,
Session Security Information, 3GPP UAV ID, and UAV-C IP address.
12\. The UFES sends the received Pairing Authorization Response to the
SMF+PGW-C.
13\. The SMF+PGW-C locally stores the information received in the Pairing
Authorization Response as part of pairing authorization status information.
Further performs N4 session set up for the authorized pair of UAV and UAV-C.
14\. The SMF+PGW-C sends Create Session Response to the MME via S-GW, with the
received Pairing Authorization Response Information which includes Success
Indication, UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID, and Session Security Information.
15\. The MME optionally stores the UAV ID and UAV-C ID along with the pairing
authorization status and UAS ID.
16\. The MME sends a PDN Connection Accept message to the UAV over the NAS and
the PDN Connection Accept message includes the received Authorization Response
Information which includes Success Indication, UAV ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID, and
Session Security Information.
The UAV and UAV-C can use the received session security information to set up
a secure connection between UAV and UAV-C for the C2 connection.
The UAV and UAV-C pairing revocation can be applicable to EPS as described
below.
The USS/UTM when it determines to revoke UAV/UAV-C pairing (also known as C2
pairing or C2 association), the USS/UTM sends a Pairing Revocation
Notification to the UFES with the 3GPP UAV ID (i.e., an external identifier),
CAA Level UAV ID and UAV-C ID. The UFES sends the received Pairing Revocation
Notification message to the SMF+PGW-C and a PDN connection disconnection and
bearer deactivation can be initiated based on TR 23.754 [3] and TS 23.401
accordingly. The Delete Session/bearer Request can be sent by SMF+PGW-C to MME
via S-GW with a suitable cause value and a pairing revocation information
containing CAA level UAV ID and UAV-C ID based on the received pairing
revocation notification. During bearer deactivation, the MME can send to the
UAV, a suitable cause value and a pairing revocation information containing
CAA level UAV ID and UAV-C ID. The UAV on receiving the pairing revocation
information will delete the locally stored pairing authorization information
and security information for the UAV and UAV-C pairing and releases all
resources corresponding to the PDN connection. The UAV sends in response, a
pairing revocation acknowledgement and CAA level UAV ID to the MME. The MME
sends a PDN connection Release Acknowledgement (example., in a delete bearer
response) to SMF+PGW-C via SGW with the external ID, Pairing Revocation Ack
indication and CAA Level UAV ID. The SMF+PGW-C on receiving the Pairing
Revocation Ack indication deletes locally stored pairing information (such as
pairing authorization information and paired UAV and UAV-C IDs). Further, the
SMF+PGW-C sends a Pairing Revocation Acknowledgement to the UFES with the
received 3GPP UAV ID, Success Indication, and CAA Level UAV ID. The UFES
forwards the received Pairing Revocation Acknowledgement to the USS/UTM with
the received Success Indication, 3GPP UAV ID and CAA Level UAV ID. In case of
UAV change, an authorization indication, new authorization data with cause as
UAV change can be notified by the USS/UTM to the UFES. The PDN connection
modification can be triggered by the SMF+PGW-C and the UAV can be notified
with an authorization indication, new authorization data with cause as UAV
change to allow the UAV to update the pairing authorization information during
the PDN connection modification. The UAV updates the pairing information based
on the received new authorization data and sends an acknowledgement back to
MME. The MME forwards the received acknowledgement to SMF+PGW-C. The SMF+PGW-C
can also update the locally stored pairing information if any (such as paired
UAV and UAV-C information, authorization status based on new authorization
data received) and updates session that are involved by the PDN connection
Modification for the new authorized pair of UAV and new UAV-C2 (based on UAV
and UAV-C information received from USS/UTM).
### 6.15.3 Solution evaluation
AMF in 5GS and SMF+PGW-C in EPS: On receiving a pairing authorization request
information, need to verify if the UAV-ID is authorized to request pairing
authorization based on the locally stored UAS authentication and authorization
results, authorization information (i.e., Auth Token) and UAV-C ID (if
available). If there are no UAS authentication results available or if does
not match, then triggers UAA before performing pairing authorization.
After a successful pairing authorization, receives (from USS/UTM via UFES) and
forwards the Authorization Response Information with Success Indication, UAV
ID, UAV-C ID, UAS ID, and Session Security Information to the UAV, to allow
session security set up between the paired UAV and UAVC. Also stores the UAV
ID and UAV-C ID along with the pairing authorization status and UAS ID to
enable handling of paired connections later (example. during pairing
revocation and UAVC change).
UE: On a PDU session establishment related to C2, sends Pairing Authorization
Request Information which includes UAS ID, UAV Auth Token, and UAS Security
Context Identifier.
On a PDU session or PDN connection release related to a pairing revocation
requested by the USS/UTM (via UFES), the UAV is notified (via AMF/MME
accordingly) with a Pairing Revocation Indication and pairing revocation
information to enable UAV to delete any pairing authorization information
locally stored.
On a PDU session/PDN connection modification related to a UAVC change
requested by the USS/UTM (via UFES), the UAV is notified (via AMF and MME
accordingly) with a UAVC Change and new authorization information to enable
UAV to update any pairing authorization information locally stored.6.16.
## 6.16 Solution #16: Preventing malicious revocation from unauthorized
UTM/USS
### 6.16.1 Solution overview
This solution proposes to address the fake UTM/USS issue in KI#1. Unauthorized
UTM/USS, including fake UTM/USS and competitor UTM/USS, may perform malicious
UAV service revocation due to the lack of authorization checking by the 3GPP
network, the contribution provides a solution to prevent the malicious
revocation sent by the unauthorized UTM/USS.
According to the conclusion in TR 23.754 [3], the UTM/USS shows the 3GPP UAV
ID (i.e. GPSI) to invoke MNO services and to revoke authentication &
authorization. However, an unauthorized UTM/USS may perform malicious
revocation to 3GPP network by sending 3GPP UAV ID captured from other places
(e.g. the same 3GPP UAV ID is reused for multiple UTM/USSs or eavesdropping on
the GPSIs which are sent out from 3GPP network). To prevent the above attack,
this solution allows the UAV-NF to check the revocation request is sent from
the serving UTM/USS of the UAV (i.e. the authorized UTM/USS).
### 6.16.2 Solution details
Upon a successful USS UAV Authentication and Authorization (UUAA) procedure
between UAV and UTM/USS, the UAV-NF (a UAVF or UFES as specified in TR 23.754
[3]) stores a UUAA identity mapping between the 3GPP UAV ID and the UTM/USS
identifier. Upon a successful pairing authorization procedure, the UAV-NF
stores a pairing identity mapping between the 3GPP UAV ID and the UTM/USS
identifier.
During either UUAA revocation or pairing revocation, the UTM/USS uses 3GPP UAV
ID to invoke the corresponding revocation, the revocation request message sent
from UTM/USS includes its UTM/USS identifier. The UAV-NF verifies the
revocation request by checking the 3GPP UAV ID and UTM/USS identifier match
the previously maintained mapping relationships accordingly (either UUAA ID
mapping or pairing ID mapping). The UAV-NF stops the subsequent revocation
procedures if the 3GPP UAV ID and the UTM/USS identifier sent from the UTM/USS
do not match the previously maintained mapping relationships.
### 6.16.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the fake UTM/USS issue in Key Issue #1 by introducing
additional checks at UAV-NF (aka UAVF or UFES) to avoid unauthorized
revocation (UUAA revocation or pairing revocation). This solution requires
UAV-NF to associate the 3GPP UAV ID with the UTM/USS identifier after UUAA
procedures. The UTM/USS is required to send both 3GPP UAV ID and UTM/USS
identifier to UAV-NF to perform revocation(s). The UAV-NF needs to verify the
associated identities provided by the UTM/USS before the rest revocation
procedures.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusions for KI#1
UAV Authentication and Authorization (UAA) is recommended for the normative
work based on the following solutions and principles:
NOTE: The agreement for normative work is on key common principles and not on
the other details of the solutions.
\- UAA is performed in 5G systems or EPS.
\- UAA is performed between UAV and USS/UTM after Primary Authentication.
\- Revocation of UAV is initiated by USS/UTM using the 3GPP UAV ID.
\- UAA is performed either optionally during registration (5G solutions #1,
#3, #7, #10 as basis) or during PDU session establishment (5G solution #5 as
basis).
\- USS/UTM is authorized to perform UAV authorization revocation, it is
verified by UAS-NF (5G solutions #16 as basis).
\- For EPS: solution #13 is chosen as the basis for normative work, with
similar principles above.
\- In UAA, CAA Level UAV ID is used to identify UAV.
\- Specific authentication methods for UAA are out of scope of 3GPP, the
messages used for UAA exchanged between UAV and USS/UTM are included in
transparent containers.
\- Security related application layer information can be transported between
UAV and USS/UTM in transparent containers (the content is out of scope of
3GPP).
## 7.2 Conclusions for KI#2
Pairing Authorization for UAV and UAVC is recommended for the normative work
based on the following solutions and principles:
NOTE: The agreement for normative work is on key common principles and not on
the other details of the solutions.
\- Pairing authorization is performed after successful UAA between UAV and
USS/UTM.
\- Pairing authorization is performed during PDU session
establishment/modification procedure (5G solution #5, #11, #14, #15 as bases)
and enforced in the 3GPP network based on connectivity information received
from USS.
\- Both SMF and authorized USS/UTM may trigger pairing authorization.
Authorized USS/UTM may trigger updating and revocation of pairing
authorization using 3GPP UAV ID (sol#15 as base for UAV-C change).
\- For EPS: solution #13 is chosen as the basis for normative work, with
similar principles as for 5GS above.
\- During pairing authorization procedure, CAA Level UAV ID is used to
identify UAV.
\- The messages used for pairing authorization that are exchanged between UAV
and USS/UTM are included in transparent containers and the content is out of
scope of 3GPP.
## 7.3 Conclusions for KI#3
For Key Issue #3 on TPAE (Third Party Authorized Entity) authentication and
authorization, it is concluded that there is no normative work for Rel-17, as
TPAE authentication and authorization is not in scope of Rel-17.
## 7.4 Conclusion on KI #4
For key issue #4 on Location information veracity and location tracking
authorization:
Solution #6, solution #8 and solution#12 are chosen as basis for normative
work, based on the following key common principles:
\- The UAS NF (aka UFES) receives location request from USS/UTM which may
include a 3GPP UAV ID. If authorized, UAS NF provides USS/UTM with UAV
location information including the 3GPP UAV ID (GPSI).
\- To obtain UAV location information, the UAS NF uses location services (LCS)
as supported by AMF/MME or GMLC. The Network-Assisted Positioning Procedure
between the LMF and NG-RAN is selected for location information veracity.
\- The UAS NF ensures that the USS/UTM is authorized to track the location of
a given UAV before sending the UAV location information to USS/UTM. A USS/UTM
is authorized to receive the location information of a group of UAVs in a
particular geographic area or of an individual UAV if it has authorized the
UAV(s) for service. Furthermore, a USS/UTM can be authorized to receive the
data about all UAVs in a particular geographic area.
NOTE: The agreement for normative work is on key common principles and not on
the other details of the solutions.
## 7.5 Conclusions for KI#5
It is concluded that there is no normative work for KI#5 in Rel-17, as the CAA
level UAV identity in Rel-17 is determined by the USS/UTM and not in the scope
of 3GPP in Rel-17.
## 7.6 Conclusions for KI#6
The following is recommended for normative work:
\- The transport of non-C2 UAS security information in a transparent container
between USS/UTM and UAV during UUAA procedures is enabled.
\- The content of security information (e.g. key material to help establish
security between UAV and USS/UTM) is not in 3GPP scope.
## 7.7 Conclusions for KI#7
The following is recommended for normative work:
\- The transport of security information in a transparent container between
USS/UTM and UAV during PDU or PDN Session establishment/modification procedure
is enabled.
\- The content of security information (e.g. key material to help establish
security for C2 Communications) is not in 3GPP scope.
#