# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The scope of present document is to identify and evaluate the requirements and
solutions to support user consent for 3GPP services while complying with user
privacy considerations.
The details are as follows:
\- Review TR 33.849 [3] with regards to the concept of user consent for 3GPP
users, and identify what types of data collection and conditions under which
the support of the user consent is required; then update them if needed.
\- Identify target usage scenarios and trust domains.
\- Analyse potential security threats and requirements for conditions under
which user sensitive data are collected without user consent, and when user
consent indication is not protected.
\- Identify potential solutions to address the above security requirements.
NOTE 1: Principles, regulations, and definitions related to privacy, which are
recognized differently in each different country or area, are taken into
account when deriving the concept of user consent for 3GPP users.
NOTE 2: Even where solutions exist to obtain user consent, collection and
exposure of user sensitive data should be minimized and only be allowed where
critical to the operation of the related feature.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications (EA) \".
[3] 3GPP TR 33.849: \"Study on subscriber privacy impact in 3GPP\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[6] General Data Protection Regulation, https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:02016R0679-20160504&from=EN.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Data controller:** As defined in TR 33.849 [3].
**Data processor:** As defined in TR 33.849 [3].
**Data subject:** As defined in TR 33.849 [3].
**_Personal data:_** As defined in TR 33.849 [3].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EAS edge application server
EES edge enabler server
GPSI Generic Public Subscription Identifier
MEC Mobile Edge Computing
MNO Mobile Network Operator
NF Network Function
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
PII Personal Identification Information
# 4 General principles for user consent
## 4.1 Concept of user consent
Many new applications and use cases in the 5G System require the storage and
processing of user data along with the request for providing communication
services. In such cases, user consent is required. In the present document
user consent means a specific and clear opt-in of the user to indicate
permission to the processing and collection of the user\'s personal data for a
specific purpose.
## 4.2 Background information to existing work
Privacy is one aspect for which user consent is needed. Privacy aspect has
already been studied in detail in TR 33.849 [3], which provides privacy
principles that need to be followed in 3GPP when designing new systems,
security architectures and protocols. Parts of TR 33.849 [3] are related to
user consent and can be taken into account in the present document.
In clause 6.5 of TR 33.849 [3], user consent is introduced as one of the
threat mitigation approaches to mitigate the privacy risk, and gives a brief
introduction on how explicit user consent can be collected.
In clause 5.3.4 of TR 33.849 [3], conditions which user consent is required
for personal information disclosure is defined as: \"_Personal data disclosure
with the purpose to accomplish a certain application/service needs to be under
user\'s consent, unless the disclosure is performed in the legitimate interest
of the data subject, e.g. providing a service._ \"
In Annex B of TR 33.849 [3], some regulations related to privacy are
introduced.
However, with evolution of 3GPP network, more and more 3GPP services are
introduced. Some services can require personal identification information
(PII), thus, the identification of target usage case for user consent is
necessary.
For different use case, the PII is identified by different identities, e.g.,
some of them is identified by subscriber ID, i.e., SUPI, and some of them is
identified by user IDs. Thus, it is necessary that the source of user consent
is identified case by case.
However, as mentioned before, privacy is only one of the drivers for user
consent. User consent can also be given or prohibited for non PII.
In summary, different use cases need different solutions for authorization
based on user consent. Security issues of how user consent is exchanged among
NFs in the network and how they are handled and respected by various features
specified by 3GPP will be considered in the present document.
# 5 Use Cases and Architecture
## 5.1 Use Cases
### 5.1.1 Use Cases #1: UE Related Analytics of NWDAF
#### 5.1.1.1 Use Case details
NWDAF can provide UE related analytics services. The NWDAF collects UE related
data, e.g. from UE, NFs, 3^rd^ party, and outputs related analytics result,
e.g. UE mobility analytics, UE communication analytics, expected UE
behavioural parameters related network data analytics and abnormal behaviour
related network data analytics as depicted in clause 6.7 in 3GPP TS 23.288
[4].
The NWDAF can process UE related data as the following:
\- Collect UE related data to provide UE related analytics for the user, e.g.
UE mobility analytics.
\- Share analytics result to NF consumers, e.g. internal NF or 3^rd^ AF.
The PLMN NFs or AFs can process UE related data as the following:
\- Collect and store UE related data.
\- Share UE related data to NWDAF.
Since the UE related data may contain personally identifiable information,
thus, processing of those data should consider user consent aspects. The
analytics service is provided by PLMN to a specific subscriber. The key point
is that the NWDAF in the PLMN only collects network data which is bound to a
subscriber ID, i.e. SUPI, and the analysis output is also bound to that SUPI.
Even in case that another user borrows the subscriber\'s phone, the PLMN
cannot output an analysis result bound to that user because the PLMN just
knows current collected data is from the subscriber identified by the SUPI.
The PLMN does not output any analysis bound to that user who are using the
phone, instead, the output is still bound to subscriber because the collected
data is identified by the SUPI, not the user\'s ID. The only issue is that the
analysis may not be precious enough for the subscriber. Since the PLMN does
not output any analysis bound to the user who are using the phone, the user\'s
privacy is not disrupted, so, it is also aligned with regulation. Thus, for
this use case, since the service is provided to the specific subscriber, user
consent should be collected from subscriber.
#### 5.1.1.2 Individual Architecture
For this use case, the architecture and framework as specified in TS 23.288
[4], TS 23.501 [5] are regarded as the baseline. The solutions build on the 5G
System architectural principles as in TS 23.501 [5], including flexibility and
modularity for newly introduced functionalities.
Moreover, the individual architecture is shown in figure 5.1.1.2-1.
{width="4.095833333333333in" height="2.1680555555555556in"}
Figure 5.1.1.2-1: Individual Architecture for data analytics
The UE related data is derived from the UE.
The NFs, for example, AMF, SMF, OAM, AF, etc., collect and store UE related
data derived from the UE. Thus, the legal entity of those network entities is
data controller. In case that the AF is outside of 3GPP network, the legal
entity of the AF is another data controller.
The NWDAF collects UE related data from the NFs, and processes data for UE
related analytics to provide UE related analytics services. Thus, the legal
entity of the NWDAF is data processor. In case that the NWDAF is NF of data
controller, the legal entity of the NWDAF is also data controller.
NOTE: Roaming architecture for NWDAF is not addressed in the present document.
### 5.1.2 Use Cases #2: UE Information Exposure for Mobile Edge Computing
#### 5.1.2.1 Use Case details
An edge enabler server (EES) of the edge data network caters to the edge
applications running at an edge data network. The EES is configured to expose
APIs (e.g. location service, UE identifier (GPSI)) to the edge application
server (EAS), and the PLMN NFs are also configured to expose the relevant APIs
to the EES.
The EAS collects the UE information via the EES\'s APIs to provide specific
services, e.g. collect GPSI and related GPS to provide accurate location
service, and the EES may collect the UE information via the PLMN NFs\' APIs.
The EAS can process UE information as the following:
\- Collect UE information to provide specific services, e.g. collect UE
location to provide accurate location service.
The EES can process UE information as following:
\- Collect and store UE information.
\- Share UE information to EAS.
The NFs in PLMN can process UE information as following:
\- Collect and store UE information.
\- Share UE information to EES.
The MEC service is provided by stakeholder of the EAS (e.g. 3^rd^ party) to a
specific subscriber. The key point is that the EAS in the 3^rd^ party can
identify the specific user who is using the MEC application. If the EAS
requests for the user\'s sensitive information from PLMN, e.g. location, GPSI,
etc., user consent from the user may be needed because the user\'s sensitive
information is transferred between different data controllers, i.e. PLMN and
3^rd^ party. Thus, for this use case, since the service is provided to the
specific user, user consent should be collected from user.
#### 5.1.2.2 Individual Architecture
For this use case, the architecture and framework as specified in TS 23.558
[2], TS 23.501 [5] are regarded as the baseline. The solutions build on the 5G
System architectural principles as in TS 23.501 [5], including flexibility and
modularity for newly introduced functionalities.
Moreover, the individual architecture is shown in figure 5.1.2.2-1.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="2.863888888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Individual architecture for data analytics
The UE information is derived from the UE, which may include UE static ID, UE
location, etc.
The home PLMN NFs in 3GPP core network store UE information. Thus, the legal
entity of those network entities is data controller. In addition, the EES also
collects and stores UE information from the 3GPP core network. Thus the legal
entity of the EES is also data controller.
The EAS collects UE information from the EES, and processes the UE information
to provide specific services. Thus, the legal entity of the EAS is data
processor. The legal entity of the EAS is also data controller.
## 5.2 Common architecture
The common architecture for user consent is shown in figure 5.2-1.
{width="4.164583333333334in" height="2.4263527996500436in"}
Figure 5.2-1: Common Architecture for User Consent
The data subject is provided specific services from the data controller, if
the service needs user consent, e.g. the service requires to process the
personal data, the data subject is required by the data controller for user
consent for the service from the data controller. The data subject decides
whether to grant the consent. In 3GPP, the data subject is end-user.
The data controller requires data subject to provide user consent for specific
service if the service needs user consent. If the consent is granted from the
data subject, the data controller collects and stores the personal data, and
provides the personal data to the data processor. Once process result is
received, the data controller provides the specific service to the data
subject. In 3GPP, the data controller is operator. the data controller will
sign a contract with the data processor, the contract limits the data
processing to the contracted out purpose.
The data processor receives personal data from the data controller and provide
process result to the data controller. In 3GPP, the data processor is data
controller itself (i.e. operator) or 3^rd^ party.
The consent may be also given for defined external data processors (e.g.
limited to being located in certain countries).
# 6 Key issues
## 6.1 Key Issue #1: User\'s consent for exposure of information to Edge
Applications
### 6.1.0 Use case mapping
As defined in clauses 6.6 and 8.6 in TS 23.558 [2], the EES can expose some
service capability APIs to the EAS(s). The exposed service capability APIs
include EES capabilities and exposed 3GPP Core Network capabilities. Some APIs
provided by the EES are related to user\'s consent such as UE location API
specified in clause 8.6.2 in TS 23.558 [2] and UE Identifier API specified in
clause 8.6.5 in TS 23.558 [2].
### 6.1.1 Key issue details
The EES exposes UE Identifier API to the EAS in order to provide an identifier
uniquely identifying a UE. Further, the EES exposes the UE location API to the
EAS in order to support tracking or checking the valid location of the UE. In
order to expose such user related private information to the Edge Application
servers, consent from the user is needed.
EES capability exposure to the EAS as defined in TS 23.558 [2], mandates the
end user\'s consent for reporting UE\'s information, particularly for UE
Identifier API and UE location API. Also as suggested in TS 23.558 [2],
whether and how user\'s consent is obtained to share the UE identifier with a
particular EAS is covered in this key issue.
### 6.1.2 Security threats
Use of user\'s information to identify and track the user or user\'s behavior
without the permission or knowledge of the user, poses huge threat to user\'s
privacy.
### 6.1.3 Potential security requirements
Architecture for enabling edge applications shall support a mechanism for Edge
Application Servers to obtain user\'s authorization, in order to access to
and/or to expose the user\'s sensitive information (e.g. user\'s location).
NOTE: When defining any procedures obtaining user\'s consent, it is needed to
clarify \"when\" user\'s consent is obtained, on \"what\" information it is
obtained and provide details on \"why\" user\'s consent is obtained (e.g. for
what purposes the user consented information will be used).
## 6.2 Key Issue #2 User consent for UE data collection
### 6.2.1 Key issue details
5GS NFs will collect data about the UE being served. The NFs keep privacy
related sensitive data such as profiling information, location information,
etc. UE related data may also need to be transferred to another NF to fulfil a
service request or, e.g., for analytics purposes. For example, the NWDAF
shares the analytics results to the consumer NF which may be an internal NF or
a 3^rd^ party and exposes the UE Identifier, UE location in order to support
tracking or checking the valid location of the UE.
In order to meet related private information requirements stated above, user
consent is needed.
### 6.2.2 Security threats
If the 5G NFs are not aware of the current status of user consent for a
specific service, they may share information with other NF\'s that are not
essential for 5G communication that could lead to a compromise in the users
privacy. For example, sharing location, timings and device ID with a third
party service or with a NF from an operator that is neither the home or
visited network.
### 6.2.3 Potential security requirements
The 3GPP system shall provide a means for an NF to authenticate a request for
information that may compromise a user\'s privacy.
The 5GS shall provide a means for an NF to verify the status of user consent
for a request for information that may compromise a user\'s privacy.
The 5GS shall specify where an NF can find the status of user consent for
service that it delivers.
The 5GSshall specify a means that allows a user to change or add consent for a
service/for any UE sensitive information collection (e.g. UE location
information).
5G NFs shall provide protect potential privacy related information both in
transit and in storage.
NOTE: The key issue covers also user consent not based on privacy regulation.
## 6.3 Key Issue #3: Modification or revocation of user consent
### 6.3.1 Key issue details
UDR (via UDM services) holds the user consent for user related data which is
provisioned by MNO as a user subscription information. A service provider
(external to MNO domain) can use _Nnef_parameterProvision_Update_ service to
update or to revoke the user consent to the UDM/UDR (when applicable).
In some regulatory domains, there exists a \"right to be forgotten\". In these
domains, modification or revocation of user consent may require the data
controller to delete the data for which prior user consent was given.
### 6.3.2 Security threats
If user consent modification or revocation is done by an unauthorized party, a
service to a consumer can be denied; or service might be granted to the
consumer that should not have access to the user data.
### 6.3.3 Potential security requirements
5GS shall support to delete the data if the user consent is modified or
revoked after prior user consent was given.
5GS shall support to halt gathering and sharing of data as soon as the user
consent is modified or revoked after prior user consent was given.
## 6.4 Key Issue #4: KI on relationship between the subscriber and the end-
users
### 6.4.1 Key issue details
Based on the discussion over the past meetings, companies had different
perspective over the consent provided by the users or the subscriber. As the
end-users of the subscription may not be the subscriber, for example, employee
may use the subscription of the employer for business proposes. In such
scenarios, the user consent can be provided either by the user(s)
(employee(s)) or by the subscriber (employer) based on the use cases. For
e.g., in the case where PLMN provides service for a subscription, the user
consent can be collected from subscriber and for the case where 3rd party
provides service for the user, the user consent can be collected from the
users (end-users), as subscriber may not be involved or it is irrelevant for
the subscriber.
As an outcome of the discussion, it is decided that, the user consent is
obtained from the end-user(s) and the consent obtained from the end-users
(subscriber and/or users) of the subscription is considered as valid for that
subscription.
NOTE: The term end-user defined in TR 21.905 [1].
### 6.4.2 Security threats
Not applicable.
### 6.4.3 Potential security requirements
_Not applicable._
## 6.5 Key issue #5: Unambiguous naming of purposes
### 6.5.0 Use case mapping
In all use cases, user consent is given for specific purposes. Thus this key
issue is relevant for all use cases.
### 6.5.1 Key issue details
Data handling (i.e. processing, storage, distribution, usage, etc.) subject to
user consent needs to be limited to the purposes for which user consent has
been given. It is necessary to unambiguously specify this purpose in order to
enforce it. For interoperability, it is necessary to standardize a machine
readable format to specify these purposes.
### 6.5.2 Security threats
If the system is not aware of the precise limits of user consent given for
data handling, there is a possibility that data is handled outside of the
given consent. This could result in privacy violation of the user and could
also entail a legal risk for the parties involved in processing and in
forwarding the data.
### 6.5.3 Potential security requirements
The 3GPP system shall adhere to a publicly specified, machine readable format
for specifying processing purposes.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
Table 7.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Solutions Key Issues
* * *
                                                                                                 1            2   3
#1: User Consent for Exposure of information to Edge Applications in Real Time
X  
#2: User Consent for UE Related Analytics of NWDAF X  
#3: User Consent for UE Related Analytics of NWDAF X  
#4: Check of User Consent for 3GPP Service Exposure X  
#5: Privacy preservation of transmitted data X  
#6: Revocation for user consent X #7: Retrieving User's consent for exposure
of information to the Edge Applications from UDM X
## 7.1 Solution #1: User Consent for Exposure of information to Edge
Applications in Real Time
### 7.1.1 Solution overview
The solution addresses key issue #1 \"User Consent for Exposure of information
to Edge Applications\".
The solution introduces a new function user consent function (UCF), the UCF
can collect and maintain user consent from user in real time. The UCF is
operator\'s internal AF which can be merged with other internal AF, and can
communicate with user.
NOTE 1: How would the UCF know from what user it collected the user consent
form is not addressed in this solution.
NOTE 2: Whether UCF should communicate with user is not addressed in this
solution.
NOTE 3: How UCF can determine the user is not addressed in this solution if
UCF communicates with user.
### 7.1.2 Solution details
{width="5.311805555555556in" height="4.0881944444444445in"}
Figure 7.1.2-1: Authorization based on User Consent
1) AS sends API invocation to NEF, requesting for user\'s sensitive
information, e.g. location. The invocation includes AS ID and user ID. The
user ID is associated to specific user.
2) The NEF sends the API invocation with the AS ID and the user ID to NF
provider to retrieve the information.
3) The NF provider checks whether authorization of user consent is needed or
not based on the invocated API according to local policy, e.g. regulation, if
the invocation requests the user\'s sensitive data, the NF provider may check
whether user is allowed based on local policy. Otherwise, if the invocation
requests non-user information or policy is not needed, the NF provider may not
check the consent.
4) If check of consent is needed, the NF provider sends Consent Request
message with the API ID, the AS ID and the user ID to the UCF.
5) The UCF checks whether consent is allowed. The UCF may push application
request to the user for consent via application layer, the UCF may also push
SMS to the user associated with the MISDN. The request shows that user consent
is needed for sharing your sensitive information to 3^rd^ party. If consent is
received or rejected, the UCF replies result to the NF provider. The UCF may
store the consent for future use.
6) The UCF sends Consent Response to the NF provider with the result.
7) If the result shows that consent is allowed, the NF provider response to
the API invocation, otherwise, the invocation is cancelled.
NOTE 1: How AS\'s purpose for data processing is determined is not addressed
in this solution.
NOTE 2: How to track where data has been communicated to in case of a
requirement for later deletion is not addressed in this solution.
### 7.1.3 Solution evaluation
The solution is incomplete.
## 7.2 Solution #2: User Consent for UE Related Analytics of NWDAF
### 7.2.1 Solution overview
The solution addresses key issue #2.
The solution gives an overview for user consent on services provided by NWDAF.
### 7.2.2 Solution details
#### 7.2.2.1 NF Authorization based on User Consent
{width="4.208333333333333in" height="3.8in"}
Figure 7.2.2.1-1: NF Authorization based on User Consent for NWDAF
1) The UDM maintains user consent for the subscriber.
2) The NWDAF sends Data/Analytics Request to Data Provider, the request
includes SUPI and analytics ID.
3) If the request is for specific analytics, e.g. may collect UE\'s
information for UE related analytics, the Data provider checks whether user
consent is needed for the analytics according to local policy, e.g.
regulation.
4) The Data Provider sends Consent Check Request message to the UDM. The
message includes the service ID, the Service Provider ID and the SUPI. The
service ID is associated with the analytics ID.
5) The UDM checks user consent according to the maintained user consent.
6) The UDM sends Consent Check Response message to the Data Provider. The
message includes the result, i.e. permission granted or denied.
7) The Data Provider starts to collect the requested data based on the result.
NOTE 1: If step 2 is done in another place like in NWDAF or UDM, the details
are not addressed in this solution.
NOTE 2: When UDM itself is data provider, the details are not addressed in
this solution.
#### 7.2.2.2 User Consent Format
The UDM maintains the following parameters for user consent for services
provided by NWDAF:
\- UE ID: refers to a subscriber, can be SUPI.
\- Service Provider ID: refers to a service provider who provides data
analytics service for the UE, can be PLMN ID.
\- Service ID: refers to a data analytics service, can be analytics ID.
Those parameters are combined to indicate that a specific subscriber has user
consent to consume specific network analytics service provided by the specific
service provider.
#### 7.2.2.3 Obtain of User Consent
The subscriber may give its consent to operator when the subscriber signs
service contract with the operator.
### 7.2.3 Solution evaluation
The solution is incomplete.
## 7.3 Solution #3: User Consent for UE Related Analytics of NWDAF
### 7.3.1 Solution overview
The solution addresses key issue #2.
The solution gives an overview for user consent on services provided by NWDAF.
### 7.3.2 Solution details
#### 7.3.2.1 NF Authorization based on User Consent
{width="4.779166666666667in" height="4.1625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1-1: NF Authorization based on User Consent for NWDAF
\- The UDM maintains user consent for the subscriber.
\- If the NWDAF receives request for specific analytics from Data Consumer,
e.g. it may collect UE\'s information for UE related analytics, the NWDAF
checks whether user consent is needed for the analytics according to local
policy, e.g. regulation.
\- If there is no user consent parameters in the NWDAF\'s UE context, the
NWDAF sends Nudm_SDM_Get Request message to the UDM. The input \"Subscription
data type(s)\" is set to \"user consent subscription data\", the input \"Key
for each Subscription data type(s)\" is set to \"SUPI\", the input \"Data Sub
Key(s)\" is set to \"data processor ID\" and/or \"purpose of data process\".
\- The UDM retrieves user consent parameters.
\- The UDM sends Nudm_SDM_Get Response message to the Data Provider. The
message includes the user consent parameters. The NWDAF stores the user
consent parameters in the NWDAF\'s UE context.
\- Based on the user consent parameters, the NWDAF sends Data/Analytics
Request to Data Provider, the request includes the SUPI and the analytics ID.
\- The Data Provider starts to collect the requested data based on the result.
#### 7.3.2.2 User Consent Format
The UDM maintains the following user consent parameters for services provided
by NWDAF:
\- UE ID: refers to a subscriber, can be SUPI.
\- Data Processor ID: refers to a service provider who provides data analytics
service for the UE, can be PLMN ID.
\- Purpose of Data Processing: refers to a data analytics service, can be
service operation name (e.g. Nnwdaf_AnalyticsSubscription_Subscribe), with
specific analytics ID input.
\- User Consent Result: whether there is consent for data processor to process
the data according to purpose of data processing.
NOTE: Details of purpose of data processing is addressed in key issue #5.
Those parameters are combined to indicate that a specific subscriber has user
consent to consume specific network analytics service provided by the specific
service provider.
#### 7.3.2.3 Obtain of User Consent
The subscriber may give its consent to operator when the subscriber signs
service contract with the operator.
The subscriber may change or add consent to operator when the subscriber
changes its subscription with the operator.
### 7.3.3 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses key issue #2.
## 7.4 Solution #4: Check of User Consent for 3GPP Service Exposure
### 7.4.1 Solution overview
The solution addresses key issue #1 \"User Consent for Exposure of information
to Edge Applications\".
### 7.4.2 Solution details
#### 7.4.2.1 Check of user consent on NEF/CAPIF
{width="6.2in" height="4.4in"}
Figure 7.4.2.1-1: Check of User Consent on NEF/CAPIF
1) UDM maintains user consent parameters as subscription data as depicted in
clause 7.4.2.2.
2) AS sends API invocation to NEF/CAPIF, requesting for processing user\'s
data, e.g. if the invocated service is \"Nnef_Location_LocationUpdateNotify\"
with inputs with AF ID, and GPSI, it means that the AF asks NEF/CAPIF to
retrieve location of UE identified by the GPSI.
3) The NEF/CAPIF determines whether the invocated service needs to check user
consent based on operator\'s local policy, e.g. whether regulation is
required, whether the invocated service is to process user\'s personal
information, etc. If there is no need to check user consent, steps 3-6 can be
skipped.
4) If there is no related user consent parameters in UE context, the NEF/CAIPF
invokes Nudm_SDM_Get Request service to retrieve related user consent
parameters. Otherwise, step 4-5 can be skipped.
5) The NEF/CAPIF sends Nudm_SDM_Get Request message to the UDM, the message
includes UE ID, and may include purpose of data processing, data processor ID.
The UE ID can be SUPI which is resolved with the GPSI by NEF/CAPIF using
existing mechanism. The purpose of data processing refers to which actions are
done with the data to achieve which goal. The data processor ID can be AF ID
or more generic which is resolved from the AF ID in the API invocation.
6) The UDM returns requested user consent parameters, which includes user
consent result.
7) The NEF/CAPIF determines whether to authorize the API invocation or not
according to the user consent parameters based on implementation. For example,
if the API invocation is for inquiring user\'s privacy information, the
NEF/CAPIF identifies the user consent result using the AF ID and purpose
\"sharing\". If the user consent result of the purpose of data process is not
allowed, the NEF/CAPIF rejects the AF\'s request with specific cause. If the
user consent result of the purpose of data process is allowed, the NEF/CAPIF
accepts the AF\'s request. If there is no explicit user consent results, the
NEF/CAPIF can decide to reject or accept the AF\'s request based on
operator\'s local policy. Besides, if the user consent result of the purpose
of data process is allowed, the NEF/CAPIF uses Nudm_SDM_Subscribe service to
subscribe the change of user consent parameters event on the UDM to maintain
the non-outdated user consent parameters.
8) The NEF/CAIPF response for the API invocation based on determination in
step 6.
#### 7.4.2.2 User Consent Parameter
The UDM maintains the following user consent parameters:
\- UE ID: can be SUPI.
\- Data Processor ID: refers to a data processor who process data for the UE,
can be AF ID, or more generic, e.g. \"3^rd^ party\" or \"all\".
\- Purpose of data processing: the goal that processing the data ultimately
achieves, refers to which actions are done with the data to achieve which
goal.
\- User Consent Result: whether there is consent for data processor to process
the data according to purpose of data processing.
### 7.4.3 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses the key issue #1 when the 3^rd^ EES uses 3GPP exposure
capability to retrieve user\'s personal data.
## 7.5 Solution #5: Privacy preservation of transmitted data
### 7.5.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses key issue #2.
During the transfer of data/metadata/analytics-output from one NWDAF to
another NWDAF, it should be ensured that any information that can reveal the
identity of the user or compromise in another way the privacy of the user is
protected.
Therefore, appropriate measures should be taken by the sender NWDAF to protect
any information that can hamper privacy and maybe reveal the identity of the
user. Some of the examples are positioning information, user profile
information, etc. This information should be processed/filtered by a NWDAF
before sending the data to another NWDAF.
Thus, the privacy-sensitive information has to be protected (in accordance
with the regulatory requirements and the operator\'s policies) before being
transferred to any other NWDAF.
### 7.5.2 Solution details
To protect the sensitive and private information of the user, a privacy
framework is introduced by this, different privacy rules can be applied by
different operators/vendors based upon specific policies and requirements,
e.g. by local policy.
The privacy rules can be stored in the home network in:
\- UDM/UDR if privacy is configured per subscriber; or
\- NRF if privacy is generic for all the subscribers of one or several NFs.
User privacy policies and rules can be retrieved from UDM. NRF can also push
this information to NFs.
Service requests related to User data need to be indicated, e.g. by an IE
\'DataPurposeID\'. The NF Service Consumer (i.e. requester NWDAF1 NF) needs to
send this \'DataPurposeID\' along with the request to the NF Service Producer
(e.g. NWDAF2). Based on this IE, the NWDAF2 will process privacy related data
accordingly to the specific policy or requirement valid in this operator
network, before sending a service response to the requester NWDAF1.
{width="6.701388888888889in" height="3.4611111111111112in"}
Figure 7.5.2-1: Generic Procedure to preserve user privacy based upon the
predefined policies
Step 0: If an operator configures the privacy rules in the NRF (generic for
all subscribers), then the NRF can push the policy/rules to NF in the response
of registration/heartbeat. A heartbeat message is sent by NFs every some
seconds (i.e. 10-20 seconds). Therefore whenever the privacy rule is changed
in the NRF, the NRF can push updated rules to the NFs.
Step 1: NWDAF1 sends a user data request to NWDAF 2 (Sending NWDAF Instance)
with an additional IE DataPurposeID indicating the purpose.
NOTE: DataPurposeID specifies the purpose of the user data request
corresponding to an analytics ID. For instance, the DataPurposeID can be
\'Advertisement\' corresponding to the user data request of analytics ID
\'location\'.
Step 2: NWDAF2 sends a request to retrieve the user privacy policies for a
specific subscriber from the UDM/UDR. Or it can use the locally configured
policies based upon the operator\'s or geographical requirements.
Step 3: UDM/UDR sends the privacy policies configured for the subscriber
either by the operator or by the user or based upon the privacy local policy
for a specific geographical region.
Step 4: NWDAF2, after receiving the policies, applies them to the requested
user data for the DataPurposeID. For instance, because of the privacy policy
it can either reject the request completely or it sends the data without or
with anonymization. The latter preserves the sensitive information of the
user. Policies received in Step 0 are also applied along with policy received
in Step 3.
Step 5: NWDAF2 sends the processed data to NWDAF1 as a response to the initial
request.
### 7.5.3 Solution evaluation
No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 7.6 Solution #6: Revocation for user consent
### 7.6.1 Solution overview
The solution addresses key issue 3.
The solution gives an overview for revoking user consent due to some
regulatory requirements.
### 7.6.2 Solution details
Figure 7.6.2-1 illustrates the general procedure for user consent revocation.
The overall assumption is that user consent is part of subscription of the UE
stored in UDM. If there is revocation or modification requirement on user
consent, UDM initiates the subsequent procedures in the network. There are
several means for a UE to trigger the user consent revocation, for example,
out-of-band way, i.e. the user can revoke a contract.
{width="4.675in" height="4.110416666666667in"}
Figure 7.6.2-1: user consent revocation procedure
The pre-condition is that, a data consumer or an intermediate NF (e.g.
including NWDAF/NEF) subscribes to the user consent revocation as a service at
UDM, reusing the subscription notification procedure, e.g.
Nudm_SDM_notification service. To be detailed, the inputs are set as:
\"Subscription data type(s)\" is set to \"user consent subscription data\",
the \"Key for each Subscription data type(s)\" is set to \"SUPI\".
Another precondition is that any NF acquiring user consent from the UDM
registers to this revocation service.
Step1: UDM updates subscription information which aims to revoke the user
consent due to the request from user. User can request to withdraw its
specific user consent corresponding the user data, e.g. location, identity
through the demand on network. How does the user require the revocation is not
captured in this solution.
NOTE 1: How does the UDM decide whether a data consumer is allowed to
subscribe to the service is not addressed in the present document.
NOTE 2: how to achieve the necessary granularity of subscription to receive
only relevant consent revocation information (i.e. related to that data, and
for what purpose) is not addressed in the present document.
Step2a: UDM sends out the Nudm_SDM_Notify message which include UE ID,
processor ID, purpose of processing, user consent result to the Intermediate
NF. UE ID is relevant to the subscriber ID, e.g. SUPI, GPSI, processor ID
refers to a data processor who processes data for the UE, can be PLMN ID, AF
ID, or more generic, e.g. \"3^rd^ party\" or \"all\". Purpose of processing is
linked to the revoked services. User consent result refers to consent for data
processor to process the data according to purpose of data processing, e.g.
allowed or not allowed.
Once receiving the request, the intermediate NF deletes the data subject to
the consent, if the intermediate NF has the processing data functionalities,
such as analysis, collection functionalities, intermediate NF stop processing
the data subject to the consent.
Step 3: If the Data Consumer accesses the Data Provide via intermediate NF,
the intermediate NF additionally sends user consent revocation request message
to the Data Consumer. Upon receiving the request, the Data Consumer deletes
the data subject to the consent, if the intermediate NF has the processing
data functionalities, such as analysis, collection functionalities,
intermediate NF stops processing the data subject to the consent.
Step2b: UDM sends out the Nudm_SDM_Notify message to Data Consumer directly.
The message is the same as provided to the intermediate NF.
Once receiving the request, the Data Consumer deletes the data subject to the
consent, if the intermediate NF has the processing data functionalities, such
as analysis, collection functionalities, intermediate NF stops processing the
data subject to the consent.
NOTE 3: How to handle scenarios where the target NF is not available is not
addressed in the present document.
### 7.6.3 Solution evaluation
There is no impact on UE side.
## 7.7 Solution #7: Retrieving User\'s consent for exposure of information to
the Edge Applications from UDM
### 7.7.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the security requirement on user\'s consent for
exposure of information to Edge Applications in key issue #6.1.
For the use case of user consent of Edge applications, the Edge Enabler server
is the enforcing entity which retrieves the user consent from the UDM using
the subscription ID of the UE or the Application ID.
### 7.7.2 Solution details
Figure 7.7.2-1: User\'s consent for exposure of information to the Edge
Applications
0\. The user consent parameters are stored in UDM as subscription data.
As TS 23.558 [2] indicates that based on the request from EAS, the EES shares
the UE information. The EES provides such information only if the user consent
is available at the EES and the EAS is authorised to receive such information
from the EES.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 8.6.2 UE location API | | | | 8.6.2.1 General | | | | The EES exposes the UE location API to the EAS in order to support | | tracking or checking the valid location of the UE. The UE location | | API exposed by the EES relies on the 3GPP core network capabilities | | as specified in clause 8.10.3. | | | | The EAS can request UE location API for one-time reporting to check | | current UE location and for continuous reporting to track UE\'s | | location. | | | | ----------Snip--------------- | | | | 3. UE Identifier between EAS and the EES is authorized for the UE | | location API (e.g. appropriate access token is received by EAS based | | on user\'s consent). | | | | --------------------------------- | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
If there is no related user consent parameters in UE context, the EES invokes
Nudm_SDM_Get Request service to retrieve related user consent parameters from
the UDM. Otherwise, steps 1-6 can be skipped.
1) The EES (enforcing entity) sends API invocation to NEF, requesting to
obtain user consent for sharing user\'s sensitive information. The API
invocation includes the Application ID or the subscription ID of the UE.
2) Based on the local policy, the NEF determines the corresponding UDM for the
consent check or consent retrieval.
3) NEF sends the Nudm_SDM_Get Request message to the UDM. The message includes
the API invocation with the Application ID or the subscription ID of the UE.
4) The UDM retrieves user consent parameters based on the subscription ID of
the UE or the application ID.
5) The UDM sends Nudm_SDM_Get Response message to the NEF. The response
message includes the user consent parameters.
6) Upon receiving the user consent parameters from the UDM, the NEF forwards
the user consent parameters to the requesting EES.
NOTE: EES has to be operated by the same entity as the data providers.
### 7.7.3 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes that the user consent is stored at the UDM as a part of
subscription data. If the EES is within trusted domain, this solution supports
a mechanism for the EES to retrieve the user consent directly from the UDM
using the Application ID and based on the consent, the EES decides whether the
user\'s sensitive information needs to be shared with the requesting entities
or not. If EES is not within the trusted domain utilizing 5G services via NEF,
then the NEF can retrieve the user consent from the UDM. As per the solution,
the consent checking is transparent to the UDM.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 Conclusion on KI #1: User\'s consent for exposure of information to
Edge Applications
The following specific aspects are concluded for normative work:
\- If EES is within the trusted domain utilizing 5GC services without NEF, the
EES acts as the consent enforcing entity.
\- Otherwise, if the EES is not within the trusted domain utilizing 5GC
services via NEF, the NEF acts as the consent enforcing entity.
## 8.2 Conclusion on KI #2: User consent for UE data collection
In the use case of UE related analytics in NWDAF, the following specific
aspects are concluded for normative work:
\- The NWDAF determines whether to allow the NF service consumer to request
for analysis using data subject to user consent based on user consent
parameters.
\- The NWDAF retrieves user consent parameters in NWDAF\'s UE context or
invokes UDM service to retrieve user consent parameters.
NOTE: This architecture only works when NWDAF and data provider are operated
by the same entity.
## 8.3 Conclusion on KI #3: Modification or revocation of user consent
The following specific aspects for use case#1 (NWDAF) are concluded for
normative work:
\- NWDAF subscribes the service for notification of revocation of user consent
if the NWDAF processes data subject to user consent, and is notified if user
consent is changed.
\- If user consent is revoked, the NWDAF halts analysing and collecting of
data subject to the user consent. Depending on circumstances/regulations
outside the scope of 3GPP, the data may have to be deleted, or quarantined, or
temporarily retained.
\- If user consent is revoked, the NWDAF notifies NF service consumers to halt
processing of data subject to the user consent.
NOTE 1: This architecture only works when NWDAF and data provider are operated
by the same entity.
The following specific aspects for use case#2 (MEC) are concluded for
normative work:
If EES is within the trusted domain utilizing 5GC services without NEF, the
EES acts as the consent enforcing entity. Otherwise, if the EES is not within
the trusted domain utilizing 5GC services via NEF, the NEF acts as the consent
enforcing entity. The enforcing entity (EES or NEF) behaves as below:
\- If the enforcing entity shares data subject to user consent, the enforcing
entity ubscribes the service for notification of revocation of user consent,
and is notified if user consent is changed.
\- If user consent is revoked, the enforcing entity notifies other consumer
network entities to halt processing of data subject to the user consent.
\- Depending on circumstances/regulations outside the scope of 3GPP, the data
may have to be deleted, or quarantined, or temporarily retained.
NOTE 2: This architecture only works when EES or NEF and data provider are
operated by the same entity.
## 8.4 Conclusion on KI #4: Relationship between the subscriber and the end-
users
For the KI #4 on relation between the subscriber and the end-users, it is
concluded that:
The user consent is obtained from the end-users. The end-users may be the
subscriber or may authorize the subscriber to provide consent on behalf of the
end-users or the end-users are authorized by the subscriber to provide the
consent. How authorization is provided between the subscriber and the users is
out-of-scope of 3GPP.
End-users cannot retroactively make the user consent setting more permissive,
i.e., If end-user accepts processing of data for purpose 1, and later also
accepts purpose 2 (making the consent more permissive), the data collected
before end-user have given consent for purpose 2 cannot be used for purpose 2.
If end-user revokes consent for purpose 1 (making end-user consent setting
more restrictive), that also applies to data collected before the change in
consent setting.
## 8.5 Conclusion on KI #5: Unambiguous naming of purposes
An NF acting as the user consent enforcement point is able to determine the
actual purpose for data processing when other NFs request data subject to user
consent.
NF involved in user consent handling may include a list of purposes when
requesting user consent related parameters from the enforcement point.
However, this is left to the normative work and to be decided on a use case
basis. It is recommended that the purpose of data processing is formatted as a
blob. The content of such blob is out of scope.
All NFs involved in processing data subject to user consent are assumed to be
operated by the same entity and therefore have the same notion of what the
purpose (formatted as blob) means. How to map such a blob to human readable
format, should there be a need, is left out of scope.
## 8.6 General Conclusions
### 8.6.1 UDM Service for User Consent Check
The following aspects are concluded for normative work:
\- UDM service is used to retrieve user consent parameters for NF to check of
user consent. This service is used for the UDM service consumer to obtain user
consent parameters if user consent parameters are not available on the service
consumer.
\- User consent parameters are stored in UDM as subscription data.
\- User consent parameters include end-user ID (i.e. SUPI), purpose of data
processes, processor ID (e.g. PLMN ID, NF Instance ID) and user consent
results (i.e. granted or not granted).
### 8.6.2 General Conclusion on Generic Requirement for the Procedures for
User Consent Check
The following generic aspects are concluded for normative work:
\- How to check of user consent in a generic way is specified. This will
provide guideline for new use cases (i.e. other than NWDAF and MEC), that need
to check of user consent. Generic statement will be made for:
\- If a service is invoked by NF service consumer directly, NF service
provider checsk user consent based on user consent parameters in UE context or
the NF service provider uses UDM service to retrieve the user consent
parameters.
\- If there is an intermediate NF which is involved in service invocation,
e.g. NWDAF, NEF, etc., the intermediate NF checks user consent based on user
consent parameters in UE context or the intermediate NF invokes UDM service to
retrieve the user consent parameters.
NOTE: How the enforcement entity is aware of the purpose of processing will be
addressed in normative phase.
### 8.6.3 UDM Service for User Consent Revocation
The following aspects are concluded for normative work:
\- UDM service is used to notify about user consent change. If user consent
parameters are changed, the service consumer is notified.
\- Upon receiving notification of user consent revocation, the service
consumer halts processing of data subject to the user consent.
\- User consent is effective until revoked.
\- User consent is only effective for data collected after the point in time
that user consent was given.
### 8.6.4 Generic Requirement for the Procedures for User Consent Revocation
The following generic aspects are concluded for normative work:
\- How to handle user consent revocation is specified in a generic way. This
is to provide guideline for new use cases that need notification of revocation
of user consent.
\- If a service is invoked by NF service consumer directly, NF service
provider subscribes UDM service which can be notified that user consent is
changed.
\- If user consent is revoked, the NF service provider halts processing of
data subject to the user consent.
\- Depending on circumstances/regulations outside the scope of 3GPP, the data
may have to be deleted, or quarantined, or temporarily retained.
\- If there is an intermediate NF which is involved in service invocation,
e.g. NWDAF, NEF, etc., the intermediate NF subscribes UDM service which can be
notified that user consent is changed
\- If user consent is revoked, the intermediate NF halts processing of data
subject to the user consent, if available.
\- If user consent is revoked, the intermediate NF notifies NF service
consumers to halt processing of data subject to the user consent.
\- Depending on circumstances/regulations outside the scope of 3GPP, the data
may have to be deleted, or quarantined, or temporarily retained.
###### ### Annex A: Observations related to regulations
NOTE 1: There are many regional privacy regulations. In this clause specific
ones like GDPR are considered for guidance only.
The European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) can be considered one
of the leading privacy regulations as other countries (such as India) are
using it as a blueprint to update their own privacy regulations. It defines
that consent needs to be freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous. It
also means that, for users in the European Union, if consent is chosen as the
legal basis for processing, users have to agree actively through an
affirmative action (opt in). Other legislations such as Brazil\'s Lei Geral de
Proteção de Dados Pessoais (LGPD) from August 2020 and the upcoming Indian
privacy law both use similar guidelines for obtaining consent. Jurisdictions
such as California and their Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), while not having
limitations on the initial collection of personal data, do have updated
consent controls regarding the selling and onward transfer of personal data.
Thus, there could be different views around the world how user consent should
be handled as there are different laws and principles around privacy in the
different countries/regions.
Under the GDPR, while most of the interest revolves around the legal basis of
consent for processing personal data, it forms only one of six legal bases.
The other five (contract, legal obligations, vital interests of the data
subject, public interest, and legitimate interest) are all used as well. Thus,
there could be other legal bases for processing personal data than consent.
Consent can be obtained through a variety of methods and techniques, as long
as the action is an affirmative one by the data subject and matches the GDPR
requirements of being freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous. This
can be from ticking a box on a website to writing a letter confirming
everything. Thus, how consent can be given depends on the concrete use case
and also on the laws of the jurisdictions which govern the use case.
The following articles in the GDPR [6] can be considered to derive key issues
and solutions:
\"
_Article 6 Lawfulness of processing_
_1.Processing shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of
the following applies: (a) the data subject has given consent to the
processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes;_
_......_
_Article 7 Conditions for consent_
_1\. Where processing is based on consent, the controller shall be able to
demonstrate that the data subject has consented to processing of his or her
personal data._
_......_
_3\. The data subject shall have the right to withdraw his or her consent at
any time. The withdrawal of consent shall not affect the lawfulness of
processing based on consent before its withdrawal. Prior to giving consent,
the data subject shall be informed thereof. It shall be as easy to withdraw as
to give consent._
_......_
_Article 15 Right of access by the data subject_
_1\. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller
confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are
being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and
the following information: (a) the purposes of the processing; (b) the
categories of personal data concerned; (c) the recipients or categories of
recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, in
particular recipients in third countries or international organisations; (d)
where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be
stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; (e)
the existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or
erasure of personal data or restriction of processing of personal data
concerning the data subject or to object to such processing; (f) the right to
lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; (g) where the personal data
are not collected from the data subject, any available information as to their
source; (h) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling,
referred to in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful
information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and the
envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject._
_......_
_Article 17 Right to erasure (\'right to be forgotten\')_
_1\. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the
erasure of personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and the
controller shall have the obligation to erase personal data without undue
delay where one of the following grounds applies: (a) the personal data are no
longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which they were collected or
otherwise processed; (b) the data subject withdraws consent on which the
processing is based according to point (a) of Article 6(1), or point (a) of
Article 9(2), and where there is no other legal ground for the processing;_
_......_
_Article 20 Right to data portability_
_1.The data subject shall have the right to receive the personal data
concerning him or her, which he or she has provided to a controller, in a
structured, commonly used and machine-readable format and have the right to
transmit those data to another controller without hindrance from the
controller to which the personal data have been provided, where: (a) the
processing is based on consent pursuant to point (a) of Article 6(1) or point
(a) of Article 9(2) or on a contract pursuant to point (b) of Article 6(1);
and (b) the processing is carried out by automated means._
_2\. In exercising his or her right to data portability pursuant to paragraph
1, the data subject shall have the right to have_ _the personal data
transmitted directly from one controller to another, where technically
feasible_.\"
NOTE 2: Despite GDPR\'s prominence, a large number of teleservice and
telemedia laws exist, which may override or strengthen the provisions given in
GDPR.
#