# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The 5G System supports a registration procedure with AMF re-allocation. As
described in TS 23.502 [2], this procedure is used when the initial AMF is
unable to serve the UE. In which case, the NAS message received from the UE is
rerouted to another target AMF either directly over the AMF-to-AMF interface
i.e. N14, or via RAN. In the present document only the indirect reroute via
RAN is considered.
# 1 Scope
The present document aims at addressing the case for the indirect reroute
procedure for UE registration. The intention is to enable deployment scenarios
with stricter slice isolation requirements on the core network, for example
where the AMFs are unable to communicate with each other.
The aim of the present document is to:
\- Collect the potential requirements related to the AMF re-allocation
procedure.
\- Study the potential enhancements to the security mechanisms in order to
fulfil the requirements for the AMF re-allocation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Architecture and security assumptions of AMF re-allocation
## 4.1 General
The present document focuses on the problem of the security of the
registration procedure with AMF re-allocation. More specifically TS 23.502
[2], clause 4.2.2.2.3, states that there are two cases for the AMF re-
allocation procedure, the direct case 7(A) and the indirect case 7(B) via RAN.
Currently only the direct AMF re-allocation case is considered complete from a
security point of view and supported in in TS 33.501 [3]. The present document
addresses the security handling of the indirect AMF re-allocation case. It is
important to note that the indirect case in TS 23.502 [2], covers only the
transfer of the NAS Registration Request message via a RAN node.
## 4.2 Procedure of Registration with AMF re-allocation
When an AMF receives a registration request from a UE, the AMF may need to
reroute the request to another AMF because the AMF may not be able serve the
UE. Figure 4.2-1 describes the registration procedure with AMF re-allocation
specified in TS 23.502 [2].
Figure 4.2-1: Registration with AMF re-allocation
1\. The UE sends a Registration Request (RR). Either a 5G-GUTI or a SUCI is
included.
2\. If a SUCI is received in the RR, this step is skipped. If a 5G-GUTI is
received and if there is connectivity between the initial AMF and the old AMF
assigning the 5G-GUTI, the AMF retrieves the UE context from the old AMF that
assigned the 5G-GUTI. The old AMF may perform horizontal key derivation and
send to the initial AMF the derived security context.
3\. The initial AMF initiates a round of primary authentication if a SUCI is
received in step 1 or if the context retrieval in step 2 fails or if local
policy at the initial AMF requires primary authentication.
4\. The initial AMF may send a Security Mode Command to UE to activate the new
security context established in step 3 or the derived security context in step
2.
5\. The UE responds with a Security Mode Complete.
6\. The initial AMF decides NAS reroute and obtains network slice information
including Allowed NSSAIs, instances to serve UE, target AMF set, and etc.
7\. If step 2 is not performed, this step is skipped. Otherwise, the initial
AMF notifies the old AMF that the registration is not successful. The old AMF
continues as if the Namf_Communication_UEContextTransfer in step 2 had never
been received.
**A.Direct NAS Reroute**
8\. If the initial AMF based on local configuration and subscription
information decides to forward the NAS message the target AMF directly, then
initial AMF sends, among others, UE\'s security context and the RR to the
target AMF.
> **B. Reroute via RAN**
9\. If the initial AMF based on local configuration and subscription
information decides to forward the NAS message the target AMF via (R)AN, the
initial AMF sends a Reroute NAS message to the (R)AN (step 9a). The reroute
NAS message includes the RR message and the target AMF information. The (R)AN
sends an Initial UE Message to the target AMF, including the RR and the slice
information obtained in step 6 indicating reroute due to slicing.
10\. This step is skipped if SUCI is included in the RR. If the RR message
contains the 5G-GUTI and if there is connectivity between the target AMF and
the old AMF assigning the 5G-GUTI, the target AMF retrieves the UE context
from the old AMF.
11\. The target AMF continues with the registration procedure.
## 4.3 Architecture and security assumptions
The UE may have been registered in the past to an old AMF (oAMF). For the
current study it is assumed that the UE initiates a new registration request
and this request is currently handled by the initial AMF (iAMF). The UE
provides protected slice selection information (NSSAI) either in a protected
registration request message if it shares a security context with the network
(oAMF) or after security is established with the iAMF in case of initial
registration. As a result, for the iAMF to determine whether it can handle the
UE registration, the iAMF may need to retrieve any existing security context
from the oAMF or establish new security with the UE. It is assumed that the
iAMF does not have a communication interface (e.g. N14) to the tAMF. The iAMF
may or may not have a communication interface to the oAMF. The tAMF may or not
have a communication interface to the oAMF. The different cases of
connectivity among iAMF, tAMF, oAMF are captured in Figure 4.3-1 and described
below. The absence of communication interfaces is assumed to be due to
isolation requirements on the AMFs or deployment restrictions.
The study aims at capturing such isolation requirements and solutions
involving re-route of the registration request the related security handling.
The problem of AMF re-allocation via RAN includes two cases. In both cases the
iAMF and the tAMF do not have any communication interface such as N14 between
them as specified in TS 23.502 [2], clause 4.2.2.2.3. The two cases are the
following:
1\. Registration with SUCI: The UE performs an initial registration providing
a SUCI. The UE potentially interacts only with the iAMF and the tAMF. In order
for the iAMF to determine if there is an AMF re-allocation, the iAMF needs to
establish security with the UE and the UE needs to send the complete
Registration Request including the protected IEs (such as the NSSAI) to the
iAMF. After security is established between the UE and the network the UE does
not accept any unprotected NAS messages according to TS 24.501 [4] clause,
4.4.4.2.
2\. Registration with 5G-GUTI: The UE has established security with the oAMF
in the last registration and provides the 5G-GUTI from the last registration.
In this case the AMF re-allocation procedure may involves the iAMF, the oAMF
and the tAMF. There are the following four subcases in this case:
a. The oAMF does not share any direct communication interface with the tAMF:
i. The iAMF and the oAMF can communicate directly.
ii. The iAMF and the oAMF do not have any direct communication interface
between them.
b. The oAMF shares a direct communication interface with the tAMF:
i. The iAMF and the oAMF can communicate directly.
ii. The iAMF and the oAMF do not have any direct communication interface
between them.
Note 1: Whether the cases can fulfills vertical requirement is not addressed
here.
Note 2: Which existing NF in the registration procedure is used as common NF
in the solutions is not addressed here.
Note 3: Whether UE contexts can be transferred between AMFs in separated
slices indirectly via common NF is not addressed here.
The different cases are summarized in the figure 4.3-1 below. A line between
two AMFs means that there exists a N14 interface between the two AMFs and
security context can be transferred between them. If there is no line between
the two AMFs, security context cannot be transferred directly between them.
Figure 4.3-1: Different cases of communicating AMFs (solid line means that
there is a N14 interface)
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Security of AMF re-allocation procedures
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
This key issue addresses the security handling of the AMF re-allocation
procedure upon UE registration with slicing requirements. The AMF re-
allocation procedure due to slicing may involve more than one AMFs which may
be isolated with each other due to deployment requirements. TS 23.502 [2]
includes two cases of the re-allocation procedure, the direct case and the
indirect case. The security handling of the direct case is specified in TS
33.501 [3] and the security handling of the indirect case is the objective of
this key issue.
According to the specified AMF re-allocation procedure, when an Initial AMF
receives a registration request, the Initial AMF may need to reroute the
registration request to another Target AMF, e.g. when the Initial AMF is not
the appropriate AMF to serve UE. The Initial AMF may not be connected to the
Target AMF. One option for the AMF re-allocation is to reroute the AMF
registration request through RAN, i.e. the Initial AMF (that is, the AMF
receiving the registration request message) will send the registration request
to the RAN, and the RAN then will forward the registration request to the
Target AMF.
### 5.1.2 Security threats
In the indirect case of AMF re-allocation, the UE Registration Request is
transferred from Initial AMF to Target AMF through RAN, due to the lack of
connectivity between Initial AMF and Target AMF.
However, the existing security handling for this case may lead to consistent
registration failure which threatens the availability of the system. More
specifically, if Initial AMF and UE have securely exchanged NAS messages, the
UE will reject the NAS message from Target AMF, due to the potential lack of
access to the UE security context by the Target AMF or due to inconsistent
security context used by the Target AMF. Inconsistent security context usage
by the Target AMF happens when the Target AMF retrieves a security context
from the old AMF, and it does not match the new security context used by the
UE, as UE has established new security context with Initial AMF. This impact
the UE service availability (i.e. leading to registration failure and service
failure).
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
The AMF re-allocation via RAN shall not compromise system availability.
NOTE: The current isolation requirements considered in the present document
include only connectivity requirements between the involved AMFs in the AMF-
reallocation procedure i.e. the Initial AMF, the Target AMF and potentially
the Old AMF.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: AMF re-allocation via RAN using existing security states
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
#### 6.1.2.1 Overview
For AMF re-allocation via the RAN, provided the initial AMF does not send a
protected NAS message to the UE then there is no issue in establishing
security between the UE and target AMF. This is because the UE will still
accept the allowed unprotected messages and the UE and target AMF can agree on
security context.
If the initial AMF (the one that received the Registration Request sent by the
UE) sends a security protected message to the UE, this protected message
causes the UE to drop all subsequent messages that do not pass integrity
protection during the current connection. So, if the target AMF does not have
the security context currently in use by the UE or a new security context
derived from the current security context (e.g., due to K~AMF~ change) then
the target AMF will not be able to send a protected message to the UE. Hence
the Target AMF cannot complete the registration procedure.
There is a second issue as follows. If the initial AMF changes the current
security context at the UE from the one that was used to protect the
registration (e.g. by running an Authentication followed by a NAS SMC
procedure), then the target AMF will receive a registration message that is
protected with a security context different to one the current one in the UE.
This may lead, for example, to integrity check failure of a Registration
Accept at the UE if the target AMF protects a Registration Accept with the
security context (received from the old AMF) that the UE does not consider the
current one.
The first issue is solved by having some secured signalling from the initial
AMF to allow the UE to accept only the limited set of NAS messages that can be
processed when received without security before the secure exchange of NAS
message has been established (see clause 4.4.4.2 of TS 24.501 [4]). This is
not introducing a new state in the UE but utilising an existing state, i.e.
the one the UE is in when leaving idle with a security context.
The second issue is resolved by the initial AMF changing the ngKSI in the
Registration Request before forwarding the Registration Request to the target
AMF. For the case that the target AMF can communicate with the old AMF, this
has the effect of the integrity check failure of the Registration Request at
the old AMF as the old AMF does not have a security context indicated by ngKSI
and consequently an authentication is triggered by the target AMF as it will
not have a security context for the UE.
In the case that the target AMF cannot communicate with the old AMF, then
target AMF initiates an authentication with the UE as it does not have a
security context for the UE.
#### 6.1.2.2 Message flows
Figure 6.1.2.2-1 provides the message flow for the solution. The flow assumes
that an AMF re-allocation will be used and only shows the interactions between
AMFs, between UE and AMF and AMF and NG-RAN, e.g. the parts of authentication
involving the AUSF etc. in the home network are not shown.
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: AMF re-allocation via the RAN
Step 1: The UE sends the Registration Request message, that includes an
indication that the UE supports the enhanced functionality to allow AMF re-
allocation via the RAN as a non-cleartext IE in the case the Registration
Request contains a GUTI, to the network which is routed by the NG-RAN node to
Initial AMF.
Step 2: If the Registration Request contains a GUTI and there is a connection
between the initial AMF and the old AMF, the initial AMF tries to fetch the UE
context from the old AMF.
Step 3: If the integrity check of the Registration Request message is passed,
then old AMF provides the UE context to the initial AMF. In addition, the old
AMF may provide the decrypted Registration Request message to the initial AMF.
NOTE 1: Providing the decrypted Registration Request message to the initial
AMF is an optimization that can save messages, i.e. it is not necessary for
the procedure to work. Whether this is sufficiently useful to include is part
of the evaluation of the solution.
If the Registration Request message contained a SUCI, then steps 5 and 6 are
mandatory. If the initial AMF has received the decrypted Registration Request
message from the old AMF or can decrypt a protected Registration Request, then
the steps 4 to 6 are optional. Otherwise the initial AMF needs to identify the
UE and steps 4 to 6 are mandatory.
Step 4: The initial AMF send and Identity Request to the UE and receives the
UE\'s SUCI in response.
Step 5: Initial AMF trigger and complete an authentication run with the UE.
Step 6: Initial AMF runs the NAS SMC procedure with the UE. [Option-1] As part
of the NAS Security Mode Command messages, the AMF indicates to the UE to
respond with a protected NAS Security Mode Complete message and then behave as
though the secure exchange of NAS messages has not been established, e.g.
accept the small set of NAS message given in clause 4.4.4.2 of TS 24.501 [4]
as being acceptable to receive without integrity protection. The initial AMF
obtains the complete Registration Request message, which contains the
indication that the UE supports the enhanced functionality to allow AMF re-
allocation via the RAN as a non-cleartext IE.
NOTE 2: If [Option-1] is used, then if the AMF cannot rule out re-allocating
the UE via RAN then it include the above indication in the NAS Security Mode
Command message, which is ignored by a UE that does not understand the new
behaviour. Regardless of whether a re-allocation occurs, then the legacy
behaviour of a protected message from an AMF will establish the secure
exchange of NAS messages at the UE.
NOTE 3: Only one of [Option-1] in above step or [Option-2] in step 8 needs to
be standardised. The choice between these options is FFS.
Step 7: From the complete Registration Request message (obtained in step 3 or
6), the initial AMF determines that the UE needs to be re-allocated to the
target AMF via the RAN.
Step 8: [Option-2] The initial AMF send the UE an integrity protected message
to inform the UE to act as though the secure exchange of NAS messages has not
been established, e.g. accept the small set of NAS message given in clause
4.4.4.2 of TS 24.501 [4] as being acceptable to receive without integrity
protection.
NOTE 4: Which message this is and whether to use this approach or [Option-1]
(see NOTE 3) is FFS.
Step 9: If the initial AMF changed the security context from the one that the
UE used to protect the Registration Request message, the initial AMF changes
the ngKSI in the received Registration Request in step 1. The AMF forwards the
(possibly with the changed ngKSI) Registration Request to the target AMF vis
the RAN.
NOTE 5: Changing the ngKSI does not change the state of either the UE or any
of the involved AMFs. The reason for doing it is to keep the UE and target/old
AMF up to date on the security context being used by the UE to avoid possible
errors, e.g. the target AMF thinking that the security context sent by the old
AMF is the current one in the UE. The initial AMF can change the ngKSI to any
value to enforce a context retrieval failure at the target AMF.
Step 10: The target AMF completes the registration procedure with the UE, e.g.
if it cannot get the context from the old AMF it runs its own authentication.
NOTE 6: Any attempt to fetch the context from the old AMF using the
Registration Request will fail if the initial AMF changed the ngKSI in the
Registration Request before forwarding it to the target AMF (via the RAN).
This causes no loss of MM context as these can be fetched from the old AMF
using SUPI once the UE has been authenticated (see clause 4.2.2.2.2 of TS
23.502 [2]).
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
UE includes an indication of its support of the enhanced functionality to
support AMF re-allocation via the RAN (see step 1 in clause 6.1.2.2).
Old AMF has the option to provide a decrypted Registration Request to the
initial AMF (see step 3 in clause 6.1.2.2). This optional part of the solution
requires the old AMF to support the capability to decrypt RR and send the
decrypted RR in the context retrieval and is not used when UE sends RR with
SUCI included.
Initial AMF either explicitly signals in the NAS Security Mode Command message
that the UE is to not consider the secure exchange of NAS messages to be
established when it has processed this NAS Security Mode Command (step 6) or
sends an extra integrity message to get the UE to inform the UE to consider
the secure exchange has not been established after receiving this message
(step 8).
NOTE 1: This choice is not addressed here.
The initial AMF changes the ngKSI in the Registration Request if it has
established (or created) a new security context different from the one used to
protect the Registration Request that the UE sent (step 9).
With the changed ngKSI, after the target AMF receives the RR with the changed
ngKSI, the target AMF will retrieve UE context from the old AMF. The context
retrieval will fail due to the changed ngKSI. Then target AMF is mandated to
perform primary authentication. After primary authentication, the target AMF
will need to retrieve UE context again from the old AMF.
Allowing the UE to remain for slightly longer or return to the state of
receiving the limited set of unprotected messages does not provide an attacker
a significantly better chance to DoS attack the UE by sending an unprotected
Registration Reject message. This is because an unprotected Registration
Reject message can always be sent in response to a Registration Request
message.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Security of AMF re-allocation when 5G NAS security context
is rerouted via RAN
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution address Key Issue #1: \"Security of AMF re-allocation procedures
\".
In this solution the 5G NAS security context is re-routed via RAN together
with the Registration Request (RR) message.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
Before the Initial AMF re-routes the Registration Request (RR) message and the
5G NAS security context, the Initial AMF performs horizontal Kamf derivation
of the current Kamf-0 and generates a new Kamf-1 key which is then routed via
RAN to the Target AMF together with an indication of horizontal K~AMF~
derivation (i.e. keyAmfHDerivationInd). The current Kamf-0 is not rerouted via
RAN to the Target AMF. This would ensure that the Target AMF has no access to
the Kamf-0 key used in the Initial AMF/old AMF.
The Initial AMF forwards the RR message, the 5G NAS security context including
the Kamf-1 and the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator unprotected to the Target
AMF via RAN.
The new generated Kamf-1 key could be seen as a one-time key for the purpose
of the AMF re-allocation. It is worth noting that Kamf-1 is practically
useless to a legitimate RAN node since it is a NAS key that has not been put
into use by any AMF in the network. The Target AMF would then be mandated to
establish a new further key Kamf-2 with the UE, which is not available to the
Initial AMF and the RAN.
Because the Target AMF has received the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator, the
Target AMF needs to run a NAS SMC procedure with the UE, to take the new
Kamf-1 key into use with the UE. The Target AMF is also mandated to initiate a
new primary authentication with the UE to derive a new Kamf-2 when it has
received the RR message from the RAN. The new primary authentication procedure
is protected by the Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the Initial AMF has no
access to the new Kamf-2 key (i.e. the Kamf key used in the Target AMF and the
UE).
As the target AMF can determine that a NAS re-route via RAN has taken place,
the target AMF needs to restrict the use of the Kamf-1 only for the purpose of
sending protected NAS Security Mode Command and Authentication
Challenge/Request to the UE, and for receiving protected NAS Security Mode
Complete and Authentication Response from the UE.
The Target AMF needs to run a new NAS SMC procedure with the UE to take the
new Kamf-2 into use with the UE. The initial AMF needs to indicate to the UE
to include the complete Registration Request message in the NAS Security Mode
Complete message by setting the flag \"request initial NAS flag\" in the NAS
Security Mode Command message. The UE includes the complete Registration
Request message (sent in step 1) in the NAS Security Mode Complete message to
the target AMF. This means that the target AMF can take the Registration
Request message received in NAS Security Mode Complete message into use and
drop the Registration Request message rerouted via RAN.
Figure 6.2.2-1: AMF re-allocation with NAS message and 5G NAS security context
re-route via RAN
Figure 6.2.2-1 shows the solution steps:
Step 1: The UE prepares a Registration Request message including a SUCI or a
5G-GUTI and slicing information which could potentially cause an AMF re-
allocation such as Requested NSSAI. If the UE has a 5G NAS security context
(Registration with 5G-GUTI) it includes a protected NAS container in the
Registration Request message.
Step 2: The RAN forwards the RR message to an Initial AMF.
Step 3a and 3b: These steps may only take place if UE has indicated its
5G-GUTI in the Registration Request message and there is connectivity between
the initial AMF and the old AMF (cases 2.a.i and 2.b.i in clause 4.3). The
Initial AMF contacts the old AMF and requests the 5G NAS security context from
the old AMF. The old AMF may perform horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf
key.
If there is no connectivity between the initial AMF and the old AMF (cases
2.a.ii and 2.b.ii in clause 4.3) and the UE has indicated its 5G-GUTI in the
Registration Request message, then steps 3a and 3b are skipped and the initial
AMF requests the UE identity SUCI from the UE in step 4 and then initiates
primary authentication in step 5.
Step 4: The initial AMF may request UE identity SUCI from the UE.
Step 5: The Initial AMF may initiate a new primary authentication. This step
is optional. This step is needed if the UE has indicated its SUCI in the
Registration Request message
Step 6: The Initial AMF may initiate a NAS SMC. This step takes place if a
prior primary authentication has taken place or if the old AMF has performed
horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf key. If the old AMF has performed
horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf key, then the initial AMF needs to
include the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator in NAS Security Mode Command. The
Initial AMF may include the request to the UE to include the complete
Registration Request message by setting the flag \"request initial NAS flag\"
if the old AMF has performed horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf key or the
Registration Request included the UE SUCI.
Step 7: The UE includes the complete RR message sent in step 1 in the NAS
Security Mode Complete message.
Step 8: If the Initial AMF needs UE\'s subscription information to decide
whether to reroute the Registration Request and UE\'s slice selection
subscription information was not provided by old AMF, the AMF selects a UDM as
described in TS 23.501 [2], clause 6.3.8. the Initial AMF sends Nudm_SDM_Get
to UDM.
Step 9: The UDM responds to Initial AMF with a Nudm_SDM_GetResponse. The AMF
gets the Slice Selection Subscription data including Subscribed S-NSSAIs. The
UDM responds with slice selection data to Initial AMF.
Step 10: If there is a need for slice selection, (see clause 5.15.5.2.1 of TS
23.501 [2]), e.g. the Initial AMF cannot serve all the S-NSSAI(s) from the
Requested NSSAI permitted by the subscription information, the Initial AMF
invokes the Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service operation from the NSSF by including
Requested NSSAI.
Step 11: The NSSF performs the steps specified in point (B) in clause
5.15.5.2.1 of TS 23.501 [2]. The NSSF responds to Nnssf_NSSelection_Get to the
Initial AMF.
Step 12: The Initial AMF decides to reroute the Registration Request message
to a Target AMF via RAN. The Initial AMF optionally performs horizontal Kamf
derivation of Kamf-0 to generate a new Kamf-1. The decision of the initial AMF
to perform horizontal key derivation is subject to the old AMF performing
horizontal key derivation. If the old AMF has performed horizontal key
derivation the initial AMF does not perform one. If the Old AMF has not
performed any horizontal key derivation the initial AMF performs a horizontal
key derivation based on local configuration. This step would ensure that
target AMF has no access to the Kamf-0 key used in Initial AMF.
Note: Backward security is not addressed here.
Step 13: The Initial AMF forwards the Registration Request message to the RAN.
The initial AMF includes the 5G NAS security context including the
uplink/downlink NAS COUNTs if no horizontal Kamf derivation took place in
initial AMF in step 12. The initial AMF includes the new Kamf-1 and the
keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator only if the initial AMF performed horizontal
Kamf derivation in step 12.
Step 14: The RAN forwards the Registration Request message and the other
parameters received in step 13 to the target AMF.
Step 15. After receiving the Registration Request,
If SUCI is included in the Registration Request, the target AMF skips step 15
(as no additional information about established PDU sessions etc. is stored in
the old AMF).
If a 5G-GUTI is included in the Registration Request and the target AMF has
received a 5G NAS security context and potentially a keyAmfHDerivationInd
indicator, then:
\- If there is no connectivity between the target AMF and old AMF (cases
2.a.ii and 2.b.ii in clause 4.3) , the target AMF skips step 15 (and any
additional information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old
AMF cannot be retrieved by the target AMF).
\- If there is connectivity between the target AMF and the old AMF(cases 2.a.i
and 2.b.i in clause 4.3), the target AMF can fetch any additional information
about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old AMF. If the old AMF
provides a 5G NAS security context to the target AMF, then the target AMF
discards the 5G NAS security context provided by the old AMF.
Step 16: If the target AMF has received the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator,
then the target AMF needs to run a NAS SMC procedure with the UE, to take the
new Kamf-1 key into use with the UE.
Step 17: The target AMF needs to initiate a new primary authentication with
the UE to generate a new Kamf-2. The new primary authentication procedure is
protected by the Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the Initial AMF has no
access to the new Kamf-2 key generated between target AMF and the UE.
Target AMF determines that a NAS re-route via RAN has taken place and the
target AMF uses the Kamf-1 only for the purpose of sending protected NAS
Security Mode Command and Authentication Challenge/Request to the UE, and for
receiving protected NAS Security Mode Complete and Authentication Response
from the UE.
Step 18a-b: The target AMF needs to run a new NAS SMC procedure with the UE to
take the new Kamf-2 into use with the UE. The target AMF needs to include the
request to the UE to include the complete Registration Request message in the
NAS Security Mode Complete message by setting the flag \"request initial NAS
flag\" in the NAS Security Mode Command message. The UE includes the complete
Registration Request message (sent in step 1) in the NAS Security Mode
Complete message to the target AMF. This means that the target AMF can take
the Registration Request message received in NAS Security Mode Complete
message into use and drop the Registration Request message rerouted via RAN.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
In this solution there is one more additional NAS SMC in the target AMF after
the Registration Request message and the 5G NAS security context including the
new Kamf-1 key has been re-routed via RAN, in order to take the new Kamf-1 key
into use by the UE and target AMF (after the new horizontal Kamf derivation of
Kamf-0 to generate a new Kamf-1 in Initial AMF).
Horizontal Kamf derivation in the initial AMF provides **backward security**
so the target AMF has no access to the Kamf-0 and its corresponding NAS key
used between the UE and the initial AMF. The initial AMF has access of the new
Kamf-1 key re-routed via RAN to the target AMF, but after the target AMF has
taken the new Kamf-1 key into use with the UE by running a NAS SMC, the target
AMF can initiate a new protected Authentication procedure with the UE in order
to generate a new Kamf-2 key shared with the UE, which the initial AMF has no
access to. By running a new NAS SMC procedure between target AMF and UE to
take the new Kamf-2 key into use, **forward security** is provided.
This solution has the following impact:
UE: No impact on the UE.
AMF:
This initial AMF needs to perform horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf
before forwarding the 5G NAS security context together with the complete
Registration Request message on the N2 interface to the RAN. The target AMF
needs to process the new Reroute NAS message. The target AMF also needs to
perform an authentication request in order to produce its own security
context. The initial AMF determines whether to perform horizontal key
derivation based on the behavior of old AMF.
RAN:
\- This solution has impact on RAN and N2 interface. The REROUTE NAS REQUEST
message is defined in TS 38.413 [5] and the Initial AMF includes the INITIAL
UE MESSAGE into the REROUTE NAS REQUEST message to RAN, but the REROUTE NAS
REQUEST message needs to be updated to include the 5G NAS security context as
well as it is currently not supported. Also the RAN needs to forward the 5G
NAS security context to the Target AMF together with the INITIAL UE MESSAGE.
This solution proposes to route the 5G NAS security context via RAN and
exposes the Kamf-1 key to the RAN which may impose a security threat so that
an attacker in RAN can derive further NAS security keys and initiate attacks
on the core network and the UE. Such exposure of NAS keys to RAN has not been
done before and has risks. The risks were minimized by the following design:
A. The RAN is still a trusted network entity according to TS 33.501 [3],
clause 5.3.8.
B. The Kamf-0 key is never exposed to RAN. Due to performing horizontal Kamf
derivation of the Kamf-0 key in the initial AMF and only providing the new
horizontally derived Kamf-1 to the RAN, the new generated Kamf-1 key could be
seen as a one-time key for the purpose of the AMF re-allocation. It is worth
noting that Kamf-1 is practically useless to a legitimate RAN node since it is
a NAS key that has not been put into use by any AMF in the network.
C. The target AMF needs to take the new generated Kamf-1 key received from RAN
into use with the UE by running a NAS SMC procedure prior to initiating a
primary authentication immediately thereafter in order to replace the Kamf-1
key received from the RAN with a new Kamf-2 key. The Kamf-1 key is invalidated
as soon as the Kamf-2 key is activated after a new primary authentication. So,
the Kamf-1 key becomes immediately useless.
D. Before the new primary authentication procedure is initiated in order to
replace the Kamf-1 key with a new Kamf-2 key, there are risks as an attacker
in RAN which has access to Kamf-1 key could misuse the key and perform attacks
on the UE and the target AMF. As the target AMF can determine that a NAS re-
route via RAN has taken place, the target AMF can restrictively use the Kamf-1
only for the purpose of sending protected NAS Security Mode Command and
protected Authentication Challenge/Request to the UE, and for receiving
protected NAS Security Mode Complete and protected Authentication Response
from the UE.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Solving registration failure with AMF re-allocation via
RAN
### 6.3.1 Solution Overview
The cause of registration failure issue lies in the fact that after NAS
reroute via RAN to the target AMF, the UE and the target AMF may have
inconsistent security contexts:
\- If the UE registers with a SUCI, then the UE and the initial AMF will
establish and activate new security context before RR rerouting. After RR
rerouting via RAN, the target AMF cannot obtain the new security context.
Target AMF will send unprotected authentication request to the UE. UE with
security activated will discard it.
To solve this, the solution requires the UE to process the unprotected
authentication request.
\- If the UE registers with a 5G-GUTI and protects the RR with the old
security context, the UE and the initial AMF may also establish and activate
new security context before RR rerouting. After RR is rerouted via RAN to the
target AMF, the target AMF cannot obtain the new security context. The target
AMF may or may not be able to obtain the old security context. If the target
AMF cannot obtain the old security context, the target will send unprotected
authentication request and the UE will discard. If the target AMF can obtain
the old security context, it may send a NAS protected using the old security
context. The UE with the new security context, cannot process the NAS message.
To solve this, the solution also requires the UE to resume the old security
context. The idea of requiring UE to resume the old security context is
inspired by how UE handles handover failure specified in TS 33.501 [3], i.e.
when handover fails, the UE discards the new NAS security context established
in the handover and continue to use the existing security context.
### 6.3.2 Solution Details
Figure 6.3.2-1 shows the security handling with AMF reallocation via RAN.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Security handling in registration procedure with AMF re-
allocation via RAN
1\. The UE sends a RR with a SUCI or a 5G-GUTI.
If the UE has the capability to process unprotected authenticate request and
ID request and resume the old security context in the case of AMF
reallocation, the UE also includes an indicator indicating the capability in
the RR.
NOTE 1: A Rel-17 UE is required to include the indicator in the RR.
2\. If a 5G-GUTI is included in the RR and if there is connectivity between
the initial AMF and the old AMF which assigned the 5G-GUTI, the initial AMF
obtains the old security context from the old AMF. The old AMF may perform
horizontal key derivation and send the initial AMF with the derived old
security context. If there is no connectivity between the initial and old AMF,
step 2 is skipped and the initial AMF will request ID from the UE and then
initiates primary authentication in step 3.
3\. The initial AMF may initiate ID request to obtain SUCI and perform a round
of primary authentication with the UE to establish new security context.
4\. The initial AMF sends a security mode command (SMC) message if decides to
take into use the new security context resulted from step 3 or the derived
security context obtained from Old AMF from step 2.
5\. When the UE receives the SMC, the UE which includes the indicator in RR
saves the old security context that has been established with the old AMF.
6\. Then UE processes the SMC and returns a security mode complete (SMP)
message.
7\. The initial AMF decides that NAS rerouting is needed based on local policy
and subscription information.
8\. If step 2 occurs, the initial AMF notifies the old AMF that the
registration at the initial AMF is not successful and the old AMF acts as step
2 did not occur.
9\. The initial AMF may decide NAS reroute via RAN is needed according to
local policy. Then, if an indicator is received in step 1, the initial AMF
sends an indication in a NAS message to the UE. The indication is to request
the UE to perform the following: if an unprotected authentication request or
ID request is received, the UE processes it; if a protected NAS message is
received, the UE resumes the saved security context to process the NAS
message.
The indicator is included in the RR and the description on the indicator is in
step 1. Based on the indicator, the initial AMF is aware of UE\'s capability
to process unprotected authenticate request and ID request and resume the old
security context in the case of AMF reallocation.
NOTE 2: It is up to stage 3 spec to decide whether a UE needs to send back an
ACK to the initial AMF.
10\. The initial AMF reroute RR to the target AMF, if it decides RR reroute
via RAN is needed.
11-12. After receiving the RR, if SUCI is included, the target AMF sends an
unprotected authenticate request to the UE. If a 5G-GUTI is included in the
RR,
\- If there is no connectivity between the target and old AMF, the target AMF
sends an unprotected authenticate request to the UE.
\- If there is connectivity between the target and the old AMF, the target AMF
may fetch the old security context from the old AMF and may send a NAS message
protected using the old security context.
13\. When a NAS message is received at the UE, if the indication is received
in step 9,
\- if the received NAS message is an unprotected authentication request or ID
request, the UE, based on the indication received in step 9, will process the
unprotected authentication request; or
\- if the received NAS message is a protected NAS message, the UE, based on
the indication received in step 9, will resume the saved old security context
(in step 5) to process it.
NOTE 3: In step 13, having UE accept unprotected authentication request does
not increase security risk.
The following analyses the solution for all the possible connectivity options
among the initial AMF (iAMF), old AMF (oAMF) and target AMF (tAMF).
Case 1: no oAMF
The UE includes SUCI in RR in step 1. Later in step 10, the RR with SUCI is
rerouted to the tAMF.
After the tAMF receives the rerouted RR message with SUCI in step 10, the tAMF
initiates the primary authentication and sends UE with unprotected
authentication response message. The UE, based on the indication received in
step 7, will process the authentication message.
Case 2.a.i: iAMF and oAMF can communicate; tAMF and oAMF cannot communicate.
The UE includes GUTI in RR in step 1.
After the tAMF receives the rerouted RR message with GUTI in step 10, the tAMF
sends unprotected ID request to the UE. The UE, based on the indication
received in step 7, will process the ID request message and returns SUCI to
the tAMF. The tAMF will obtains authentication token from the home network by
providing SUCI. After that, the tAMF will send unprotected authentication
request to the UE. The UE, based on the indication received in step 7, will
process the unprotected authentication request.
Case 2.a.ii: no communication allowed among iAMF, oAMF and tAMF
The UE includes GUTI in RR in step 1.
After the tAMF receives the rerouted RR message with GUTI in step 10, the tAMF
performs the same as in Case 2.a.i., i.e. ID request and then primary
authentication.
Case 2.b.i
The UE includes GUTI in RR in step 1.
The iAMF retrieves UE security context from the oAMF in step 2. The oAMF may
perform horizontal key derivation.
After obtain the horizontal key derivation, the iAMF may perform one of the
following:
1) Decide not to use the received security context, but perform authentication
to create new security context. NAS SMC is performed to activate the new
security context.
2) Decide to use the received security context from the oAMF:
a) If the oAMF has performed horizontal Kamf derivation and sent the derived
security context to the iAMF, then the iAMF will send NAS SMC protected by the
derived security context. The NAS SMC also included an indicator to indicate
the UE to perform horizontal Kamf derivation. The UE, based on the indication
performs horizontal Kamf derivation.
b) If the oAMF has not performed horizontal Kamf derivation and sent the old
security context to the iAMF, the iAMF is able to verify and decrypt the
received RR message, and obtain requested S-NSSAIs. In this case, the iAMF is
able to determine whether NAS reroute is needed without security activation,
hence the registration failure in the key issue does not exist.
After the tAMF receives the rerouted RR message with GUTI in step 10, the tAMF
retrieves UE context from the oAMF in step 11. The oAMF may perform horizontal
Kamf derivation and returns the derived security context. After obtains the
security context from the oAMF, the tAMF may perform one of the following:
1) Decide not to use the received security context from the oAMF, but perform
authentication; therefore, the tAMF sends ID request to the UE to obtain SUCI
and later sends authentication request to the UE. UE, based on the indication
received in step 9, will process the ID request and authentication request.
2) Decide to use the received security context from the oAMF:
a) If oAMF has performed horizontal Kamf derivation based on the old security
context and sent the derived security context to the tAMF, then the tAMF will
send NAS SMC protected by the derived security context. The NAS SMC also
included an indicator to indicate the UE to perform horizontal Kamf
derivation. The UE, based on the indication received in step 9, resume the old
security context, and then performs horizontal Kamf derivation and use the
derived key to verify the NAS SMC.
b) If oAMF has not performed horizontal Kamf derivation and sent the old
security context to the tAMF, the tAMF will use old security context to
protect the NAS message to the UE. The UE based on the indication received in
step 9, will resume the old security context and verify the received NAS
message.
Case 2.b.i may need to be aligned with vertical requirement later if required.
Case 2.b.ii
The UE includes GUTI in RR in step 1.
The initial AMF performs primary authentication and NAS SMC. Then the initial
AMF decides to reroute NAS via RAN. The RR is rerouted to the target AMF via
RAN.
After the tAMF receives the rerouted RR message with GUTI in step 10, the tAMF
retrieves UE context from the oAMF in step 11. The oAMF may perform horizontal
Kamf derivation and returns the derived security context. After obtains the
security context from the oAMF, the tAMF performs the same as in Case 2.b.i.
### 6.3.3 Security Evaluation
The solution addresses Key Issue # 1. The solution impacts UE and the initial
AMF.
**Impact on the UE:**
\- In the solution, the UE includes an indicator for the capability in the RR.
UE is required to support the capability to processes unprotected
authentication request and ID request, as well as to resume the old security
context.
> **Impact on the initial AMF:**
\- The initial AMF receives the indicator in the RR and sends to the UE an
indication to instruct the UE to process the unprotected authentication
request or ID request and also resume old security context.
The solution does not require transfer of security context between two
separated slices.
For case 2.b.i, where the iAMF and tAMF both can communicate with oAMF, iAMF
and tAMF can obtain and use the security context from oAMF. Case 2.b.i need to
be aligned with vertical requirement.
Note: Impacts on UE and other NFs are not addressed here.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Solution to enable NAS Security for AMF reallocation and
reroute via RAN Scenario
### 6.4.1 Introduction
The solution addresses key issue #1 related to NAS security context handling
in AMF reallocation and reroute (via RAN) scenario, where N14 interface may
not be supported between the AMFs (example. for the target AMF due to strict
slice isolation requirements). The solution considers the following scenarios
and takes into account the architecture and security assumptions specified in
clause 4.3 of the present document to address the corresponding registration
failure(s):
\- During an initial registration procedure, N14 interface may not be
supported between the initial AMF and target AMF.
\- During a registration due to mobility, N14 interface may not be supported
between the initial AMF and target AMF and there is also a possibility that
N14 interface may not be supported between the reallocated AMF (i.e. target
AMF) and the Source/old AMF.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
The solution enables NAS security availability in the Target AMF during an AMF
re-allocation and reroute (via RAN) as shown in Figure 6.4.2-1. The solution
uses the AUSF involved in the authentication procedure of the UE to act as a
common NF (i.e. an instance of existing NF that can be trusted and accessible
to all AMFs in the serving network) to generate/store a security key in the
network after a successful UE primary authentication and enable providing of
AMF key when required for the Target AMF which cannot communicate with an
initial AMF and/or source AMF directly. The AUSF in the home network is
considered to be a trusted NF in the core network, as it will be involved
during the primary authentication of the UE. Further the AUSF in the home
network can provide AMF Re-allocation Security Service to the requester NF
(i.e. initial AMF) by Nausf_AMFRealloc_SecurityContext service operation and
can provide Key service to the requester NF (i.e. re-allocated Target AMF) by
Nausf_Key service operation accordingly. The new AUSF service operation
related required and optional inputs and outputs with be described during the
normative phase.
The AUSF can assist to ensure NAS security context availability for the
reallocated AMF. The primary authentication is run similar to TS 33.501 [3]
and the AUSF stores the Kseaf before sending the
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate response message to the AMF/SEAF following
a successful primary authentication (i.e. as in TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.1.3.2.0
where the AUSF at step 4 generates Kseaf, at step 5 removes Kseaf from 5G AV
to send 5G SE AV and finally at step 12 if authentication is successful sends
Kseaf to SEAF). The message flow for enabling NAS Security for AMF re-
allocation with NAS re-route via RAN using AUSF is shown in Figure 6.4.2-1.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Enabling NAS Security for AMF re-allocation with NAS re-route
via RAN using AUSF
**Case 1- Initial Registration:**
The steps involved in the solution shown in Figure 6.4.2-1 is described as
follows.
Step 1-3. The UE sends the Registration Request to the initial AMF and the
procedure can follow similar to TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.2 and clause
4.2.2.2.3. Where at this step, the UE and network authentication would have
been successfully completed and following a successful primary authentication,
the NAS security between the UE and the initial AMF would also have been
successfully setup.
NOTE 1: The UE indicates in the Registration Request the support for AMF
Reallocation. The indication can be similar to the indication used in solution
1 and 3 of the present document.
Step 4. The initial AMF determines to reroute the NAS message to the Target
AMF via NG-RAN (as the initial AMF is not the appropriate AMF to serve the UE
based on TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3). To facilitate NAS security context
provisioning to the Target AMF for the corresponding UE\'s ongoing
registration procedure, the solution considers using AUSF that can connect
with both AMFs to assist indirect AMF re-allocation procedure. If the Initial
AMF determines to reroute via RAN, then to facilitate security context
provisioning to the target AMF, the initial AMF/SEAF sends an
AMFRealloc_Security Context Request message (over a new service-operation
message) to the AUSF which includes Target AMF information (example, AMF Set
ID), AMF_Reroute_Security Required indication, SUPI and SUCI.
Step 5. On receiving AMFRealloc_SecurityContext Request message, the AUSF
locally stores the SUCI along with SUPI. Based on the SUPI identifies the
locally stored security context. Further the AUSF generates the new security
anchor key and reroute security context (NAS_Sec_ID). NAS_Sec_ID is the hash
code of security anchor key, SUPI and Target AMF information, which enables
AUSF to authenticate the Target AMF for fetching any specific security context
at a later point of time.
NOTE 2: The rerouted RR and related information via RAN need not be protected
unless any of the related information contains sensitive data (e.g., SUPI or
Security key etc., in such a case an additional fetching of reroute security
context from the AUSF can be allowed). As this solution does not send any
sensitive data along the rerouted information, the solution does not introduce
any additional protection to the rerouted RR.
NOTE 3: if complete registration request (i.e. the one received in step 1 of
initial UE message when the UE has NAS security or the one received in NAS
Security mode complete message) needs to be rerouted via RAN in clear text and
if it has any potential security threats, then based on MNO\'s local policy
additional reroute security context can be fetched from the AUSF (in steps
4-6) and the complete registration request can be confidentiality and
integrity protected while rerouting via RAN. The reallocated AMF can retrieve
the reroute security context from the AUSF (in steps 9-11) to verify and
decrypt the protected complete registration request. The method of requesting
and applying the reroute security can be followed as in solution 12, but the
usage of reroute security context is exclusively for the protection of
complete registration request rerouted via RAN and this can be used as
applicable to both initial registration and mobility registration update
scenarios.
Step 6. The AUSF sends NAS_Sec_ID to the initial AMF/SEAF in the
AMFRealloc_Security Context Response message.
Step 7a. The initial AMF sends the reroute NAS message along with NAS_Sec_ID
and routing information (i.e. can contain for example address/FQDN/AUSF
identification information) to the target AMF via RAN. The additional
information includes the Target AMF information as specified in step 7(B) TS
23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3.
Step 7b. The NG-RAN forwards the received reroute NAS message to the
appropriate Target AMF as specified in step 7(B) TS 23.502 [2] clause
4.2.2.2.3.
Step 8. After receiving the reroute NAS message with NAS_Sec_ID, the Target
AMF/SEAF based on NAS_Sec_ID determines to fetch the corresponding security
context from the AUSF to handle the received rerouted NAS message. The routing
information in the SUCI and/or routing information can be used to select the
right AUSF.
Step 9. The Target AMF/SEAF sends the Key_Request message to the AUSF with the
SUCI, NAS_Sec_ID, and Target AMF information (example, such as AMF Set ID).
Step 10. The AUSF on receiving the NAS_Sec_ID, SUCI and AMF information,
fetches the SUCI-SUPI pair and related information and further verifies the
NAS_Sec_ID to authenticate the Target AMF to provide the security information.
If the NAS_Sec_ID validation is successful, the AUSF determines to provide the
new security context (anchor key Kseaf) for the Target AMF/SEAF.
Step 11. The AUSF sends to Target AMF/SEAF the Key_Response message containing
SUPI, NAS_Sec_ID, Kseaf, N-NSCI (to indicate the Target AMF that the Kamf is
derived from the new anchor key) and a special ABBA parameter (to indicate
Slice specific security feature defined for 5G). The SEAF derives the Kamf
from the received Kseaf, assigns a slice specific ABBA based on received
N-NSCI and provides ABBA and Kamf to AMF. The AUSF deletes the NAS_Sec_ID and
SUCI after step 11.
Step 12. The Target AMF initiates a NAS security mode command with the UE to
align the new NAS security context with the UE. The Target AMF locally stores
the received SUPI, Reroute Security context such as NAS_Sec_ID, N-NSCI, Kamf,
and the special ABBA parameter along with the ngKSI.
Step 13. The Target AMF selects the NAS security algorithms (integrity and
ciphering algorithms) based on the UE security capabilities and sends a NAS
security mode command message to the UE which contains the New NAS Security
Context Indicator (N-NSCI), and the special ABBA parameter value (example.
0x0001 to indicate the slice specific feature supported in 5GS to meet slice
isolation requirements).
Step 14. The UE on receiving the N-NSCI in the NAS Security mode command
message, uses an anchor key newly derived (as indicated with a special ABBA)
to derive a Kamf similar to the one available in the Target AMF. The UE uses
the received special ABBA value and N-NSCI received in the Kamf generation.
Step 15. The UE after a successful validation of the NAS Security mode
command, sends a NAS security mode complete message to the Target AMF.
After a successful NAS Security mode command procedure between the target AMF
and UE, the rest of the procedure executes similar to the existing 5G System.
**Case 2- Registration Mobility Update Procedure:**
Figure 6.4.2-2: Enabling NAS Security during Registration Mobility Update
Scenario for indirect AMF reroute
This clause describes the simple adaptations required for steps shown in
Figure 6.4.2-2 to address indirect AMF-reallocation based security aspects
handling during registration mobility update procedure.
Step 1. If the Registration Request contains 5G-GUTI, the initial AMF performs
the following accordingly for various scenarios mentioned in clause 4.3
\'Architecture and security assumptions\', of the present document,
Case 1-2.a.i) Initial AMF based on TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.9.3, fetches SUPI
and security context from the old AMF by providing the 5G-GUTI and the
registration request. Further the initial AMF decides whether to reroute the
Registration Request according to TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 2 (TS
23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 2-6b as applicable). If the initial AMF
determines to perform RAN reroute due to indirect AMF reallocation (based on
TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 7B), then the initial AMF decides to
ignore the security context fetched from the old AMF after step 6 (initial AMF
sends to old AMF Namf_Communication_RegistrationStatusUpdate (failure cause).
Perform steps 4 to 15 as in Figure 6.4.2-2, with the following minimal changes
related to 5G-GUTI storage and handling at the AUSF.
\- In step 4, the initial AMF/SEAF sends 5G-GUTI and SUPI (instead of SUCI) to
the AUSF in AMFRealloc_SecurityContext Request message.
\- In step 5, on receiving AMFRealloc_SecurityContext Request message, the
AUSF based on the SUPI identifies the locally stored security context and
stores the 5G-GUTI along with the SUPI.
\- In step 6. The AUSF sends NAS_Sec_ID to the initial AMF/SEAF in the
AMFRealloc_Security Context Response message.
\- In step 8. the Target AMF based on the received NAS_Sec_ID, it determines
to fetch the corresponding security context from the AUSF to handle the
received rerouted NAS message. The routing information can be used to select
the right AUSF instance which holds the UE security context.
\- In step 9, the target AMF/SEAF sends 5G-GUTI in the Key_Request to the
AUSF.
\- In step 10, the AUSF based on the received 5G-GUTI and NAS_Sec_ID, fetches
the corresponding SUPI along with reroute security information to verify the
NAS_Sec_ID.
Case 2-2.a.ii) As the initial AMF lack N14 with old AMF, the UE cannot be
identified by means of a temporary identity (5G-GUTI) and so the AMF performs
Subscription identification procedure with UE and continues with primary
authentication. After a successful primary authentication, the initial AMF
performs steps 4 to 15 same as in Figure 6.4.2-1.
Case 3-2.b.i) The initial AMF having N14 with old AMF will act similar to Case
1-2.a.i. As the scenario is related to indirect AMF reroute, the target AMF
based on local policy and received NAS_Sec_ID determines to fetch and use
security context related to NAS_Sec_ID. If required, the target AMF can fetch
UE context from the old AMF but may not use security context from old AMF. As
the initial AMF already fetches and uses the UE context from old AMF, there is
a possibility that old AMF can delete the security context (based on TS 33.501
[3] clause 6.9.3), and so the target AMF may not fetch any security context
from the old AMF. Further the case 2.b.i may not be feasible according to the
vertical slice isolation requirement, which may need to be aligned with the
clause 4.3 accordingly.
Case 4-2.b.ii) As the initial AMF lack N14 with old AMF, the UE cannot be
identified by means of a temporary identity (5G-GUTI) and so the AMF performs
Subscription identification procedure with UE and continues with primary
authentication. After a successful primary authentication, the initial AMF
performs steps 4 to 15 same as in Figure 6.4.2-1. On receiving the reroute NAS
message with NAS_Sec_ID, the target AMF based on local policy determines to
use the security context related to the received NAS_Sec_ID. As an
alternative, the target AMF based on local policy determine either to use the
security context related to NAS_Sec_ID fetched from AUSF or related to 5G-GUTI
fetched from old AMF (where UE context will be fetched).
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
The solution uses AUSF to assist security handling for indirect AMF
reallocation scenario to ensure the system availability.
1\. The solution does not expose any sensitive information (UE identification
information (i.e. SUPI) or security key) to the RAN.
2\. The solution involves only one primary authentication run to ensure
network availability for the UE during the AMF reroute via RAN scenario.
3\. The solution is formulated to work using the existing SA2 defined
procedures. Further the solution requires following new features to be
supported in the UE and NFs (i.e. RAN and AMF in serving and AUSF in home
network) as listed below.
UE Impacts: Process N-NSCI and slice specific feature indicated (i.e. specific
ABBA) and derive new Keys based on them.
RAN Impacts: Forward NAS_Sec_ID and Routing information along with Reroute NAS
message.
AMF Impacts: Use new AUSF service operations to facilitate security context
availability for Target AMF. Initial AMF need to send NAS_Sec_ID and Routing
Information to RAN Node. Target AMF need to obtain security context from AUSF
and send N-NSCI and specific ABBA to UE. For case 2.b.i, target AMF does not
use UE security context from old AMF, but can use fetched UE context. For Case
2.b.ii, target AMF based on local policy may use either security context from
AUSF or old AMF (where UE context will be available) as described in solution.
AUSF Impacts:
\- Need to send slice specific ABBA and N-NSCI to AMF/SEAF. New AUSF service
required.
NOTE 1: Slice specific ABBA (for example 0x0001) dedicated for Slice specific
security feature in 5GS and it does not expose any information (i.e. versions
of any NF) similar to the normal ABBA parameter in the current system (i.e.,
ABBA parameter value 0x0000 for Initial set of security features defined for
5GS.). As the solution allows one main option (i.e. sending ABBA from AUSF)
and one alternative option (i.e. sending from SEAF as in existing system) to
the AMF, any one of the options can be used for the normative work. The
solution working does not essentially require slice specific ABBA but
recommends slice specific ABBA to be used instead for using current ABBA
parameter value (0x0000) as it will be more relevant because this feature is
related to slicing support.
\- Store the SUCI (temporarily) along with SUPI in the AUSF.
NOTE 2: The storage of SUCI and SUPI is not a new feature for the AUSF
according to TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.1.3.2.0, where it states \'The AUSF stores
the XRES* temporarily together with the received SUCI or SUPI.\'.
\- For the registration mobility update, temporary store 5G-GUTI along with
SUPI.
NOTE 3: The essential functioning of solution can also work without storage of
5G-GUTI and SUCI to request key from AUSF, where NAS_Sec_ID will act as single
point of reference to fetch UE security. The usage of temporary ID complements
security context retrieval per UE registration Request associated to a
SUCI/5G-GUTI.
Impacts to Key hierarchy:
\- No impact (i.e. as solution requires to derives new Kamf from Kseaf).
\- Kamf derivation binds to inputs N-NSCI and specific ABBA.
## 6.5 Solution #5: AMF re-allocation by re-directing UE to new AMF
### 6.5.1 Solution Overview
The solution proposes that the Initial-AMF, upon determining that AMF re-
allocation is needed and it cannot communicate with the new Target-AMF
directly, sends Registration Accept message to the UE, containing a re-route
assistance information. The re-route assistance information includes following
information:
\- A 5G-GUTI that is encoded for Target-AMF (set). It comprises of:
\- AMF-Set ID in GUAMI set to that of Target-AMF, as returned from NSSF/NRF
\- AMF Pointer set to 0xFFFFFF, or a reserved value
\- 5G-TMSI set to random number
\- An indication that UE needs to re-register to the network using 5G-GUTI
provided in re-route assistance information.
A UE, receiving this information in Registration Accept Message re-initiates
registration procedure by sending Registration Request with 5G-GUTI.
RAN, upon receiving the new routing information (derived from 5G-GUTI) along
with new Registration Request, directly forwards the request to an AMF in
target AMF set.
The new (target) AMF, upon receiving registration request containing a 5G-GUTI
whose AMF Pointer is set to a reserved value (or 0xFFFFFF), understands that
this is a re-routed registration request and proceeds with Primary
Authentication procedure. Thus, it can now proceed with setting up fresh
security context and registration procedure can succeed.
### 6.5.2 Solution Details
#### 6.5.2.0 Procedure
Figure 6.5.2-1 shows the detailed procedure.
Figure 6.5.2.0-1: Redirecting UE to Target-AMF
**Step #1:** UE initiates Registration procedure to connect to the network by
sending registration request. RAN forwards the request to Initial-AMF.
Initial-AMF may perform Primary authentication procedure.
**Step #2:** Initial-AMF may perform NAS SMC procedure with the UE. From this
point onwards, UE only accepts ciphered/protected messages from the network.
As part of \"Security Mode Complete\" message, UE also sends complete
Registration Request to the UE, which includes Requested S-NSSAIs.
**Step #3:** Initial-AMF then initiates Nudm_SDM_Get procedure with UDM to
download UE\'s subscription data. The subscription data includes information
about UE\'s Subscribed S-NSSAIs.
**Step #4:** Based on UE\'s Requested S-NSSAIs, Subscribed S-NSSAIs and other
(e.g. locally configured) information, Initial-AMF determines if it cannot
serve all the S-NSSAI(s) from the Requested NSSAI permitted by the
subscription information. If network deploys NSSF, following sequence of
events follows:
\- Initial-AMF invokes the Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service operation towards
NSSF to retrieve Allowed NSSAI. The request to NSSF includes UE\'s Requested
S-NSSAIs, Subscribed S-NSSAIs, current tracking area (TAI) etc.
\- NSSF responds to Initial-AMF with an AMF-Set-ID, or a list of AMF nf-
Instance-IDs (e.g. of Target-AMF) which are better suited to serve the UE,
along with allowed NSSAI.
If network does not deploy NSSF, AMF finds Target-AMF Information by other
means (e.g. local config).
**Step #5:** If Initial-AMF, based on local configuration, determines that it
cannot forward the Registration Request to Target-AMF directly and/or may need
to go via RAN, it sends a Registration Accept message to the UE. The message
includes re-route assistance information containing:
\- A 5G-GUTI that is encoded for Target-AMF (set). It comprises of:
\- AMF-Set ID in GUAMI set to that of Target-AMF, as returned from NSSF/NRF
\- AMF Pointer set to 0xFFFFFF, or a reserved value
\- 5G-TMSI set to random number
\- An indication that UE needs to re-register to the network using 5G-GUTI
provided in re-route assistance information. This may be implicit due to
presence of re-route assistance information. Exact details can be decided by
Stage-3.
Following this, UE sends Registration Complete, and network releases ngAP/RRC
connection.
UE also needs to indicate its support of receiving re-route assistance
information in Step #1. Exact details will be decided by Stage-3.
For legacy UEs which do not support such capability, registration accept is
sent with following information. Re-route assistance information is not sent
in this case.
\- 5G-GUTI set as indicated above
\- Really short periodic registration timer (e.g. 4 seconds)
**Step #6:** UE re-initiates Registration procedure by sending Registration
Request with 5G-GUTI as received above. via a new RRC Connection towards RAN.
RAN forwards the request to Target-AMF.
**Step #7:** When Target-AMF receives the new Registration Request with new
5G-GUTI, it determines that it neither has UE\'s context locally, nor can
reach the old AMF (e.g. due to presence of reserved value of AMF-Pointer in
5G-GUTI), and deduces that this is a re-routed Registration request. It
accordingly proceeds with identity request/response followed by Primary
authentication procedure. Since no Inter-AMF routing via RAN is involved now,
the registration procedure is able to proceed.
For legacy UEs which may have initiated Registration Request of type
\"periodic\", target AMF rejects registration request which forces it to send
Registration Request of type \"initial\".
#### 6.5.2.1 Handling Different cases of communicating AMFs (Figure 4.3-1)
Case 1: This is handled with procedure defined in clause 6.5.1.
Case 2.a.i: This case cannot be handled with this solution, as far as
transferring of MM/SM-Contexts from old-AMF is concerned, as Initial-AMF does
not transfer any data to Target-AMF. However, this solution does allow UE to
get registered in Target-AMF, without the risk of running into infinite-loop
of trying-and-failing to register.
With this solution, MM-Context will be re-built by the Target-AMF. As for SM-
Contexts, there is no point transferring those, as Target-AMF cannot anyway
use them, since it does not support the S-NSSAIs supported by old-AMF. Hence,
this is not a drawback for this solution.
Case 2.a.ii: This case cannot be handled by [any]{.underline} solution, as far
as transferring of MM/SM-Contexts is concerned. However, this solution does
allow UE to get registered in Target-AMF, without the risk of running into
infinite-loop of trying-and-failing to register.
Case 2.b.i: It is proposed to handle this case as follows.
\- UE does not discard 5G-GUTI pointing to old-AMF in Step #5, and sends it as
an additional GUTI in the Registration Request in Step #6. Target-AMF, based
on the presence of reserved value of AMF-Pointer in 5G-GUTI, determines that
this is a re-routed Registration requests, and additional GUTI to be used to
retrieve the UE\'s Context.
NOTE: The existing Registration Request procedure allows the inclusion of two
5G-GUTIs, if the UE has a valid EPS GUTI and a native 5G-GUTI and when the UE
performs a mobility registration update from EPS to 5GS explicitly indicating
the mobility from EPS in a plaintext IE. The inclusion of two native 5G-GUTIs
in the Registration Request without the UE moving from EPS to 5GS is a new
behaviour since the UE is not required to set the indication that is moving
from EPS. However, this is not expected to cause any issues with the AMF
handling the Registration Request.
\- Target-AMF requests old-AMF to transfer UE\'s Context **after** UE has been
successfully authenticated by Target-AMF. This is done by setting reason
attribute to \"MOBI_REG_UE_VALIDATED\" as specified in clause 5.2.2.2.1.2 of
TS 29.518
Legacy UEs (that do not support receiving/sending new IEs) cannot handle this
case, as far as transferring of MM/SM-Contexts is concerned. However, this
solution does allow Legacy UEs also to get registered in Target-AMF, without
the risk of running into infinite-loop of trying-and-failing to register.
Case 2.b.ii: Same as above.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
Pros:
\- Since the solution does not involve routing security context via RAN, or
introducing a new NF connecting isolated slices, there is no compromise with
security.
Cons:
\- MM/SM Context transfer cannot be handled for Legacy UEs cannot handle for
Case 2.b.i, 2.b.ii. However, the solution does allow Legacy UEs also to get
registered in Target-AMF, without the risk of running into infinite-loop of
trying-and-failing to register.
NOTE: This solution has impacts to stage 2 procedures (e.g. as defined in TS
23.502 [2], clause 4.2.2.2.3).
\- The initial AMF is mandated to assign a GUTI to the UE on behalf of the
target AMF (Set).
The target AMF is mandated to run identity request and perform primary
authentication.
The target AMF is unable to retrieve UE context from the old AMF. Context loss
is inevitable.
This solution removes the option of NAS reroute via RAN. How to solve the
registration failure issue when RR is rerouted via RAN is still not solved.
This solution has impact on the UE.
The UE and the network are required to run two registration procedures.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Solution to provide Security context to AMF capable of
serving the UE to ensure system availability
### 6.6.1 Introduction
The solution addresses Key issue #1 on Security of AMF re-allocation
procedure. The solution enables provisioning of UE security context to the AMF
capable of serving the UE to ensure system availability.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
The solution is based on the principle of verifying the initial AMF\'s
capability and the UE\'s subscription information (i.e. slice subscription
data), before the UE\'s security context can be provisioned to the initial AMF
during the primary authentication to prevent system availability issues
described in Key Issue#1. The Figure 6.6.2-1 describes the AMF capability and
slice isolation requirement-based UE Security handling during primary
authentication as follows. The essential adaptations required over initiation
of primary authentication and authentication procedure is described here in
Figure 6.6.2-1 and the rest follows similar to clause 6.1.2 and clause 6.1.3
of TS 33.501 [3].
Figure 6.6.2-1: AMF Serving Capability based Security handling during primary
authentication
Step 1. The UE sends the Registration Request with SUCI or 5G-GUTI to the
initial AMF.
Step 2a-b. The initial AMF sends authentication request to the SEAF with SUCI
by including the AMF Slice serving Capability set as \'unknown\' (example:
unknown can be represented with a value set to \'0\'). The AMF can set the AMF
serving capability as unknown based on SUCI and if there is no slice related
information (example. slice selection information or reroute due to slicing
information) available for the UE. The AMF sends AMF slice serving capability
as unknown if it has no available information which can enable the network to
select the appropriate slice.
The SEAF further sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message
to the AUSF, which can contain SUCI, SNN and AMF Slice Serving Capability.
Step 3. The AUSF stores the received SNN and SUCI temporarily in its local
memory. The AUSF sends to the UDM a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request
containing, SUCI, and SNN.
Step 4. The UDM/UDR performs SUCI deconcealment and authentication method
selection as in TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.1.2. Further the UDM, determines, if
there is any slice isolation required based on the available subscription
information (ex., slice selection subscription data). If a slice isolation
requirement information is available, then the UDM determines to provide the
related information to the AUSF.
Step 5. The UDM sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response to the AUSF, which
contains an AV (i.e. EAP-AKA\' AV/5G HE AV as in TS 33.501 [3]based on
authentication method), SUPI and Slice Isolation Required indication.
Step 6. The AUSF performs method specific message exchange with the UE to
perform primary authentication as in 33.501 [3] clause 6.1.3 (steps 3-8/9 for
EAP-AKA\' or 3-11 for 5G AKA). The solution proposes no changes to the
challenge request/response message exchanges involved in the primary
authentication.
Step 7a. The AUSF if finds that the RES* verification (if 5G AKA) or
Authentication challenge verification (EAP-AKA\') is successful, then the 5G
network considers the primary authentication as successful.
Step 7b. Post successful authentication verification at the AUSF, if an AMF
slice serving capability unknown was received from AMF/SEAF in step 2, then
the AUSF determines to hold the UE security context until an acknowledgement
is received from the initial AMF/SEAF that it is capable to serve the UE. As
an alternative option 1, the AUSF can provide security context as in the
existing system in addition to sending AMF serving capability check Required
Indication and Slice Isolation Required Indication.
Step 8. The AUSF sends to AMF/SEAF, a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Request message which includes authentication result as success, SUPI and an
AMF serving capability Check Required indication and Slice Isolation Required
Indication (if received from UDM). As an alternative option 1, the Anchor Key
is also provided.
Step 9a-b. The AMF/SEAF on receiving an AMF serving capability Check Required
indication and Slice Isolation Required Indication (if received), the AMF
determines to check its serving capability and it performs steps 3a-6b (as
applicable) of clause 4.2.2.2.3 Registration with AMF re-allocation as
specified in TS 23.502 [2]. The initial AMF based on local policy and
subscription information if decides to reroute via RAN (based on TS 23.502 [2]
clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 7B), then performs step 10a-15. Also, the AMF determines
not to use the received security context (if received as in alternative option
1). Else if the AMF finds that it is capable to serve the UE (i.e. a reroute
via RAN is not needed), and if no security context is received in addition to
AMF serving capability check required indication, then the AMF/SEAF can
perform step 10a\'-10b\' to fetch UE security context and then to continue
with NAS SMC as in existing system. Else if, the AMF finds that it is capable
to serve the UE (i.e. a reroute via RAN is not needed), and if a security
context is received as in alternative option 1, then the AMF continue with NAS
SMC as in existing system.
Step 10a. The AMF/SEAF, if determines to perform Reroute via RAN, then it
sends SUPI, AMF Serving Capability Result set as \'0\', AMF reroute security
required indication and target AMF information in an AUSF service operation
message to the AUSF. As an alternative, in addition the AMF/SEAF can also send
the ABBA (i.e. ABBA previous used in authentication message exchange with UE)
to AUSF in this step.
Step 10b. The AUSF on receiving an AMF Serving Capability Result set as \'0\'
(as in step 10a) with AMF reroute security required indication, determines
that it need to provide the security to new Target AMF. Further as a reroute
security context is requested, the AUSF derives an AMF authentication token
(AMF_AUTN) using hash of AUSF key, SUPI and RAND. AUSF locally stores the
AMF_AUTN along with the SUPI, SUCI, Kausf, ABBA (if received) and Kseaf (if
available). The AUSF further sends AMF_AUTN in AUSF service operation message
to the AMF/SEAF.
If No Reroute via RAN determined at AMF (then only steps 10a\' and 10b\' are
applicable):
Step 10a\'. The AMF if determines that it is capable to serve the UE (i.e. no
reroute via RAN), sends SUPI and AMF Serving Capability Result set as \'1\' to
the AUSF.
Step 10b\'. The AUSF on receiving SUPI and AMF Serving Capability Result set
as \'1\' determines to provide the UE Security context to AMF/SEAF and then
AUSF can send SUPI, Authentication Result and Anchor Key to the AMF/SEAF as in
the existing system.
Step 11a. The initial AMF based on local policy and subscription information
if decides to reroute via RAN (based on TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step
7B) at step 9b, it further sends the Reroute NAS message to the NG-RAN, which
contains the initial UE message, Routing Information (to select the AUSF
instance holding the UE context), and AMF_AUTN. As an alternative, in addition
the initial AMF can also send the ngKSI (i.e. ABBA previous used in
authentication message exchange with UE) in the Reroute NAS message.
Step 11b. The NG-RAN forwards the received Reroute NAS message to the Target
AMF with initial UE message, reroute due to slicing, AMF_AUTN, ngKSI (if
received) and Routing Information.
Step 12. The Target AMF on receiving the Reroute NAS message with AMF_AUTN
will attempt to contact the right AUSF (either directly or via co-located
SEAF) based on the routing Information. The Target AMF sends to appropriate
AUSF, the Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request containing the SUCI,
SNN, and the received AMF_AUTN (to authenticate itself with AUSF to fetch the
UE security context). The target AMF if received a ngKSI, then that ngKSI can
be used to identify the partial native security context created with the
successful primary authentication.
Step 13. The AUSF verifies the received AMF_AUTN based on the UE
authentication information locally stored. If the Target AMF provided AMF_AUTN
matches with the locally stored AMF_AUTN for a SUCI, then the AUSF considers
the AMF_AUTN verification (i.e. Reallocated AMF authentication) as successful
and determines to provide the anchor key.
Step 14. The AUSF sends to SEAF of the Target AMF, the
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response containing authentication result,
SUPI and Kseaf (the anchor key). Further the SEAF sends the ABBA parameters,
authentication result as success, and Kamf key to the Target AMF as in the
existing system. As an alternative, if the AUSF in addition received ABBA in
step 11a, the AUSF sends the ABBA received to SEAF and the SEAF is required to
use the received ABBA.
NOTE 1: The ABBA parameter usage can be same as in the existing system. TS
33.501 [3]specified the ABBA parameter value as \'0x0000\'. The UE uses the
ABBA parameter provided by the SEAF in the calculation of K~AMF~ as specified
in TS 33.501 [3] clause A.7.1 ABBA parameter values.
NOTE 2: For EAP-AKA\', perform step 11 as specified in TS 33.501 [3] clause
6.1.3.1. For 5G AKA, perform step 12 as specified in TS 33.501 [3] clause
6.1.3.2.0.
Step 15. The Target AMF on receiving the Kamf and authentication result can
trigger the NAS Security mode command (NAS SMC) procedure with UE when
required to activate the UE NAS security context as in TS 33.501 [3].
**Adaptations for Registration Mobility Update:**
This clause describes the simple adaptations required to address security
handling in AMF-reallocation during registration mobility update procedure as
shown in Figure 6.6.2-2.
Figure 6.6.2-2: Security context handling during registration mobility update
Step 1. If the Registration Request contains 5G-GUTI (pointing to an old AMF),
the initial AMF performs the following accordingly for various scenarios
mentioned in clause 4.3 \'Architecture and security assumptions\', of the
present document:
Case 1-2.a.i) N14 interface exists only between Initial AMF and Old AMF:
Step 2a-b. The Initial AMF based on TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.9.3, fetches SUPI
and security context from the old AMF by providing the 5G-GUTI and the
registration request. Further SUPI and subscription information (fetched from
UDM as shown in 2b.3) can be used to decide whether to reroute the
Registration Request according to TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 2. If a
reroute is required, the initial AMF, if fetched the UE context (as in TS
23.502 [2] clause 5.2.2.2.2) from the old AMF, it can use the slice
information to perform (2b.4) Nnssf_NSSelection service operation based on TS
23.502 [2] 4.2.2.2.3 step 4a-b. Also, for the case, where the current 5G
security context is fetched, the AMF may decipher the NAS container with the
same security context, and get the initial NAS message and so if there is any
Requested NSSAI provided by UE, it can also be used in Nnssf_NSSelection
service operation (even though it is an optional IE according to TS TS 23.502
[2] clause 5.2.16.2.1). If an indirect AMF allocation and reroute via RAN is
required, the initial AMF does not send any NAS message to the UE (i.e. it
does not use current/new 5G security context fetched from old AMF), in turn
can perform reroute via RAN.
NOTE 3: According to TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.9.3 for the case where source/old
AMF sends new 5G security context to Initial AMF, it states, \'The source AMF
subsequently deletes the 5G security context which it holds.\'
Step 2c.1 If another AMF is selected, the initial AMF sends a reject
indication to the old AMF and the old AMF continues as if the
Namf_Communication_UEContextTransfer had never been received.
Step 2c.2. Target AMF discovery can be based on TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3
steps 6a-b.
Step 3-4. The initial AMF performs reroute via RAN as in TS 23.502 [2] clause
4.2.2.2.3 step 7B.
Step 5a-b. The Target AMF on receiving the initial NAS message with 5G-GUTI
finds that it is not able to identify the related old AMF and considers that
it cannot identify the UE with 5G-GUTI and so initiates identity request
procedure with UE and get SUCI.
Step 6. The target AMF initiates primary authentication by sending
authentication request with SUCI (without AMF slice serving capability IE,
because the target AMF is aware that this is reroute due to slicing received
in Reroute NAS message as in TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 7B).
The target AMF will not include any AMF slice serving capability IE as
unknown, so, the AUSF soon after successful response verification will provide
Anchor key to the AMF/SEAF as in existing system. If the UDM provides a Slice
Isolation Required Indication during step 5 as in Figure 6.6.2-1, the AUSF
also sends the received Slice Isolation Required Indication to the AMF/SEAF
along with the authentication result, SUPI and anchor key. Alternatively, if
the AUSF does not receive any AMF slice serving capability unknown indication
from the AMF, the AUSF can skip sending Slice Isolation Required indication to
the AMF (if received from the UDM). The Target AMF checks the SUPI and
subscription information and then accordingly performs NAS SMC with the UE.
Case 2-2.a.ii) No N14 exists between Initial AMF and old AMF and also no N14
exists between target AMF and old AMF: As the initial AMF lack N14 with old
AMF, the UE cannot be identified by means of a temporary identity (5G-GUTI)
and so the initial AMF performs Subscription identification procedure (as
shown in step 2.b-1) with UE and continues with primary authentication (as
shown in step 2b.2) with the adaptations described in Figure 6.6.2-1 steps
2a-13.
Case 3-2.b.i) N14 exists between Initial AMF and old AMF and also between
target AMF and old AMF: The initial AMF having N14 with old AMF will act
similar to Case 2-2.a.i steps 1-4.
Step 5-6. The Target AMF on receiving the initial NAS message with 5G-GUTI
finds it can contact the corresponding old AMF. Based on local policy and
reroute due to slicing indication received in reroute NAS message, the target
AMF may fetch security context from old AMF (or) determines not to fetch
security context from old AMF and perform Identity request/response procedure
and primary authentication accordingly (as in case 2.a.i).
If the target AMF fetches security context from old AMF, either based on local
policy the target AMF may use current/new security context fetched from old
AMF or the target may determine to perform primary authentication with SUPI
(as in case 2.a.i, but SUPI is used instead of SUCI).
NOTE 4: Further the case 2.b.i may not be feasible according to the vertical
slice isolation requirement and it may need to be aligned with the clause 4.3.
Case 4-2.b.ii) N14 exists only between target AMF and old AMF: As the initial
AMF lack N14 with old AMF, the UE cannot be identified by means of a temporary
identity (5G-GUTI) and so the AMF performs Subscription identification
procedure (as shown in 2b.1) with UE and continues with primary authentication
(as shown in 2b.2) based on the adaptations described in Figure 6.6.2-1 steps
2a-13. The target AMF on receiving the reroute NAS message (i.e. Registration
Request with 5G-GUTI), based on local policy, received authentication
information (AMF_AUTN) and reroute due to slicing indication, determine to
fetch security context related to an authentication information received in
the reroute NAS message from the AUSF.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
The solution depends on AUSF to assist security handling for indirect AMF
reallocation scenario to ensure the system availability. The solution has the
following advantages:
1\. The solution ensures security context provisioning only to AMF which can
serve a UE and hence limiting the occurrence of system availability issues
described in key issue#1.
2\. The solution governs strict isolation requirements for the AMF without
reusing the existing AMF Key belonging to a source AMF and/or old AMF for the
Target AMF which has an isolation requirement.
3\. The solution is formulated to work using the SA2 defined procedure
specified in TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3. The solution has impact on the
primary authentication procedure (i.e. initiation of primary authentication
and after the response verification at the AUSF). The solution does not impact
challenge response message exchanges.
NOTE: As soon as SUPI is available for the initial AMF (Either after primary
authentication or after fetching from old AMF), an amf reallocation and
reroute via RAN requirement is determined and performed following 23.502 [2]
clause 4.2.2.2.3 steps 3a-3b (to fetch slice selection subscription data),
step 4a-4b (network slice selection based on Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service
operation, where essentially all conditions are applied as specified in clause
5.2.16.2.1 Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service operation. The required inputs
specified as \'Inputs, Conditional Required\' will be included and \'Inputs,
Optional\'(i.e. Requested NSSAI) will be included only if it is available for
the initial AMF (as used and described for case 3-2.b.i solution), where
required step 5 (Namf_communication_RegistrationStatus update), steps 6a-b (NF
Discovery with NRF) and finally step 7B(for reroute via RAN). If the initial
AMF determines that an AMF reallocation and reroute is required, then the
initial AMF skips NAS SMC to allow the reallocated AMF to perform primary
authentication or NAS SMC with the UE. The Network slice selection alignment
can be evaluated by SA2.
Impacts to NFs in serving network (i.e. RAN and AMF) and home network (i.e.
AUSF and UDM) are listed below.
RAN Impact: Forward AMF_AUTN and routing information to Target AMF along with
reroute NAS message.
AMF Impact: Send AMF slice serving capability as Unknown while invoking
authentication service (based on SUCI and if no slicing information is
available) to AUSF. If a reroute via RAN is determined, AMF facilitates
security context availability for the Target AMF during primary
authentication. Target AMF need to process AMF_AUTN and include AMF_AUTN when
invoking authentication service provided by AUSF.
AUSF Impact: If \'AMF slice serving capability\' set to Unknown is received,
the AUSF determines to hold the security context until an AMF serving
capability with Result with \'1\' is received from AMF/SEAF. If an amf reroute
is indicated along with AMF serving capability with Result \'0\', then AUSF
generates and provides AMF_AUTN to initial AMF to enable the new target AMF to
fetch the corresponding security context. AUSF need to verify AMF_AUTN.
Impact to Home network in roaming: The UDM/UDR require to store slice
isolation requirements (if any) as part of subscription information and
provide to AUSF.
UE Impact: No Impact.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Solution to enable Reallocated AMF to serve the UE
### 6.7.1 Introduction
The solution addresses Key issue #1 on Security of AMF re-allocation
procedure.
The solution is based on the principle of allowing the initial AMF to decide
when a SUPI is available, if a \'AMF reallocation with reroute via RAN\' is
required or not based on the critical factors (i.e. SUPI, subscription
information, slice selection and AMF local policy etc.,), defined in TS 23.502
[2] clause 4.2.2.2.3.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
The solution is based on the principle of enabling the initial AMF to verify
the UE\'s slice subscription data soon after response verification during the
primary authentication to determine if an AMF is capable to serve a UE or not,
before the UE\'s security context can be provisioned to the initial AMF to
prevent system availability issues described in Key Issue#1 of the present
document. The Figure 6.7.2-1 describes the UE slice subscription data-based
AMF serving capability verification and UE Security handling/provisioning to
AMF/SEAF during primary authentication as follows. The essential adaptations
required over initiation of primary authentication and authentication
procedure is described here in Figure 6.7.2-1 and the rest follows similar to
clause 6.1.2 and clause 6.1.3 of TS 33.501 [3].
Figure 6.7.2-1: AMF Serving Capability based Security Context handling during
primary authentication
The solution uses the existing service operations for the adaptations
required.
Step 1. The UE sends the Registration Request with SUCI or 5G-GUTI to the
initial AMF.
Step 2a-b. The initial AMF sends authentication request to the SEAF by
including the Slice Selection Information Not Available indication (if the AMF
received a Registration Request with SUCI/ 5G-GUTI (i.e. during initial
registration with SUCI /when the UE and old AMF could not be identified with
5G-GUTI). The SEAF further sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request
message to the AUSF. The Slice Selection Information Not Available can
indicate that the initial AMF has no available information which can enable
the network to select the appropriate slice.
Step 3. The AUSF on receiving the Slice Selection Information Not Available
Indication determines that the network (i.e., AMF) needs further information
to verify the serving capability for the corresponding UE. The AUSF sends to
the UDM a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request containing, SUCI, and SNN.
Step 4. The UDM/UDR performs SUCI de-concealment and authentication method
selection as in TS 33.501 clause 6.1.2.
Step 5. The UDM sends a Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Response to the AUSF, which
contains an AV (i.e. EAP-AKA\' AV/5G HE AV as in 33.501 based on
authentication method), and SUPI.
Step 6. The AUSF performs method specific message exchange with the UE to
perform primary authentication (i.e. as in TS 33.501 clause 6.1.3 steps 3-8/9
for EAP-AKA\' or 3-11 for 5G AKA). The solution proposes no changes to the
challenge request/response message exchanges involved in the primary
authentication.
Step 7. The AUSF if finds that the RES* verification (if 5G AKA) or
Authentication challenge verification (EAP-AKA\') is successful, then the
network considers the primary authentication as successful. If a Slice
Selection Information Not Available was received in step 2a from AMF/SEAF,
then the AUSF determines to hold the UE security context temporarily until the
AMF/SEAF informs the AUSF about its serving capability.
Step 8. The AUSF can send to the AMF/SEAF, the authentication result as
success, SUPI, and AMF serving Capability Check Required indication.
Step 9a-9b. The initial AMF on receiving the SUPI along with AMF serving
Capability Check Required indication, determines to check if a reroute is
required or not based on TS 23.502 [2] as shown in step 9a-b.
Step 9c. If the AMF decides to perform an indirect AMF reroute, then it
determines to facilitate the UE security context provisioning to the newly
selected target AMF.
If the AMF determines to perform indirect AMF reroute via RAN, then sets the
AMF service capability result as \'0\'.
Else, if the AMF determines to perform direct AMF reroute/ if it is capable to
serve the UE based on the UE subscription information/slice subscription data,
then sets the AMF service capability result as \'1\'.
Step 10. The AMF/SEAF sends to AUSF, the SUPI, AMF Reroute Security Required
Indication, AMF service capability result, Target AMF Information, and
optionally SUCI. As an alternative, in addition the AMF/SEAF can also send the
ABBA to AUSF in this step.
Alternatively, if No Reroute via RAN is determined, then AMF/SEAF sends to
AUSF the SUPI, AMF service capability result set to \'1\'.
Step 11. The AUSF on receiving a AMF service capability result set as \'0\',
and Reroute Security Required Indication, it determines to store the UE
security context to facilitate the security provisioning to the Target AMF at
a later point of time when required (i.e. after reallocation). The AUSF
derives an authentication information AMF_AUTN from the UE context available
in the AUSF (for the Target AMF using the hash of AUSF, SUPI, RAND, SNN and
the target AMF information).
Alternatively, for no Reroute via RAN case, the AUSF on receiving from
AMF/SEAF, AMF service capability result with \'1\', provides the Anchor key,
SUPI and authentication result to the initial AMF and the initial AMF can
setup NAS Security similar to the existing system.
Step 12. The AUSF sends to the AMF/SEAF, the SUPI, AMF_AUTN, AUSF locally
stores the AMF_AUTN along with the SUPI with SUCI, Kausf, ABBA (if received),
Kseaf and corresponding SNN. The SEAF forwards the received SUPI,
authentication result as success, SUPI, AMF_AUTN, to the initial AMF.
Step 13a. The AMF sends a reroute NAS message to the NG-RAN with initial UE
message, reroute due slicing, Routing Information (to indicate the AUSF
holding the context) and AMF_AUTN. As an alternative, in addition the initial
AMF can send the ngKSI in the Reroute NAS message.
Step 13b. The NG-RAN forwards the received Reroute NAS message to the Target
AMF with initial UE message, reroute due slicing, Routing Information, ngKSI
(if received) and AMF_AUTN.
Step 14. The Target AMF on receiving the Reroute NAS message with reroute due
slicing, Routing Information and AMF_AUTN will attempt to contact the right
AUSF based on the Routing Information. The Target AMF sends to appropriate
AUSF, the Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request containing the SUCI,
SNN, and the received AMF_AUTN (to authenticate itself with AUSF to fetch the
UE security context). The target AMF if received a ngKSI, then that ngKSI can
be used to identify the partial native security context created after the
successful primary authentication.
Step 15. The AUSF verifies the received AMF_AUTN and SNN based on the UE
authentication information locally stored. If the Target AMF provided AMF_AUTN
matches with the locally stored AMF_AUTN for a SUCI and/or SUPI, then the AUSF
considers the AMF_AUTN verification as successful.
> Step 16. The AUSF sends to SEAF of the Target AMF, the authentication
> result, SUPI and Kseaf (the anchor key) as in the existing system and the
> rest follows similar to the existing procedures. Further the SEAF sends the
> ABBA parameters, authentication result as success, and Kamf key to the
> Target AMF. As an alternative, if the AUSF in addition received ABBA in step
> 10, the AUSF sends the ABBA received to SEAF and the SEAF is required to use
> the received ABBA.
NOTE 1: The ABBA parameter usage should be same as in the existing system. TS
33.501 [3] specified the ABBA parameter value as \'0x0000\'. The UE uses the
ABBA parameter provided by the SEAF in the calculation of KAMF as specified in
TS 33.501 [3] clause A.7.1 ABBA parameter values.
NOTE 2: For EAP-AKA\', perform step 11 as specified in TS 33.501 [3] clause
6.1.3.1. For 5G AKA, perform step 12 as specified in TS 33.501 [3] clause
6.1.3.2.0.
Step 17. The Target AMF on receiving the Kamf and authentication result can
trigger the NAS Security mode command (NAS SMC) procedure with UE when
required to activate the UE NAS security context as in TS 33.501 [3].
**Adaptations for Registration Mobility Update:**
This clause describes the simple adaptations required to address security
handling in AMF-reallocation during registration mobility update procedure as
shown in Figure 6.7.2-2.
Figure 6.7.2-2: Security context handling during registration mobility update
NOTE 3: According to TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.9.3 for the case where source/old
AMF sends new 5G security context to Initial AMF, it states, \'The source AMF
subsequently deletes the 5G security context which it holds.\'
Step 1. If the Registration Request contains 5G-GUTI (pointing to an old AMF),
the initial AMF performs the following accordingly for various scenarios
mentioned in clause 4.3 \'Architecture and security assumptions\', of the
present document:
Case 1-2.a.i) N14 interface exists only between Initial AMF and Old AMF:
Step 2a-b. The Initial AMF based on TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.9.3, fetches SUPI
and security context from the old AMF by providing the 5G-GUTI and the
registration request. Further SUPI and subscription information (fetched from
UDM as shown in 2b.3) can be used to decide whether to reroute the
Registration Request according to TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 2. If a
reroute is required, the initial AMF, if fetched the UE context (as in TS
23.502 [2] clause 5.2.2.2.2) from the old AMF, it can use the slice
information to perform (2b.4) Nnssf_NSSelection service operation based on TS
23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 step 4a-b. Also, for the case, where the current
5G security context is fetched, the AMF may decipher the NAS container with
the same security context, and get the initial NAS message and so if there is
any Requested NSSAI provided by UE, it can also be used in Nnssf_NSSelection
service operation (even though it is an optional IE according to TS 23.502 [2]
clause 5.2.16.2.1). If an indirect AMF allocation and reroute via RAN is
required, the initial AMF does not send any NAS message to the UE (i.e. it
does not use current/new 5G security context fetched from old AMF), in turn
can perform reroute via RAN.
Step 2c.1. If another AMF is selected, the initial AMF sends a reject
indication to the old AMF and the old AMF continues as if the
Namf_Communication_UEContextTransfer had never been received.
Step 2c.2. Target AMF discovery can be based on TS 23.502 [2] clause 4.2.2.2.3
steps 6a-b.
Step 3-4. The initial AMF performs reroute via RAN as in TS 23.502 [2] clause
4.2.2.2.3 step 7B.
Step 5a-b. The Target AMF on receiving the initial NAS message with 5G-GUTI
finds that it is not able to identify the related old AMF and considers that
it cannot identify the UE with 5G-GUTI and so initiates identity request
procedure with UE and get SUCI.
Step 6. The target AMF initiates primary authentication by sending
authentication request with SUCI (without Slice Selection Information Not
Available Indication, because the target AMF is aware that this is reroute due
to slicing as received in Reroute NAS message as in TS 23.502 [2] clause
4.2.2.2.3 step 7B).
The target AMF will not include any Slice Selection Information Not Available
Indication, so the AUSF soon after successful response verification will
provide Anchor key to the AMF/SEAF as in existing system.
Case 2-2.a.ii) No N14 exists between Initial AMF and old AMF and also no N14
exists between target AMF and old AMF: As the initial AMF lack N14 with old
AMF, the UE cannot be identified by means of a temporary identity (5G-GUTI)
and so the initial AMF performs Subscription identification procedure (as
shown in step 2b.1) with UE and continues with primary authentication (as
shown in step 2b.2) with the adaptations described in Figure 6.6.2-1 steps
2a-17 as applicable.
Case 3-2.b.i) N14 exists between Initial AMF and old AMF and also between
target AMF and old AMF: The initial AMF having N14 with old AMF will act
similar to Case 2-2.a.i steps 1-4.
Step 5-6. The Target AMF on receiving the initial NAS message with 5G-GUTI
finds it can contact the corresponding old AMF. Based on local policy and
reroute due to slicing indication received in reroute NAS message, the target
AMF may fetch security context from old AMF (or) determines not to fetch
security context from old AMF and perform Identity request/response procedure
and primary authentication accordingly (as in case 2.a.i).
If the target AMF fetches security context from old AMF, either based on local
policy the target AMF may use current/new security context fetched from old
AMF or the target may determine to perform primary authentication with SUPI
(as in case 2.a.i, but SUPI is used instead of SUCI).
NOTE 4: Further the case 2.b.i may not be feasible according to the vertical
slice isolation requirement and it may need to be aligned with the clause 4.3.
Case 4-2.b.ii) N14 exists only between target AMF and old AMF: As the initial
AMF lack N14 with old AMF, the UE cannot be identified by means of a temporary
identity (5G-GUTI) and so the AMF performs Subscription identification
procedure (as shown in 2b.1) with UE and continues with primary authentication
(as shown in 2b.2) based on the adaptations described in Figure 6.6.2-1 steps
2a-13. The target AMF on receiving the reroute NAS message (i.e. Registration
Request with 5G-GUTI), based on local policy, received authentication
information (AMF_AUTN) and reroute due to slicing indication, determine to
fetch and use security context related to an authentication information
received in the reroute NAS message from the AUSF and if required can fetch UE
context from the old AMF.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
The solution depends on AUSF to assist security handling for indirect AMF
reallocation scenario to ensure the system availability. The solution has the
following advantages:
1\. The solution ensures security context provisioning only to AMF which can
serve a UE and hence limiting the occurrence of system availability issues
described in key issue#1.
2\. The solution is formulated to work using the existing SA2 defined
procedures. The solution has impact on the primary authentication procedure
(i.e. initiation of primary authentication and after the response verification
at the AUSF). The solution does not impact challenge response message
exchanges.
NOTE: As soon as SUPI is available for the initial AMF (Either after primary
authentication or after fetching from old AMF), an AMF reallocation and
reroute via RAN requirement is determined and performed following TS 23.502
[2] clause 4.2.2.2.3 steps 3a-3b (to fetch slice selection subscription data),
step 4a-4b (network slice selection based on Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service
operation, where essentially all conditions are applied as specified in clause
5.2.16.2.1 Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service operation. The required inputs
specified as \'Inputs, Conditional Required\' will be included and \'Inputs,
Optional\'(i.e. Requested NSSAI) will be included only if it is available for
the initial AMF (as used and described for case 3-2.b.i solution), where
required step 5 (Namf_communication_RegistrationStatus update), steps 6a-b (NF
Discovery with NRF) and finally step 7B(for reroute via RAN). If the initial
AMF determines that an AMF reallocation and reroute is required, then the
initial AMF skips NAS SMC to allow the reallocated AMF to perform primary
authentication or NAS SMC with the UE. The Network slice selection alignment
can be evaluated by SA2.
UE Impact:
\- No impact
RAN Impact:
\- Forward AMF_AUTN and Routing Information in reroute NAS message.
AMF Impact:
\- Send \'Slice Selection Information Not Available Indication\' to AUSF based
on SUCI and if no slice selection information is available. Further, provides
serving capability information to AUSF if requested. If reroute via RAN is
required, facilitates security context availability for the reallocated target
AMF. Target AMF need to process AMF_AUTN and include AMF_AUTN when invoking
authentication service provided by AUSF.
AUSF Impact:
\- If \'Slice Selection Information Not Available Indication\' is received
from AMF/SEAF in authentication request, then request serving capability
information from AMF to hold/provide UE security context accordingly.
\- If notified that AMF is not capable to serve UE, then facilitates security
context provision to Target AMF.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Solution to enable UE connection directly to the slice AMF
### 6.8.1 Introduction
A new solution is proposed here for connecting the UE directly to an isolated
target AMF, and avoids UE connecting to any other AMF.
AMF re-allocation is required because the UE gets connected to an AMF which
cannot serve the UE, AMF possibly belonging to an incorrect Network Slice. The
base station routed the Registration Request from the UE to the incorrect AMF,
because the S-NSSAI is not available in the RRC message, it is contained only
in the NAS payload. So the base station is not able to select the correct AMF
based on the S-NSSAI. If S-NSSAI is available in the RRC message, then base
station can select the correct AMF corresponding the N-NSSAI and the Network
Slice.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
#### 6.8.2.0 General
_Solution principles:_
1) RRC Connection Request Complete (RRC Msg 5) carrying NAS REG-REQ is
encrypted with network public key or certificate and will contain encrypted
S-NSSAI in the RRC part of the message.
_2)_ Base _station will decrypt the encrypted RRC message and will route the
NAS REG-REQ to the correct AMF according to the S-NSSAI._
_3)_ Since _the UE gets routed to the correct AMF, the AMF can be fully
isolated, and no context transfer or context sharing is required between any
other AMF._
_The solution consists of two phases._
#### 6.8.2.1 Solution phase 1
_Provisioning the network public key or certificate corresponding the network
slice AMF._
_This is only a one time procedure between the UE and the network._
_On the network side it is expected that base stations support mechanisms to
decrypt the encrypted RRC Msg5 to learn the S-NSSAI and route accordingly to
the correct AMF._
Figure 6.8.2.1-1: Provisioning the UE with network public key or certificate
1\. UE does initial attachment with the network and gets authenticated.
_2\. At the end of successful authentication, UDM triggers the AMF to send the
network public key for encrypting RRC_ message _. Once the UE gets provisioned
with network public key or certificate, UE gets de-registered from the
network._
NOTE 1: Provisioning of the network public key may be done by offline methods
as well. Phase1 is required only if the UE is not already provisioned by the
network public key or certificate. The UE stores the provisioned public key of
the network in the USIM. It is expected that all base stations in the network
support the same public key -private key pair.
Note 2: How to address the registration failure issue with NAS reroute via RAN
is not addressed here.
#### _6.8.2.2_ Solution _phase 2_
_In subsequent connections to the network, UE uses the provisioned public key
to encrypt the RRC message and the S-NSSI is included in the RRC message. The
UE also includes an indication in the NAS message that it has the public key
in possession from Phase1. The indication helps the network to learn that the
UE has been already provisioned and further attempts to provision the public
key is avoided._
Figure 6.8.2.2-1
1\. In RRC message 5, UE includes the S-NSSAI in the RRC part of the message
along with the NAS payload. The RRC message is encrypted with the provisioned
public key.
_2\. gNB decodes the RRC message 5 with the network private key and learns the
S-NSSAI and the Slice the UE wants to connect._
Note 1: It is not addressed here whether the gNB decodes the RRC message 5 or
it takes the help of a trusted central node in possession of the network
private key.
_3\. gNB forwards the NAS payload based on the S-NSSAI and the Slice the UE
wants to connect to the corresponding AMF. The NAS message also contains an
indication that UE is in possession of the public key from phase-1._
Note 2: It is not addressed here how gNB is able to route the NAS message to
the correct serving AMF based on S-NSSAI.
_4\. UE and AMF establishes NAS context specific to the S-NSSAI and the
slice._
Note 3: The details of public key provisioning to the UEs and corresponding
private key provisioning to the gNBs are not addressed here.
Note 4: The security analysis of all the gNBs sharing the same private key is
not addressed here.
Note 5: Whether public key cryptography impacts the radio protocols is not
addressed here.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
The solution avoids the necessity of UE AMF re-allocation altogether and hence
security issues related to AMF re-allocation does not arise at all.
Solution requires provisioning of public key in the UE and private key in the
network (gNB). Once the key provisioning is done, either offline means or
online means one time, AMF re-allocation is not required.
Note: It is not addressed here whether solution is applicable for the NAS re-
routing use case via RAN.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Security of AMF re-allocation when 5G NAS security context
is rerouted via RAN
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution address Key Issue #1: \"Security of AMF re-allocation
procedures\".
In this solution the 5G NAS security context is protected before being re-
routed via RAN together with the Registration Request (RR) message. The
protection utilizes the NSSF as a trusted NF by both the initial and the
target AMF. The NSSF belongs to the operator who deploys different slices and
is assumed to serve all the slices offered by the operator.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
The initial AMF protects the security context or the potentially horizontally
derived security context with an encryption key generated by the NSSF. Then
the initial AMF sends both the Registration Request (RR) and a protected 5G
NAS security context container (includes the security context along with the
keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator if needed and potentially UL/DL NAS COUNTs) to
the target AMF via RAN.
Figure 6.9.2-1: AMF re-allocation with NAS message and 5G NAS security context
re-route via RAN
Figure 6.9.2-1 shows the solution steps:
1\. The UE prepares a Registration Request message including a SUCI or 5G-GUTI
and slicing information which could potentially cause an AMF re-allocation
such as Requested NSSAI. If the UE has a 5G NAS security context (Registration
with 5G-GUTI) it includes a protected NAS container in the Registration
Request message.
2\. Steps 2-6b of TS 23.502 [2], clause 4.2.2.2.3 are followed.
3\. The initial AMF based on local policy and subscription information,
decides to reroute the RR message to a target AMF via RAN. The initial AMF
requests a protection key from the NSSF for the purpose of AMF re-allocation
and provides the RR and the target AMF set or target AMF address(es) as input.
NOTE 1: The details of key generation and key identifier generation on the
NSSF can be specified in the normative phase.
NOTE 2: The NSSF is one potential choice of a serving network NF that could
host security context protection keys. Another choice could be an NRF which is
shared among slices or an NRF that is PLMN-wide.
4\. The NSSF uses one or more of the provided inputs in Step 3 to generate a
key Kamfreal and a key identifier/token Kamfreal ID. The NSSF stores the key,
key identifier/token and the provided input (RR, target AMF address(es)).
5\. The NSSF responds with the Kamfreal and a key identifier/token Kamfreal
ID.
6\. The initial AMF optionally performs horizontal Kamf derivation of Kamf-0
to generate a new Kamf-1. The option to perform horizontal Kamf derivation
depends on local configuration and whether the old AMF has performed
horizontal key derivation. If the initial AMF is configured to perform
horizontal key derivation the initial AMF only performs horizontal key
derivation if the old AMF does not perform one. If the initial AMF is not
configured to perform horizontal key derivation then the initial AMF does not
perform any horizontal key derivation. This step would ensure that the target
AMF has no access to the Kamf-0 key used by the initial AMF. If the Initial
AMF performs horizontal Kamf derivation then the initial AMF resets the
corresponding uplink and downlink NAS COUNTs.
Note 3: Backward security is not addressed here in case the initial AMF
decides not to perform horizontal key derivation.
7\. The initial AMF encrypts the security context (including Kamf-0 or
Kamf-1), the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator and potentially other parameters
(e.g. UL/DL NAS COUNTs if horizontal key derivation was performed in Step 6)
with the Kamfreal and creates a protected 5G NAS security context container.
The initial AMF may integrity protect the 5G NAS security context container
using an addition integrity protection key Kamfreal_int obtained by the NSSF
in step 5 or generate a pair of keys (encryption and integrity protection
based on the Kamfreal key. With respect to the protection algorithm(s) there
are multiple alternatives. The protection algorithm(s) could be assumed to
static and known to all the AMFs. Or the initial AMF could select one of the
algorithms from a set and indicate the algorithm information in the Steps 8-9
in the protected 5G security context container. The NAS protection algorithms
could be used for the protection of the 5G NAS security context container with
parameters to be determined in the normative phase.
NOTE 4: The details of protection of the 5G NAS security context container can
be specified in the normative phase. There are at least two options that could
be explored in the normative phase. One option is to include the request of
two keys (encryption, integrity protection) in Step 3 or the generation of two
keys (encryption, integrity protection) based on the Kamfreal key at the
initial AMF and target AMF.
8\. The initial AMF forwards the complete Registration Request message, the
protected 5G NAS security context container, the Kamfreal ID and potentially
other parameters (e.g. AMF address(es)) to the RAN.
9\. The RAN forwards the complete Registration Request message, the protected
5G NAS security context container, the Kamfreal ID to the target AMF.
10\. The target AMF requests the encryption key Kamfreal and potentially an
integrity protection key Kamfreal_int from the NSSF by providing the its own
address, the RR, and the Kamfreal ID to the NSSF. The NSSF verifies that the
target AMF is included in the target AMF set or its address matches one of the
target AMF addresses provided by the initial AMF. If the verification is
successful the NSSF returns the protection key(s) Kamfreal and potentially
Kamfreal_int to the target AMF and deletes the Kamfreal and Kamfreal ID.
11\. The target AMF decrypts the protected 5G NAS security context container.
If the 5G NAS security context container is also integrity protected the
target AMF verifies the protected container.
12\. After decrypting the security context,
if SUCI is included in the Registration Request, the target AMF skips step 12
(as no additional information about established PDU sessions etc. is stored in
the old AMF).
If a 5G-GUTI is included in the Registration Request and the target AMF has
received a 5G NAS security context and potentially a keyAmfHDerivationInd
indicator, then:
\- If there is no connectivity between the target AMF and old AMF (cases
2.a.ii and 2.b.ii in clause 4.3), the target AMF skips step 12 (as any
additional information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old
AMF cannot be retrieved by the target AMF).
\- If there is connectivity between the target AMF and the old AMF (cases
2.a.i and 2.b.i in clause 4.3), the target AMF can fetch any additional
information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old AMF.
13\. If the target AMF has received the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator, then
the target AMF runs a NAS SMC procedure with the UE, to take the new Kamf-1
key into use with the UE.
14\. The target AMF needs to initiate a new primary authentication with the UE
to generate a new Kamf-2. The new primary authentication procedure is
protected by the Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the initial AMF has no
access to the new Kamf-2 key generated between target AMF and the UE.
The target AMF determines that a NAS re-route via RAN has taken place and the
target AMF uses the Kamf-1 only for the purpose of sending protected NAS
Security Mode Command and Authentication Challenge/Request to the UE, and for
receiving protected NAS Security Mode Complete and Authentication Response
from the UE.
15-16. The target AMF needs to run a new NAS SMC procedure with the UE to take
the new Kamf-2 into use with the UE. The target AMF needs to include the
request to the UE to include the complete Registration Request message in the
NAS Security Mode Complete message by setting the flag \"request initial NAS
flag\" in the NAS Security Mode Command message. The UE includes the complete
Registration Request message (sent in step 1) in the NAS Security Mode
Complete message to the target AMF. This means that the target AMF can take
the Registration Request message received in NAS Security Mode Complete
message into use and drop the Registration Request message rerouted via RAN.
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
In this solution the 5G NAS security context is protected before being re-
routed via RAN together with the Registration Request (RR) message. The
protection utilizes the NSSF as a trusted NF by both the initial and the
target AMF. The NSSF belongs to the operator who deploys different slices and
is assumed to serve all the slices offered by the operator.
The initial AMF sends the security context to the target AMF encrypted so that
that the AMF key is not exposed to the RAN node. Although that RAN node has
access to all the parameters to retrieve the decryption key of the protected
5G NAS security context container, the RAN node cannot directly request the
decryption since it does not have a direct SBA interface to the NSSF. The RAN
node is allowed to connect to the core network only via the NGAP protocol
specified in TS 38.413 [5].
In this solution there is one more optional NAS SMC performed by the target
AMF after the Registration Request message and the protected 5G NAS security
context container including the AMF key (Kamf-0 or Kamf-1) has been re-routed
via RAN. This optional NAS SMC is performed in order to take the new Kamf-1
key into use by the UE and target AMF (after the optional horizontal Kamf
derivation of Kamf-0 to generate a new Kamf-1 in the initial AMF).
The optional horizontal Kamf derivation in the initial AMF provides **backward
security** so the target AMF has no access to the Kamf-0 and its corresponding
NAS key used between the UE and the initial AMF. The initial AMF has access of
the new Kamf-1 key re-routed via RAN to the target AMF, but after the target
AMF has taken the new Kamf-1 key into use with the UE by running a NAS SMC,
the target AMF can initiate a new protected Authentication procedure with the
UE in order to generate a new Kamf-2 key shared with the UE, which the initial
AMF has no access to. By running a new NAS SMC procedure between target AMF
and UE to take the new Kamf-2 key into use, **forward security** is provided.
This solution has the following impact:
UE:
\- The solution does not have any impacts on the UE.
AMF:
This initial AMF may need to perform horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf
before forwarding the protected 5G NAS security context container together
with the complete Registration Request message on the N2 interface to the RAN.
The decision is based on local configuration and whether the old AMF has
performed horizontal key derivation.
\- The initial AMF needs to request for a protection key from the NSSF and
process the NSSF response.
\- The initial AMF needs to encrypt the 5G NAS security context and
potentially other parameters and produce the protected 5G NAS security context
container.
\- The target AMF needs to decrypt the protected 5G NAS security context
container.
\- The target AMF may need to perform a NAS SMC procedure to take any
potentially horizontally derived Kamf key into use before initiating a primary
authentication
\- The target AMF also needs to perform an authentication request in order to
produce its own security context.
NSSF:
\- The NSSF is an optional NF and this solution would require NSSF to be
deployed and trusted by the initial and target AMF.
\- The NSSF needs a new service to generate keys and key identifiers for the
protection of the 5G NAS security context container of the initial AMF and
provide the keys and key identifiers to the target AMF.
RAN:
\- This solution has impact on RAN and N2 interface. The REROUTE NAS REQUEST
message is defined in TS 38.413 [4] and the initial AMF includes the INITIAL
UE MESSAGE into the REROUTE NAS REQUEST message to RAN. The REROUTE NAS
REQUEST message needs to be updated to include the protected 5G NAS security
context container and potentially other parameters. Also the RAN needs to
forward the protected 5G NAS security context container and potentially other
parameters to the target AMF together with the INITIAL UE MESSAGE.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Solution to reroute 5G NAS security context via RAN
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #1: \"Security of AMF re-allocation
procedures\".
In this solution, the 5G NAS security context is re-routed via RAN together
with the Registration Request (RR) message. In order to protect the 5G NAS
security context, the asymmetric cryptography is used. In this solution, the
NSSF is utilized as a trusted NF by both the initial and the target AMF. The
NSSF belongs to the operator who deploys different slices and is assumed to
serve all the slices offered by the operator.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
The initial AMF protects the security context (or the horizontally derived
security context) using the public key of the target AMF set provided by the
NSSF. Then the initial AMF sends both the Registration Request (RR) and the
protected NAS security context container (including the security context along
with the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator if needed and potentially UL/DL NAS
COUNTs) to the target AMF via RAN. In this solution, the following things are
assumed.
\- The NSSF has the public key of the target AMF set, and the target AMF has
the corresponding private key.
\- The target AMF has information that can verify the digital signature of
NSSF.
Figure 6.10.2-1: AMF re-allocation with 5G NAS security context re-route via
RAN based on asymmetric cryptography
Figure 6.10.2-1 shows the solution steps:
1\. The UE prepares a Registration Request message including a SUCI or 5G-GUTI
and slicing information which could potentially cause an AMF re-allocation
such as Requested NSSAI. If the UE has a 5G NAS security context (Registration
with 5G-GUTI) it includes a protected NAS container in the Registration
Request message.
2\. Steps 2-6b of TS 23.502 [2], clause 4.2.2.2.3 are followed.
3\. If there is a need for slice selection, (see clause 5.15.5.2.1 of TS
23.501 [2]), e.g. the initial AMF cannot serve all the S-NSSAI(s) from the
Requested NSSAI permitted by the subscription information, the initial AMF
invokes the Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service operation from the NSSF by including
the Requested NSSAI.
4\. The NSSF performs the steps 4b specified in clause 4.2.2.2.3 of TS 23.502
[2]. In addition, the NSSF performs the following:
\- The NSSF selects the public key of the target AMF set (PK.tAMF) and
generates a token. The NSSF includes the token and PK.tAMF in the response to
the initial AMF.
The token consists of claims and digital signature of NSSF on them. The claims
may include the following: the NF Instance Id of NSSF (issuer), NF Instance ID
of the initial AMF (subject), the target AMF set ID (audience), and expiration
time (expiration).
5\. The initial AMF optionally performs horizontal Kamf derivation of Kamf-0
to generate a new Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the target AMF has no
access to the Kamf-0 key used by the initial AMF. If the Initial AMF performs
horizontal Kamf derivation then the initial AMF resets the corresponding
uplink and downlink NAS COUNTs.
6\. The initial AMF prepares the NAS security context container which consists
of the security context (including Kamf-0 or Kamf-1), the keyAmfHDerivationInd
indicator (optional), and other parameters (optional, e.g. UL/DL NAS COUNTs).
The initial AMF generates its own ephemeral key pair, ePK.iAMF (ephemeral
public key) and eSK.iAMF (ephemeral private key). The initial AMF uses PK.tAMF
and eSK.iAMF to create the ephemeral encryption key and ephemeral MAC key.
The initial AMF generates the protected NAS security context container by
performing the followings: 1) to encrypt the NAS security context container
using the ephemeral encryption key, 2) to apply MAC function to the ciphertext
value, 3) to collect ciphertext and MAC-tag.
The above process is the same as the ECIES scheme specified in Annex C.3.2 of
TS 33.501 [3].
7\. The initial AMF forwards the complete Registration Request message, the
protected NAS security context container, ephemeral public key of the initial
AMF (ePK.iAMF), and the token to the RAN.
8\. The RAN forwards the complete Registration Request message, the protected
NAS security context container, ePK.iAMF, and the token to the target AMF.
9\. The target AMF verifies the token. The target AMF verifies the digital
signature of NSSF in the token. The target AMF verifies the claims included in
the token.
The target AMF use the private key associated with PK.tAMF and the ephemeral
public key of the initial AMF to create the ephemeral encryption key and
ephemeral MAC key.
The target AMF decrypts the ciphertext in the protected NAS security context
container using the ephemeral encryption key. The target AMF verifies the MAC-
tag in the protected NAS security context container using the ephemeral MAC
key.
The above process is the same as the ECIES scheme specified in Annex C.3.3 of
TS 33.501 [3].
10\. After decrypting the security context,
\- If SUCI is included in the Registration Request, the target AMF skips step
10 (as no additional information about established PDU sessions etc. is stored
in the old AMF).
\- If a 5G-GUTI is included in the Registration Request and the target AMF has
received a 5G NAS security context and potentially a keyAmfHDerivationInd
indicator, then:
\- If there is no connectivity between the target AMF and old AMF (cases
2.a.ii and 2.b.ii in clause 4.3), the target AMF skips step 10 (as any
additional information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old
AMF cannot be retrieved by the target AMF).
\- If there is connectivity between the target AMF and the old AMF (cases
2.a.i and 2.b.i in clause 4.3), the target AMF can fetch any additional
information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old AMF.
11\. If the target AMF has received the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator, then
the target AMF runs a NAS SMC procedure with the UE, to take the new Kamf-1
key into use with the UE.
12\. The target AMF needs to initiate a new primary authentication with the UE
to generate a new Kamf-2. The new primary authentication procedure is
protected by the Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the initial AMF has no
access to the new Kamf-2 key generated between target AMF and the UE.
The target AMF determines that a NAS re-route via RAN has taken place and the
target AMF uses the Kamf-1 only for the purpose of sending protected NAS
Security Mode Command and Authentication Challenge/Request to the UE, and for
receiving protected NAS Security Mode Complete and Authentication Response
from the UE.
13-14. The target AMF needs to run a new NAS SMC procedure with the UE to take
the new Kamf-2 into use with the UE. The target AMF needs to include the
request to the UE to include the complete Registration Request message in the
NAS Security Mode Complete message by setting the flag \"request initial NAS
flag\" in the NAS Security Mode Command message. The UE includes the complete
Registration Request message (sent in step 1) in the NAS Security Mode
Complete message to the target AMF. This means that the target AMF can take
the Registration Request message received in NAS Security Mode Complete
message into use and drop the Registration Request message rerouted via RAN.
### 6.10.3 Evaluation
This solution has the following impact:
UE:
\- The solution does not have any impacts on the UE.
AMF:
\- This initial AMF may need to perform horizontal Kamf derivation of the Kamf
before forwarding the protected 5G NAS security context container together
with the complete Registration Request message on the N2 interface to the RAN.
\- The initial AMF needs to generate ephemeral protections keys and produce
the protected NAS security context container.
\- The target AMF needs to have information that can verify a token generated
by NSSF and verify the token.
\- The target AMF needs to generate ephemeral protection keys and decrypt the
protected NAS security context container.
\- The target AMF may need to perform a NAS SMC procedure to take any
potentially horizontally derived Kamf key into use before initiating a primary
authentication.
\- The target AMF also needs to perform an authentication request in order to
produce its own security context.
NSSF:
\- The NSSF is an optional NF and this solution would require NSSF to be
deployed and trusted by the initial and target AMF.
\- The NSSF needs to have the public key of AMF sets and provide them to the
initial AMF.
\- The NSSF needs to generate a token and provide it to the initial AMF.
RAN:
\- This solution has impact on RAN and N2 interface. The REROUTE NAS REQUEST
message is defined in TS 38.413 [4] and the initial AMF includes the INITIAL
UE MESSAGE into the REROUTE NAS REQUEST message to RAN. The REROUTE NAS
REQUEST message needs to be updated to include the protected 5G NAS security
context container and potentially other parameters. Also the RAN needs to
forward the protected 5G NAS security context container and potentially other
parameters to the target AMF together with the INITIAL UE MESSAGE.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Solution for AMF re-allocation by triggering a new
registration procedure
### 6.11.1 Introduction
This solution address Key Issue #1: \"Security of AMF re-allocation
procedures\".
This solution uses DEREGISTRATION REQUEST message to trigger the UE to start a
new registration procedure.
As specified in TS 24.501 [4] clause 5.5.2.1, the de-registration procedure is
used by the network to inform the UE to re-register to the network.
As specified in TS 24.501 [4] clause 5.5.2.3.2:
\"_Upon receiving the DEREGISTRATION REQUEST message, if the DEREGISTRATION
REQUEST message indicates \"re-registration required\".....The UE shall send a
DEREGISTRATION ACCEPT message to the network and enter the state 5GMM-
DEREGISTERED for 3GPP access. Furthermore, the UE shall, after the completion
of the de-registration procedure, and the release of the existing NAS
signalling connection, initiate an initial registration_
_......_
_If the de-registration type indicates \"re-registration required\", then the
UE shall ignore the 5GMM cause IE if received._ \"
As the N1 NAS signalling connection is released, so the UE can accept the
unprotected NAS message.
Compare with solution#5, this solution uses Registration Accept to transmit
5G-GUTI without the re-register indication, which is specified in solution#5,
so no new IE is involved, And this solution uses DEREGISTRATION REQUEST
message to trigger a new registration procedure.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
Figure 6.11.2-1 shows the solution steps:
Figure 6.11.2-1: AMF re-allocation
Step 1\~8: The steps 1 to 8 is the same with the steps 1 to 9 in clause
4.2.2.2.2 of TS 23.502 [2].
Step 9: The initial AMF sends the NAS Security Mode Command (SMC) to the UE.
The UE replies with NAS Security Mode Complete message containing a complete
Registration Request message. This step takes place if a prior primary
authentication has taken place or if the old AMF has performed horizontal Kamf
derivation of the Kamf key.
Step 10\~14: If the initial AMF needs UE\'s subscription information to decide
whether to reroute the Registration Request and UE\'s slice selection
subscription information was not provided by old AMF, the AMF selects a UDM.
The step 10 to 14 is the same with the steps 3a to 6b in clause 4.2.2.2.3 of
TS 23.502 [2].
Step 15: The initial AMF select a target AMF and send a
Selected_AMF_identity_request message with the target AMF ID to the NRF.
Step 16: The NRF sends an identity request to the target AMF to get a 5G-GUTI.
Step 17: The target AMF sends an identity response to the NRF with a 5G-GUTI.
Step 18: The NRF forward the 5G-GUTI to the initial AMF in the
Selected_AMF_identity_response message.
Step 19: The initial AMF send Registration Accept message to the UE. The
message include a 5G-GUTI that is used for target AMF. The initial AMF get the
list of candidate AMF(s) from NRF. As specified in step 6b in clause 4.2.2.2.3
of TS 23.502 [2], the NRF replies with the list of potential target AMF(s).
The NRF may also provide the details of the services offered by the candidate
AMF(s) along with the notification end-point for each type of notification
service that the selected AMF had registered with the NRF, if available. As an
alternative, it provides a list of potential target AMFs and their
capabilities, and optionally, additional selection rules. Based on the
information about registered NFs and required capabilities, a target AMF is
selected by the initial AMF. Afterwards, the initial AMF generate the GUAMI
and 5G-TMSI to construct the 5G-GUTI.
Step 20: The UE response a Registration Complete message to the initial AMF.
Step 21: The initial AMF sends a De-registration request message to the UE
with registration indication , to start a new registration procedure.
Step 22: The UE sends a de-registration accept message to the initial AMF.
Afterwards, UE and initial AMF release the N1 NAS signalling connection.
Step 23: The UE sends an initial UE message to (R)AN using the new 5G-GUTI
received in step 15. As specified in TS 24.501 [4] clause 5.4.4.3, after
release the N1 NAS signalling connection between the initial AMF and UE, the
UE starts a registration procedure for mobility and periodic registration
update.
Step 24: (R)AN sends the initial UE message to the selected target AMF based
on the 5G-GUTI.
Step 25: The target AMF continues with the Registration procedure from step 6
until 22 of figure 4.2.2.2.2-1 in TS 23.502 [2].
### 6.11.3 Evaluation
This solution reuse the existed DEREGISTRATION REQUEST message to trigger the
UE to start a new registration procedure. UE will start a new registration
procedure. As the N1 NAS signalling connection is released, so the UE can
accept the unprotected NAS message.
This solution has the following impact:
UE:
\- This solution has no impact on UE. This solution does not change the
existed de-registration procedure.
AMF:
\- The initial AMF need to trigger the new registration. The target AMF need
to assign 5G-GUTI for UE.
RAN:
\- This solution has no impact on RAN.
NRF:
\- This solution has impact on NRF, the NRF need to get 5G-GUTI from the
target AMF and forward it to the initial AMF
**Handling Different cases of communicating AMFs:**
Case 1: no oAMF
This case can be handled with this solution.
Case 2.a.i: iAMF and oAMF can communicate; tAMF and oAMF cannot communicate.
This case the iAMF can get the UE context from the oAMF. The tAMF cannot get
the UE context from the oAMF, so the tAMF need to get the SUCI from UE and run
the primary authentication and SMC procedure.
Case 2.a.ii: no communication allowed among iAMF, oAMF and tAMF
This case the iAMF cannot get the UE context from the oAMF. Therefore, the
iAMF need to get the SUCI from UE and run the primary authentication and SMC
procedure. The tAMF also cannot get the UE context from the oAMF, so the tAMF
also need to get the SUCI from UE and run the primary authentication
procedure.
Case 2.b.i: no communication between iAMF and tAMF. The iAMF, tAMF can
communicate with the oAMF directly
This case the iAMF can get the UE context from the oAMF. The new 5G-GUTI point
to tAMF, so the tAMF cannot get the UE context from the oAMF. The tAMF need to
get the SUCI from UE and run the primary authentication and SMC procedure. The
case where UE has security context and registers with a 5G-GUTI to the initial
AMF. Then the context identified by this 5G-GUTI is lost.
Case 2.b.ii: tAMF and oAMF can communicate; iAMF and oAMF cannot communicate.
The new 5G-GUTI point to tAMF, the tAMF need to get the SUCI from UE and run
the primary authentication and SMC procedure. The case where UE has security
context and registers with a 5G-GUTI to the initial AMF. Then the context
identified by this 5G-GUTI is lost.
Note: Whether this solution is applicable to the key issue is not addressed
here. This solution does not conform to stage 2 procedures.
## 6.12 Solution #12: AMF re-allocation and secured reroute via RAN enabled by
AUSF
### 6.12.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #1: \"Security of AMF re-allocation
procedures\".
In this solution the 5G NAS security context is protected before being re-
routed via RAN together with the Registration Request (RR) message using a
reroute security context provided by the AUSF. The provisioning of the reroute
security context to the reallocated AMF (to enable decryption of protected
reroute NAS message and handling of registration request) is carried out with
a sufficient home control. The protection utilizes the AUSF as the trusted NF
by both the initial and the target AMF.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
The initial AMF protects the security context or the potentially horizontally
derived security context with a reroute security context (i.e. integrity key
and an encryption key) generated and provided by the AUSF. Then the initial
AMF sends the Registration Request (RR), a protected 5G NAS security context
container (which includes the security context along with the
keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator if needed and potentially UL/DL NAS COUNTs) and
set of clear text information (i.e. target AMF authentication information and
other information) to the target AMF via RAN.
Figure 6.12.2-1: AMF re-allocation with NAS message and 5G NAS security
context re-route via RAN
Figure 6.12.2-1 shows the solution steps:
1\. The UE sends a Registration Request message including a SUCI or 5G-GUTI.
If the UE has a 5G NAS security context (Registration with 5G-GUTI) it
includes a protected NAS container in the Registration Request message.
2\. Steps 2-6b of TS 23.502 [2], clause 4.2.2.2.3 are followed.
3\. The initial AMF based on local policy and subscription information,
decides to reroute the RR message to a target AMF via RAN. The initial
AMF/SEAF sends a Security context request message to request reroute security
context from the AUSF for the purpose of AMF re-allocation by sending a
related indication, target AMF information (i.e. AMF set ID or AMF
address(es)), SUPI and privacy protected UE ID (i.e. SUCI/5G-GUTI) as received
in the registration request.
NOTE 1: The details of reroute security context generation at the AUSF can be
specified in the normative phase.
4\. The AUSF generates the reroute security context (i.e. an integrity key and
encryption key) from the AUSF key and using one or more of the inputs provided
in Step 3. Further AUSF generates an authentication parameter (NAS_Sec_ID to
enable authentication of the target AMF) using hash of the reroute security
context, target AMF information and SUPI received in step 3. The AUSF stores
the reroute security context, target AMF information, UE ID and authentication
parameter along with the SUPI. The authentication parameter NAS_Sec_ID can
also be used to identify the reroute security context generated and stored at
the AUSF.
5\. The AUSF responds with the reroute security context and an authentication
parameter NAS_Sec ID.
NOTE 2: The NAS security context generation (e.g., horizontal key derivation)
at the initial AMF can follow the method described in Solution 9 and 10 (to be
shared in a protected NAS container to the Target AMF via RAN). Similarly
Steps 12-16 can be followed similar to Solution 9 and 10.
6\. The initial AMF optionally performs horizontal Kamf derivation of Kamf-0
to generate a new Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the target AMF has no
access to the Kamf-0 key used by the initial AMF. If the Initial AMF performs
horizontal Kamf derivation, then the initial AMF resets the corresponding
uplink and downlink NAS COUNTs.
7\. The initial AMF encrypts the security context (including Kamf-0 or
Kamf-1), the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator (if performed) and potentially
other parameters (e.g., UL/DL NAS COUNTs if horizontal key derivation was
performed in Step 6) with the reroute security context (i.e. encryption key)
and creates a protected 5G NAS security context container. The initial AMF
further applies integrity protection (i.e. using the reroute integrity key)
over the encrypted NAS container, complete registration request and other
clear text information (i.e. Authentication parameter, Target AMF information,
NAS Security Algorithm IDs, routing information (which contains for e.g.,
address/FQDN/AUSF identification information). The Initial AMF indicates the
algorithm information in the Steps 8-9 used for the protection of 5G security
context container.
8\. The initial AMF forwards the complete Registration Request message, the
protected 5G NAS security context container, the clear text information (i.e.
such as authentication parameter NAS_Sec_ID, routing information, NAS security
algorithm IDs, and Target AMF Information) to the RAN.
9\. The RAN forwards the complete Registration Request message, the protected
5G NAS security context container, the clear text information to the target
AMF.
10a-c. The target AMF/SEAF sends a Key request message to the AUSF by
providing its own AMF information (AMF Set ID and address), Reroute key
indication, the authentication parameter NAS_Sec ID and UE ID (i.e.
5G-GUTI/SUCI as received in the registration request). The AUSF verifies
authentication parameter NAS_Sec ID, the AMF information (with the locally
stored information) and other information. If the verification is successful,
the AUSF returns SUPI and the reroute security context to the target AMF and
deletes the locally stored reroute security context and associated
information.
11\. The target AMF verifies the integrity and confidentiality of the
protected NAS container.
12\. After decrypting the security context,
if SUCI is included in the Registration Request, the target AMF skips step 12
(as no additional information about established PDU sessions etc. is stored in
the old AMF).
If a 5G-GUTI is included in the Registration Request and the target AMF has
received a 5G NAS security context and potentially a keyAmfHDerivationInd
indicator, then:
\- If there is no connectivity between the target AMF and old AMF (cases
2.a.ii and 2.b.ii in clause 4.3), the target AMF skips step 12 (as any
additional information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old
AMF cannot be retrieved by the target AMF).
\- If there is connectivity between the target AMF and the old AMF (cases
2.a.i and 2.b.i in clause 4.3), the target AMF can fetch any additional
information about established PDU sessions etc. stored in the old AMF.
13\. If the target AMF has received the keyAmfHDerivationInd indicator, then
the target AMF runs a NAS SMC procedure with the UE, to take the new Kamf-1
key into use with the UE.
14\. The target AMF needs to initiate a new primary authentication with the UE
to generate a new Kamf-2. The new primary authentication procedure is
protected by the Kamf-1. This step would ensure that the initial AMF has no
access to the new Kamf-2 key generated between target AMF and the UE.
The target AMF determines that a NAS re-route via RAN has taken place and the
target AMF uses the Kamf-1 only for the purpose of sending protected NAS
Security Mode Command and Authentication Challenge/Request to the UE, and for
receiving protected NAS Security Mode Complete and Authentication Response
from the UE.
15-16. The target AMF needs to run a new NAS SMC procedure with the UE to take
the new Kamf-2 into use with the UE. The target AMF needs to include the
request to the UE to include the complete Registration Request message in the
NAS Security Mode Complete message by setting the flag \"request initial NAS
flag\" in the NAS Security Mode Command message. The UE includes the complete
Registration Request message (sent in step 1) in the NAS Security Mode
Complete message to the target AMF. This means that the target AMF can take
the Registration Request message received in NAS Security Mode Complete
message into use and drop the Registration Request message rerouted via RAN.
NOTE 3: If the operators consider to reroute protected NAS security context
via RAN and further if operators prefer to use NSSF as a common NF to perform
the new security functionality for controlling the reroute security context
provisioning, then the features described in this solution for AUSF can be
applied to the NSSF with two minor adaptations (i.e. (i) the SUPI of the UE
need to be re-routed from the initial AMF to the target AMF via protected NAS
container through RAN. (ii) The NSSF need to be preprovisioned with a root key
in an implementation specific way to support reroute security context
generation.). But the usage of NSSF for reroute security context provisioning
will not ensure sufficient home control as designed in the current 5G system
while providing serving network security keys. Further, if complete
registration request (i.e. the one received in step 1 of initial UE message
when the UE has NAS security or the one received in NAS Security mode complete
message) needs to be rerouted via RAN in clear text and if it has any
potential security threats, then based on MNO\'s local policy, the complete
registration request can also be protected using the reroute security context.
### 6.12.3 Evaluation
In this solution the 5G NAS security context is protected before being re-
routed via RAN together with the Registration Request (RR) message. The
protection utilizes the AUSF as a trusted NF by both the initial and the
target AMF/SEAF. The AUSF involvement ensures the home control in validating
the reallocated AMF and provisioning of reroute security context to handle the
rerouted registration request. The initial AMF sends the security context to
the target AMF encrypted so that that the AMF key is not exposed to the RAN
node. Although that RAN node has access to limited parameters to attempt
recreation of the decryption key of the protected 5G NAS security context
container, the RAN node does not have access to the AUSF key which is the
actual root of the reroute security context. Further, the RAN node cannot
directly request the decryption key since it does not have a direct SBA
interface to the AUSF. The RAN node is allowed to connect to the core network
only via the NGAP protocol specified in TS 38.413 [5]. This solution needs
home control for Registration with AMF re-allocation\'.
In this solution there is one more optional NAS SMC performed by the target
AMF after the Registration Request message and the protected 5G NAS security
context container including the AMF key (Kamf-0 or Kamf-1) has been re-routed
via RAN. This optional NAS SMC is performed in order to take the new Kamf-1
key into use by the UE and target AMF (after the optional horizontal Kamf
derivation of Kamf-0 to generate a new Kamf-1 in the initial AMF). The
optional horizontal Kamf derivation in the initial AMF provides **backward
security** so the target AMF has no access to the Kamf-0 and its corresponding
NAS key used between the UE and the initial AMF. The initial AMF has access of
the new Kamf-1 key re-routed via RAN to the target AMF, but after the target
AMF has taken the new Kamf-1 key into use with the UE by running a NAS SMC,
the target AMF can initiate a new protected Authentication procedure with the
UE in order to generate a new Kamf-2 key shared with the UE, which the initial
AMF has no access to. By running a new NAS SMC procedure between target AMF
and UE to take the new Kamf-2 key into use, **forward security** is provided.
This solution has the following impact:
UE: No UE impact.
AMF: This initial AMF may need to perform horizontal Kamf derivation of the
Kamf before forwarding the protected 5G NAS security context container
together with the complete Registration Request message on the N2 interface to
the RAN.
\- The initial AMF needs to request for reroute security context from the AUSF
and process the AUSF response.
\- The initial AMF needs to perform confidentiality and integrity protection
of the 5G NAS security context and potentially other information.
\- The target AMF needs to verify the integrity and decrypt the protected 5G
NAS security context container and other information.
\- The target AMF may need to perform a NAS SMC procedure to take any
potentially horizontally derived Kamf key into use before initiating a primary
authentication
\- The target AMF also needs to perform an authentication request in order to
produce its own security context.
AUSF: The AUSF needs a new service to generate reroute security keys and
authentication parameter (NAS_Sec_ID) for the protection of the reroute 5G NAS
security container of the initial AMF and provide the keys to the target AMF.
RAN: This solution has impact on RAN and N2 interface. The REROUTE NAS REQUEST
message is defined in TS 38.413 [4] and the initial AMF includes the INITIAL
UE MESSAGE into the REROUTE NAS REQUEST message to RAN. The REROUTE NAS
REQUEST message needs to be updated to include the protected 5G NAS security
context container and potentially other parameters. Also the RAN needs to
forward the protected 5G NAS security context container and potentially other
parameters to the target AMF together with the INITIAL UE MESSAGE.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusion for key issue #1 - Security of AMF re-allocation procedures
No solution is agreed to a solution for key issue #1 - \"Security of AMF re-
allocation procedures\" and therefore no normative work is pursued.
###### ### * *Annex A: AMF re-allocation
# A.1 Registration failure issue with AMF re-allocation via RAN
## A.1.1 General
This clause analyses the registration failure issue with AMF re-allocation via
RAN.
## A.1.2 Description of Registration Failure Issue
The registration failure case in the **_initial_** registration where no
usable security context at UE at the time of registration is depicted in
Figure A.1.2-1.
Figure A.1.2-1: Registration with SUCI
1-2.The initial AMF, upon the reception of the Registration Request with SUCI,
initiates the primary authentication with the UE.
3\. The initial AMF sends the NAS Security Mode Command (SMC) to the UE. The
UE replies with NAS Security Mode Complete message containing a complete RR
message.
4\. The initial AMF decides to reroute the RR to the Target AMF.
5\. The initial AMF reroutes the Registration Request to the target AMF, via
(R)AN.
6\. The target AMF initiates the primary authentication. The target AMF
fetches RAND, AUTN and other parameters from the AUSF.
7\. The target AMF sends Authentication Request message to UE. As the target
AMF possesses no NAS security context of the UE, Authentication Request
message is sent unprotected.
The UE, upon the reception of the unprotected Authentication Request message,
will discard it. This is because UE has NAS security activated, and hence the
UE will discard the Authentication Request message.
Eventually the registration will fails after timeout. Later even if the UE
tries registering again, the above procedure still applies and registration
will never be successful, hence the UE is denied service.
Figure A.1.2-2 depicts the registration failure in idle mobility registration.
Figure A.1.2-2: Registration with GUTI
1\. The UE sends an integrity protected Registration Request (RR) message
including a 5G-GUTI.
2\. This step is skipped if no connectivity between the initial and old AMF.
Otherwise, the initial AMF based on the received 5G-GUTI, fetches the UE
context from the old AMF which assigned the 5G-GUTI.
3\. The initial AMF chooses to perform a primary authentication run based on
local policy or if the retrieval of UE context in step 2 is not successful.
4\. The initial AMF may initiate the Security Mode Control procedure with the
UE.
5\. The initial AMF decides that NAS reroute via (R)AN is needed.
6\. This step is skipped if there\'s no step 2. Otherwise, the initial AMF
notifies the old AMF that the registration of UE at the initial AMF fails. The
old AMF then acts as if the UE context request has never been received in Step
2. The NAS security context including the NAS counts and keys change back to
the values before Step 2.
7\. The initial AMF reroutes the RR to the target AM via (R)AN.
8\. If the target and old AMF have connectivity, the target AMF fetches the UE
context from the old AMF. If the target and old AMF have no connectivity, this
step is skipped.
9\. The target AMF sends a NAS message to the UE.
There are 8 registration failure cases described below that can happen in the
above procedure. In what follows, we use the following notations:
\- Kamf: the AMF key that was established between the UE and the old AMF
\- Kamf\': the key generated by performing the horizontal key derivation based
on Kamf
\- Kamf \": the key generated by performing the horizontal key derivation
based on Kamf\'
\- Kamf_new: the AMF key generated from an authentication run.
In the registration failure Case 1, 2, and 3 below, the old AMF have derived
and sent Kamf\' to the initial AMF in step 2; The initial AMF have decided to
use Kamf\' and then have sent the Security Mode Command, with an indication
requesting the complete registration request message, to the UE. After step 4,
the UE and the initial AMF have established and activated the NAS security
context containing Kamf\'.
Case 1: In step 8, the target AMF receives Kamf from the old AMF, and the
target AMF decides to use Kamf. The target AMF will protect the subsequent
outgoing NAS message based on Kamf. When the UE receives the NAS message, the
integrity check will fail, as UE uses Kamf\', while the target AMF uses Kamf.
Hence, the registration will fail.
Case 2: In step 8, the target AMF receives Kamf\' and keyAMFHDerivation
indicator from the old AMF, and the target AMF decides to use Kamf\'. Then the
target AMF sends a SMC, integrity protected based on Kamf\', to the UE. The
SMC contains K_AMF_change_flag. The UE, upon receiving the SMC with
K_AMF_change_flag, performs horizontal key derivation based on Kamf\' and
obtains Kamf \". Then the UE verifies the integrity of the SMC, based on Kamf
\". The verification will fail, as the SMC is integrity protected based on
Kamf\'. Hence the registration will fail.
Case 3: The target AMF decides not to use the keys received from the old AMF
in Step 8, but performs an authentication run in step 9, and sends
Authentication Request unprotected to the UE. The UE, however, will discard
the Authentication Request.
In the registration failure Case 4, 5, and 6 below, the initial AMF performs
an authentication run in Step 3. Both UE and the initial AMF generates
Kamf_new. NAS Security Mode Control procedure has been initiated by the
initial AMF to activate the new NAS security context in step 4. The UE and the
initial AMF have established and activated the new NAS security context
containing Kamf_new.
Case 4: In step 8, the target AMF receives Kamf from the old AMF, and the
target AMF decides to use Kamf. The target AMF will protect the subsequent
outgoing NAS message based on Kamf. When the UE receives the NAS message, the
integrity check will fail, as UE uses Kamf_new. Hence, the registration will
fail.
Case 5: In step 8, the target AMF receives Kamf\' and keyAMFHDerivation
indicator from the old AMF, and the target AMF decides to use Kamf\'. Then the
target AMF sends a SMC, integrity protected based on Kamf\', to the UE. The
verification of SMC will fail at the UE, as the SMC is integrity protected
based on Kamf\', but UE uses Kamf_new.
Case 6: The target AMF performs an authentication run and sends Authentication
Request unprotected to the UE in step 9. The UE, however, will discard the
Authentication Request, because the UE already has NAS security activated and
will discard unprotected NAS messages.
In the registration failure case 7 and 8 below, the old AMF returns Kamf to
the initial AMF in step 2; the initial AMF decides to use Kamf, meanwhile the
initial AMF selects different security algorithm than that selected by the old
AMF. Then the initial AMF initiates Security Mode Control procedure (Step 4)
with the UE to update the security algorithm to be used. After Step 4, the UE
and The initial AMF has established and activated the NAS security context
containing Kamf and the new selected security algorithm. The Security Mode
Control procedure also updates the NAS counts.
Case 7: In Step 8 the target AMF receives Kamf from the old AMF. The target
AMF decides to use Kamf and protect the subsequent outgoing NAS message based
on Kamf. When receiving the NAS message, the UE discards the NAS message,
because the DL NAS count in the NAS message is not acceptable by the UE. The
UE considers this NAS message as a replay message.
Case 8: The target AMF performs an authentication run in step 9 and sends the
Authentication Request unprotected to the UE. The UE will discard the
Authentication message.
#