# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the security aspects on the support of the 5GMSG
Service defined in TR 23.700-24 [2], determines key issues of potential
security requirements and proposed possible security solutions to meet these
security requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.700-24: \" Study on support of the 5GMSG Service\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.222: \" Functional architecture and information flows to
support Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer (SEAL); Security
aspects for Verticals\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer
security\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.262: \"Message Service within the 5G System; Stage 1 \".
[8] 3GPP TR 22.824: \"Feasibility study on 5G message service for MIoT; Stage
1 \".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.535: \"Authentication and Key Management for Applications
(AKMA) based on 3GPP credentials in the 5G System (5GS)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF) (Release 16)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.180: \"Security of the Mission Critical (MC) service\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Overview of MSGin5G Service
TS 22.262 [7] and TR 22.824 [8] define the stage 1 requirements of the MSGin5G
Service (message service for MIoT over 5G System), TR 23.700-24 [2] is under
progress of defining the architecture and procedures to support the MSGin5G
service. The above specifications form the baseline for the present document
on security aspects of MSGin5G Service for the 5G system (5GS). MSGin5G
Service enables an UE sending/receiving message of text, voice, video or data
to/from another UE or application server. It is basically designed for IoT
device communication, including thing-to-thing communication and person-to-
thing communication. The emerging IoT device communication will introduce new
requirements of messaging service in terms of service capabilities,
performance, charging, and security etc.
For example, for the following scenarios from TS 22.262 [7], the contents of
the messages are required to be integrity and confidentially protected. For
each scenario and for different UE types (5GMSGS UE, Legacy 3GPP UE, Non-3GPP
UE), whether existing security mechanisms can be used to achieve the integrity
and confidentiality protection under the architecture defined by TR 23.700-24
[2] need to be investigated.
> a) point-to-point message
>
> b) application-to-point message
>
> c) group message
>
> d) broadcast message
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Transport security for the MSGin5G interfaces
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
TR 23.700-24 [2], clause 8.2 describes an application architecture of the
MSGin5G Service.
{width="6.270833333333333in" height="4.347222222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: Application Architecture of the MSGin5G Service
New interfaces (i.e. MSGin5G-1-5) were introduced in the architecture for
MSGin5G Service. This key issue studies the related transport security, i.e.
confidentiality, integrity and replay protection.
**MSGin5G-1:** Between a 5GMSGS client and a MSGin5G Server. This reference
point supports:
\- Registration of a 5GMSGS client to a MSGin5G Server when not using IMS base
solution; and the exchange of MSGin5G messages.
**MSGin5G-2:** Between a MSGin5G Server and the Legacy 3GPP Message Gateway.
This reference point supports:
\- Indicating the underlying message delivery mechanism to the Legacy 3GPP
Message Gateway; and exchange of MSGin5G messages; and registration of Legacy
3GPP Message Gateway to MSGin5G Server.
**MSGin5G-3:** Between an Application Server and a MSGin5G Server. This
reference point supports:
\- Access to MSGin5G Server and APIs to enable sending and receiving of
MSGin5G messages; and adherence to CAPIF as specified in TS 23.222 [3].
**MSGin5G-4:** Between a Non-3GPP Message Gateway and a MSGin5G server. This
reference point supports:
\- Registration of Non-3GPP Message Gateway to MSGin5G Server; and the
exchange of MSGin5G messages.
**MSGin5G-5:** Between an application client and a 5GMSGS client. This
reference point supports:
\- Providing information from application clients required to enable the
5GMSGS client to construct a MSGin5G message to be delivered to other MSGin5G
service endpoints.
\- Configuring application clients with information required to enable the
5GMSGS client and MSGin5G Server to exchange and route MSGin5G messages to
other MSGin5G service endpoints.
\- Sending notifications and information in the incoming MSGin5G messages
received by the 5GMSGS client to the application clients from other MSGin5G
service endpoints.
NOTE: As MSGin5G-5 is an internal interface between application client and a
5GMSGS client within the UE, the protection is taken care by the UE
implementation.
### 5.1.2 Threats
Without confidentiality, integrity and replay protection, an attacker may
eavesdrop or manipulate or replay the communication or initiate the MitM
attacks on the interface.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
Confidentiality protection, integrity protection and replay protection shall
be supported on the MSGin5G-1-4 interfaces.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Authentication and Authorization between 5GMSGS client
and MSGin5G Server
### 5.2.1 Key Issue Details
As per TR 23.700-24 [2], MSGin5G-1 is between a 5GMSGS client and a MSGin5G
Server. This reference point supports registration and de-registration of a
5GMSGS client to a MSGin5G Server when not using IMS based solution and the
exchange of MSGin5G messages.
During registration, the 5GMSGS Client provides the profile/availability
information of the 5GMSGS Client and the Application Clients that are serviced
by the 5GMSGS Client to the MSGin5G Server. The profile/availability
information includes contact information such as UE Identifier(s) and port
number(s) which the 5GMSGS Client and the Application Clients listen on for
incoming MSGin5G messages, supported MSGin5G capabilities (e.g. MOMT, AOMT,
MOAT, Group, Broadcast) and MSGin5G service requirements (e.g. required time
windows of service, message latency and data rates).
### 5.2.2 Security Threats
When registration and de-registration is used without authorization, if the
registration is a new registration, the MSGin5G Server assigns a unique 5GMSGS
Client ID to a malicious 5GMSGS client. The malicious 5GMSGS Client stores the
identifier and uses it in all subsequent MSGin5G communication with the
MSGin5G Server. The malicious 5GMSGS client may receive information e.g. URI,
Application Server Functionalities, protocols which may reveal the security
domain topology of the server. Malicious 5GMSGS Client may use this
information to launch attacks on MSGin5G Server.
### 5.2.3 Potential Security Requirements
MSGin5G Server and 5GMSGS Client shall be mutually authenticated over
MSGin5G-1 interface.
The 5GMSGS client shall be authorized to access MSGin5G services.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: Authentication and Authorization between Application
Server and MSGin5G Server
### 5.3.1 Key Issue Details
As per 23.700-24 [2], MSGin5G-3 between an Application Server and a MSGin5G
Server. This reference point supports access to MSGin5G Server and APIs to
enable sending and receiving of MSGin5G messages.
During registration, the MSGin5G server should be able to verify the
Application server, otherwise MSGin5G server may share sensitive information
to the Application Server such as 5GMSGS Client ID, APIs like so.
### 5.3.2 Security Threats
During registration, the MSGin5G server should be able to verify the
Application server, otherwise MSGin5G server may share sensitive information
to the application server such as 5GMSGS Client ID, APIs like so. These
information can be used by the Application Server to mount an attack to get
services from MSGin5G Server without the server knowing its liability.
### 5.3.3 Potential Security Requirements
The system shall support mutual authentication and authorization between
application server and MSGin5G server over MSGin5G-3 Interface.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: Authentication and Authorization between message Gateway
and MSGin5G Server
### 5.4.1 Key Issue Details
As per 23.700-24 [2], MSGin5G-4 is between a non-3GPP message Gateway and a
MSGin5G Server. This reference point supports registration of non-3GPP message
Gateway to MSGin5G Server and the exchange of MSGin5G messages.
Also, MSGin5G-2 is the interface between legacy 3GPP message gateway and
MSGin5G server. This reference point supports registration of Legacy 3GPP
Message Gateway to MSGin5G Server and exchange of MSGin5G messages.
During registration, the MSGin5G server should be able to verify the non-3GPP
message Gateway, and legacy 3GPP message gateway otherwise malicious Gateway
may connect to MSGin5G server, so that sensitive information such as 5GMSGS
Client ID, service ID may leak out.
### 5.4.2 Security Threats
During registration, if the MSGin5G server transfers information without
verifying the Gateway, Gateway may connect to MSGin5G server, so that
sensitive information such as 5GMSGS Client ID, service ID may leak out.
Malicious Gateway may use this information to launch attacks on MSGin5G
server.
This information can be used by malicious Gateway to mount an attack to get
services from MSGin5G server without authorization.
### 5.4.3 Potential Security Requirements
MSGin5G shall support mutual authentication and authorization for
communication between MSGin5G server and Non-3GPP message gateway.
MSGin5G shall support mutual authentication and authorization for
communication between MSGin5G server and legacy 3GPP message gateway.
# 6 Proposed solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
Solutions Key Issues
* * *
                                                                                                                     1            2   3   4
#1: Authentication and authorization between 5GMSGS client and MSGin5G server
X  
#2: Authentication and authorization between 5GMSGS UE client and MSGin5G
server using secondary authentication X  
#3: Transport security protection for MSGin5G-1 interfaces X  
#4: Authentication and Authorization between 5GMSGS Client and MSGin5G server
based on AKMA X  
#5: Authentication and authorization for 5GMSGS UE X  
#6: Authentication and authorization for legacy UE X #7: Authentication and
authorization for Non-3GPP UE X #8: Transport security protection for
MSGin5G-3 interfaces X  
#9: Transport security protection for MSGin5G-1 interface based on AKMA X  
#10: Transport security of MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4 X  
#11: Authentication and Authorization between Application Server and
MSGin5GServer X  
#12: Authentication and Authorization between Message Gateway and
MSGin5GServer X
## 6.1 Solution #1: Authentication and authorization between 5GMSGS client and
MSGin5G server
### 6.1.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication and
Authorization between 5GMSGS client and MSGin5G server in key issue #2.
This solution uses SEAL server as an access token issuer and validator. SEAL
Client authenticates with SEAL server as a result of which it receives access
token using OpenID Connect protocol as specified in TS 33.434 [4].
Access token is used for authorization of the 5GMSGS UE Client to
access/obtain the MSGin5G services.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
Figure 6.1.2-1: Authentication/Authorization framework for 5GMSGS client and
MSGin5G server
Step 1: SIM-C establishes a secure tunnel with the SIM-S. In this step the
SIM-C provides the 5GMSGS UE identifier in case to associate the SIM-C with
the 5GMSGS client.
Step 2: SIM-C sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Request to the SIM-S. The
request contains an indication of authentication methods supported by the UE.
NOTE 1: This solution works only if OpenID Connect protocol is supported by
the system.
Step 3: User Authentication is performed between the SIM-C and the SIM-S. On
receiving OpenID Connect Authentication Request, SIM-S provides HTML page to
the SIM-C.
Step 4: SIM-C authenticates itself by giving username and password.
NOTE 2: The primary credentials for user authentication (e.g.,
username/password) are based on MSGin5G service provider policy. The method
chosen by the service provider is neither defined nor limited to the example
(username/password) provided in this solution.
Step 5: SIM-S verifies the username and password and authenticates the UE.
Step 6: SIM-S sends an OpenID Connect Authentication Response to SIM-C
containing an authorization code (AuthCode).
Step 7: SIM-C sends an OpenID Connect Token Request to the SIM-S, passing the
AuthCode.
Step 8: SIM-S sends an OpenID Connect Token Response to the UE containing an
access token (each uniquely identifies the user of the MSGin5G service). The
access token is used by the 5GMSGS UE client to authorize the communication
between the 5GMSGS UE client and the MSGin5G server. The access token and ID-
token format is the same as the format defined in TS 33.434, Annex A.2.1 and
A.2.2.
Step 9: 5GMSGS UE client gets the access token from the SIM-C.
Step 10: As a procedure for SEAL key management, key material for establishing
the IPsec tunnel is acquired by both MSGin5G server and 5GMSGS Client. The key
material here could be the credentials for IKEv2 mutual authentication (for
example Root certificate of CA or shared secret).
A secure IPSec tunnel is established between 5GMSGS UE client and MSGin5G
Server.
Step 11: The 5GMSGS UE client initiates application registration procedure
with the MSGin5G server, including the access token obtained from SIM-S at
step 6 required for the 5GMSGS Client to register to the MSGin5G Server.
The request also includes a 5GMSGS Client Profile for the 5GMSGS Client
initiating the registration request. The 5GMSGS client profile includes UE ID,
5GMSGS Client ports, 5GMSGS Client ID, 5GMSGS Client capabilities.
Step 12: The authorization check for the application registration request is
performed by verification of the access token issued by the SIM-S. The MSGin5G
server obtains the access token validation service from the SIM-S.
Step 13: MSGin5G server sends the application accept or reject response based
on the result of access token validation.
NOTE 3: Whether SEAL supports handling 5GMSGS identifiers is not addressed in
the present document.
### 6.1.3 Solution evaluation
The solution requires additional SEAL signalling to finalise the
authentication and authorisation. This solution works only if SEAL is deployed
in the system.
This solution addresses the requirements in KI#2. This solution reuses SEAL
procedure for authentication and authorization between MSGin5G Client and
MSGin5G server. In this solution, SEAL server acts as an access token issuer
and validator. SEAL Client authenticates with SEAL server as a result of which
it receives access token using OpenID Connect protocol as specified in TS
33.434 [4].
Access token is used for authentication and authorization of the 5GMSGS UE
Client to access the MSGin5G services.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Authentication and authorization between 5GMSGS UE client
and MSGin5G server using secondary authentication
### 6.2.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication and
Authorization between 5GMSGS UE client and MSGin5G server in key issue #2.
This solution proposes to reuse the secondary authentication procedure for the
authentication between the 5GMSGS Client and the MSGin5G server as specified
in TS 33.501 [5].
### 6.2.2 Solution details
Figure 6.2.2-1: Authentication/Authorization framework for 5GMSGS UE client
and MSGin5G server using secondary authentication
1\. The UE registers to the network and perform the primary authentication
procedure.
2\. When the UE triggers the MSGin5G service it sends the PDU session
establishment request to the AMF to set up the PDU session for the MSGF.
3-6. The following steps 3, 4, 5, 6 are the same as in clause 11.1.2 of TS
33.501 [5]. The secondary authentication procedure is performed. The SMF
should trigger EAP Authentication procedure and perform the role of the EAP
Authenticator. The MSGF is the EAP server (AAA) of the DN.
7-8. After the successful completion of the secondary authentication
procedure, the MSGF sends EAP Success message to the SMF including the
registration response.
9\. The SMF sends a Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer to the AMF with the
EAP success message.
10\. The AMF forwards PDU Session Establishment Response message along with
EAP Success to the UE.
### 6.2.3 Solution evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Transport security protection for MSGin5G-1 interfaces
### 6.3.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the transport security requirements for MSGin5G-1
interface defined in key issue#1. As specified in SEAL specification TS 33.434
[4], NDS/IP should be used for the data protection over MSGin5G-1 interface.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
The protection of this interface should be supported according to NDS/IP as
specified in TS 33.210 [6] as per VAL-UU protection defined in TS 33.434 [4].
NOTE: NDS/IP is used only when SEAL enabler is supported by the UE.
### 6.3.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the transport security requirements for MSGin5G-1
interface defined in key issue#1. Solution uses the NDS/IP for the data
protection over MSGin5G-1 interface as specified in SEAL specification TS
33.434 [4].
## 6.4 Solution #4: Authentication and Authorization between 5GMSGS Client and
MSGin5G server based on AKMA
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the security requirement for the Authentication and
Authorization between 5GMSGS UE client and MSGin5G server in key issue #2.
This solution proposes to use AKMA (as specified in TS 33.535 [9]) for the
authentication between the 5GMSGS Client and the MSGin5G server.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
Pre-requisite: UE with 5G MSG Client functionality registers in the 5G
network, and retrieves the information of AKMA capability from 5GC. The AKMA
capability indicates that 5G MSG Server supports to use AKMA, thus the UE and
the 5GC generates K~AKMA~ as specified in [9].
Figure 6.4.2-1: Authentication/Authorization based on AKMA
Step 1-3: UE communicates with the 5G MSG Server to negotiate the key
K~5GMSG~, of which the UE and the 5G MSG Server both are in possession after
step 3.
Step 4: The UE and the 5G MSG Server establish the TLS security tunnel based
on the key K~5GMSG.~ The authentication between the UE and the 5G MSG Server
is fulfilled based on the TLS.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
This solution reuses the AKMA authentication procedure to addresses the
security requirement for the key issue #2. This solution provides the
Authentication and Authorization between 5GMSGS UE client and MSGin5G server.
This solution requires no provisioning of the application layer credentials,
nor additional system impact.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Authentication and authorization for 5GMSGS UE
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This solution proposes to use TLS-PSK based authentication for the
authentication between MSGin5G UE and the MSGin5G server.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
Figure 6.5.2-1: Authentication and Authorization between 5GMSGS UE and MSGin5G
Server
Step 1-2: The UE performs the procedures (for example, Initial Registration
procedure) as defined in TS 23.502 [10] to get the 5GC network access. At the
end of the network access authentication procedure (Primary authentication and
key agreement TS 33.501 [5], clause 6.1), the UE and the AMF are in possession
of the key K~AMF~ derived from K~SEAF~.
The UE and AMF performs the capability exchange procedure and agree upon the
method of authentication for MSGin5G service during PDU session establishment.
Step 3: Then the UE initiates the Initial service provisioning procedure with
the SEAL server.
Step 4: SEAL server sends a key request to the designated AMF. The AMF/SEAF
derives the K~MSG~ from the K~SEAF~/K~AMF~. The SEAL server identifies the AMF
using the 5G-GUTI which has the GAUMI which uniquely identifies one AMF.
Step 5a-5b: The UE derives the K~MSG~ key for MSGin5G service, whenever there
is a trigger to get MSG service. Based on the UE\'s capability to support
MSGin5G service, the SEAF/AMF derives the K~MSG~. Key derivation step is
skipped, if the UE and AMF holds a valid K~MSG~.
Step 6: After key material (K~MSG~) is generated, the SEAF/AMF sends the
generated K~MSG~ and ngKSI to the SEAL server together with UE ID and/or SUPI
and/or MSGin5G service ID of the 5GMSGS client in the key response. The SEAL
server stores the latest information sent by the SEAF/AMF.
Step 7: Once K~MSG~ is established, PSK is generated from K~MSG~.
Step 8-10: SEAL server sends the initial service provisioning response to the
5GMSGS client. On receiving the initial service provisioning response, the
5GMSGS client derives the K~MSG-PSK~. On successful initial service
provisioning procedure, the 5GMSGS client and SEAL server establishes a TLS
session using pre-shared key K~MSG-PSK~.
Step 11-14: On successful TLS session establishment the 5GMSGS client sends a
trigger message to the SEAL client to trigger an access token request.
Accordingly, SEAL client sends an application token request to the SEAL
server. SEAL server provides the SEAL client with an access token. The
acquired access token is shared with 5GMSGS client.
Step 15: Before sending the access token for authorization to the MSGin5G
server, the 5GMSGS client establishes a secure channel using certificates.
Step 16: The 5GMSGS client sends the access token in an application
registration request to the MSGin5G server along with the MSGin5G service ID.
Step 17-19: SEAL server validates the received access token and the MSGin5G
server validates the service request by validating the MSGin5G service ID. On
successful verification MSGin5G server sends the application registration
response.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
This solution depends on primary authentication of UE with the network. The
K~MSG~ is derived from K~AMF~. TLS-PSK is used further for secure session
establishment with the SEAL server using a pre-shared key from K~MSG.~ Access
token is used for authentication and authorization purpose of the UE to obtain
the MSGin5G service from MSGin5G server. This authorization method (OAuth2.0)
is already being utilized in Mission Critical Services [12] and Service-Based
procedures in TS 33.501 [5].
## 6.6 Solution #6: Authentication and authorization for legacy UE
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution proposes to use TLS-PSK based authentication for the
authentication between legacy UE and the MSGin5G server where SMSF acts as the
key management function.
### 6.6.2 Solution details
Figure 6.6.2-1: Procedure for authentication and authorization between legacy
UE and MSGin5G server
Step 1-2: The UE performs the procedures (for example, Initial Registration
procedure) as defined in TS 23.502 [10] to get the 5GC network access. At the
end of the network access authentication procedure (Primary authentication and
key agreement in TS 33.501 [5], clause 6.1), the UE and the AMF are in
possession of the key K~AMF~ derived from K~SEAF~.
The UE and AMF performs the capability exchange procedure and agree upon the
method of authentication for MSGin5G service during the PDU session
establishment.
Step 3: The UE initiates the Initial service provisioning procedure with the
SMSF.
Step 4: SMSF sends a key request to the designated AMF. The AMF/SEAF derives
the K~MSG~ from the K~SEAF~/K~AMF~. The SMSF identifies the AMF using the
5G-GUTI which has the GAUMI which uniquely identifies one AMF.
Step 5a-5b: The UE derives the K~MSG~ key whenever there is trigger to get MSG
service. Based on the UE\'s capability to support MSGin5G service, the
SEAF/AMF derives the K~MSG~. Key derivation step is skipped, if the UE or AMF
holds a valid K~MSG~.
Step 6: After key material (K~MSG~) is generated, the SEAF/AMF sends the
generated K~MSG~ and ngKSI to the SMSF together with UE ID and/or SUPI and/or
MSGin5G Service ID of the UE in the key response. The SMSF stores the latest
information sent by the SEAF/AMF.
Step 7: Once K~MSG~ is derived, PSK is generated from K~MSG.~
Step 8-10: SMSF sends the initial service provisioning response to the UE. On
receiving the initial service provisioning response, the UE derives the K~MSG-
PSK.~ On successful initial service provisioning procedure, the UE and SMSF
establishes a TLS session using pre-shared key K~MSG-PSK.~
Step 11-12: On successful TLS session establishment the UE sends an
application token request to the SMSF. SMSF provides the access token to the
UE.
Step 13: The legacy UE establishes a secure connection with the Legacy 3GPP
message gateway. The legacy UE registers with the MSGin5G server via legacy
3GPP message gateway. The communication between legacy UE and the gateway is
out of scope of the study.
Step 14: Before sending the access token for authorization to the MSGin5G
server, the gateway establishes a secure channel using certificates.
Step 15: The gateway sends the access token in an application registration
request to the MSGin5G server along with the MSGin5G service ID.
Step 16-18: SMSF validates the received access token and the MSGin5G server
validates the service request by validating the MSGin5G service ID. On
successful verification MSGin5G server sends the application registration
response.
NOTE: This solution can be modified to focus on the authentication between the
legacy 3GPP Message Gateway and MSGin5G Server.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Authentication and authorization for Non-3GPP UE
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This solution proposes to use TLS-PSK based authentication for the
authentication between non-3GPP UE and the MSGin5G server.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
Figure 6.7.2-1: Procedure for authentication and authorization between
Non-3GPP UE and MSGin5G server
UE here refers to the non-3GPP UE or the non-3GPP gateway. Based on
SA6specification TR 23.700-24 [2], the Service ID in non-3GPP UE is translated
as the MSGin5G service ID.
Detailed procedure is provided below:
Step 1-2: The UE initiates the initial registration procedure as defined in TS
23.502 [10] to get the 5G Core network access. At the end of the network
access authentication procedure (Primary authentication and key agreement (TS
33.501 [5], clause 6.1)), the UE and the AMF are in possession of the key
K~AMF~. The UE and AMF perform the capability exchange procedure and agree
upon the method of authentication for MSGin5G service during the PDU session
establishment.
Step 3: Then the UE initiates the Initial service provisioning procedure with
the N3IWF which acts as the key management server. The MSGin5G service Key
K~MSG~ is derived from K~AMF~.
Step 4: N3IWF sends a key request to the designated AMF.
Step 5a-6: AMF derives the MSGin5G service key (K~MSG~) from K~AMF~/K~SEAF~.
The AMF sends back the derived K~MSG~ in the key response.
Step 7-9: N3IWF derives the pre-shared key K~MSG-PSK~ from K~MSG~ and sends
the initial service provisioning response to the UE. On receiving the initial
service provisioning response, the UE derives the K~MSG-PSK~.
Step 10: On successful initial service provisioning procedure the UE and N3IWF
establishes a TLS session using pre-shared key K~MSG-PSK~.
Step 11-12: On successful TLS session establishment the UE sends an
application token request to the N3IWF. N3IWF provides the UE with an access
token.
Step 13: The non-3gpp UE establishes a secure connection with the Non-GPP
message gateway. The non-3gpp UE registers with the MSGin5G server via
Non-3GPP message gateway. The communication between non-3gpp UE and the
gateway is out of scope of the study.
Step 14: Before sending the access token for authorization to the MSGin5G
server, the non-3gpp gateway establishes a secure channel using certificates.
Step 15: The gateway sends the access token in an application registration
request to the MSGin5G server along with the MSGin5G service ID.
Step 16-18: N3IWF validates the received access token and the MSGin5G server
validates the service request by validating the MSGin5G service ID. On
successful verification MSGin5G server sends the application registration
response.
NOTE: This solution can be modified to focus on the authentication between the
non-3GPP Message Gateway and MSGin5G Server.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Transport security protection for MSGin5G-3 interface
### 6.8.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses the transport security requirements for MSGin5G-3
interface defined in key issue#1.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
MSGin5G-3 is between MSGin5G Server and Application Server. The supported
functionalities include access to MSGin5G Server and APIs to enable sending
and receiving of MSGin5G messages and adherence to CAPIF as specified in TS
23.222 [3].
As all the exchanged data of MSGin5G-3 is in the application layer, transport
security protection on the SBI interface can be reused. Hence, TLS should be
used as specified in TS 33.210 [6], unless security is provided by other
means, e.g. physical security.
If the CAPIF capability is consumed by the Application Server, the interface
security defined in the TS 33.501 [5] clause 12 can be reused here to protect
the CAPIF related data transferred in the MSGin5G-3 interface, i.e. TLS should
be used.
Regardless of whether TLS is used or not, NDS/IP as specified in TS 33.210 [6]
and TS 33.310 [11] can be used for network layer protection.
### 6.8.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the security for MSGin5G-3 interface in KI#1. For
protection over MSGin5G-3, TLS is used as specified in TS 33.210 [6], unless
security is provided by other means, e.g. physical security.
If the CAPIF capability is consumed by the Application Server, the interface
security defined in the TS 33.501 [5] clause 12 can be reused.
Regardless of whether TLS is used or not, NDS/IP as specified in TS 33.210 [6]
and TS 33.310 [11] can be used for network layer protection.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Transport security protection for MSGin5G-1 interface
based on AKMA
### 6.9.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses key issue#1 about the transport security protection
for MSGin5G-1 interface based on AKMA.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
Figure 6.9.2-1: Transport security protection for MSGin5G-1 based on AKMA
Pre-requisite: MSGin5G UE has executed primary authentication successfully
with 5GC and has generated K~AKMA~ based on AKMA procedure as specified in
[10].
Step 1: MSGin5G UE sends the Application session establishment request to the
MSGin5G Server, with A-KID.
Step 2: MSGin5G Server communicates with the 5G core network to obtain
K~5GMSG~ according to AKMA procedures. K~5GMSG~ is the K~AF~ in AKMA
procedures.
Step 3: MSGin5G Server responds to the MSGin5G UE by sending the Application
session establishment response.
Step 4: The MSGin5G UE and the 5G MSG Server establish the TLS security tunnel
based on the key K~5GMSG.~ The MSGin5G-1 interface is protected by TLS.
### 6.9.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue#1 about the transport security protection
for MSGin5G-1 interface based on AKMA.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Transport security of MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4
### 6.10.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses key issue#1 about the transport security of MSGin5G-2
and MSGin5G-4.
### 6.10.2 Solution details
In clause 9.2 in [12], APIs of Message Gateways have been specified, thus
MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4 interfaces can be regarded as SBI. The transport
security of MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4 interfaces can be protected by using TLS,
as specified in clause 13.1.0 in [5].
TLS can be used for transport protection of MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4 interfaces
unless network security is provided by other means.
### 6.10.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue#1 about the transport security of MSGin5G-2
and MSGin5G-4 by using TLS.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Authentication and Authorization between Application
Server and MSGin5GServer
### 6.11.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses key issue#3 by using the authentication provided by
transport layer protection.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
MSGin5G-3 is between MSGin5G Server and Application Server. The supported
functionalities include access to MSGin5G Server and APIs to enable sending
and receiving of MSGin5G messages and adherence to CAPIF as specified in TS
23.222 [3].
As all the exchanged data of MSGin5G-3 is in the application layer, transport
security protection on the SBI interface can be reused. Hence, TLS should be
used as specified in TS 33.210 [6], unless security is provided by other
means, e.g. physical security.
If the CAPIF capability is consumed by the Application Server, the interface
security defined in the TS 33.501 [5] clause 12 can be reused here to protect
the CAPIF related data transferred in the MSGin5G-3 interface, i.e. TLS should
be used.
Regardless of whether TLS is used or not, NDS/IP as specified in TS 33.210 [6]
and TS 33.310 [11] can be used for network layer protection.
### 6.11.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue#3 by using the authentication and
authorization mechanism provided by transport layer protection, with no
additional system impact.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Authentication and Authorization between Message Gateway
and MSGin5GServer
### 6.12.1 Solution overview
This solution addresses key issue#4 by using the authentication and
authorization between network functions specified in clause 13.3.2 in 33.501
[5].
### 6.12.2 Solution details
In clause 9.2 in [12], APIs of Message Gateways have been specified, thus the
Legacy 3GPP Message Gateway and the non-3GPP Message Gateway are regarded as
NFs in the 5G network.
Therefore, the authentication and authorization between Message Gateway and
the MSGin5G Server can reuse the authentication and authorization between
network functions in clause 13.3.2 in 33.501 [5].
In direct communication, authentication between message gateway and
MSGin5GServer uses one of the following methods:
\- If the PLMN uses protection at the transport layer as described in clause
13.1 in [5], authentication provided by the transport layer protection
solution is used for authentication between message gateway and MSGin5GServer.
\- If the PLMN does not use protection at the transport layer, authentication
between message gateway and MSGin5GServer may be implicit by NDS/IP or
physical security.
If the PLMN uses token-based authorization, the network uses protection at the
transport layer as described in clause 13.1 in [5].
In indirect communication scenarios, clause 13.3.2 in 33.501 [5] also applies.
### 6.12.3 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue#4 by using the authentication and
authorization between network functions specified in clause 13.3.2 in 33.501
[5], with no additional system impact.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusions on Key Issue #1
For MSGin5G-1 interface, it is proposed to use AKMA-based solution (Solution
#9) to protect the MSGin5G-1 interface in the normative work.
For MSGin5G-3 interface, it is proposed to use solution #8 as the basis for
the normative work. For the data protection over MSGin5G-3 interface between
MSGin5G Server and Application Server, the transport security protection on
SBI interface can be reused. If the Application Server supports CAPIF
capability, the existing interface security protection mechanisms for CAPIF
can be reused. TLS can be used for confidentiality, integrity and replay
protection.
For MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4 interfaces, it is proposed to use solution#10 as
the basis for the normative work. TLS can be used for transport protection of
MSGin5G-2 and MSGin5G-4 interfaces unless network security is provided by
other means.
## 7.2 Conclusions on Key Issue #2
It is concluded to use solution#4 (AKMA-based solution) to solve the issue of
authentication and authorization between the MSGin5G Client and the MSGin5G
Server in the normative work.
## 7.3 Conclusions on Key Issue #3
It is concluded to use solution#11 as the baseline to solve the issue of
authentication and authorization between Application Server and MSGin5GServer
in the normative work.
## 7.4 Conclusions on Key Issue #4
It is concluded to use solution#12 as the baseline to solve the issue of
authentication and authorization between the message Gateway and MSGin5G
Server in the normative work.
#