# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
Editor's Note: This clause contains some background information for the study.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies key issues, potential security and privacy
requirements and solutions with respect to network slicing Phase 2 work
TS23.501 [2], TS23.502 [3], TS23.503 [4] and studies TR 23.700-40 [5] and TR
38.832 [6], specifically,
  * Define the security requirements and security services for new NF(s) introduced for UEs' network slice access control.
  * Study potential security risks/threats (i.e. DoS, sensitive information leakage) and solutions if needed with respect to slice-related quota management, data rate limitation, and constraints on simultaneous use of slices.
  * Study potential security risks/threats related to broadcasting slice-related cell selection/reselection info, and provide security solutions if needed.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: "System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)"
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: "Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)"
[4] 3GPP TS 23.503: "Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2"
[5] 3GPP TR 23.700-40: "Study on enhancement of network slicing; Phase 2"
[6] 3GPP TR 38.832: "Study on enhancement of Radio Access Network (RAN)
slicing"
[7] 3GPP TS 33.501: "Security architecture and procedures for 5G system"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Architectural and security assumptions
Editor\'s note: This clause includes the architectural and security
assumptions applicable for the study.
# 5 Key issues
Editor's Note: This clause contains all the key issues identified during the
study.
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: privacy issue on broadcasting slice information
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
A gNB may support multiple and different network slices, and on different
frequencies in different regions.
In TR 38.832 [6], in order to support fast cell selection and cell reselection
for particular network slices, solutions based on broadcasting slice related
information are being studied. The broadcast slice related cell info may
contain e.g. NSSAI, SST, slice grouping or slice associated information. In
this key issue, the following questions are to be addressed:
\- Whether broadcasting slice related information in this scenarios will cause
any privacy issue
\- If yes, mitigation solutions need to be provided
### 5.1.2 Security threats
According to TS 23.501 [1], SST refers to the expected Network Slice behaviour
in terms of features and services. An SST could be represented with a
standardised SST value or without a standardised SST value. The currently
standardized SST values can indicate the slice types of eMBB, URLCC, MIoT and
V2X, from which sensitive information of a specific slice can hardly be
derived. Hence there is no privacy issue if SST is included in the broadcast
SIB.
An S-NSSAI is comprised of a SST and an optional Slice Differentiator (SD),
which is to differentiate amongst multiple network slices of the same
Slice/Service type. An S-NSSAI may contain privacy-sensitive information, e.g.
when dedicated to a group of users may expose the group identity. An S-NSSAI
may also contain sensitive information, e.g. network topology that the
operator may not want to share with others.
A cell broadcasting sensitive S-NSSAI may become a target of attackers
interested in the S-NSSAI information. It is likely for an attacker to further
link the S-NSSAI with its UEs/users together with other knowledge/tools, e.g.
a frequency band supports only the sensitive S-NSSAI or a few allowing
attackers to narrow down the scope. Broadcasting sensitive S-NSSAI should be
avoided.
_Slice group information_ may or may not leak sensitive information depending
on how the slice group is defined. For example, if a slice group is defined
based on the standardized slice type or SST values, there may be no privacy
issue as discussed above. _S-NSSAIs with only SST values are valid slice
identifiers._ On the other hand, there may be cases that a not well designed
slice group contains only one SST (used in an S-NSSAI as a valid slice
identifier), one S-NSSAI or a few S-NSSAI having the same SD values thus
exposing network topologies or being dedicated to special groups of users. In
such a case, broadcasting group info may lead to leak of sensitive
information.
According to RAN2, slice grouping information (slice group identity and group
mapping info) is assumed to be delivered to UE through NAS signaling which is
protected. The group identifier is broadcasted rather than Slice Group itself.
The group identifier is to be defined to identify the slice group.
Therefore, the slice group information for which the slice group identifier is
to be broadcasted needs to be defined taking into consideration the leakage of
sensitive information.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
_Slice group information_ needs to be defined taking into consideration the
possible leakage of sensitive information due to _the group identifier_ being
broadcasted.
## 5.2 Key Issue 2: DoS to NSAC procedure
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
A new Network Slice Admission Control (NSAC) procedure has been introduced in
TS23.501 [2] and TS23.502 [3], where the number of registered UEs is monitored
for a network slice (i.e. S-NSSAI) and a UE will be rejected to access if the
number of UE registered in the requested S-NSSAI has reached its quota.
However, the NSAC procedure needs to be studied further to address potential
security risks, for examples:
  * In the current NSAC procedure, the number of registered UE in an S-NSSAI is updated independently from other S-NSSAIs during the registration procedure. In other words, the granularity level at registration is S-NSSAI. However, it is not the case in the de-registration procedure. The numbers are only updated when the UE exits from all network slices, i.e. de-registered. Since a UE may access multiple slices, e.g. eight, the UE would still be counted against quota usage of ALL S-NSSAIs even the UE is not using some or most of slices ("idly occupied" by the UE). This may lead to the quota reached fast which does not reflect the real usage of a slice. Other legitimate UEs will suffer from DoS -- "dog in the mager". It is notable that an attacker can use legitimate UEs to launch such attacks.
  * The Early Admission Control (EAC) mode has been introduced where the admission control can be inactive if the number of UE bellows a pre-configured threshold. This may pose a security risk that exceeds the slice quota when a sudden increase in the slice registration requests, maliciously or accidentally.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
TBD
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
TBD
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: AF authentication and authorization
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
As specified in TS23.501 [2] and TS23.502 [3], the current utilization state
of a network slice, e.g. the number of UEs registered for a network slice or
the current number of PDU Sessions established on a network slice, can be
reported to an AF deployed within a 3GPP system or in a third party domain. In
either case, the AF should be authenticated and authorized beforehand and the
5G system should make sure no sensitive information leakage.
In TS23.502 [3], a notification procedure has been specified to allow an AF to
get access to the network slide information through NEF. However, it is not
clear how the AF is authenticated and authorized. The authorization details
(e.g. what parameters and whether slice-specific parameters need to be
verified) need to be specified to avoid ambiguity and potential attacks. It is
expected that the AF deployed within the 3GPP domain or a third party domain
will be authenticated or authorized in a different way, which should be also
studied and specified. In addition, the procedure needs to take into account
the privacy issue of S-NSSAI since S-NSSAI may not be available at a third
party AF due to concerns on the sensitivity information leakage (an S-NSSAI
may not to be made known to a third-party AF).
### 5.3.2 Security threats
If an AF is not authenticated or authorized before accessing to the network
slice information, a mischievous AF may collect such information for other
purposes. If S-NSSAI is sent to a third party AF, sensitive information may
leak out of 3GPP systems.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
S-NSSAI information shall not be sent to a third party AF for network slice
quota-usage notification.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: authentication and authorization for a third-party AF or
an AF deployed within 3GPP systems
### 6.1.1 Introduction
AF authentication and authorization is subject to whether the AF lies in the
3GPP system or in a third party domain. Existing but different mechanisms are
chosen for the two scenarios. In case AF is a third party NF, S-NSSAI is not
required at AF to prevent sensitive information leakage.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
If an AF is deployed within the 3GPP systems, authentication and authorization
is based on the mechanisms defined for SBI, Clause 13 in TS33.501 [7], where
the AF is authenticated by the NRF it registered within the same PLMN. For the
Oauth 2.0 based authorization, the NRF takes the role of Authentication Server
and the NEF takes the role of Resource Server.
If an AF a third party NF, authentication and authorization is based on the
mechanisms defined in Clause 12 in TS33.501 [7], where mutual authentication
is performed between the AF and the NEF. For the Oauth 2.0 based
authorization, the NEF takes both roles of Authentication Server and the
Resource Server.
In order to avoid sensitive information leakage involving S-NSSAI, S-NSSAI is
not sent to or made available to a third party AF. Instead, NEF keeps a
mapping between S-NSSAI and ENSI (External Network Slice Information) and ENSI
(instead of S-NSSAI) is available at the third party AF. The notification
procedure (adapted from the clause 4.15.3.2.10 of TS 23.502 [3]) with ENSI is
described as below.
### 6.1.2.1 Number of UEs and PDU Sessions per network slice notification
procedure
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: Number of UEs and PDU Sessions per network slice
notification procedure
0\. Authentication of AF: AF is authenticated by NRF or authenticated by NEF
based on description above. A token is generated for AF after authentication.
It is noted that the AF token includes claim for the authorized S-NSSAI or
ENSI (if AF is a third party NF).
1\. To subscribe or unsubscribe for the number of UEs or the number of PDU
Sessions per network slice notification with the NSACF, the AF sends
Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe/Unsubscribe Request (Event ID, Event Filter,
Event Reporting information) message to the NEF. The Event ID parameter
defines the subscribed event ID, i.e. Number of Registered UEs or Number of
Established PDU Sessions. The Event Filter parameter defines the S-NSSAI for
which reporting is required. If the AF is a 3GPP NF, The Event Filter
parameter is S-NSSAI whereas the Event Filter parameter is ENSI if the AF is a
third party NF. The Event Reporting information parameter defines the mode of
reporting, i.e. threshold based reporting with included a threshold value or
periodic reporting with included periodicity time interval.
2\. The NEF checks whether the AF is authorised for the requested subscription
based on the AF token. It needs to check whether the token claims matches the
AF's identity and the Event Filter parameter. If authorised, the NEF may query
the NRF to find the NSACF responsible for the requested S-NSSAI (NEF needs to
map to S-NSSAI based on ENSI for a third party AF). The NEF forwards the
request to the NSACF with Nnsacf_SliceEventExposure_Subscribe/Unsubscribe
Request (Event ID, Event Filter, Event Reporting information). The Event
Filter parameter is the mapped S-NSSAI for the third party AF.
3\. The NSACF confirms with Nnsacf_SliceEventExposure_Subscribe/Usubscribe
Response message to the NEF.
4\. The NEF forwards the response from NSACF via the
Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe/Unsibscribe Response message to the AF. The Event
Filter parameter is changed to the mapped ENSI for the third party AF.
5\. When the reporting condition for a subscribed event is fulfilled, the
NSACF triggers a notification towards the AF.
6\. The NSACF sends the Nnsacf_SliceEvent Exposure_Notify (Event ID, Event
Filter, Event Reporting information) message to the NEF. If the subscription
is for event based notification (e.g. based on the monitored event reaching a
threshold value), the Event Reporting information parameter contains
confirmation for the event fulfilment. If the subscription is for periodic
notification, the Event Reporting information parameter provides information
for the current number of UEs registered with a network slice (e.g.
represented in percentage of the maximum number of the UEs registered with the
network slice) or information for the current number of PDU Sessions on a
network slice (e.g. represented in percentage of the maximum number of the UEs
established on the network slice) or both. It is
7\. The NEF forwards the message to the AF in the Nnef_EventExposure_Notify
(Event ID, Event Filter, Event Reporting information) message. The Event
Filter parameter is changed to the mapped ENSI for the third party AF.
### 6.1.2.2 Number of UEs and PDU Sessions per network slice status retrieval
by AF procedure
###
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: Number of UEs and PDU Sessions per network slice status
retrieval by AF procedure
1\. To retrieve information about the number of the UEs registered with a
network slice or the number of the PDU Sessions established on a network slice
or both, the AF sends Nnef_SliceStatus_Retrieval Request (Event ID, Event
Filter) message to the NEF.
The Event ID parameter defines the information to be reported, i.e. the number
of registered UEs with a network slice or the number of the PDU sessions with
a network slice or both. The Event Filter parameter defines the S-NSSAI for
which reporting is required. If the AF is within the 3GPP operator domain, the
Event Filter parameter is S-NSSAI whereas the Event Filter parameter is ENSI
for the AF outside the 3GPP operator domain.
NOTE: If AF is from the 3rd party that belongs to a different security domain
than the operator, ENSI shall be used to meet the requirement for AF in clause
5.9.2.3, TS 33.501[7].
2\. The NEF checks whether the AF is authorised based on the AF token. It
needs to check whether the token claims matches the AF's identity and the
Event Filter parameter. If authorised, the NEF may query the NRF to find the
NSACF responsible for the requested S-NSSAI. The authorization check by NEF
needs to make sure the AF is allowed to access the S-NSSAI.
The NEF shall map to S-NSSAIs from ENSI for the AF outside the 3GPP operator
domain. The authorization check by NEF needs to make sure the AF is allowed to
access the S-NSSAI.
3\. The NEF forwards the request to the NSACF with
Nnsacf_SliceStatus_Retrieval Request (Event ID, Event Filter).
4\. The NSACF returns the Nnsacf_SliceStatus_Retrieval Response (Event ID,
Event Filter, Event Reporting information) message to the NEF, as in TS23.502
[3].
5\. The NEF forwards the message to the AF in the Nnef_SliceStatus_Retrieval
Response (Event ID, Event Filter, Event Reporting information) message. The
Event Filter parameter is changed to the mapped ENSI for the AF outside the
3GPP operator domain.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue #3 by optionally storing a mapping
between an S-NSSAI and ENSI in NEF. The AF which is outside the 3GPP operator
domain is configured with ENSI instead of S-NSSAI to avoid sensitive
information leakage.
NOTE: the mapping between an S-NSSAI and ENSI is only configured for AF
outside the 3GPP operator domain.
This solution is in line with the SA2 defined procedures for the AF to get
access to the network slice quota information.
The NSACF services, i.e. "Nnsacf_SliceEventExposure_Subscribe/Unsubscribe" and
"Nnsacf_SliceEventExposure_Notify" are not affected and can be kept as is in
TS23.502 [3].
Optionally, the corresponding NEF services may be updated with the different
Event Filter values.
# 7 Conclusions
Editor's Note: This clause contains the agreed conclusions that will form the
basis for any normative work.
## 7.1 Conclusions for KI#1
For KI#1, it is concluded that no solution is required for the normative text.
## 7.3 Conclusions for KI#3
Authentication and authorization for an AF for network slice quota-usage
notification is recommended for normative work based on the solution #1.
NOTE1: The definition and related security requirements of a trusted/untrusted
AF are left for normative work.
NOTE2: According to TS33.501, S-NSSAI should not be sent outside the 3GPP
operator domain. This requirement needs to be synchronized in normative work.
#