# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the study of system enablers for devices having
multiple Universal Subscriber Identity Modules (USIM) in the EPS and 5G system
architecture are studied in 3GPP TR 23.761 [2]. The present document provides
the security and privacy issues related to MUSIM architecture and lists
potential solutions for identified key issues including.
\- Security and privacy issues exposing the Paging Cause in clear text in
paging message.
\- Security aspects of the communication between UE and Paging Server and
exposing Paging server address.
\- Security and Privacy implications if a Multi-USIM device needs to
explicitly indicate to the MNO owning one USIM and that UE is also registered
via another USIM at the same or different PLMNs.
\- Security aspects of Paging Response with cause value busy indication.
Finally, the present document provides some conclusions for potential
normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.761: \" Study on system enablers for devices having multiple
Universal Subscriber Identity Modules (USIM)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.501: \" Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Void
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Security Aspects of Busy Indication
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.761 [2], a Multi-USIM device with concurrent registrations over 3GPP
RAT associated with multiple USIMs procedures is discussed. A multi-USIM
device can efficiently perform some activity (e.g. listen to paging) in a
system while communicating in another system. The network sends a paging
request to notify the UE of a pending MT service. UE may monitor periodically
for paging from another system. UE responds to the page (either by accepting
the page request or by sending a busy indication), which allows the network to
save paging resources due to not escalating the page across a larger area.
It was concluded in TR 23.761 [2] that if a Multi-USIM device in RRC_Idle mode
decides not to accept a received paging, a BUSY Indication is sent by the UE
via a NAS message to network whenever the UE supports NAS BUSY indication.
NOTE: The conclusion on busy indication for RRC_INACTIVE UE is not addressed
in the present document.
### 5.1.2 Threats
If the Busy indication is injected, modified or replayed by attackers, the
network may be spoofed to believe the UE appears busy, which will mislead the
network to stop paging the UE for the incoming MT service and causing Dos
attack on the UE.
If the Busy indication sent by the UE in a NAS message is removed by an
attacker before reaching the AMF, the network may be spoofed to believe that
the UE accepted the paging without indicating busy (e.g. a normal Service
Request responding to paging), which will mislead the network to process the
request from the UE with the existing procedure to prepare for the UE to be
transferred from Idle to Connected mode. This will waste the network resource
and alter the real intention of the MUSIM device, which is a type of DoS
attack on both the network and the UE.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
3GPP system shall support a mechanism to protect BUSY indication against
modification, replay, and fabrication attacks.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: UE and Paging Server Communication
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
As per 23.761 [2], A Multi-USIM device is needed to monitor each connected
system\'s paging channel for MT services destined to that device. UE\'s paging
notification and reception need to be done with minimal interruption to
ongoing services in the current system and without performing undesirable
operations (e.g. Wasting resource, reaching misleading assumption of
reachability). MUSIM devices which are unable to simultaneously monitor paging
on all 3GPP RATs and systems in which it is in Idle state or RRC_Inactive
state (for 5GS) needs to choose the paging channel(s) to monitor, which can
lead to unsuccessful paging on the other paging channel(s). There are two
solutions, to prevent unnecessary interruption of the current service to
receive paging (Solution #7, Solution #12, Solution #27), proposed in the
23.761 [2]. While connected to a MUSIM system, all these solutions deliver
paging notifications of 3GPP RATs and systems in which UE is in Idle or
inactive state through a currently active network. Solutions to this key issue
should study security and privacy aspects related to communication between UE
and paging server.
### 5.2.2 Threats
There is no need to analyse security threats for this key issue.
NOTE: This key issue is irrelevant, as there is no paging server in the
architecture.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
There is not potential security requirements for this key issue.
## 5.3 Key issue #3: Security aspects of exposing \'paging cause'.
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
In TR.23.761[2], the MUSIM device considers sending a paging cause part of the
[Uu] paging message. The [Uu] paging message contains the identity of UE plus
a Paging Cause, i.e., indicating the type of traffic that triggered the
paging, e.g., MT Voice. 3G already used to have this paging cause as paging
traffic type (Conversational, Streaming, Interactive, Background). In EPS, the
paging traffic type was removed. MUSIM system applies to EPS and 5GS. Based on
the paging cause, UE makes educated decisions on whether to respond to the
other system\'s paging. The interim conclusion in TR 23.761 [2] is to have
only one \'paging cause\' value for the voice service. However, UE needs to
discriminate the case where the absence of Paging Cause in the Uu Paging
message is due to a non-voice MT service from the case where the absence of
Paging Cause in the Uu Paging message is due to a legacy RAN node (i.e.,
regardless whether the MT service is voice or not).
### 5.3.2 Threats
No security threats adressed in the present document.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
No Security requirements adressed in the present document.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Security Solution for Busy Indication using NAS signaling
### 6.1.1 Introduction {#introduction-1}
This solution addresses key issue #1: Security Aspects of Reject Paging
Indication.
The key issue proposes to support a mechanism to prevent DoS attack caused by
Reject Paging Indication. Solution reduces the severity of the DoS attacks and
identify the DoS attacks by handling the response to paging for MT service.
Solution described proposes a solution allowing the UE to send a Reject Paging
Indication to the network in a NAS message as a response to a page.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
The procedure below assumes that UE-1 can periodically pause the RRC-
connection allowing UE-2 to perform page monitoring.
Figure 6.1.2-1 Reject Paging Indication using NAS Signaling
0\. A device with USIM, i.e., UE1, is in connected mode and UE2 is in IDLE
mode.
1\. The AMF-2 serving the UE-2 sends a paging request message to RAN-2. RAN-2
pages UE-2.
2\. Upon receiving the paging message UE-2, if UE supporting NAS Reject Paging
Indication decides to send a NAS Reject Paging Indication, responds with a
Reject Paging Indication vis NAS message after RACH procedure. RAN-2 forwards
the NAS message to the AMF-2. 1.
a. The NAS message carrying the Reject Paging Indication may be ciphered. The
cipher mechanism as defined in clause 6.4.4 of TS 33.501 [3] can be reused to
protect the in the NAS message.
b. The NAS message carrying the Reject Paging Indication is integrity
protected. The integrity protection mechanism as defined in clause 6.4 3 of TS
33.501 [3] can be reused to integrity protect the in the NAS message.
### 6.1.3 System impact
UE:
\- Uses existing NAS integrity and ciphering mechanism as per TS 33.501 [3].
AMF:
\- Uses existing NAS integrity and ciphering mechanism as per TS 33.501 [3].
NOTE: Details of NAS message to send busy indication are out of scope of the
present document.
### 6.1.4 Evaluation
Above solution relies on already defined mechanisms in TS 33.501 [3] to send
ciphered and integrity protected BUSY indication and fulfils security
requirements of Key issue 1.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Key issue #1: Security Aspects of Busy Indication
Solution 1 is recommended for normative work to support encryption and
integrity protection of Reject paging indication (Busy Indication) via NAS
signaling. Solution 1 relies on already defined mechanisms in TS 33.501[1] to
send ciphered, and integrity protected Reject paging indication (busy
indication) and fulfils security requirements of Key issue 1. No normative
work will be pursued.
## 7.2 Key issue #2: UE and Paging Server Communication
No solution is needed for security aspect of UE and paging server
communication.
NOTE: This key issue is irrelevant, as there is no paging server in the
architecture.
## 7.3 Key issue #3: Security aspects of exposing \'paging cause\'
No solution is adressed in the present document.
#