# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**Should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**Can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**Will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The 5G core network introduced a Service-Based Architecture (the so-called
SBA). _This brought fundamental impacts on the way new services are created
and how the individual Network Functions (NF) communicate. A more open and
adaptable system design necessitated to study different approaches to enforce
the security requirements of 3GPP systems, whilst not impeding flexible
service creation and future innovations. Along with these architectural
challenges, SBA further introduced changes to the protocol stack and
serialization format of the 5G core network._
_The SBA was set on providing solutions for authentication and authorization
in direct communication scenarios as well as the N32 security. Later on
enhancements were introduced for indirect communication scenarios as well as
the concept of Client Credential Assertion_ _to allow NRF/NF Service Producer
to directly authenticate a NF Service Consumer_ _._
_While the SBA provides a good level of security, several additional aspects
have been identified that may bring new potential threats. This will be
documented by the present document._
# 1 Scope
The present document studies enhanced security aspects of the 5G Service Based
Architecture. It will analyse potential threats, study necessary security
enhancements, and document decisions of solutions to be adopted or not adopted
after evaluating the risks versus the complexity.
In particular, the following topics are addressed:
\- Need and mechanism of enabling end to end authentication in roaming case if
no cross-certification between operators is enabled;
\- Need and mechanism of enabling NF Service Consumer authentication of NRF
and the NF Service Producer;
\- Need for addressing potential security impact of different deployment
scenarios including the several SCPs;
\- Verification of URI in subscription/notification;
\- Dynamic authorization between SCPs or NF and SCP;
\- End-to-End Critical HTTP headers/body parts integrity protection;
\- Security of NRF service management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\"
[6] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network function repository services; Stage
3\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format (Normal)
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Trust model
## 4.0 General
With introduction of the service-based architecture and moving at the same
time to cloud deployments, new attack vectors such as that for NFs deployed in
clouds give ground to vulnerabilities and, thus, can impact the mobile
operator domain. As more important it is to assure the trust also within one
operator\'s network. For this, security concepts have been introduced.
A service request requires mutual authentication, thus all network functions
support mutually authenticated TLS and HTTPS. After registration and
discovery, any service request of a network function needs also to be
authorized by an authorization server (NRF) before a NF Service Consumer can
consume the services of a NF Service Producer. For this 5G introduces the
concept of authorization token utilizing the Oauth 2.0 authorization
framework.
With Rel-16 indirect communication via a Service Communication Proxy (SCP) is
possible. SCPs can be operated in a fully service-meshed environment or as
standalone entity.
In the following the trust relationships between the entities of an operator
network are described.
## 4.1 Actors
The following actors within one PLMN are considered: NF, NRF, SCP.
\- NFs can provide services or consume services.
\- NRF is a repository capturing NF profiles of NFs offering its services to
other NFs. It receives discovery requests from NF instances, maintains NF
profiles and acts as an authorization server. NRF responds to authorization
requests by NF Service Consumers by providing Oauth 2.0 access tokens to
authorize a NF Service Consumer for gaining access to a service from a NF
Service Producer.
\- SCP is a service communication proxy used in indirect communication to
interact with NFs and other SCPs within the PLMN. SCP also communicates with
the SEPP.
The following types of actors when requesting services from another PLMN are
considered: SEPP.
\- SEPP sits at the edge of one operator\'s network to allow for a secured
communication with the other operator\'s network's SEPP.
## 4.2 Deployment options
The following deployment options need to be considered:
\- Direct communication within the same PLMN vs direct communication in Inter-
PLMN scenario, i.e. without SCP behind SEPP.
\- Indirect communication in the same PLMN vs indirect communication in Inter-
PLMN scenario: For both, SCP standalone and service mesh need to be
considered.
SEPP to SEPP communication is secured on N32-c via TLS and on N32-f via TLS
(i.e. transport layer security) or PRINS (i.e. application layer security on
top of NDS/IP or TLS). TLS provides for authentication between two entities.
Thus, securing at transport layer provides hop-by-hop security between two
SEPPs. PRINS provides end-to-end application layer security between two SEPPs.
Hop-by-hop security introduces the additional risk of allowing an entity on
the path to gain full access to signalling messages exchanged. An intermediary
node can read, hide, or modify the originator information.
## 4.3 Description of the trust assumptions
### 4.3.1 Trust within one PLMN
This clause describes the existing trust relationships within one PLMN. Trust
among the entities within one PLMN is required whether the NF Service Consumer
(NFc) and NF Service Producer (NFp) are within the same PLMN or not. The trust
relationships described here can be replaced by security mechanisms.
NOTE: Whether the list of existing trust relationships described below is
complete, depends on deployment choices.
NRF is the core entity handling management, discovery and authorization
requests by NFs or SCP. The operator needs to apply necessary security
measures to secure these operations. It is assumed that there is only one NRF,
or all NRFs are within the same trust domain, i.e. all NRFs are in the same
security domain and the same entity(-ies) are responsible for all NRFs.
**Registration Management:**
An NF Service Provider needs to trust the NRF that no other NF can register
with the identity of NFp.
If there is no direct communication between NF and NRF, an NF Service Provider
needs to trust that the SCPs forward NFp profiles unmodified.
If there is no direct communication between NF and NRF, an NF Service Provider
needs to trust the SCPs that no other NF can impersonate the identity of NFp
towards the SCP, i.e. tempting the SCP to register an NF with the false
identity.
**Discovery:**
An NF Service Consumer needs to trust NRF to provide profiles of authenticated
NF Service Providers that offer their services to the requesting consumer.
An NF Service Consumer needs to trust SCP to correctly forward the profiles of
authenticated NF Service Providers that offer their services to the requesting
consumer.
**Access token request:**
Trust in direct communication between NFs, NFs and SCP/SEPP, as well as SCP
and SEPP is assumed per 33.501 with mandatory mutual authentication using TLS.
An NF Service Provider needs to trust NRF to provide access tokens for
consumption of its services only to those NF Service Consumers that have
requested for it and only for those services that are allowed by the
registered NRF policy and the registered NF Service Provider policy.
Authentication and confidentiality protection in indirect communication is
only achieved between NF and SCP, (potentially between multiple SCPs), SCP and
NRF as well as SCP and SEPP, but additional considerations are needed for
achieving trust between NFs, NF and NRF, as well as NRF and SEPP, NF and SEPP,
when an SCP is on the path. This is because all traffic in indirect
communication passes through SCPs, and TLS terminates at SCPs.
Thus, the SCP needs to be trusted by NFc and NFp, to only forward
authentication tokens or CCA with the original request, as well as to forward
information only between the legitimate endpoints of the communication.
An NF Service Provider needs to trust NRF to provide access tokens for
consumption of its services only to those SCPs that are authorized by the NF
Service Consumers that have requested for it and only for those services that
are allowed by the registered NRF policy and the registered NF Service
Provider policy.
It also needs to be distinguished if SCP is collocated to NFs (service mesh)
or standalone.
For both standalone and service-mesh, the NFs sending their service requests
via an SCP need to trust the SCP to which they send their service requests.
If a SCP is co-located (e.g. a side-car proxy) with a NF, trust of the NF in
the SCP is implicit by its co-location. This is, because this SCP is
performing many of the functionalities on behalf of the consumer, which
already indicates a certain level of trust between NFs with co-located SCPs.
How the security between a SCP as a side-car proxy and its NF is implemented,
is out of 3GPP scope. When the SCP is implemented as a service mesh, the
security solution between the side-car proxies is out of scope of 3GPP and
left to the SCP implementation.
A standalone SCP is serving many NFs, not necessarily in the same
infrastructure.
### 4.3.2 Trust in Inter-PLMN communication
With 5G, a new element has been introduced to handle inter-PLM communication.
The SEPP, i.e. the Secure Edge Protection Proxy acting as perimeter of PLMN,
is responsible to secure the signalling message exchange with the SEPP of
another PLMN via the Internet.
The SEPP of the sending PLMN needs to trust the SEPP of the receiving PLMN
that no other entity on the path has unauthorized access or can modify
signalling messages if not permitted to do so by policy.
**Discovery:**
The NRF in the NF Service Consumer PLMN needs to trust the cSEPP to route the
request to the pSEPP representing the target PLMN and apply the correct
protection policies to the discovery request.
The NRF in the NF Service Provider PLMN needs to trust the pSEPP to
authenticate the origin network of the discovery request and ensure that this
origin network is correctly represented in the request arriving at the pNRF.
**Access token request:**
When requesting an access token from the NRF in another PLMN, there is always
an indirect communication involving the cSEPP and pSEPP. In addition, SCPs can
be involved in either network.
An NF Service Provider needs to trust pNRF to provide access tokens for
consumption of its services only to those NF Service Consumers in another PLMN
and only for those services that are allowed by the registered NRF policy and
the registered NF Service Provider policy.
An NF Service Provider needs to trust cNRF to provide access tokens for
consumption of its services only to those NF Service Consumers in another PLMN
that have requested for it and only for those services that are allowed by the
registered NRF policy and the registered NF Service Provider policy.
An NF Service Provider needs to trust SCP in the Service Consumer PLMN to only
forward authentication tokens or CCA with the original request, as well as to
forward information only between the legitimate endpoints of the
communication.
**Service request:**
An NF Service Provider needs to trust pSEPP to authenticate and verify the
NFc\'s PLMN included in the request in order to be able to perform dynamic
authorization.
A pSEPP needs to trust that the cSEPP is not forwarding requests on behalf of
foreign PLMNs.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Authentication of NRF and NF Service Producer in indirect
communication
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
When SCP is present, the TLS between an NF Service Consumer and NRF/NF Service
Producer can be split into at least two segments (NFc-SCP, SCP-NRF or SCP-
NFp). In this case, the NF Service Consumer and NRF/NF Service Producer do not
directly authenticate each other via TLS.
Client Credentials Assertion (CCA) has been specified to allow NRF or another
NF to directly authenticate an NF Service Consumer in the presence of an SCP,
but direct authentication of the NRF/NF Service Producer by the NF Service
Consumer has not been addressed in indirect communication. The key issue will
investigate solutions allowing the NF Service Consumer to directly
authenticate the NRF/NF Service Producer in indirect communication.
### 5.1.2 Security threats
Editor's note: The threats need to be further clarified and studied
An NF Service Consumer could send service requests to an unintended NF.
An NF Service Consumer could receive service responses from an unintended NF.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS should provide a mechanism that allows an NF Service Consumer to
authenticate an NRF or an NF Service Producer during an indirect communication
with them via an SCP.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: SCP security domains
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
Editor's note: SCP security domains to be defined.
TS 23.501 [3] addresses the aspects of handling multiple SCPs in indirect
communication without and with delegated discovery and introduced SCP domains,
which comprises multiple SCPs. NF Service Consumers or/and SCPs need to
request NRF to discover the next hop SCP to route a service request from the
NF Service Consumer to a NF Service Producer via multiple SCPs. 23.502
describes in the SCP profile SCP domain registration details about
interconnected SCPs to and thus also identifies SCPs that interconnect
domains.
The primary purpose of SCP domains is to describe the connectivity topology
within a network. All SCPs within an SCP domain can directly interconnect. One
SCP can be part of multiple SCP domains. In fact, the primary purpose of
intermediate SCPs in the path is to interconnect SCP domains, thus, there are
boundaries between SCP domains at each SCP in the path.
PLMN-wide trust between NFs and SCPs is an option, but more restrictions could
be desirable in complex networks with SCP domains, e.g. if SCPs are operated
in different regions/provinces. There can be several technical domains within
a PLMN, where equipment with different capabilities is deployed and signalling
also varies in some respects, e.g., if equipment upgrade is performed in a
stepwise manner. Such technical domains can be defined based on computer
centre boundaries, based on operators of subnetworks, based on
regions/provinces, etc.
{width="6.666666666666667in" height="3.75in"}Figure 5.2.1-1: Illustration of
SCP domains connecting via dedicated SPCs
This key issue is to study whether there is a need of one or several SCP
domains becoming regions of trust of finer granularity than PLMN and whether
there is a necessity of trust and policing of communication within or among
such domains, i.e. for the case that request messages traverse a boundary
between trust domains.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
Editor\'s Note: FFS. Maybe not applicable if only architectural security
requirements are specified.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
Editor\'s Note: FFS. Maybe not applicable if only architectural security
requirements are specified.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Service access authorization in the \"Subscribe-Notify\"
scenarios
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
\"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service illustration 1 specified in TS 23.501, clause
7.1.2, allows one NF (e.g. NF_A) to subscribe to notifications of NF producer
(e.g. NF_B). The subscription request includes the notification endpoint (e.g.
the notification URL) of the NF Service Consumer. In this scenario, NF_A
subscribes the service of NF_B for itself.
Figure 5.3.1-1: \"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service illustration 1 (non-delegated
scenario)
\"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service illustration 2 specified in TS 23.501, clause
7.1.2, allows one NF (e.g. NF_A) to subscribe the service of NF producer (e.g.
NF_B) on behalf of another NF (NF_C), in which the notification URI of NR_C is
included. It means the NF_C will receive the notification message even though
the subscribe request is sent by NF_A.
Figure 5.3.1-2: \"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service illustration 2 (delegated
scenario)
For instance, as defined in TS 23.502 clause 4.15.3.2.2, UDM could send
subscribe request including the UDM URI and NEF URI to the AMF to subscribe
service on behalf of the NEF, i.e. Namf_EventExposure_subscribe request. If
the monitored event occurs, the AMF will send the event report to the
associated notification URI endpoint of the NEF. Here the location report of
the UE is one of the potential event reports, which can be provided by the AMF
during in the above procedure. It means that the UE location report will be
transmitted to the NF_C according to the subscribe request sent by NF_A.
The security issue of \"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service illustration 1 and 2 is
that NF_B may redirect the Notification message to an unauthorized NF if the
Notification URI in the subscribe message is not authorized. The issue now
also arises because of the subscribe notify use cases that have been defined
with respect to DCCF and MFAF, wherein both the DCCF and the MFAF are only
provided with the URI where the notification has to be sent, and therefore an
unauthorized consumer can receive the notifications if the URI is not
authorized.
This key issue seeks for solutions on how to assure that the notification
messages could be only forwarded to an authorized NF by the NRF.
### 5.3.2 Security threats
When a malicious NF or a compromised NF tries to access an unauthorized
service, in "Request-Response" scenario, NRF can verify and prevent it during
access token process. But, in "Subscribe-Notify" scenario, a compromised NF
can subscribe a notification service from a NF Service Producer to notify data
to an unauthorized NF (possibly, a malicious NF) by setting address of
notification endpoint (e.g. "Notification URI") with address of the
unauthorized NF. In this case, the NF Service Producer cannot ensure that the
NF, whose URI is mentioned, is authorized to receive the notification. Thus, a
malicious NF can force the NF Service Producer to send notifications to
arbitrary consumers, which can e.g. result in information leakage.
According to TS 23.501, "Subscribe-Notify" scenario are used not only for
subscriber's mobility, session and subscription related events but also for
NF's own event (e.g. AMF Status change) and those information can be leaked to
an unauthorized NF, while according to TS 23.288 Clause 6.2.6 subscribe-notify
is used in order to enable the data consumer to receive the data from DCCF and
MFAF. On the other hand, the Notification message that may include the
sensitive information (e.g. location report), may expose to an unauthorized
network function routed by the URI in the subscribe request message.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
It shall be possible for 5G system to ensure notification service is only
provided to an authorized NF routed by the URI in the subscribe request
message.
It shall be possible for 5G system to prevent information disclosure to an
unauthorized NF routed by the URI in the subscribe request message.
Editor's Note: It is ffs whether these are the correct requirements.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: Authorization of SCP to act on behalf of an NF or another
SCP
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
This key issue is about authorization of SCP to request services on behalf of
an NF or of another SCP and how this authorization is verified by the NRF or
NF Service Producer.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
If the NRF cannot verify if the SCP has been authorized by the NF Service
Consumer, the SCP can send a service request and receive a valid service
response on behalf of NF Service Consumer, even though the NF Service Consumer
has not authorized the SCP.
If the NF Service Producer cannot verify if the SCP has been authorized by the
NF Service Consumer, the NF Service Producer can provide a service response to
an unauthorized entity.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS should provide a mechanism for how an NRF or NF Service Producer can
verify an SCP has been authorized by an NF Consumer to request access tokens
or services on behalf of the consumer.
## 5.5 Key issue #5: End-to-end integrity protection of HTTP messages
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
Currently, in the case of indirect communication with an SCP in the path
between an NF Service Consumer and an NF Service Producer, the integrity
protection of the HTTP messages is provided by TLS for each hop but not end-
to-end between the NF Service Consumer and the NF Service Producer. Since an
SCP may need to change the content of an HTTP message, this KI is to
investigate how end-to-end integrity protection of HTTP messages can be
achieved while at the same time continue to allow the SCP to perform necessary
mediation of HTTP messages.
NOTE: Potential issues with backwards compatibility with existing procedures
are to be considered during the study.
### 5.5.2 Security threats
Critical elements of an HTTP message that are not end-to-end integrity
protected could be modified by an attacker. In more detail, a service request
in indirect communication could lead to attacks by Man in the Middle, which
for instance can intercept the service request and try to modify the content
of the message or HTTP (custom) header. This could cause communication
failure, lead to DoS attacks.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
In the case of indirect communication with an SCP in the path between an NF
Service Consumer and an NF Service Producer, the 5GS should support end-to-end
integrity protection of critical elements of an HTTP message while allowing
the SCP to continue to perform necessary HTTP message mediation.
NOTE: Critical HTTP elements would need to be determined by stage 3.
The NF Service Producer should be able to verify that critical elements of a
service request of the NF Service Consumer received via the SCP have not been
modified.
## 5.6 Key issue #6: Access token usage by all NFs of an NF set
### 5.6.1 Key issue details
SBA introduces the concepts of NF Set and NF Service Set, i.e. sets of
functionally equivalent and inter-changeable NFs or NF services. 5G SBA
architecture design further allows for the concept of stateless NFs, where by
binding indication the NF Service Resource owner can indicate to the NF
Service Consumer, for a particular resource, whether it is to an NF Service
Instance, NF Instance, NF Service Set or NF Set.
**Access token usage for NF Service Producer Set:**
As specified in Rel-16, an access token can be provided by NRF for consuming a
service from a dedicated producer with a distinct NF Instance Id or a specific
NF type or a NF Set Id for a NF Set of NF Service Producer instances. Thus, if
the NF Service Producer belongs to a NF Set, the access token can be consumed
by a NF Service Consumer from any of the NF Service Producers within the set.
**Stateless NFs:**
NF Set concept supports stateless NF implementations i.e. an NF Service
Producer or NF Service Consumer in a NF Set can take over at any time the
control of respectively resource contexts (e.g PDU session contexts) or
session contexts to receive notifications. NFs typically produce and consume
services (e.g. an SMF producing the PDUSession service to establish PDU
session also needs to consume services to render its PDU session service, e.g.
it consumes PCF and CHF services), taking over the control at any time allows
for reliability of NF instances within the same NF Set (e.g. when an NF
instance fails or is scaled-in).
If an access token is granted to a specific NF Service Consumer instance,
other NF Service Consumer instances in the same NF Set currently need to
request always a new access token, whenever a request is sent by a different
NF Service Consumer instance.
For example, a connection is released since the NF Service Consumer is
stateless, then another NF Service Consumer of the NF Set can be assigned to
continue subsequent communication. This optimization is part of 23.501/29.500
specifications, but the related security aspects of using such optimization
have not been addressed in 33.501 Rel-16. Thus, any NF in NF Set issuing a
service request targeting an existing context need to request a new access
token. Further, any subsequent request may be sent to any other NF than the
initiator NF of the NF Set; and also in this case, a new access token is
needed.
**Examples:**
The following examples show, why it is useful to have an access token also be
valid/useable for any NF in the NF Set during its validity time.
1) A SMF instance can wish to remain the SMF (binding to itself), but at end
of procedure, i.e. non-moving uEs anymore foreseen. Thus, this SMF gets
stateless because it considers it is a long time before next SMF involvement.
Thus, if another SMF than the service request originating SMF would get
involved later, it would either need a new token or it could re-use the non-
expired access token, the other SMF instance of the NF Set received earlier.
**2) In stateless UDM, the binding within UDM set can be used.** When UDM
instance of UDM Set initially creates an AMF event subscription, it has to
request an access token to be able to access the corresponding AMF service.
However, the UDM instance that created the subscription may be a completely
different UDM instance of the UDM Set that is later deleting the subscription.
Thus, the same token within the NF Set should be useable for achieving this.
Otherwise we end up at massive access token requests that are used in the same
context of service consumption.
If an access token cannot be used by any ND in the NF Set during its validity
time, the need for access token requests is multiplied, because every time
there is a different NF instance in the NF Set that is requesting from the
existing resource would need a new access token, while this is not necessarily
required.
**Key issue scope:**
This key issue proposes to study the advantages and disadvantages from
security perspective that any NF in a NF Set targeting a service of an
existing resource can use an access token provided to a NF Set.
If acceptable from security point of view, the benefit of this concept would
be that it maps with the 5G SBA architecture design, the concept of stateless
NF, and the binding level of NF Set, where any NF instance can serve
subsequent request without everytime requesting a new access token.
Thus, this key issue studies the security implications of a stateless NF
Service Consumer belonging to a NF Set requesting an access token on behalf of
and for usage by all NF instances of the NF Set.
### 5.6.2 Security threats
Not applicable, since concept of access token is already in place.
Editor\'s Note: possibly threats resulting of the usage of the same access
token by different NFs of the same NF set can be captured here.
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
All NF Service Consumers of an NF Set shall be authorized to use the access
token requested by one NF Instance of the NF Set, if the access token is
issued for NF Set.
The 5GS may provide means to authorize a NF Service Consumer of the NF Set to
request and/or use an access token requested by another NF Service Consumer of
the same NF Set.
## 5.7 Key issue #7: Authorization mechanism determination
### 5.7.1 Key issue details
It is specified in TS 33.501 [2] clause 13.3.0 that static authorization can
be used for authorization when token-based authorization is not used. However,
two PLMNs may have a roaming issue if the authorization mechanism is not
aligned between them. For example, when the NF Service Consumer (NFc) deployed
in one PLMN only supports the usage of static authorization, and the NF
Service Producer (NFp) deployed in the other PLMN only supports the usage of
OAuth authorization, the NFp will reject the NF Service Consumer.
On the other hand, TS 29.510 [6] defined an oauth2Requried indicating that
OAuth authorization is required for the NFp service access, which will be sent
back to the NFc via the discovery response. Accordingly, NFc should get the
token before consuming the NFp services. Hence, NFc that only supports the
usage of the static authorization will not be able to consume the service
provided by the NFp. However, how to handle the failure issue when the NFc
only supports the usage of static authorization is not clarified.
The key issue will investigate solutions allowing the two operators to handle
the case that one operator uses token-based authorization and its roaming
partner uses static authorization.
### 5.7.2 Security threats
The SBA service authorization will fail in the roaming case if the
authorization mechanism is not aligned between them.
### 5.7.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS should provide mechanisms to handle the case that one operator uses
token-based authorization and its roaming partner uses static authorization.
## 5.8 Key issue #8: Service access authorization requirements in intra-PLMN
scenarios for PLMN deploying multiple NRFs (in OAuth2.0 AS role)
### 5.8.1 Key issue details
#### 5.8.1.1 Introduction
Multiple NRFs can be deployed in a PLMN, optionally using a hierarchical
structure whereby an NRF may redirect or forward service requests to another
NRF. One (or more) NRF can serve the entire PLMN, a set of network slices, or
a single network slice.
TS 23.501 states:
> In the context of Network Slicing, based on network implementation, multiple
> NRFs can be deployed at different levels (see clause 5.15.5):
>
> \- PLMN level (the NRF is configured with information for the whole PLMN),
>
> \- shared-slice level (the NRF is configured with information belonging to a
> set of Network Slices),
>
> \- slice-specific level (the NRF is configured with information belonging to
> an S-NSSAI).
One PLMN with several NRFs can be deployed in many ways: NRFs can have all the
same data or could hold different subset of data. NRFs could all be OAuth 2.0
servers or only some of them, e.g. having one NRF being the central OAuth 2.0
server.
To receive an access token, the OAuth client need to be known to the NRF
issuing the token. But looking at the different deployment options, the NRF
knowing the client could be different from the NRF authorizing and issuing the
access token. This raises the question, by which NRF an OAuth client needs to
be authenticated and by which NRF an OAuth client gets the access token after
authorization.
Only the NRF where the NF Service Producer has registered its services can act
as the OAuth authorization server, i.e. to provide an access token. But the
requesting NF Service Consumer is not necessarily known to this OAuth
authorization server in deployment scenarios with multiple NRFs. For instance,
an AMF may be registered in a PLMN-wide NRF while SMFs supporting specific
network slice(s) may be registered in a slice(s) specific NRF. How does the
AMF get an access token to access the SMF services in such deployment?
This key issue will clarify the service access authorization requirements and
call flows, for the different NRF deployment models in case of multiple NRFs
in the PLMN, including when the access token request is sent to a different
NRF than the NRF where the NF Service Producer has registered its services.
TS 33.501 does only cover the inter-PLMN case, where vNRF authenticates the NF
Service Consumer and hNRF provides the access token after the hNRF authorized
the NF Service Consumer. How the trust between vNRF and hNRF is assured needs
further clarification. For the intra-PLMN case, in particular slice specific
authorization, such clause is missing.
Therefore, this key issue takes into account the different deployment models
in intra-PLMN authorization requests.
#### 5.8.1.2 Hierarchical NRFs / Deployment model with local NRFs
This deployment model assumes that NFc needs to be registered at a local NRF
or that NFc is known (as Oauth client) at a local NRF. It also assumes that
one NRF is trusting the other NRF in the same PLMN.
When requesting an access token, NFc goes first to its local NRF, which
authenticates NFc and then forwards or redirects the request to the target
NRF, where a NFp has registered its services. In this case the local NRF
authenticates the NFc and the target NRF (holding the policy for NFp services)
provides the access token for NFp service.
Comment: This variant uses the model of inter-PLMN service access
authorization also for intra-PLMN cases with multiple NRFs (with OAuth2
Authorization Server role), i.e. with an NFc registered as OAuth2 client to
one NRF (local NRF) and with access token requests issued by this NFc always
going through this specific/local NRF and being forwarded or redirected to the
target NRF (with OAuth2 Authorization Server role) where the NFp has
registered its services.
This deployment model can also apply to deployments where NFc is registered or
known as Oauth client at a NRF that is not necessarily close to NFc, e.g. an
AMF registered in a PLMN wide NRF.
#### 5.8.1.3 Deployment model with NF Service Consumer directly accessing the
NRF where the NF Service Producer is registered
There can be centralized NRF(s) or distributed NRFs in OAuth2 Authorization
Server role. An NRF can be configured by OAM with OAuth clients/ access token
policies enabling a consumer to get access tokens from different NRFs (in
OAuth2 Authorization Server role).
A NF (e.g. AMF) can register and/or be known as OAuth 2.0 client to a PLMN-
wide NRF, but can also address a specific NRF directly, e.g. AMF can be
configured with or can retrieve from the NSSF the NRF Access Token URI to use
for a specific network slice: AMF may retrieve from the NSSF the NRF Access
Token URI it should use for a specific network slice (see 29.531).
* * *
**nrfAmfSetAccessTokenUri** Uri O 0..1 When present, this IE shall contain the
**API URI of the NRF Access Token Service** (see clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS
29.510 [13]).
* * *
Thus, an AMF can send the Access Token Request [directly to the slice specific
NRF]{.underline}, there is no need to go via a \"local\" NRF, where the AMF
could be registered.
> {width="2.904861111111111in" height="1.9243055555555555in"}
>
> 23.502, Figure 4.3.2.2.3.2-1: SMF selection for non-roaming and roaming with
> local breakout scenarios
This procedure may be skipped altogether if SMF information is available in
the AMF by other means (e.g. locally configured); otherwise:
\- **when the serving AMF is aware of the appropriate NRF to be used to select
NFs/services within the corresponding Network Slice instance based on
configuration or based on the Network Slice selection information received
during Registration,** only steps 3 and 4 in the following procedure are
executed as described in Figure 4.3.2.2.3.2-1;
\- when the serving AMF is not aware of the appropriate NRF to be used to
select NFs/services within the corresponding Network Slice instance, all steps
in the following procedure are executed as described in Figure 4.3.2.2.3.2-1.
1\. The AMF invokes the Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service operation from the NSSF
in serving PLMN with the S-NSSAI of the Serving PLMN from the Allowed NSSAI
requested by the UE, PLMN ID of the SUPI, TAI of the UE and the indication
that the request is within a procedure of PDU Session establishment in either
the non-roaming or roaming with local breakout scenario.
2\. **The NSSF in serving PLMN selects the Network Slice instance, determines
and returns the appropriate NRF to be used to select NFs/services within the
selected Network Slice instance, and optionally may return a NSI ID
corresponding to the Network Slice instance.**
See 29.531, 6.1.6.2.7 which includes
* * *
nrfAccessTokenUri Uri O 0..1 When present, this IE shall contain the API URI
of the NRF Access Token Service (see clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.510 [13]).
* * *
Thus, based on configuration or based on the Network Slice selection
information received during Registration or PDU session establishment, the AMF
is aware of the appropriate NRF to be used to select NFs/services within the
corresponding Network Slice instance. There is no way to pass this URI to a
"local NRF" (where the AMF would be known as OAuth2 client), as opposed to the
Inter-PLMN case, where the NRF Access Token Request supports the AMF providing
the hnrfAccessTokenUri.
### 5.8.2 Security threats
Not applicable, since this key issue is for clarifying missing specification
text.
### 5.8.3 Potential security requirements
Not applicable, since this key issue is for clarifying missing specification
text.
## 5.9 Key issue #9: Authorization for Inter-Slice Access
### 5.9.1 Key issue details
GSMA LS S3-211383 on "_Prevention of attacks on sliced core networks_ "
identifies a number of issues related to SBA authorization framework. This key
issue studies SBA related aspects of the attack papers mentioned in the GSMA
LS.
In the current SBA authorization framework, the mechanisms specified to
validate the S-NSSAI of NF Consumer are not fully specified and therefore,
sometimes an NF Service Producer and/or NRF is dependent on local
configuration or proprietary mechanisms to verify if the NF Service Consumer
really belongs to the S-NSSAI it is claiming to belong to. While an NRF could
validate the S-NSSAI by comparing the S-NSSAI provided in, e.g., Access-Token-
Get request with the S-NSSAI registered in the NF-Profile; this is not always
possible, as it is not necessary that every NF registers its profile with NRF,
unless the information is available to NRF by other means (e.g. local
configuration). This results in a NF Service Consumer gaining access to slices
it should not have been allowed to access.
Additionally, currently there is no mechanisms specified whereby an NRF could
validate if an NF Service Consumer is allowed to access resources belonging to
a different S-NSSAI in the NF Service Producer. While an NRF could specify, in
the Access Token Grant, the S-NSSAIs an NF Service Consumer is allowed to
access in the NF Service producer, it is assumed that NRF uses local
configurations while providing such information.
This Key Issue will study how to prevent any malicious entity (for instance a
NF Service Consumer) from accessing a slice it is not authorized to access, or
from requesting a service from a slice which it is not authorized to access.
NOTE: In the GSMA LS to SA3 (S3-211383), it is assumed that an NF within a
3GPP network can be fully compromised, which is a rather strong assumption.
This Key Issue only aims to strengthen the authorization mechanism for
granting access to an NF within SBA.
### 5.9.2 Security threats
A malicious entity (for instance a NF Service Consumer) can request an access
token for the slice it is not authorized to access.
A malicious entity (for instance a NF Service Consumer) can request a service
request for the slice which it is not authorized to access.
### 5.9.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GS should provide a mechanism that allows the NF Service Producer not to
provide service to NF consumers, which are not authorized to access a slice.
The 5GS should provide a mechanism that allows NRF not to provide access
tokens to NF consumers which are not authorized to access a slice.
## 5.10 Key issue #10: N32 security in Roaming Hub scenarios
### 5.10.1 Introduction
Standardized N32 security mechanisms protect the communication between two
SEPPs in two PLMNs if the SEPPS are either directly communicating with each
other or communicating via IPX providers. The concept of roaming hub is
traditionally a topic tackled by GSMA, having not been addressed by 3GPP so
far.
A roaming hub is an entity that has commercial roaming agreements with many
PLMNs. It sells access to these roaming agreements to interested home network
operators, taking over the correct routing between PLMNs contracting the
roaming hub, possibly also via interconnections, i.e., IPX providers. A
roaming hub provides contracting network operators fast wide access to other
network operators without the need for each network operator to establish a
direct business relationship with the other network operators.
This key issue investigates whether existing concepts for N32 security are
sufficient and whether there is an additional need to specify N32 security for
roaming hub scenarios.
### 5.10.2 Key issue details
The concept of N32 security as specified in TS 33.501 assumes for N32-c the
direct contact between two network operators to decide on the protocol used
for sending service messages in N32-f. The N32-c direct contact is established
via TLS. In the initial phase, the security protocol for N32-f is negotiated.
I.e., if direct connection between the two communicating network operators
exists or IPX providers are only routing messages, TLS can be used. Otherwise,
application layer security with PRINS may be selected for N32-f, which allows
an end-to-end control of information between two SEPPs, that can be visible
and modifiable on the path between the two end points. In this application
layer security case, N32-c is also used to negotiate protection and
modification policies, before service messages between client and consumer can
be sent via N32-f. In case of TLS used for N32-f, there is no way to modify
any information on the path.
If network operators communicate with each other via roaming hubs, it depends
on the deployment model how N32 security is applied. According to GSMA,
several models of outsourcing a SEPP to IPX or having a SEPP in a roaming hub
are discussed. Per definition in TS 33.501, N32 security is applied between 2
SEPPs. The necessary interfaces in the roaming hub scenarios needs to be
studied.
### 5.10.3 Security requirements
Existing requirements in TS 33.501 on the SEPP should continue to apply in the
roaming hub scenario unless there are explicit exceptions. Specifically, the
requirements on edge protection of the PLMN should still apply. Existing NFs
and SCP should be impacted as least as possible. For the roaming hub scenario,
new requirements are as follows.
\- The external entity should use its own unique credentials to authenticate
itself towards the remote SEPP.
\- Any connection between NFs or SCPs of a PLMN and a SEPP or SEPPs and the
external entity should be confidentiality, integrity and replay protected.
\- Any connection between NFs or SCPs of a PLMN and a SEPP or SEPPs hosted by
the external entity should be confidentiality, integrity and replay protected.
\- It should be possible for the remote SEPP to verify that the external
entity has been authorized by the PLMN to operate the SEPP.
\- The solution should enable the external entity to operate SEPPs for
multiple PLMNs in a way that isolates the SEPP instances operated for
different PLMNs from each other for security reasons. Specifically, if one of
the instances gets corrupted or otherwise malfunctions, other instances should
remain unaffected as much as possible.
## 5.11 Key issue #11: NRF validation of NFc for access token requests
### 5.11.1 Key issue details
#### 5.11.1.0 General
There are several procedures for access token requests in TS 33.501 [2] clause
13.4.1, each for different scenarios such as direct or indirect communication.
The description of how the NRF authorizes the access token request are more or
less detailed. The most detailed description is in clause 13.4.1.1.2, Access
token request for accessing services of NF Service Producers of a specific NF
type: \"The NRF may verify that the input parameters (e.g., NF type) in the
access token request match with the corresponding ones in the public key
certificate of the NF Service Consumer or those in the NF profile of the NF
Service Consumer. The NRF checks whether the NF Service Consumer is authorized
to access the requested service(s).\" Other procedures either refer to clause
13.4.1.1.2 or contain even less detailed descriptions.
There are several issues with how authorization of access token requests is
described in TS 33.501 [2].
#### 5.11.1.1 Problem 1a
Not all NF Service Consumers register an NF profile at the NRF. This results
in no NF profile is available. Furthermore, the NF profile is provided by the
NF itself, which makes it a less reliable source for deciding whether the NF
is authorized.
#### 5.11.1.2 Problem 1b
It is not a mandatory requirement that all IEs defined in the SBA TLS
certificate has been filled in with information presented in the TLS
certificate. For example, NF Type is only \"should\". Other kind of
information, like slice information, is not contained in the TLS certificate
profile at all. So, there may be situations when certificates are available,
but information may not be sufficient for NFc validation in NRF. It is not
specified how the NRF shall validate the NFc request in all situations.
#### 5.11.1.3 Questions from Problems 1a and 1b:
The study needs to elaborate on the following questions:
1\. What IEs are required to validate as a minimum?
2\. What information shall be used in NRF to validate the NFc?
3\. How is this information provisioned in NRF?
#### 5.11.1.4 Problem 2
It is also possible that the NFc TLS certificate is available together with
the NF profile registered in the NRF. In this case it is unclear what
precedence the NRF shall use when performing the NFc validation. The
information in the profile is provided by the NFc itself, but the information
in the certificate is provided outside of the NFc, i.e., the CA.
The study needs to elaborate on the following questions:
  1. What information shall have precedence when NFc certificate is available as well as the NF profile?
  2. What information shall be cross-checked between the certificate and the profile?
### 5.11.2 Security threats
The security level may be NRF vendor specific if not specified.
If there is no standardized agreement of the solution to the Key Issue the
interoperability between different vendors of NFc and NRF may result in being
too allowing from a security perspective.
### 5.11.3 Potential security requirements
NA. This KI does not add any new security requirements but is focused on to
develop solutions to the problems stated above.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.0 Mapping of solutions to key issues
**Table 6.0-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues**
**Solutions** **Key Issues**
* * *
                                                                                               \#1              \#2   \#3   \#4   \#5   \#6   \#7   \#8   \#9   \#10
#1: Service response verification in indirect communication without delegated
discovery X  
#2: Authorization between NFs and SCP X  
#3: Using existing procedures for authorization of SCP to act on behalf of an
NF Consumer X  
#4: Service request authenticity verification in indirect communication X  
#5: End-to-end integrity protection of HTTP body and method X  
#6: Verification of Service Response from a NF Service Producer at the
expected NF Set X  
#7: Access token request for NF Set X  
#8: integrity protection of HTTP message in consideration of update by SCP X  
#9: Authorization mechanism negotiation X  
#10: NRF deployment clarifications X  
#11: Registered NF Profile changes for Inter-Slice Access X  
#12: Authorization of notification endpoint in "Subscribe-Notify" scenarios X
## 6.1 Solution #1: Verification of the entity sending the service response in
indirect communication without delegated discovery
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution is addressing KI#1.
This solution allows the NF Service Consumer (NFc) to verify the genuineness
of the NF Service Producer (NFp), which is sending the response, when an SCP
is used in between and the discovery of NFp has not been delegated to the SCP
(see 3GPP TS 33.501 [X] Annex R, model C). I.e. The deployment scenario
addressed is indirect communication (via SCP) without delegated discovery
without re-selection.
The solution counters a malicious SCP or a Man in the Middle (MitM) that could
forward the service request to a malicious or unauthorized NF Service
Producer, i.e. a NFp that was not intended to provide a response. Especially
where multiple SCPs are involved, and the NF Service Consumer does not know
whether the right entity or some malicious entity is responding its request,
this situation can occur.
Currently there is no means to prevent a malicious SCP or Man in the Middle to
forward the service request to a different NF Service Producer.
The example shows a Service request with a token for service consumption from
NFp that has been redirected by a malicious MitM to a different NF Service
Producer, which can be a rogue NF cooperating with the MitM.
**Figure** 6.1.1-A**:** Example of a potential attacking scenario
This solution avoids that a service response is returned back to the NF
Service Consumer by an unauthenticated and/or unauthorized MitM.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
NFc discovers NFp at NRF and requests an access token for a specific NFp
Instance ID for consuming a service from NFp.
If indicated by NFc in the service request, the NFp provides back its CCA_NFp.
Thus, the NFc can compare the NFp instance ID in the CCA_NFp with the selected
NF instance ID when NFc requested the service. I.e. NFc can check if the NFp
ID that the access token was provided for by NRF is matching the NFp ID
present in the subject of CCA_NFp. Since NFp provides its CCA_NFp, this
comparison is even possible if the response is sent via SCP.
If the NFp includes its own CCA_NFp in the service response, by this the NFc
can verify that NFp, the sender of the service response, is the one that
NFc\'s service request was sent to.
This allows authentication of NFp by NFc, i.e. by NFc verifying the CCA_NFp
against the original NFp Instance ID, for which NRF provided the access token.
NFp is authenticated, if the certificate NFp used to sign CCA has been
verified by NFc. In case of failure, error messages can be triggered and
reported to the operator.
In the following, the steps are described in detail.
Figure 6.1.2-1: Flow chart for allowing verification of NF sending the service
response
Step1,2: NFc selects NFp to send a service request along with the token. To
allow NFc to validate the service response, it will require validation of the
producer\'s identity via CCA as part of the response.
Step 3: SCP intends to forward the service request to further SCPs. If SCP or
some proxy is malicious (or MitM), it forwards the service request to a rouge
NFp instead.
Step 4,5: A rouge NF can try to send the service response without performing
the authorization. As the service request requires validation, the NFp has to
add its CCA header, CCA_NFp.
Step 6: SCP will relay back the response to NFc including the CCA_NFp.
Step 7: NFc compare the NFp instance ID received and Set ID (if present) in
the CCA_NFp with the one used for service request. If it is the same, then NFc
is assured the service response is received from a genuine NFp.
Step 8: If it does not match, the NFc can also raise an alarm and revert the
transaction at NFc.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
This solution proposes an enhancement at the NF Service Producer to use the
CCA as defined in TS 33.501. It provides an approach how an NF Service
Consumer can authenticate NF Service Producer, from which NF Service Consumer
received a service response, as intended NF for Service Response in indirect
communication without delegated discovery.
This solution introduces Client credentials assertion of NF Service Producer
which includes NFp Instance ID and signature using certificate of NFp. The NF
Service Consumer can validate the CCA sent by the NF Service Producer and
ensure that no rogue or malicious SCP or MitM has sent a service request to a
malicious NF Service Producer.
This solution is only applicable in a very limited scope, it does not cover
model D and the case when SCP reselects another NF as NF Service Producer
which is different from the targeted NF Service Producer by NF Service
Consumer. Therefore, it is possible for NF Service Consumer to reject the
received service response from a legitimate NF Service Producer and may induce
service unavailability. Further, the NF Service Producer cannot determine if
the request coming from SCP which is using model D or SCP using model C or a
re-selected by SCP, so the producer cannot determine, when to generate
CCA_NFp.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Authorization between NFs and SCP
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This potential solution addresses KI#4.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
When sending the service request to SCP in delegated discovery, the NF Service
Consumer must authorize the SCP to act on its behalf. Thus, NRF needs to be
provided with evidence by NFc about the SCP instance ID.
NRF knows implicit the SCP instance ID because of direct TLS between SCP and
NRF, when SCP ID would be added in a SCP TLS certificate. But this still does
not assure that NFc as sent its request to this SCP. Thus, authorization
between NF Service Consumer and SCP, when sending the service request to SCP
in delegated discovery, has to be explicit. The solution proposes to do so by
enhancing the CCA by inserting either the SCP Instance ID or the SCP Domain
Info in CCA_NFc, and therefore the NF Service Consumer can authorize SCP.
NOTE: Since in model D the NF Service Consumer is delegating the discovery, as
well as access token request, service request and receiving service response
to SCP, the NF Service Consumer authorizes the SCP to perform these actions on
its behalf.
The SCP also generates its own enhanced CCA_SCP including its Instance ID
and/or its Domain Info and sends it along with access token request and the
enhanced CCA_NFc as received from NF Service Consumer.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="4.104166666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1: Authorization of SCP by NFc in indirect communiation
The NRF verifies that the Target SCP Instance ID and/or SCP Domain info
present in the CCA_NFc matches the Instance ID/Domain Info of SCP as also
being part of the subject of the CCA_SCP. A successful verification of CCA(s)
by NRF ensures that the SCP has been authorized by the NF Service Consumer.
Thus, the NRF needs to know the SCP Instance ID. One way for the NRF to learn
the SCP instance ID is to use direct TLS between SCP and NRF, this requires
SCP ID in the SCP TLS certificate which is currently not specified in TS
33.310. Another way for the NRF to learn the SCP instance ID is by CCA_SCP.
If authentication was successful and the NF Service Consumer is authorized
based on the NRF policy and the SCP requesting the access token has been
explicitly authorized by NF Service Consumer, the NRF issues an access token.
A similar solution is also applicable for authorizing SCP by NFc to request a
service and receive a response from NFp on its behalf. The NFp then may
perform similar verification and, in case of successful verification, can send
the service response to SCP.
However, even if the TLS certificate of the NFc would mandate the usage of NFc
Instance ID, another problem still needs to be solved in case the SCP selects
another SCP. This is because if the NRF or the NF Service Producer do not know
the SCP domain, to which the SCP belongs to, the SCP_CCA included by NFc does
not help NRF. Thus, for this reason it is suggested that the TLS certificate
needs in addition to SCP Instance Id also to hold the SCP domain identifier
for allowing NRF to verify that NFc authorized one SCP of a SCP domain.
If the SCP, that NF Service Consumer delegated the authorization token request
to, is not serving the NF Service Consumer request by itself, but demands
another SCP\' to do so, then the same procedure is needed between SCP and
SCP\'. Hence, SCP forward the service request to SCP\' with its own CCA_SCP
including into it the SCP\' ID.
The verification of the CCA shall be performed by the receiving node as
described in clause 13.3.8.3, but verifying that the SCP instance ID in the
CCA is matching the SCP instance ID in the public key certificate used for
signing the CCA. This is either done by an SCP, in case there are several SCPs
in between, or by the NF Service Producer.
In practice, one would expect one to three SCPs between consumer and producer.
But it needs to be noted, if the NF Service Producer wants to have
verification of the full chain of trust via several SCPs, all CCAs and
certificates from the NF Service Consumer and the intermediary SCPs need to be
available to the NF Service Producer.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
This solution fulfils requirement on KI#4. The SCP can be authorized to act on
behalf of an NF Service Consumer and to request access tokens by NFc, because
the NFc is including the SCP ID or SCP Domain ID into CCA_NFc. With NFc
providing the SCP ID in the CCA, authorization of that particular SCP is
given, because NRF or NF Service Producer can with assurity verify that the
SCP, which provides CCA_NFc, is indeed the one SCP to which the NF Service
Consumer sent its CCA and has authorized that SCP to request services and
receive response on its behalf.
Thus, this solution counters a potential attack of SCP stealing a CCA and
using it for requesting an access token without being requested by a NF
Service Consumer.
The concept of CCAs is already known. In addition to verifying the NFc CCA the
NF Service Producer needs to verify also the CCAs of one or several SCPs. In
addition to the verification of the NF Service Consumer\'s CCA the NRF needs
to verify also the CCAs of one or several SCPs. Further, SCPs need to be able
to create their own CCAs.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Using existing procedures for authorization of SCP to act
on behalf of an NF Consumer
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #4 \"Authorization of SCP to act on behalf
of an NF or another SCP\". It explains how token-based authorization and CCAs
as currently specified in TS 33.501 [2] can be used to authorize the SCP to
act on behalf of an NF Consumer, i.e. to request access tokens or services on
behalf of the consumer.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
#### 6.3.2.1 Request of access token on behalf of the consumer
The SCP requests access tokens on behalf of the consumer in Scenario D
(indirect communication with delegated discovery) and in Scenario C (indirect
communication without delegated discovery) without mutual authentication
between NF and NRF at the transport layer. The following procedure describes
token requests for Scenario D, and particularly how CCAs are used to authorize
the SCP to request access tokens on behalf of the NF Consumer. For Scenario C
without mutual authentication between NF and NRF at the transport layer, the
same principles hold.
Figure 6.3.2.1-1: Access token request of SCP on behalf of an NF Consumer
1\. The NF Service Consumer sends a service request to the SCP. The consumer
includes a CCA signed by the consumer. The CCA includes the NF Instance ID of
the consumer. The consumer\'s certificate used for signing the CCA also
contains the consumer\'s NF Instance ID.
2\. The SCP sends an access token request to the NRF. The SCP includes the CCA
received by the consumer in step 1.
3\. The NRF verifies the CCA as described in clause 13.3.8.3 of TS 33.501 [2]
and thus obtains the NF Instance ID of the consumer that signed the CCA.
Besides authentication of the consumer, the CCA also implicitly authorizes the
SCP to act on behalf of the NF Service Consumer.\ \ The NRF authorizes the NF
Service Consumer as described in TS 33.501 [2].
4.-8. The remaining steps of the access token request and service request
procedure are exactly as described in TS 33.501 [2].
#### 6.3.2.2 Service request on behalf of the consumer
The SCP requests services on behalf of the consumer in all indirect
communication scenarios. The following procedure describes access token and
service requests for Scenario D, and particularly how CCAs and access tokens
are used to authorize the SCP to request services on behalf of the NF
Consumer. For Scenario C, the same principles hold.
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Service request of SCP on behalf of an NF Consumer
1.-4. Service request and access token request and response are performed as
described in the previous clause, clause 6.3.2.1.
5\. The SCP sends a service request to the NF Service Producer. The service
request contains the access token and optionally the CCA received in step 1.
The access token contains the NF instance ID of the NF Service Consumer.
6\. The NF Service Producer validates the access token as described in TS
33.501 [2]. Because the network implements the procedures described in the
previous clause, clause 6.3.2.1, the NRF has already verified that the SCP was
authorized to request the access token on behalf of the NF Service Consumer.
Hence the access token does not only authorize the consumer, but also
implicitly authorizes the SCP to act on behalf of the NF Service Consumer.
7.-8. The remaining steps of the access token request and service request
procedure are exactly as described in TS 33.501 [2].
#### 6.3.2.4 Protection of the NF consumer\'s CCA
The CCA is protected in transport and storage by the following methods, partly
in and partly out of 3GPP scope:
\- Transport protection: The CCA is protected in transport by TLS or other
means, as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 13.1.0. Thus, it is protected
between NF and SCP, and between SCP and NRF or NFp.
\- Storage protection: Although CCAs are expected to be short-lived, they
could be cached for a short period of time at the NF Service Consumer. Similar
as for other data handled at the NF Service Consumer, e.g., sensitive UE data,
storage protection mechanisms outside of 3GPP scope need to be in place.
If used according to the procedure describes in clause 6.3.2.1, only the NF
Service Consumer itself, the SCP and the NRF will obtain the CCA that allows
to request access tokens on behalf of the NF Service Consumer. This solution
assumes, that the SCP is authorized by the NF Service Consumer to request
access tokens on behalf of it, the NF Service Consumer indicates that by
sending the CCA to the SCP. The NRF is itself the entity that issues access
tokens for the NF Service Consumer. Hence, if used according to the procedure
described in clause 6.3.2.1, only entities that are authorized by the NF
Service Consumer to request access tokens on behalf of it obtain the CCA.
Editor\'s Note: Whether an implicit authorization of the SCP by sending the
CCA to the SCP is sufficient, is ffs.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the threats and requirements of Key issue #4:
Authorization of SCP to act on behalf of an NF or another SCP.
The solution relies on token-based authorization and CCAs as currently
specified in TS 33.501 [2].
It proposes that authorization of the SCP by the CCA is implicit by sending
the CCA to the SCP, i.e. by presenting the CCA_NFc received by the NF Service
Consumer, the SCP shows it is authorized to act on behalf of the Consumer and
to request access tokens on behalf of it. However, authorization is not
explicitly stated in the CCA. Hence an entity that is not authorized by the NF
Service Consumer but somehow has obtained a valid CCA signed by the consumer
could use it to request access tokens on behalf of the consumer. Thus, in this
case the NRF or the NFp can provide the service response to an unauthorized
consumer.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Service request authenticity verification in indirect
communication
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the KI#5.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
This solution allows the NF Service Producer to verify that a service request
of the NF Service Consumer received via SCP has not been modified.
In case of CCA is used for authentication, the service request received by NRF
or NF Service Producer can be verified as the one to be originally sent by the
NF Service Consumer. This would guarantee that in indirect communication no
intermediary can modify the service request unrecognized.
Editor\'s Note: Backwards compatibility with Rel-16 NF producers supporting
only existing CCA is ffs.
For this, the CCA is enhanced with a new payload value for \'service request
verification\' and a protected header list.
\- The \'service request verification\' (SRV) includes the service request
message (or a hash of it) as one of the payload values.
Editor\'s Note: If not the hash but the whole message or headers is included,
impact on throughput needs to be considered and is ffs.
Editor\'s note: It is ffs how the SCP can perform necessary message
modifications, if the (hash of the) whole service request is included in CCA.
\- The protected header list (HL) includes custom headers that shall be
integrity protected and thus not be modifiable undetected by SCP.
If present, the NF Service Producer or the NRF can verify whether these data
included in the CCA are matching the service request as sent by the NF Service
Consumer. I.e. the NF Service Producer verifies that the data included in the
payload is matching the service request received together with the CCA. The
receiver also verifies that the headers in the protected header list are not
modified.
Since CCA is digitally signed by the NF Service Consumer, thus the recipient
can verify that the service request received from SCP is the original one as
provided by the NF Service Consumer. The additional SRV payload provides
authenticity of the service request.
NOTE: This solution assumes that an SCP does not need to modify service
request details for providing its service of delegated discovery and access
token request to NRF or transferring a service request to the NF Service
Producer. If there are headers that need to be modified by SCP/Proxy, then
those headers cannot be considered as payload of SRV. The NF Service Consumer
provides in this case a separate list of headers (HL) to explicitly state what
is covered under SRV. The destination endpoint (NRF or NF) can take them in
consideration while verifying the received data.
In detail:
\- NF Service Consumer creates a service request and creates a keyed hash
value about those parts of the service request, that are not to be modifiable
by the SCP, and generates CCA including a \'service request verification\'
(SRV) payload with the keyed hash value. If necessary, a protected HL is
included.
Editor\'s Note: CT4 feedback is needed on which headers are not subject to
modification, mediation, or alteration by the SCP and can be delivered as is
to the other far end of the indirect communication.
Editor\'s Note: It is ffs if a keyed hash is necessary and if yes how the key
is obtained or derived.
\- NRF, after verifying the authenticity of NF Service Consumer by checking
the CCA, it checks SRV, i.e. it verifies the authenticity of the service
request by creating a hash of the service request and comparing it with the
received SRV value. It also verifies that the headers in the protected HL are
not modified.
\- NF Service Producer, after receiving an access token and CCA/SRV from the
SCP, it verifies the NF Service Consumer by checking the CCA, it checks
whether the NF instance id for which the access token was provided, matches
the identity in CCA and it verifies the authenticity of the service request by
creating a hash of the service request and comparing it with the received SRV
value. It also verifies that the headers in the protected HL are not modified.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
This solution provides an approach how an NF Service Producer can verify that
a service request of the NF Service Consumer received via SCP has not been
modified.
This solution extends Client credentials assertion to include new payload
value for service request verification and a protected header list.
When the service request verification includes whole service request message,
which may double the size of the message and may impact on system throughput.
When the service request verification includes hash value of service request
message, additional information should be transmitted to the NF Service
Producer to inform HTTP headers and order among HTTP headers which should be
considered in calculation of hash value.
When SCP appends HTTP standard header(s) such as Via header and Authenticate
header, in this solution, NF Service Producer cannot recognize those headers
should not be considered in calculation of hash as those are added by SCP and
NF Service Producer will fail to calculate correct hash value of HTTP message.
This solution proposes to include keyed hash value of service request in CCA,
but the necessity and benefit of keyed hash value of service request in CCA
are not well identified.
## 6.5 Solution #5: End-to-end integrity protection of HTTP body and method
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #5 (End-to-end integrity protection of
HTTP messages).
The core steps of this solution are:
\- Use Client Credentials Assertions (CCAs) based authentication as specified
in TS 33.501 [2] Clause 13.3.8 for NF-NRF or/and NF-NF communication.
\- Enhance the Client Credentials Assertions (CCAs) to optionally include a
hash of the HTTP body and HTTP method to protect the message itself.
\- The receiving node (NRF or NF producer) computes the hash of the HTTP body
and HTTP method and validates that it is identical to the hash received in the
Client credentials assertions (CCAs).
> Since the added hash is an optional field in the ClientCredentialsAssertion
> as specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [5] Table 5.2.3.2.11-1, this solves the
> backwards compatibility with Rel 16 NF producers supporting only existing
> CCA. A Rel-16 NF Service Producer will verify the signature of the CCA
> correctly but ignore the optional field that it does not recognize. The
> behaviour is similar to Rel-15 NF Service Producers\' behaviour for IEs in
> access tokens that were introduced in Rel-16. As specified in TS 29.510 [6],
> Table 6.3.5.2.4-1 \"Definition of type AccessTokenClaims\", if an NF Service
> Producer receives an IE in the access token that it does not understand, the
> NF Service Producer ignores the IE. Similar behaviour can be specified for
> IEs in the CCA, see Table 6.5.2-1 below.
Editor\'s Note: It needs to be clarified whether the handling for access
tokens is aplicable for CCAs.
Editor\'s Note: This solution has dependency on CT4 feedback on what SCP
exactly needs to modify.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
Figure 6.5.2-1 CCA based Authentication with HTTP hash enhancement
1\. NF Service Consumer sends a service request including a signed Client
credentials assertion (CCA) token to authenticate against NF Service Producer
or NRF as described in TS 33.501 [2] Clause 13.3.8. But for this solution it
is also proposed to add an optional field in CCA to protect the part of the
message itself. The added field is a hash of HTTP body and HTTP method.
2\. NF Service Producer or NRF validates the CCA as described in 3GPP 33.501,
clause 13.3.8.3. But since one optional field is supposed to be added to the
CCA, the receiving end point (NF Service Producer or NRF) also needs to
compute the hash of the HTTP body and HTTP method and validates that it is
identical to the hash received in the Client Credentials Assertion.
The updated definition of type ClientCredentialsAssertion in 3GPP 29.500 [5]
is (additions in **bold** style):
Table 6.5.2-1: Updated CCA based on Table 5.2.3.2.11 -1: Definition of type
ClientCredentialsAssertion
Attribute name Data type P Cardinality Description
* * *
sub NfInstanceId M 1 This IE shall contain the NF instance ID of the NF
service consumer, corresponding to the standard \"Subject\" claim described in
IETF RFC 7519 [41], clause 4.1.2. iat integer M 1 This IE shall indicate the
time at which the JWT was issued, corresponding to the standard \"Issued At\"
claim described in IETF RFC 7519 [41], clause 4.1.6. This claim may be used to
determine the age of the JWT. exp integer M 1 This IE shall contain the
expiration time after which the client credentials assertion is considered to
be expired, corresponding to the standard \"Expiration Time\" claim described
in IETF RFC 7519 [41], clause 4.1.4. aud array(NFType) M 1..N This IE shall
contain the NF type of the NF service producer and/or \"NRF\", for which the
claim is applicable, corresponding to the standard \"Audience\" claim
described in IETF RFC 7519 [41], clause 4.1.3. **hash** **string** **O**
**0..1** **This IE contains a hash of the body of the HTTP message and HTTP
method. If an NF service producer that receives this IE in the CCA included in
the** **3gpp-Sbi-Client-Credentials header does not understand this IE, it
shall be ignored.** **halg** **string or integer** **O** **0..1** **This IE
contains the hash algorithm information that is used by NF service consumer to
compute the hash of the HTTP message. If an NF service producer that receives
this IE in the CCA included in the** **3gpp-Sbi-Client-Credentials header does
not understand this IE, it shall be ignored.**
The details of the hash are proposed to be specified as following:
Option 1: For computation of the hash of the HTTP body and HTTP method for
inclusion into the Client credential assertion, the input S to the KDF
specified in Annex B of 3GPP TS 33.220 [4] is computed as follows:
\- P0 = HTTP body;
\- L0 = length of the HTTP body;
\- P1 = HTTP method;
\- L1 = length of HTTP method.
The input key KEY is equal to null. Note that the FC value will be allocated
in the normative phase.
Option 2: Alternatively to using the fixed KDF as hash function, the choice of
hash function can also be done similar as in JWT or JWS. The hash algorithm is
chosen by NF Service Consumer. The selection of hash algorithm needs to be
aligned between HTTP message sender and HTTP message receiver, i.e., mandatory
to support algorithms need to be specified in a 3GPP profile. This option
provides more crypto agility and is better aligned with JWT and JWS. For ease
of implementation in initial deployments, the 3GPP profile for the hash
algorithm could mandate the usage of a specific hash function, e.g. SHA256.
This is similar to the JOSE profile of PRINS as specified in TS 33.501 [2],
clause 13.2.4.9, which specifies the usage of specific AEAD and signature
algorithms, but still provides crypto agility if changes should be necessary
in the future.
Editor\'s Note: It needs to be clarified whether the usage of a new hash
algorithm can also be indicated by the length.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
This solution provides an approach how an NF Service Producer can verify that
a service request of the NF Service Consumer received via SCP has not been
modified.
This solution extends Client credentials assertion to include hash value of
HTTP body and HTTP methods.
This solution does not handle integrity protection of HTTP headers.
## 6.6 Solution #6: Verification of Service Response from a NF Service
Producer at the expected NF Set
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1. In order to verify the message from NF
Service Producer in indirect communication, it is proposed to append CCA of
NFp. And NF Servcie Consumer may accept the certificate if it is verified well
and NF Service Producer instances belongs to the expected NF Producer
instance(s).
### 6.6.2 Solution details
#### 6.6.2.1 For indirect communication without delegated discovery procedure
Figure 6.6.2.1-1: With mutual authentication between NF and NRF at the
transport layer
**Discovery of the NF Service Producer:**
0\. When a NF Service Consumer discover a NF Servcie Producer for a service,
NRF provides information of target NF set and candidate target NF instance IDs
belonging to the target NF set.
The NF set information in the discovery response from NRF to NF consumer needs
to be end to end integrity protected, by e.g. TLS or solution to Key Issue #5,
so that the SCP cannot modify the NF set information in the discovery
response.
**NF Service Consumer authorization:**
> **1-2. After** mutual authentication between NF Service Consumer and NRF at
> the transport layer**,** the NF Service Consumer and NRF perform the
> \"Access token request before service access\" procedure. If the NF Service
> Consumer has already discovered the NF Service Producer, it can also perform
> the \"Access token request for a specific NF Service Producer/NF Service
> Producer instance\" procedure.
**Service Request:**
4\. Among the candidates NF instances list, the NF Service Consumer may select
an NF instance for a Service Request. And the NF Service Consumer keep the
list of candidate NF instances and NF set for verification of expected Service
Response.
After acquiring an access token from the NRF, a NF Service Consumer may send a
Service Request to the SCP. The service request includes the access token and
CCA of the NF Service Consumer.
The service request includes the 3gpp-Sbi-Routing-Binding header and/or 3gpp-
Sbi-Discovery header in order to specify target NF Service Producer and/or
target NF Set, so that the SCP is instructed to perform the NFp reselection
within the scope of NF Set.
5\. An SCP forward a Service Request to the NF Service Producer. If needed,
the SCP may reselect another NF Service Producer belonging to the same NF set.
**Service Response:**
6-7. After receiving a Service Request, the NF Service Producer may verify the
Service Request and may respond with a Service Response with CCA of the NF
Service Producer. CCA of NF Service Producer includes NF instance ID of NF
Service Producer and NF instance ID of NF Service Consumer.
8-9. When receiving a Service Response, the NF Service Consumer may verify
whether the NF instances ID of NF Service Producer which sends the Service
Response is in the list of candidate NF instances for the Service Request.
#### 6.6.2.2 For indirect communication with delegated discovery
Figure 6.6.2.2-1: for indirect communication with delegated discovery
1\. The NF Service Consumer sends a service request to the SCP. The service
request shall include NF service discovery factors such as target NF type and
the NF Service Consumer\'s CCA as defined in clause 13.3.8.
2\. The SCP may perform a NF discovery operation with the NRF using NF service
discovery factors received in step 1.
3\. (same with step 3 in subclause 13.4.1.3.2 TS33.501.) The SCP sends an
access token request (Nnrf_AccessToken_Get Request) to the NRF. The access
token request includes parameters as defined in clause 13.4.1.1. The access
token request may include the NF Service Consumer\'s CCA if received in Step
1.
4\. (same with step 4 in subclause 13.4.1.3.2 TS33.501.) The NRF authenticates
the NF Service Consumer using one of the methods described in clause 13.3.1.2.
If NF Service Consumer authentication is successful and the NF Service
Consumer is authorized based on the NRF policy, the NRF issues an access token
as described in clause 13.4.1.1. The NRF uses the NF Service Consumer instance
ID as the subject of the access token.
5\. (same with step 5 in subclause 13.4.1.3.2 TS33.501.) The NRF sends the
access token to the SCP in an access token response (Nnrf_AccessToken_Get
Response).
6\. (same with step 6 in subclause 13.4.1.3.2 TS33.501.) The SCP sends the
service request to the NF Service Producer. The service request includes an
access token (i.e., received in Step 1, received in Step 5, or previously
cached), and may include the NF Service Consumer\'s CCA if received in Step 1.
7\. (same with step 7 in subclause 13.4.1.3.2 TS33.501.) The NF Service
Producer authenticates the NF Service Consumer by one of the methods described
in clause 13.3.2.2 and if successful, it validates the access token as
described in clause 13.4.1.1.
8\. If the validation of the access token is successful, the NF Service
Producer may respond with a Service Response with CCA of the NF Service
Producer. CCA of NF Service Producer may include NF type and NF instance ID of
NF Service Producer and NF instance ID of NF Service Consuer.
9\. The SCP forwards the service response to the NF Service Consumer. The SCP
may include the access token in the service response to NF Service Consumer
for possible re-use in subsequent service requests.
10\. When receiving a service response, the NF Service Consumer may verify
whether the NF Service Producer belongs to the target NF type and authenticate
NF Service Producer using CCA and X.509 certificate of the NF Service
Producer.
#### 6.6.2.3 Client credentials assertion of NF Service Producer
CCAs shall be JSON Web Tokens as described in RFC 7519 [44] and are secured
with digital signatures based on JSON Web Signature (JWS) as described in RFC
7515 [45].
The CCA of NF Service Producer may include:
\- the NF instance ID of the NF Service Producer;
\- the NF set information of the NF Service Producer;
\- the NF instance ID of the NF Service Consumer;
\- The NF type of the NF Service Producer;
\- A timestamp and an expiration time, and
The NF Service Consumer shall digitally sign the generated CCA based on its
private key as described in RFC 7515 [45]. T _he signed CCA shall include one
of the following fields:_
\- the X.509 URL (x5u) to refer to a resource for the X.509 public key
certificate or certificate chain used for signing the client authentication
assertion, or
\- the X.509 Certificate Chain (x5c) include the X.509 public key certificate
or certificate chain used for signing the client authentication assertion.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
This solution provides an approach how an NF Service Consumer can authenticate
NF Service Producer, from which NF Service Consumer receives a service
response, as intended NF for Service Response in indirect communication
without delegated discovery and with delegated discovery.
This solution introduces Client credentials assertion of NF Service Producer
which includes NFp Instance ID, NFc Instance ID, and signature using
certificate of NFp.
In indirect communication without delegated discovery, by reusing existing
HTTP custom headers, it can also cover the case when SCP reselect another NF
as NF Service Producer. This solution works with assumption that the discovery
results from NRF to NF Service Consumer are protected to detect any harmful
modification in the middle. And it also assumes that NRF will inform NF
Service Consumer about which NF Service Producers are in the NF Set and SCP
only re-selects another NF Service Producer within the NF Set.
Editor's Note: How to assure by the NFc that the NFp is origianl NFp which
received the service request is FFS.
In indirect communication with delegated discovery, this solution requires
extension of CCA and/or X.509 Certificate of NF Service Producer to include NF
type of NF Service Producer.
This solution is to address KI#1 which basically assumes that the SCP and NFp
are compromised or at least the SCP is compromised. If that the threat this
solution is trying to address, thus the proposed solution only prevents such
attack in the case when NF and NRF are mutually authenticated using TLS over
direct communication without SCP being present. This means this solution does
not addres KI#1 in the following cases:
\- Delegated Discovery, Model D,
\- Model C when the NF Service Consumer communicates with NRF over indirect
communication via SCP.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Access token request for NF Set
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This solution addresses KI#6.
3GPP introduces the concepts of NF Set and NF Service Set which allows
essentially for a group of interchangeable NF instances/NF Service instances
of the same type, supporting the same services and the same **Network
Slice(s)**. Rel-16 also allows re-selection of a NF instance or a NF Service
instance within the Set for subsequent transaction.
5G SBA architecture design allows for the concept of stateless NFs.
The solution assumes that each NF of a set has registered at NRF also with its
NF Set ID or the NF Service Set ID. Thus, verification of the correctness of a
set id is done when authenticating the NF when registering at NRF. Thus, if
NRF is then issuing an access token with a distinct set id, the NF Service
Producer can trust the correctness, or do another verification, if the set id
is also included in CCA or NF certificate.
A NF Service Producer can also indicate in its profile, if it is allowing the
NRF to provide access tokens for NF Sets or NF Service Sets.
NOTE: Whether to have this feature allowed per operator policy configured at
NRF or per NF Service Producer or NF Service Producer Set is a deployment
decision.
The solutions objective is to avoid that a NF from a NF Set needs to request a
new access token, when targeting a service of an existing resource requested
before by another NF of the NF Set, it is proposed that any NF in a NF Set can
request an access token for the NF Set. Thus, any NF Service Consumer
targeting a service of an existing resource it can use the access token
provided to a NF Set of NF Service Consumers.
NOTE: For any NF to make use of this solution, that NF is required to register
its profile with the NRF.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
The NF Service Consumer belonging to a NF Set, it includes its NF Set ID in
the Access Token Request message to NRF and also in the CCA or the NF
certificate.
When the Access Token Request is processed by the NRF and a NF Set ID is
included, the NRF knows that the NF Service Consumer requests an access token
to be useable by all NF Service Consumer instances within the NF Set. If NRF
authorization of the NF Service Consumer is successful, ie. the NF Service
Producer has indicated that an access token for a NF Set or NF Service Set can
be issued, and the NF Set ID in the CCA matches the NF Set ID in the access
token or in the NF certificate, NRF includes as claim the NF Set ID of the
expected NF Service Consumer instances to allow the access token generated for
usage by all NF Service Consumers in the NF Set. NRF sends the access token
back to the requester.
Figure 6.7.2-1 -- Access Token Request procedure (TS 33.501 Figure
13.4.1.1.1-1) **enhanced with NF Set ID** in the Access Token Request message
How NFs of a NF Set or a NF Service Set manage the distribution of an access
token issued for set or service set and their availability to other NFs within
the NF Set, is for implementation and out of scope.
When a service is requested, the requester (NF Service Consumer or SCP)
includes the NF Set ID of the NF Service Consumer in the Service API Request,
as well as in the CCA, if the CCA is sent, in addition to the access token
obtained from the NRF. NF Set ID in CCA is only reliable if the NF Set ID is
included in the certificate related to the private key that the NF Service
Consumer used to sign the CCA.
The NF Service Producer checks whether the Consumer NF Set Id in the Service
Request matches with the NF Set ID claim in the Access token. If CCA is sent,
it also verifies, if the NF Set ID matches the NF Set ID in the CCA. If
included in NF certificate, it can also match the NF Set ID with the NF Set ID
in the NF certificate. If yes, it proceeds with serving the request, otherwise
it rejects the request.
There is always one NF representing a set at a given time. Only one NF of the
NF Set or NF Service Set shall be able to use the access token issued for a
set at a given time. The management of which NF within the set is currently
the leader and using the OAuth token is for implementation and out of scope.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
The solution proposed allows the authorization server, i.e., NRF, to issue an
access token that can be used by all members of an NF Set or NF Service Set.
The concept of NF Set and NF Service Set has been introduced by 3GPP. This
solution enable optimization that is sought from the mutual redundancy among
the NF instances of the set. It would be less optimized if each instance needs
to request its own token.
Using the same access token for a NF Service Consumers belonging to one NF Set
is not explicitly described by RFC 6749. Other literature mentions group
access tokens, but further investigation on the impact managing an access
token used by NF Service Consumers of the same set is needed.
According to RFC 6749, each NF instances needs to register with the
authorization server (NRF) as a separate OAuth2.0 client before the
authorization server is able to issue such a token which can be used by all
members of the NF Set.
Since CCA is used for Indirect communications when SCP in the path between the
NF Service Consumer and the NF Service Producer, including NF set ID and/or NF
service set ID into the CCA only work for the case of indirect communication
but not in the direct communication case.
Including NF set ID in the NF certificate is not a flexible mechanism which
requires an intervension in case of the NF instance is removed from a specific
NF set ID and/or NF service set ID or added to another NF set ID or NF service
set ID. On the other hand, if any of these operations are done to any NF
instance, the NF instance will update its profile with the NRF automatically
and the update is almost dynamic for the rest of the processes.
This solution requires that in case of any change to the list of members of
the NF set, all existing access token with the impacted NF set ID and/or NF
service set ID should be destroyed and not used. A new access token is
required.
## 6.8 Solution #8: integrity protection of HTTP message in consideration of
update by SCP
### 6.8.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #5.
It is proposed to use enhance CCA to include hash value of HTTP headers and
HTTP body.
In the enhanced CCA, hash value of HTTP headers and hash value of HTTP body
are included, separately.
For calculation of hash value of HTTP headers, Via and Authorization headers
are not included.
There should be a rule for ordering HTTP headers. HTTP standard headers come
first and HTTP custom headers come after HTTP standard headers. Among HTTP
custom headers from NF Service Consumer or NF Service Producer, 3GPP-Sbi-
Client-Credentials header should be positioned as the last once. When an SCP
add HTTP custom headers, those should come after 3GPP-Sbi-Client-Credentials
header from NF Service Consuner of NF Service Producer.
When NF Service Consumer of NF Service Producer receive an HTTP message, they
compute the hash value of HTTP headers and HTTP body and compare those with
the values in CCA for checking of integrity protection.
Figure 6.8.1-1: HTTP message with hash value in CCA for end to end message
protection
### 6.8.2 Solution Details
This solution enables the NF Service Producer and NF Service Consumer to
verify a HTTP message received via SCP has not been modified.
NF Service Consumer calculate hash value of HTTP standard headers except
Authenticate header and HTTP custom headers and hash value of HTTP body and
include in the CCA.
NF Service Consumer append CCA as the last of HTTP custom headers.
For this, the CCA is enhanced with additional payload values.
\- hash value of HTTP headers including HTTP standard headers and HTTP custom
headers generated by originating Network Function.
\- hash value of HTTP body generated by originating Network Function.
After SCP receives HTTP message from NF Service Consumer, it may append Via
header and Authenticate header(only for delegated discovery case) and some
HTTP custome headers after HTTP standard headers and HTTP custom headers at
the received HTTP message, respectively.
NF Service Producer verify hash value of HTTP standard headers and HTTP
extended headers except Via header, Authorization header and HTTP custome
headers appended by SCP and hash value of HTTP body by comparing the
calculated value and the ones in CCA.
Similarly, NF Service Producer can calculate hash value of HTTP standard
headers and HTTP custom headers and hash value of HTTP body and include in the
CCA if CCA is used.
After SCP receives HTTP message from NF Service Producer, it may append Via
header and some HTTP custome headers after HTTP standard headers and HTTP
custom headers at the received HTTP message, respectively.
NF Service Consumer can verify hash value of HTTP standard headers and HTTP
extended headers except Via header and HTTP custome headers appended by SCP
and hash value of HTTP body by comparing the calculated value and the ones in
CCA.
Editor\'s Note: Whether CCA of NF Service Producer is used is per decision of
key issue #1.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
This solution provides an approach how an NF Service Producer can verify that
a service request of the NF Service Consumer received via SCP has not been
modified.
This solution extends Client credentials assertion to include hash value of
HTTP headers and HTTP body.
This solution propose a rule how to compose the HTTP headers and how to
calculate hash value of a HTTP message and it allows NF Service Producer to
calculate hash value of HTTP headers without any extra information.
This solution provides how to calculate hash value of HTTP headers and HTTP
body even though SCP modify HTTP messages in NF Service Producer. And when SCP
modifies illegally a HTTP message, NF Service Producer can detect it.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Authorization mechanism negotiation
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #7 \"Authorization mechanism negotiation\".
It is proposed to use the two NRFs for the authorization mechanism
negotiation.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
Figure 6.9.2-1: Authorization mechanism negotiation
Pre-requisite:
\- the vPLMN and hPLMN support at least static authorization dependent on the
roaming partner
1\. The NF Service Consumer sends a discovery request to the vNRF.
2\. The vNRF sends a discovery request to the hNRF. In addition to the
discovery request from the NFc, the vNRF add the vPLMN authorization
Capability into the discovery request. The vPLMN authorization Capability
indicates the supported authorization mechanisms, i.e., static, OAuth, or
Both.
3\. The hNRF selects the Final authorization mechanism supported by both the
received vPLMN authorization Capability and the hPLMN authorization
Capability. The hPLMN, i.e. all NF producers of the hPLMN that handle service
requests from other PLMN, need to support at least static authorization. In
this way, the hNRF can always select an authorization method that is supported
by both the vPLMN and the hPLMN.
NOTE: The Final authorization mechanism selected by hNRF is depend on
operator.
4-5. The hNRF sends the Final authorization mechanism to the NFc.
Then, if the Final authorization mechanism indicates static authorization,
then the NFc could use the static authorization to access the NFp service. If
the Final authorization mechanism indicates OAuth authorization, then the NFc
could get the token from the NRF before consuming the service from the NFp.
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the threats and requirements of Key issue #7:
\"Authorization mechanism negotiation\".
This solution addresses the use case that the vPLMN has only implemented
static authorization. The NF Service Producer needs to support whichever
authorization mechanism is determined by the hNRF, i.e. using different
authorization mechanisms depending on the roaming partner.
The vNRF in the vPLMN sends the vPLMN authorization Capability to the hNRF in
the hPLMN during the discovery procedure in roaming scenario. The hNRF selects
the Final authorization mechanism supported by both the received vPLMN
authorization Capability and the hPLMN authorization Capability, and sends the
Final authorization mechanism to the NFc. Thus, the authorization mechanism
among both roaming parties is consistent and a roaming interaction failure is
avoided.
Editor's note: whether the same can be achieved by using existing OAuth
required indication is ffs.
## 6.10 Solution #10: NRF deployment clarifications
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #8. It provides input for text that needs to
be adapted for clarification of handling access token requests in different
NRF deployments
### 6.10.2 Solution details
The following text outlines a potential update to TS 33.501 in a new clause
(e.g. 13.4.1.1.1a) on \"NRF deployments\" with clarification text for NF
Service Consumer behaviour and local NRF deployments along the lines:
There are different deployment options for NRFs, as described in TS23.501 (see
clause 5.15.5).
The NF Service Consumer may have discovered a specific NRF in advance, e.g. a
slice specific NRF, and can send its request directly to this specific NRF. In
this case, if the specific NRF is not the NF Service Consumer\'s local NRF,
the authorization server part of this NRF does not have a record of this NF
Service Consumer\'s Oauth2.0 client registration.
Editor's Note: It is FFS how the specific NRF, e.g., a slice specific NRF,
authorizes the NF Service Consumer before offering the requested service.
If the NF Service Consumer requests an NRF, where the NF Service Producer is
not registered (see NRF deployment options), the requested NRF needs to
redirect/forward the service request to that NRF.
In a local NRF deployment, the NF Service Producer only gets the certificate
of its local NRF. Thus, the local NRF of the NF Service Producer would need to
trust the forwarding NRF that has authenticated the NF Service Consumer before
the local NRF be able to authorize the NF Service Consumer.
### 6.10.3 Evaluation
TBD
## 6.11 Solution #11: Registered NF Profile changes for Inter-Slice Access
### 6.11.1 Introduction
This solution proposes to address following security requirement of KI #9:
\- The 5GS should provide a mechanism that allows the NF Service Producer not
to provide service to NF consumers, which are not authorized to access a
slice.
This solution gives the option for NF Service Producers to indicate which
consumer's S-NSSAIs are allowed to access which producer's S-NSSAIs, and by
which operations in its profile.
### 6.11.1 Solution Details
Using individual or combination of IEs like _allowedNfTypes_ and
_allowedNssais,_ NRF can already filter the requests from NF Service Consumers
not allowed to access [any]{.underline} services of an NF Service Producer.
To address the issue of static configurations at NRF for restricted Inter-
slice access, it is proposed that:
\- When an NF Service Producer registers its profile in NRF, it includes a new
information element, "_allowedSnssaisPerSnssai_ ", which specifies, for each
NF-Service Consumer's S-NSSAI, the list of NF-Service Producer's S-NSSAIs it
is allowed to access.
\- When an NF Service Producer registers its profile in NRF, it includes a new
information element, "_allowedOperationsPerSnssai_ ", which specifies allowed
operations on its resources, for NF Consumers belonging to the given S-NSSAI.
These attributes can then be used by NRF to determine the "producerSnssaiList"
to be included in the AccessTokenClaims. Additionally, NRF can determine
whether a given resource/operation-level scope can be granted to an NF Service
Consumer that requested an Oauth2 access token with a specific scope, or limit
the scope or authorization irrespective of the request.
Additionally, to allow NF Service Producers (themselves) validate the "Inter-
Slice" access requests from the NF Service consumers, it is proposed to
include "Requester-NSSAI" in the access-grant, indicating the NRF validated
NF-Consumer's S-NSSAIs.
The NF Service Producer can thus check the decision of the NRF to assign an
access token, but is still dependent on the NRF validating the consumer's
S-NSSAI and including it in the access token.
Editor's Note: Definition of Slice Resource is FFS.
### 6.11.3 Evaluation
This solution proposes to address the following security requirement of KI #9:
\- The 5GS should provide a mechanism that allows the NF Service Producer not
to provide service to NF consumers, which are not authorized to access a
slice.
The solution gives the option for NF Service Producers to indicate which
consumer's S-NSSAIs are allowed to access which producer's S-NSSAIs, and by
which operations, in its profile.
Editor's Note: Further evaluation is FFS.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Authorization of notification endpoint in "Subscribe-
Notify" scenarios
### 6.12.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #3: Service access authorization in the
"Subscribe-Notify" scenarios by including "notification URI" in the token
request.
This solution proposes to include "notification URI" and CCA of the NF which
owns the "notification URI" at the access token request. The NRF verifies
whether the notification URI is authorized to receive the service/notification
that is requested in the access token request.
Editor's Note: It is ffs how the solution works in case of notification target
reselection as described in clause 6.3.1.0 of TS 23.501.
### 6.12.2 Solution details
During access token request process, NF Service Consumer include
\"notification URI\" in Nnrf_Access Token_Get Request when operation semantics
of the requested service type is \"Subscribe/Notify\". NRF may verify whether
the notification URI in the access token request match the corresponding
information in the public key certificate of the NF Service Consumer or those
in the NF profile of the NF Service Consumer. In addition, when \"notification
URI\"(s) are included in the access token request, NRF may verify whether the
\"notification URI\"(s) locate its location(s) with the same address(es) which
are indicated by its own FQDN or IP address as registered in NRF. The NRF
checks whether the NF Service Consumer is authorized to access the requested
service(s).
When the NF Service Consumer is authorized, the NRF shall then generate an
access token with appropriate claims which may include "notification URI" as
requested by NF Service Consumer.
Figure 6.12.2.-1: Access token request for \"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service
illustration 1
A NF Service Consumer (NF_A) may request to subscribe to NF Service offered by
a NF Service Producer(NF_B) on behalf of NF_C according to the Service Request
from NF_C (e.g. Figure 4.15.3.2.2-1: Nudm_EventExposure_Subscribe, Unsubscribe
and Notify operation in TS23.502).
The Figure 6.12.2-2 describe the solution to verify the service request from
NF_A including Notification URI of NF_C.
Figure 6.12.2-2: Access token request for \"Subscribe-Notify\" NF Service
illustration 2
Step 0. The NF_C sends a Service Request to the NF_A for notification service
on an event with an access token including notification URI and CCA of the
NF_C.
Step 1. The NF_A decides to subscribe a service of the NF_B associated to the
Service Request received at step 0 and sends an Access Token Request to the
NRF for a Service Request toward the NF_B including notification URI and CCA
of the NF_C.
Step 2. The NRF verifies whether the NF_A is authorized and whether the NF_C
identified by the appended CCA is a valid Network Function and authorized to
receive the requested NF Service from the NF_B. NRF may verify whether the
notification URI in the access token request match the corresponding
information in the public key certificate of the NF_C of the CCA of the NF_C,
or those in the NF profile of the NF_C.
Step 3. Upon successful verification, the NRF publishes an access token for a
Service Request of the NF_A toward the NF_B. The access token includes
notification URI of the NF_C in the claims as requested in step 2.
Step 4. The NF_A sends a Service Request for a notification service toward
NF_B including the access token received at step 3 and CCA of the NF_A.
Step 5. The NF_B verifies the access token and CCA of the NF_A. During the
verification, the NF_B can check whether notification URI in the Service
Request are included in the access token. If the verification is successful,
the NF_B may respond the NF_A and provide the NF_C with the notification
service as requested by the NF_A.
### 6.12.3 Evaluation
TBD.
## 6.Y Solution #Y: \
### 6.Y.1 Introduction
Editor\'s Note: Motivate how the potential security requirements of one or
several key issues are addressed by this solution proposal.
### 6.Y.2 Solution details
TBD
### 6.Y.3 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: Provide an analysis of the risks of threats mitigated by this
solution. Provide a statement on complexity/impact/backward compatibility if
one would follow this solution.
# 7 Conclusions
Editor\'s Note: The purpose of this TR is to make conscious decisions whether
5G SBA security needs to be enhanced to address specific threats and to which
price (complexity versus security gain) this is possible. The clause will
provide conclusive statements per key issue, i.e. whether and how to move
forward with normative work and, if yes, which solutions are endorsed.
## 7.1 KI#1: Authentication of NRF and NF Service Producer in indirect
communication
### 7.1.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.1.2 Conclusion
TBD
## 7.2 KI#2: SCP security domains
### 7.2.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.2.2 Conclusion
TBD
## 7.3 KI#3: Service access authorization in the \"Subscribe-Notify\"
scenarios
### 7.3.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.3.2 Conclusion
TBD
## 7.4 KI#4: Authorization of SCP to act on behalf of an NF or another SCP
### 7.4.1 Analysis
One of the main 5G security features is the usage of OAuth 2.0 to authorize
service requests. In indirect communication scenarios, however, an SCP is not
explicitly authorized, it could request a service or a token without the
knowledge of the NF Service Consumer (NFc).
2 solutions (Sol#2 and Sol#3) have been proposed, mandating the usage of CCA,
by which the NFc can at least \"implicitly authorize\" the SCP. This achieves
a minimum level of trust, but cannot avoid the threat described in clause
5.4.2 within the validity time of the CCA, i.e. that \"SCP can send a service
request and receive a valid service response on behalf of NF Service
Consumer\", even though the NF Service Consumer has not authorized the SCP".
Thus, CCA validity time need to be chosen very carefully to minimize this
possibility.
Solution #3 argues that existing mechanisms are sufficient: a NF sending a
request (with its CCA) to SCP, implicitly authorises SCP against NRF to
process this request. The limit of this solution is that the CCA can be stolen
or misused and, without NFc having requested a service, NRF could provide an
access token to SCP or NFp could provide a service to SCP.
Solution #2 proposes to include the SCP identifier (i.e., either SCP Instance
and/or Domain info) in the CCA generated by the NF Service Consumer. Thus,
only the SCP, which SCP Identifier is included in the CCA from NFc is able to
get a response from NRF to its request. This ensures that the CCA cannot be
misused by a MitM and thus achieves an additional level of trust, when the CCA
is more than once usuable. This however comes with a trade-off, since it
impacts existing implementation (CCA generation by NFc and NRF handling of
CCA). Further, if more than one SCP is in the path, with this solution SCP
needs to create its own CCA including the SCP identifier from the requesting
SCP in order to keep the chain of trust.
A conclusion to this key issue therefore needs to weight the level of security
and trust achieved against the impact of suggested enhancements to the current
release.
Another aspect, which requires further analysis is whether explicit
authorization of the SCP would be needed. NRF can only authorize NFs. NRF neds
to trust that any request forwarded by SCP was initiated by a NFc. Thus, in
general only implicit authorization of SCP by the NF Service Consumer is
possible with the current solutions proposals based on CCA.
In summary, whether an explicit mean to authorize the SCP is needed has not
yet been evaluated. Further study is needed. Whether to go for Sol#2 or Sol#3
is a trade of between security enhancement versus complexity added.
### 7.4.2 Conclusion
It is concluded that this key issue needs further elaboration in Rel-18. No
normative work is needed in Rel-17.
## 7.5 KI #5: End-to-end integrity protection of HTTP messages
### 7.5.1 Analysis
The KI #5 is about end-to-end protection of HTTP message for indirect
communication. The key issue seek for solutions on how an NF Service Producer
can verify that a service request of the NF Service Consumer received via SCP
has not been modified tampered with.
Parameters in the request messages may be modified by the intermediate node
according to the reply LS S3-212418 from CT WG4, and end-to-end protection of
HTTP headers and bodies is discouraged, i.e. CT4 discourages end-to-end
protection of HTTP headers and bodies and segregating the parameters based on
SCP (or SEPP) modification criteria. There can be multiple SCPs and/or SEPPs
involved in the service request/response path where SCP can modify the HTTP
headers, and SEPP (or IPX) can modify the HTTP headers and/or HTTP body
attributes. In addition, CT4 also raises potential compatibility issues with
end-to-end protection of HTTP headers and bodies.
### 7.5.2 Conclusion
Therefore, it is concluded that further study is needed for key issue #5 in
Rel-18 and no normative work is to be done for the key issue #5 in Rel-17.
## 7.6 KI#6: Access token usage by all NFs of an NF set
### 7.6.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.6.2 Conclusion
TBD
## 7.7 KI#7: Authorization mechanism determination
### 7.7.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.7.2 Conclusion
TBD
## 7.8 KI#8: Service access authorization requirements in intra-PLMN scenarios
for PLMN deploying multiple NRFs (in OAuth2.0 AS role)
### 7.8.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.8.2 Conclusion
TBD
## 7.9 KI #9: Authorization for Inter-Slice Access
### 7.9.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.9.2 Conclusion
TBD
###
## 7.X KI#X: \
### 7.X.1 Analysis
TBD
### 7.X.2 Conclusion
TBD
#