# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 33.916: \"Security Assurance Methodology for 3GPP network products
classes\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[4] 3GPP TR 33.821: \"Rationale and track of security decisions in Long Term
Evolution (LTE) RAN/3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.116: \"Security Assurance Specification for MME network product
class\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.511: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); NR Node B
(gNB)\"
[7] 3GPP TS 38.300 v15: \"NR; NR and NR-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501 v15: \"System Architecture for 5G System; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.323 v15: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.322 v15: \"NR; Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol
specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.250: \"Security assurance specification for the PGW network
product class\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.516: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the AUSF
network product class\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.517: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the
Security Edge Protection Proxy (SEPP) network product class\".
[14] 3GPP TS 33.501 Release 15: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G
system\".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.518: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the
Network Repository Function (NRF) network product class\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.519: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the
Network Exposure Function (NEF) network product class\".
[17] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[18] 3GPP TS 33.513: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); User Plane
Function (UPF)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN);Overall
description;Stage 2.\"
[20] 3GPP TS 33.216: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the evolved
Node B (eNB) network product class.\"
[21] 3GPP TS 33.514: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the
Unified Data Management (UDM) network product class\".
[22] 3GPP TS 33.512: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); Access and
Mobility management Function (AMF)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 33.521: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the Network
Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) network product class\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.288: \" Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[25] 3GPP TS 33.226: \"Security assurance for IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)\".
[26] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\"
(Release 16).
[27] 3GPP TS 33.522: \"5G Security Assurance Specification (SCAS); Service
Communication Proxy (SCP)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for 5G System; Stage 2\" (Release
16).
[29] 3GPP TS 33.326: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) for the Network
Slice-Specific Authentication and Authorization Function (NSSAAF) network
product class\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**GNP Class** (**Generic Network Product Class):** generic network product
class is a class of network products that all implement a common set of 3GPP-
defined functionalities for that particular network product
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
GNP Generic Network Product
SCAS Security Assurance Specification
SECAM Security Assurance Methodology
# 4 Generic Network Product (GNP) class description
## 4.1 Overview
A 3GPP generic network product class defines a set of functions that are
implemented on that product, which includes, but not limited to minimum set of
common 3GPP functions for that product covered in 3GPP specifications, other
functions not covered by 3GPP specifications, as well as interfaces to access
that product. A generic network product also includes hardware, software, and
OS components that the product is implemented on. The current document
describes the threats and the critical assets in the course of developing 3GPP
security assurance specifications for a particular network product class.
**Applicability of the GNP security assurance specification to products:**
Assume a telecom equipment vendor wants to sell a product to an operator, and
the latter is interested in following the Security Assurance Methodology as
described in TR 33.916[2], then, before evaluation according to TR 33.916[2]
in a testing laboratory can start, it first needs to be determined which
security assurance specifications written by 3GPP apply to the given product.
Each 3GPP Network Product, is basically a device composed of hardware (e.g.
chip, processors, RAM, network cards), software (e.g. operating system,
drivers, applications, services, protocols), and interfaces (e.g. console
interfaces and O&M interfaces) that allow the 3GPP network product to be
managed and configured locally and/or remotely A GNP is a 3GPP network
product.
**GNP Security Assurance Specification (GNP SCAS):** The GNP SCAS provides a
description of the security requirements (which are including test cases)
pertaining to that generic network product class.
**Need for a GNP network product model:** This minimum set of functions listed
in clause 4.2 is exclusively meant as a membership criterion for the GNP
Class. It is not meant to restrict the functionality of a GNP, or the scope of
the present document in any way. On the contrary, it is clear that GNPs will
contain many more functions than those from the minimum set listed in clause
4.2, and the GNP will contain requirements relating to functions not contained
in this minimum set. Some of these functions, beyond the minimum set, can be
found from various 3GPP specifications, but by far not all these functions.
This implies that there is a need to describe the functions that cannot be
found from 3GPP specifications in some other way before the GNP can be written
so that the GNP can make reference to this description. This description is
the GNP model, cf. clause 4.3.
EXAMPLE 1: 3GPP specifications do not describe a local management interface,
but the GNP will have to take it into account, so a local management interface
needs to be part of an GNP model.
EXAMPLE 2: The GNP sometimes says e.g.: \"Authentication events on the local
management interface shall be logged.\" This implies the presence of a logging
function. The logging function is not part of the defining minimum set of
functions from clause 4.2. If a product implements this minimum set, but no
logging function, then this just means that the product is a GNP, but will
fail the evaluation against the GNP SCAS.
The GNP model is further used in clauses 5 and 6 in various ways, e.g. the
critical assets can point to parts of the GNP model, threats and requirements
can refer to interfaces shown in the GNP model, etc.
## 4.2 Minimum set of functions defining the GNP class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. This common
set is defined to be the list of functions contained in pertinent 3GPP
specifications, such as clause 4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.401 [3], Release 8 [3].
NOTE: The reason why the definition of the common set of functions refers to a
particular Release 8 version of TS 23.401 [3], contrary to what is customary
in 3GPP when referencing other 3GPP specifications, is that a Security
Assurance Specification is to avoid having a moving target when defining a
network product class. Nevertheless, the set of functions in clause 4.3.1 of
3GPP TS 23.401, Release 8 [3] is expected to be stable, as only FASMO
corrections are allowed to Release 8. Furthermore, this set is believed to be
minimal, i.e. implemented by all network products, which may not be true for
the corresponding set of functions from later releases of TS 23.401 [3]. For
the description of these functions compliance with TS 23.401 Release 8 [3]
later version is allowed as, obviously, a generic network product should still
remain a member of the GNP class when it implements a FASMO correction to
Release 8.
## 4.3 Generic network product model
### 4.3.1 Generic network product model overview
Figure 4.3-1 depicts the components of a generic network product model at a
high level.\ These components are further described in the following
subclauses.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="1.3131944444444446in"}
Figure 4.3-1: GNP model
### 4.3.2 Functions defined by 3GPP
A GNP will, in many cases, implement 3GPP-defined functions from various
releases of pertinent 3GPP specifications. Vendors are, to a large extent,
free to select the features implemented in their GNPs. E.g. a GNP could lack
support for relay nodes, as introduced in Release 10, but implement all other
features defined up to and including Release 10.
### 4.3.3 Other functions
A GNP will also contain functionality not or not fully covered in 3GPP
specifications.
Examples include, but are not limited to, local or remote management
functions.
### 4.3.4 Operating System (OS)
The present document assumes that the GNP is implemented on dedicated hardware
that requires an operating system to run.
### 4.3.5 Hardware
The present document assumes that the GNP is implemented on dedicated
hardware. Aspects of virtualization and cloud are not taken into account in
the present version.
NOTE: Aspects of virtualization and cloud are FFS in future releases of the
GNP SCAS. They deserve separate study for finding out how to define the
boundaries between the GNP class and the hosting environment (e.g. shared HW
and Virtual Machine) and which security assumptions to make on this
environment.
### 4.3.6 Interfaces
There are two types of logical interfaces defined for the GNP:
\- remote logical interfaces; and
\- local logical interfaces.
A **remote logical interface** is an interface which can be used to
communicate with the GNP from another network node.
The entire protocol stack implementing the communication is considered to be
part of the remote logical interface.
Remote Logical Interfaces also include the remote access interfaces to the GNP
for its maintenance through e.g. an Element Management System (EMS).
A **local logical interface** is an interface that can be used only via
physical connection to the GNP. That is, the connection requires physical
access to the GNP.\ The entire protocol stack is considered to be part of the
local logical interface. The entire protocol stack and the physical parts of
the interface can be used by local connections.
Local Logical Interfaces also include the local hardware interfaces and the
Local Maintenance Terminal interface (LMT) of the GNP used for its maintenance
through a console.
This means that for both, **local and remote logical interfaces** , the GNP
model does not only cover the application layer protocol, for which a GNP
function terminates the interface (e.g. S5), but also the protocols (e.g.
SCTP, IP, Ethernet, USB) in the protocol stack below the application layer
protocol.
There are some major differences between local and remote interfaces from
security perspective. For example attaching to a local interface may cause
execution of complex internal procedures in the GNP like loading USB device
drivers, enumeration of attached devices, mounting file systems etc.
A GNP hosts the following interfaces:
**Remote logical interfaces:**
\- Service interfaces that are defined in pertinent 3GPP specifications
\- Service interfaces that are not defined by 3GPP
\- Remote OAM interface
\- EMS (Element Management System) interface
**Local logical interfaces:**
\- OAM local console
\- LMT (Local Maintenance Terminal) interface
\- GNP local hardware interfaces
NOTE: There is some overlap between the present clause 4.3.6 and clauses 4.3.1
and 4.3.2 in as far as a GNP function (e.g. S5) is part of the termination
point for a logical interface.
## 4.4 Scope of the present document
### 4.4.1 Introduction
The present subclause refers to the GNP model in clause 4.3.
### 4.4.2 Scope regarding GNP functions defined by 3GPP
The set of GNP functions actually implemented in an GNP is to be described in
the annex of the present document. But the GNP SCAS needs to explicitly
address all GNP functions that, if present in an GNP network product, need to
be evaluated and hence covered by requirements in the GNP SCAS. Furthermore,
it is to be avoided that a particular version of an GNP SCAS becomes a moving
target. This leads to the following note:
NOTE: Although the present document intends to cover the security problems and
security requirements for all NP functions described in 3GPP , what other NP,
in additional to the MME, are to be covered is at the discretion of the
working group.
### 4.4.3 Scope regarding other functions
At least the following functions not defined by 3GPP are in scope of the GNP
SCAS:
\- Remote management functions
\- Local management functions
### 4.4.4 Scope regarding Operating System (OS)
The GNP SCAS does not attempt a full evaluation of the correct internal
functioning of the OS. However, interfaces (I.e. the restriction on open ports
and unnecessary services running in the system) and modifications (e.g.
verification of the correct applied patch level, hardening, etc.) of the OS
are in scope.
### 4.4.5 Scope regarding hardware
The GNP SCAS does not attempt a full evaluation of the correct internal
functioning of the hardware platform. However, interfaces that are implemented
in hardware (e.g. USB port) and modifications of the hardware are in scope.
### 4.4.6 Scope regarding interfaces
The interfaces listed in clause 4.3.6 are all in scope of the present
document.
# 5 Generic assets and threats
## 5.1 Introduction
The present subclause contains assets and threats that are believed to apply
to more than one network product.
## 5.2 Generic critical assets
The critical assets of GNP to be protected are:
\- User account data and credentials (e.g. passwords);
\- Log data;
\- Configuration data, e.g. GNP\'s IP address, ports, VPN ID, Management
Objects (e.g. user group, command group) etc.
\- Operating System (OS), i.e. the files that make up the OS and its processes
(code and data);
\- GNP Application;
\- Sufficient processing capacity: that processing powers are not consumed
close to limits;
\- Hardware, e.g. mainframe, board, power supply unit etc.
\- The interfaces of GNP to be protected and which are within SECAM scope: for
example
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on MME
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between MME and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the GNP are described in clause 4, Generic
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- GNP Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: GNP files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, GNP applications or GNP Software.
## 5.3 Generic threats
### 5.3.0 Generic threats format
Threats are described using the following format:
\- _Threat Name_ :
\- _Threat Category_ :
\- _Threat Description_ :
\- _Threatened Asset_ :
### 5.3.1 Introduction
Threat analysis is an important step in the SCAS methodology in order to
justify a proposed requirement and ensuring that no relevant requirements have
been forgotten.
In particular, to ensure this latter point, the threat analysis needs to be
free of gaps and overlapping, and it needs to be ensured that all relevant
threats are covered by a requirement.
To resolve the overlapping, it is suggested to first look at the action used
to exploit the threat being considered. For example if passwords are stored
locally in the GNP (e.g. in a database or file system) in an insecure way
(e.g. clear text, unsalted hashes), an attacker can retrieve these passwords
(e.g. can retrieve the file containing them and can retrieved them by means of
brute forcing if unsalted hashes are used) and later use them. So the threat
related to this scenario is Information Disclosure.
To achieve this goal, the identified threats are grouped into the seven
categories, one covering threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces and the
other six ones corresponding to the categories proposed by STRIDE
[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ee823878(v=cs.20).aspx] and reported
below:
**\- Spoofing identity**. An example of identity spoofing is illegally
accessing and then using another user\'s authentication information, such as
username and password.
**\- Tampering with data**. Data tampering involves the malicious modification
of data. Examples include unauthorized changes made to persistent data, such
as that held in a database, and the alteration of data as it flows between two
computers over an open network, such as the Internet.
**\- Repudiation**. Repudiation threats are associated with users who deny
performing an action without other parties having any way to prove otherwise.
For example, a user performs an illegal operation in a system that lacks the
ability to trace the prohibited operations. **Non-repudiation** refers to the
ability of a system to counter repudiation threats. For example, a user who
purchases an item might have to sign for the item upon receipt. The vendor can
then use the signed receipt as evidence that the user did receive the package.
**\- Information disclosure**. Information disclosure threats involve the
exposure of information to individuals who are not supposed to have access to
it. For example, the ability of users to read a file that they were not
granted access to, or the ability of an intruder to read data in transit
between two computers.
**\- Denial of service**. Denial of service (DoS) attacks deny service to
valid users-for example, by making a Web server temporarily unavailable or
unusable. You need to protect against certain types of DoS threats simply to
improve system availability and reliability.
**\- Elevation of privilege**. In this type of threat, an unprivileged user
gains privileged access and thereby has sufficient access to compromise or
destroy the entire system. Elevation of privilege threats include those
situations in which an attacker has effectively penetrated all system defenses
and become part of the trusted system itself, a dangerous situation indeed.
All the reported threats follow the below template:
\- Threat Name: i.e. The name of the threat
\- Threat Category: i.e. of the six STRIDE categories
\- Threat Description: i.e. description of how the threat can be exploited and
eventually the impacts/consequences of its exploitation
\- Threatened Asset: e.g. which asset is affected by the threat
### 5.3.2 Threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces
The threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces, cf. clause 4.3.6, may have
been sufficiently covered, explicitly or implicitly, in the course of the work
on 3GPP security specifications. There is no need to repeat this work for the
purposes of the present SCAS, and these threats and risks are therefore not
considered here separately.
NOTE: Not all threats and risks covered by security mechanisms in existing
3GPP security specifications may have been adequately documented in a 3GPP TS
or TR.\ They may have also been addressed in contributions to 3GPP Working
Group meetings.\ A good source for these threats and risks is 3GPP TR 33.821
[4].\ Note also that threats that relate to actions local to the NP and/or do
not affect interoperability may also not have been addressed by existing 3GPP
work.
When threats relating to 3GPP-defined interfaces are found that are not
sufficiently covered in existing 3GPP security specifications, they need to be
addressed in the present SCAS. Generic threats, e.g. threats relating to
protocol robustness, that also apply to 3GPP-defined interfaces are covered in
the present clause.
### 5.3.3 Spoofing identity
#### 5.3.3.1 Default Accounts
  * _Threat name:_ Default Accounts
  * _Threat Category_ : Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description_ : A default account with a default password or just a user account with a default password may be provided on GNP and this password may not be modified in time. An attacker can get this password, for example, for low clearance level user, even high clearance level user from document or by brute forcing. With the default password an attacker can access to the GNP, via console (e.g. via direct connection to the GNP via serial and/or usb ports) or via network interfaces (e.g. management and maintenance), and modify, for example, the configuration and/or interference of the normal network operation.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
#### 5.3.3.2 Weak Password Policies
  * _Threat name:_ Weak Password Policies
  * _Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description:_ Weak password policies (e.g. short password length, blank passwords, password age, historical passwords and password dictionary) can make a password cracking very simple (e.g. in a short time the password can be guessed by brute forcing). With these passwords an attacker can access to the GNP, via console (e.g. via direct connection to the GNP via serial and/or usb ports) or via network interfaces (e.g. management and maintenance), and modify, for example, the configuration and/or interference of the normal network operation.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ User account data and credentials
#### 5.3.3.3 Password peek
  * _Threat name:_ Password peek
  * _Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description:_ When password in plain text has been displayed on screen, it can be seen easily by another local observer besides operator. With these passwords an attacker can access to the GNP, via console (e.g. via direct connection to the GNP via serial and/or usb ports) or via network interfaces (e.g. management and maintenance), and modify, for example, the configuration and/or interference of the normal network operation.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ User account data and credentials
#### 5.3.3.4 Direct Root Access
_\- Threat name:_ Direct Root Access
_\- Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity
  * _Threat Description:_ An attacker fraudulently access directly to the root account via the network/remote connection, for example by brute forcing attack.
  * _Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.3.5 IP Spoofing
_\- Threat Name:_ IP Spoofing
_\- Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity.
_\- Threat Description:_ IP spoofing is used to gain unauthorized access to a
computer. An attacker forwards packets to a computer with a source address
indicating that the packet is coming from a trusted port or system.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ GNP.
#### 5.3.3.6 Malware
_\- Threat Name:_ Malware
_\- Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity, Denial of Service, Elevation of
Privilege, Tampering, Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description:_ A malware can act as a legitimate user and perform
malicious activities.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
#### 5.3.3.7 Eavesdropping
_Threat name_ : Eavesdropping
_Threat Category_ : Spoofing Identity, tampering, repudiation
_\- Threat Description_ : Eavesdropping or sniffing is an attack consisting of
capturing network traffic and reading the data content in search of sensitive
information like passwords, session tokens, or any kind of confidential
information. So, an attacker can eavesdrop network traffic, for example, on
the management/maintenance interfaces to retrieve credentials which can be
used to spoof user identity. Eavesdropping can be performed, e.g. by means of
MITM attacks. This type of attacks may be possible, for example, if weak
cryptographic protocols or non-industry standard cryptographic algorithms are
used or if the communication protocols have been implemented incorrectly.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### 5.3.4 Tampering
#### 5.3.4.1 Software Tampering
_\- Threat Name_ : Software Tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
\- _Threat Description_ : Software packages can be tampered/altered during
their installation/upgrade on the GNP. An attacker, for example, can inject
malicious code, altering their legitimate behaviour. After their installation
or upgrade process, the malicious code can be executed to conduct several
attacks (e.g. DoS, Information Stealing, Frauds and so on).
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
> including hardware assets.
#### 5.3.4.2 Ownership File Misuse
_\- Threat Name_ : Ownership File Misuse
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
\- _Threat Description_ : If files owned by an user (root user as well as not
root users) can be altered improperly and illegitimately by an user different
than the owner, then an attacker can conduct several types of attacks (e.g.
DoS, Information Stealing, and so on)
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP files.
#### 5.3.4.3 External Device Boot
_\- Threat name_ : External Device Boot
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- -Threat Description:_ If GNP operating system can be booted not only from
internal memory but also from another source (e.g. USB flash drive, memory
card), the GNP bootloader may maliciously be tampered by an attacker. This
does not necessarily mean that booting from external memories constitutes a
threat.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ hardware, operating system
#### 5.3.4.4 Log Tampering
_\- Threat name_ : Log Tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering, Repudiation
_\- Threat Description:_ if GNP does not securely store log files, an
attacker, for example can inject, delete or otherwise tamper with the contents
of the logs typically for the purposes of masking other malicious behavior.
\- Threatened Asset: Log file
#### 5.3.4.5 OAM Traffic Tampering
_\- Threat name_ : OAM Traffic Tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description:_ Usage of weak cryptographic algorithms for
transmitted sensitive information/data over OAM interface can expose them to
be maliciously tampered. For example an attacker can gain access to the
management /maintenance interfaces and can modify the data stream to/from the
GNP.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ sensitive data transferred over OAM
#### 5.3.4.6 File Write Permissions Abuse
_\- Threat name_ : File/Directory Write Permissions Misuse
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description_ : File write permissions which are far too liberal are
potentially vulnerable and can be abused by an attacker to cause DoS. For
example file passwords permissions with write permissions too liberal can be
altered by an unauthorized user which can change the administration password,
causing the impossibility for the administrator to log on the GNP.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.4.7 User Session Tampering
_\- Threat name_ : User Session Tampering
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description:_ Usage of insufficiently random values used to
identify an user session (e.g. sessionID for web sessions) can be exploited by
an attacker to tamper this user session by predicting/guessing these
identifiers _._
_\- Threatened Asset:_ User Sessions
### 5.3.5 Repudiation
#### 5.3.5.1 Lack of User Activity Trace
_\- Threat Name:_ Lack of User Activity Trace
_\- Threat Category:_ Repudiation
_\- Threat Description:_ A system user, including a possible attacker, can
maliciously or erroneously access and modify data in the GNP system, with no
or lesser possibility of the actions later being traceable to his/her user
identity. One scenario of anonymity is when the user is logged on to a system
group account.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
### 5.3.6 Information disclosure
#### 5.3.6.1 Poor key generation
_\- Threat Name_ : Poor key generation
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
\- _Threat Description_ : A poor key generation may help an attacker to
discover and disclose the key and then read or modify the encrypted data.
Attackers can discover a key, for example, if:
\- It was generated in a non-random fashion (e.g. insecure random generator).
\- It was generated starting from a passphrase containing low entropy.
\- The generated key length is too short so the time to retrieve the key by
means of dictionary attacks is short.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.6.2 Poor key management
\- _Threat Name_ : Poor key management
\- _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : A poor key management may help an attacker to
discover the key and then read or modify the encrypted data. Attackers can
discover the keys if, for example:
\- Weak key management protocols are used;
\- The keys are stored in an unencrypted file accessible by everyone;
\- The keys are not renewed/updated regularly;
\- The keys which are text strings can be found by looking for all strings in
the system;
\- The keys can be found in memory image of running processes;
\- RAM does not loose contents immediately after power-down;
\- RAM can be investigated for keys;
\- The keys are not safely destroyed after their use.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.6.3 Weak cryptographic algorithms
_\- Threat Name_ : Use of weak cryptographic algorithms
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
\- _Threat Description_ : Usage of weak cryptographic algorithms for stored or
transmitted sensitive information/data can expose them to be disclosed and
eventually tampered.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.6.4 Insecure Data Storage
_\- Threat name_ : Insecure Data Storage
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description:_ GNP stores locally sensitive data (e.g. communication
keys (i.e. K~NASenc~, K~NASint~, K~eNB~), passwords). An attacker can retrieve
these data if they have been stored in an insecure way (e.g. clear text,
unsalted hashes).
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Any sensitive data stored locally to the GNP
#### 5.3.6.5 System Fingerprinting
_\- Threat Name_ : System Fingerprinting
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
\- _Threat Description_ : The GNP could potentially disclose information about
account details, operating system version and/or other software versions,
server names and so on. That can be used by an attacker to perform other
attacks.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.6.6 Malware
_\- Threat Name_ : Malware.
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure.
\- _Threat Description_ : A malware installed on GNP can access to all the
sensitive data stored locally to the GNP (e.g. accounts, keys, and user data).
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical asset in the GNP as listed in clause 5.2
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.6.7 Personal Identification Information Violation
_\- Threat Name:_ Personal Identification Information Violation.
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure.
_\- Threat Description_ : Data containing identities of mobile network
subscribers are critical for user privacy. Leakage of these user\'s identities
can lead to loss of privacy, e.g. tracing of a user. Protection of user\'s
identities is also a requirement from regulators.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Mobility Management data (e.g. user identities).
#### 5.3.6.8 Insecure Default Configuration
_\- Threat Name:_ Insecure Default Configuration
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : An attacker could exploit an insecure default GNP
configuration and access to sensitive information/data available on the GNP.
For example a default GNP can use NULL integrity not only for unauthenticated
emergency calls. This can compromise the integrity of RRC signalling and make
possible Man in the Middle attacks in the AS domain and interception, for
example, of user communications.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : GNP configuration data and mobility management data.
#### 5.3.6.9 File/Directory Read Permissions Misuse
_\- Threat name_ : File/Directory Read Permissions Misuse
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure, elevation of privilege, DoS,
tampering
_\- Threat Description_ : File and directory read permissions which are far
too liberal can allow access to the contained data by illegitimate users (e.g.
password files with too liberal file permissions can be accessed by
unauthorized users).
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.10 Insecure Network Services
_\- Threat name_ : Insecure Network Services
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose insecure/vulnerable services/open
ports which can be exploited by an attacker to gain sensitive
information/data. For example the GNP can be configured to return sensitive
information using telnet on a custom port without any authentication mechanism
being configured.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.11 Unnecessary Services
_\- Threat name_ : Unnecessary Services
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose unnecessary services which can be
exploited (even if not vulnerable) by an attacker to gain sensitive
information/data.
The term unnecessary used in this threat refers to three cases:
\- Network service not strictly related to GNP operation (e.g. Splunk Service)
\- Network service available on unexpected interfaces (e.g. SSH enabled on the
interface interconnecting GNP and Remote Management)
\- Service that does not enable a network service but that runs on the GNP and
is not necessary by GNP normal operation (e.g. fprint service available in the
default fedora distribution or Xinetd services).
  * _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2, except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.12 Log Disclosure
_\- Threat name_ : Log Disclosure
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : When operational activities are recorded by GNP,
these operation records are called system logs. There are other logs, e.g.
operation log, security log. These logs can contain sensitive information/data
(e.g. system data, user data, CDR, or also debugging information) which can be
accessed by an attacker to gather information about the system and to perform
other attacks towards users or the system itself.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets
#### 5.3.6.13 Unnecessary Applications
  * _Threat name_ : Unnecessary Applications
  * _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : There are applications (i.e. features and functionalities) in the GNP which can be related to personal privacy (e.g. LCS application). Even if an operator does not deploy these features and functionalities, they can be available in the system as part of a software distribution. Consequently there might be the risk that an attacker enables these applications without authorization (e.g. despite of what is included in the license issued by the vendor). For example, the attacker may enable a feature such as LCS and get the location information of a user.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : personal privacy related features, functions and applications, e.g. LCS.
#### 5.3.6.14 Eavesdropping
_\- Threat name_ : Eavesdropping
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : An attacker can eavesdrop network traffic, for
example, on the management/maintenance interfaces. This may be possible if
weak cryptographic protocols or non-industry standard cryptographic algorithms
are used or if the communication protocols are implemented incorrectly.
Eavesdropping can be performed, for example, by means of MITM attacks, Arp
Poisoning, ICMP Redirect and so on.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2
#### 5.3.6.15 Security threat caused by lack of GNP traffic isolation
\- _Threat name_ : Security threat caused by lack of GNP traffic isolation
\- _Threat Category_ : Information disclosure
_\- Threat Description:_ The attack towards signalling traffic can also impact
the management traffic and vice versa when these traffics are not isolated.
For example, an attacker wants to obtain important information related to
signalling, he can intercept and capture signalling traffic on GNP\'s
interface. The important information related management may also be
intercepted and captured if the management traffics and signalling traffics
are not isolated and use the same physical interface. So the security threats
for signalling traffic can impact management traffic and result in
unauthorized access on GNP. In the same way, an attacker who attacks GNP\'s
management traffics can obtain important information related signalling,
resulting in tampering and privacy leakage of signalling.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical data transferred via the GNP as listed in
clause 5.2
### 5.3.7 Denial of service
#### 5.3.7.1 Compromised/Misbehaving User Equipments
_\- Threat Name_ : Compromised/Misbehaving User Equipments
_\- Threat Category_ : DoS
\- _Threat Description_ : A large number of compromised or misbehaving user
equipments (UE) can cause a fault on the GNP with a consequent denial of
service.
For example, an attacker can control a huge number of UEs and can send a lot
of contemporary attach/detach requests to the GNP without following the normal
protocol flow. The resources on the GNP (e.g. processing resources or radio
resources) can be exhausted and the GNP becomes unable to process other, valid
NAS signalling requests.
> _\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP resources (e.g. system processing capacity (e.g.
> CPU, memory), network links, radio links and so on).
#### 5.3.7.2 Implementation Flaw
_\- Threat Name_ : Implementation Flaw.
_\- Threat Category_ : DoS.
\- _Threat Description_ : An attacker can exploit an implementation flaw in
one of the protocols supported by a GNP or in one application available on the
GNP and cause a DoS.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets.
#### 5.3.7.3 Insecure Network Services
_\- Threat name_ : Insecure Network Services.
_\- Threat Category_ : DoS.
_\- Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose insecure/vulnerable services/open
ports which can be exploited by an attacker to crash the GNP.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP services.
#### 5.3.7.4 Human Error
  * _Threat name:_ Human Error
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of service
  * _Threat Description_ : The general threat of human error in operation and maintenance. This can include network-, network element-, and firewall configuration-settings. It can also include the risk of user accounts being forgotten during change or deletion, or other slips in their handlings. Causes can be maintenance workload, fatigue, inexperience, etc., and may arise irrespective of applied policy. This threat, for network operation, is hard to categorize within the STRIDE approach, but with Denial of service being one important threat category.
```{=html}
``` \- _Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause
5.2, except hardware assets.
### 5.3.8 Elevation of privilege
#### 5.3.8.1 Misuse by authorized users
_\- Threat Name_ : misuse by authorized users
_\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
\- _Threat Description_ : A malicious employee or his/her co-worker misuses
the network access and management authorization to attempts to upgrade his/her
account to, for example, administrative privileges or to gain access to
password files within the system.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : The network access and management authorization.
#### 5.3.8.2 Over-Privileged Processes/Services
_\- Threat Name_ : Over-Privileged Processes/Services.
_\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege.
\- _Threat Description_ : GNP processes/services running with higher
privileges than needed, (i.e. root or Administrator) can allow an attacker to
obtain elevated privileges as well. An attacker can for example try to
leverage a bug in the running program and execute arbitrary code with elevated
privileges.
. _Threatened Asset_ : Over-Privileged Processes/Services.
#### 5.3.8.3 Folder Write Permission Abuse
_\- Threat Name:_ Folder Write Permission Abuse
_\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
\- _Threat Description_ : weaknesses in folder permissions can lead to
elevation of privilege. A **_root user by mistake can accidentally execute
malicious files placed into a directory by attackers which have sufficient
write permissions. The same applies for other directories where users other
than root have write permission_**. Any account that has folder permission on
a directory has equivalent access to the executable file within that
directory. These permissions allow a non-administrator to replace directories
containing executable files with new directories containing new executable
files or simply to delete directories and the executable files they contain.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : System folders with weak write permission.
#### 5.3.8.4 Root-Owned File Write Permission Abuse
_\- Threat Name_ : Root-Owned **_File Write Permission_** Abuse.
_\- Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege.
\- _Threat Description_. Failure to protect root-owned executables files from
write access by non-administrators exposes them to the possibility of being
compromised. For example, this means that non-administrator users can replace
or alter the file\'s contents and that unknown or malicious injected code can
then be executed inadvertently by root.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Root-Owned Files with weak write permission.
#### 5.3.8.5 High-Privileged Files
_\- Threat name:_ High-privileged files.
_\- Threat Category:_ Elevation of Privilege, DoS, tampering.
_\- Threat Description:_ If files can be run with higher privileges that what
the owner normally has, i.e. with temporarily elevated rights, it can be
dangerous to system.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ High privileged files.
#### 5.3.8.6 Insecure Network Services
\- _Threat name_ : Insecure Network Services.
\- _Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege.
\- _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose insecure/vulnerable services/open
ports which can be exploited by an attacker to gain unauthorized access, for
example using telnet on a custom port without any authentication mechanism
configured.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ Insecure network services/ports.
#### 5.3.8.7 Elevation of Privilege via Unnecessary Network Services
\- _Threat name_ : Unnecessary Network Services
\- _Threat category_ : Elevation of Privilege, Denial of Service
\- _Threat Description_ : The GNP can expose unnecessary services/open ports
which can be exploited by an attacker to gain unauthorized access thus leading
to elevation of privilege. The term unnecessary used in this threat refers to
two cases:
\- Network services not strictly related to GNP operation (e.g. Splunk
Service)
\- Network service available on unexpected interfaces (eg. SSH enabled on the
interface interconnecting GNP and Remote Management)
_\- Threatened Asset:_ all critical assets of GNP as listed in clause 5.2,
except hardware assets.
# 6 Generic assets and threats for network functions supporting SBA interfaces
## 6.1 Introduction
In addition to the assets and threats described in clause 5 for GNP, the
present clause contains assets and threats that are believed to apply to all
network functions supporting service based interfaces.
## 6.2 Generic critical assets
The generic critical assets of NF to be protected are:
\- NF Application.
\- NF API data (e.g. API message IEs, access tokens, client credentials
assertions).
Editor\'s Note: A formulation for indicating the applicable release for the
critical assets is needed.
\- The interfaces of NF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service Based Interfaces.
## 6.3 Generic threats
### 6.3.1 Introduction
The threats described in this subclause follow the template in clause 5.
Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS 33.117
[17].
### 6.3.2 Threats related to Service Based Interfaces
#### 6.3.2.1 JSON Parser Exploits
_\- Threat Name_ : JSON Parser Exploits
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
\- _Threat Description_ : one of the JSON parser exploits is that the parsers
used by a generic NF may execute JavaScript or any other code contained in
JSON objects received on SBIs, which are considered untrusted. Further, these
parsers may include resources external to the received JSON object itself,
such as files from the NF's filesystem or other resources loaded externally.
With such exploit, malicious code can be executed by an attacker to conduct
several attacks e.g. tampering, information disclosure/stealing, DoS.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : all critical assets as listed in clauses 5.2 and X.2,
except hardware assets
#### 6.3.2.2 JSON Parser not Robust
_\- Threat Name_ : JSON Parser not Robust.
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service.
\- _Threat Description_ : there are following threats if JSON parsers are not
robust:
> \- For data structures where values are accessible using names (sometimes
> referred to as keys), e.g. a JSON object, if the names/keys are not unique
> and duplicated names/keys occur within such a structure, it can result in
> inconsistent values for that names (or keys), which leads to Denial of
> Service.
>
> \- If the format and range of values for the IEs in API messages are not
> implemented as required (e.g. when the number of leaf IEs exceeds the
> maximum number or when the size of the JSON body of any HTTP request exceed
> the maximum size), security vulnerabilities may be introduced such as buffer
> overflow flow, which may lead to Denial of Service.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : NF API data, NF Application, Sufficient Processing
Capability.
### 6.3.3 Threats related to service access
#### 6.3.3.1 Elevation of privilege via incorrect verification of access
tokens
\- _Threat name_ : Incorrect Verification of Access Tokens.
\- _Threat category_ : Elevation of Privilege, Information Disclosure, Denial
of Service.
\- _Threat Description_ : there are following threats if the generic NF cannot
correctly verify the access tokens:
\- An access token may be tampered so that an attacker can arbitrarily access
any services from any NF service providers within the same PLMN or in
different PLMNs, which leads to elevation of privilege and consequently
information disclosure.
\- An access token may be tampered so that an attacker can arbitrarily access
the services of any slices provided by the NF producer instances (excluded
from the list of NSSAIs or the list NSI IDs) within the same PLMN or in
different PLMNs, which leads to elevation of privilege and consequently
information disclosure.
\- An access token may be tampered so that an attacker can arbitrarily access
the services provided by the NF producer instances outside the NF Set which it
is allowed to access within the same PLMN or in different PLMNs, which leads
to elevation of privilege and consequently information disclosure.
\- An access token may be tampered so that an attacker can arbitrarily access
the disallowed resources or conduct disallowed actions on the resources for
the services provided by a NF service provider within the same PLMN or in
different PLMNs, which leads to elevation of privilege and consequently
information disclosure.
\- An access token may be tampered so that an attacker can block service
access by replacing the granted services/NF service providers with unavailable
services/NF service providers, which leads to denial of service.
\- An expired access token can be replayed so that an attack can access the
services which may no longer be allowed by the NF service provider, which
leads to elevation of privilege and consequently information disclosure.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ NF API data, NF Application, Sufficient processing
capacity.
### 6.3.4 Threats related to authentication for indirect communication
#### 6.3.4.1 Incorrect validation of client credentials assertion
\- _Threat name_ : Incorrect Validation of Client Credentials Assertion.
\- _Threat category_ : Spoofing Identity, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service, Elevation of Privilege.
\- _Threat Description_ : for indirect communication where NF service consumer
and NRF/NF service producer cannot mutually authenticate each other, the
authentication of NF service consumer towards NRF/NF service producer can only
implicitly rely on authentication between NF service consumer and SCP and
between SCP and NRF/NF service producer with hop-by-hop security protection.
An additional authentication for indirect communication is using client
credentials assertions signed by NF service consumer and validated by NRF/NF
service producer, as defined in TS 33.501 [26] clause 13.3.8. Client
credentials assertions are sent end-to-end from NF service consumer to NRF/NF
service producer via one or several SCPs. There are following threats if the
generic NF (including all typers of NF service producer, NRF) receiving the
assertion cannot correctly validate it:
\- If the NF could not verify the integrity of the assertion, an attacker can
deceive the NF by tampering the instance ID of the consumer NF, audience
claim, timestamp and expiration time in the client credentials assertion. This
can lead to spoofing identity, information disclosure, denial of service,
elevation of privilege.
\- If the NF could successfully verify the integrity of the client credentials
assertion but could not verify the audience claim in the assertion, an
attacker can deceive the NF with an assertion detined for another NF type
intercepted from the consumer NF. This can lead to spoofing identity,
information disclosure, elevation of privilege.
\- If the NF could successfully verify the integrity and audience claim of the
client credentials assertion but could not verify the expiration time (exp) in
the assertion, it can be replayed by an attack, who can abuse the use of
assertion for authentication out of its lifetime. This can lead to spoofing
identity, information disclosure.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ NF API data, NF Application, Sufficient processing
capacity.
###### ### Annex A: Aspects specific to the network product class MME
# A.1 Network product class description for the MME
## A.1.1 Introduction
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
## A.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the MME network product class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. Therefore, in
order to define the MME network product class it is necessary to define the
common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities that is constitutive for an MME. As
part of the MME network product, it is expected that the MME contains MME
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the MME functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the MME network product model. Functionalities specific to the MME network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.116 [5].
NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of functions contained in clause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS 23.401, Release
8 [3].
# A.2 Assets and threats specific to the MME
# A.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the MME to be protected are:
\- MME Application;
\- Mobility Management data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. IMSI),
subscriber keys (I.e. KNASenc, KNASint, NH), authentication parameters,
address of serving eNB, APN name, data related to mobility management like UE
status, UE\'s IP address, etc., session management like PDN type, QoS and so
on, or node selection and routing selection, e.g. IP address of UE related
S/P-GW, selected routing connection based on UE\'s identity, etc.
\- The interfaces of MME to be protected and which are within SECAM scope: for
example
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on MME
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between MME and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the MME class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- MME Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: MME files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, MME application, Mobility Management data or MME
Software.
## A.2.2 Threats related to AKA procedures
### A.2.2.1 Access to 2G
  * _Threat name:_ Access to 2G
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.2.2 Resynchronization
  * _Threat name:_ Resynchronization
  * _Threat Reference_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If RAND and AUTS are not included when synchronization fails, the resynchronization procedure does not work correctly. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.2.3 Failed Integrity check of Attach message
  * _Threat name:_ Failed integrity check of Attach message
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If integrity check of attach message fails, a user identity cannot be verified. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.2.4 Forwarding EPS authentication data to SGSN
  * _Threat name:_ Forwarding EPS authentication data to SGSN
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If EPS authentication data is forwarded to SGSN, the SGSN is not expecting the data and does not know how to handle this data. This can cause processing error on the SGSN and negatively impact system performance.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.2.5 Forwarding unused EPS authentication data between different
security domains
  * _Threat name:_ Forwarding unused EPS authentication data between different security domains
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If unused EPS authentication data is forwarded between security domains, system resources will be wasted thus requiring HSS to regenerate new EPS authentication data. This can result in waste of system resources for the receiving system to store the data as well as wasting resources in sending the data.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
## A.2.3 Threats related to security mode command procedure
### A.2.3.1 Bidding Down
  * _Threat name:_ Bidding down
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If SMC does not include replayed UE security capabilities of the UE, the UE can force the system to reduce the security level by using weaker security algorithms or turning security off, making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.3.2 NAS integrity selection and use
  * _Threat name:_ NAS integrity selection and use
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If NAS does not use the highest priority algorithm to protect SMC, SMC risks being exposed and/or modified. This can cause the system to turn off security, making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.3.3 NAS NULL integrity protection
  * _Threat name:_ NAS NULL integrity protection
  * _Threat Category_ : Elevation of Privilege
  * _Threat Description_ : If NAS NULL integrity protection is not used correctly, an attacker can initiated unauthenticated non-emergency calls.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
### A.2.3.4 NAS confidentiality protection
  * _Threat name:_ NAS confidentiality protection
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If security mode complete message is not confidentiality protected, the MME cannot be certain that the SMC is executed correctly. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
## A.2.4 Threats related to security in Intra-RAT mobility
### A.2.4.1 Bidding down on X2-Handover
  * _Threat name:_ Bidding down on X2-Handover
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If MME cannot verify EPS security capabilities received from eNB are the same as the UE security capabilities that the MME has stored, the UE may force the system to accept a weaker security algorithm than the system is allowed forcing the system into a lowered security level making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.4.2 NAS integrity protection algorithm selection in MME change
  * _Threat name:_ NAS integrity protection algorithm selection in MME change
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If the highest priority NAS integrity protection is not able to be selected by the new MME in MME change, the new MME could end up using a weaker algorithm forcing the system into a lowered security level making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credential
## A.2.5 Threats related to security in Inter-RAT mobility
### A.2.5.1 2G SIM access via idle mode mobility
  * _Threat name:_ 2G SIM access via idle mode mobility
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed during idle mode mobility, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised. The attacker can also illegally obtain LTE service via 2G SIM
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.5.2 2G SIM access via handover
  * _Threat name:_ 2G SIM access via handover
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed during handover, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised. The attacker can also illegally obtain LTE service via 2G SIM.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credentials
### A.2.5.3 2G SIM access via SRVCC
  * _Threat name:_ 2G SIM access via handover
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : If access to 2G is allowed during SRVCC, an attacker can force the system into 2G mode and use smaller key size, weaker algorithm, etc. to make the system easily attacked and/or compromised. The attacker can also illegally obtain LTE service via 2G SIM.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User account data and credential
## A.2.6 Threats related to release of non-emergency bearer
  * _Threat name:_ Release of non-emergency bearer.
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of Service.
  * _Threat Description_ : If authentication fails in the MME and the non-emergency bearer is not released, the UE can continue receiving unauthorized call, wasting valuable system resources.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity.
###### ### Annex B: Aspects specific to the network product class PGW
# B.1 Network product class description for the PGW
## B.1.1 Introduction
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
## B.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the PGW network product class
As part of the PGW network product, it is expected that the PGW to contain PGW
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the PGW functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the PGW network product model. Functionalities specific to the PGW network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.250 [11].
NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of functions contained in clause 4.4.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.401,
Release 8 [3].
# B.2 Assets and threats specific to the PGW
## B.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the eNB to be protected are:
\- PGW Application;
\- Session related data: UE network usage and charging data e.g. subscriber\'s
identities (e.g. IMSI), TEID, Charging ID, packet count, etc.
\- User plane data;
\- The interfaces of PGW to be protected and which are within SCAS scope: for
example
\- SGi interface
\- S5/S8 interfaces
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on PGW
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between PGW and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the PGW class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- PGW Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: PGW files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root users), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, PGW application, or PGW Software.
## B.2.2 Threats related to IP Address Allocation
### B.2.2.1 IP Address Reallocation Continuously
_\- Threat name:_ IP Address Reallocation Continuously
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering
_\- Threat Description_ : If an IP address is reallocated to a UE immediately
after released from another UE, then the network side might be mistaken that
the same UE keeps using the IP address continuously. Consequently, some
network functions (e.g. PCRF) will execute policies on the wrong target UE.
And some mis-operations (e.g. mischarging) will be executed on UEs.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ Session related data
## B.2.3 Packet Forwarding
### B.2.3.1 Sending unauthorized packets to other UEs
_\- Threat name:_ Sending unauthorized packets to other UEs
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering, DoS
_\- Threat Description_ : If the destination address of uplink packets sent by
a UE is another UE in the same PGW, the packets will not pass through the PGW
and will be forwarded directly to the target UE. In this case, mutual access
between two UEs within the same PGW might be requested. If such access is
enabled, an attacker can gain control of a UE to send malicious packets (e.g.
fraudulent information, malicious trojans, virus packs, etc.) directly to
other UEs without security measures (e.g. firewall) at network side.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ User plane data
## B.2.4 Emergency PDN Connection
### B.2.4.1 Inactive Emergency PDN Connection Release
\- Threat Name: Prolonged inactive emergency PDN connections
\- Threat Category: Denial of Service
\- Threat Description: The PGW is expected to release all bearers
corresponding to emergency inactive PDN connections after the configured
timeout. If emergency bearers of inactive PDN connections are not released, it
may lead to system resource exhaustion.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
## B.2.5 Threats related to charging relevant data
### B.2.5.1 Failure to assign unique TEID or Charging ID for a session
_**-** Threat name:_ Failure to assign unique TEID or Charging ID for a
session
_**-** Threat Category:_ Spoofing Identity, Tampering
_**-** Threat Description:_ Both Charging ID and TEID are the identities used
for linking the network usage data per UE. If the Charging ID is not unique
per IP-CAN session, or the TEID is not unique per GTP tunnel, the charging
information for a PDU session would be wrongly correlated, creating charging
errors.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Session related data
###### ### Annex C: Aspects specific to the network product class eNB
# C.1 Network product class description for the eNB
### C.1.1 Introduction
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
## C.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the eNB network product class
As part of the eNB network product, it is expected that the eNB contains eNB
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the eNB functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the eNB network product model. Functionalities specific to the eNB network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.216 [20].
NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of functions contained in clause 4.1 of TS 36.300, Release 8 [19]
and clause 4.4.1 of TS 23.401, Release 8 [3].
# C.2 Assets and threats specific to the eNB
# C.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the eNB to be protected are:
\- eNB Application;
\- Mobility Management data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. IMSI),
subscriber keys (i.e. KUPenc, KRRCenc, KRRCint, NH), authentication
parameters, address of serving gateway, APN name, data related to mobility
management like UE measurements, UE\'s IP address, etc., QoS and so on, etc.
\- User plane data
\- The interfaces of eNB to be protected and which are within SCAS scope: for
example
\- S1 interface
\- X2 interface
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on eNB
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between eNB and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the eNB class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- eNB Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: eNB files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, eNB application, Mobility Management data or eNB
Software.
## C.2.2 Threats related to Control plane and User plane
### C.2.2.1 Control plane data confidentiality protection
_**-** Threat name:_ Control plane data confidentiality protection
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service, Masquerading attack.
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the eNB does not provide confidentiality
protection for control plane packets on the S1/X2 reference points, then the
control plane packets sent between eNBs (eg. inter-eNB handover) and from eNB
to MME (eg. handover on MME change) can be manipulated and the eNB can be
compromised by attackers to prevent service to legitimate users (eg. Handover
failure). Moreover, the UE identifiers, security capabilities, the security
algorithms and key materials exchanged between eNBs and eNB-MME can be
accessed by the attackers leading to huge security breach. There, any active
attacker can perform masquerading by making use of the legitimate users' UE
identifiers to gain access to the network. This threat scenario assumes that
the S1, X2 reference points are not within the security environment
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ User account data and credential
### C.2.2.2 Control plane data integrity protection
_**-** Threat name:_ Control plane data integrity protection
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Denial of Service
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the eNB does not provide integrity protection
for control plane packets on S1/X2 reference points, the control plane packets
between eNBs on X2-C and from eNB to MME on S1-MME interface risks being
exposed and/or modified. The intruder manipulations on control plane packets
will lead to denial of service to legitimate users. This threat scenario
assumes that the S1, X2 reference points are not within the security
environment
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity
### C.2.2.3 User plane data ciphering and deciphering at eNB
_**-** Threat name:_ User plane data ciphering and deciphering at eNB
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Information Disclosure, User
tracking, Denial of Service, Man-in-the-middle
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the eNB does not cipher and decipher user plane
packets between the Uu reference point and the S1/X2 reference points, then
the attackers can manipulate and compromise user packets on Uu, X2-U and S1-U
interface to launch Denial of Service as well as Man-in-the middle attack. The
attackers can gain access to user identifiers, IMSI, serving network
identifiers, location information and can perform user tracking. This threat
scenario assumes that the S1, X2 reference points are not within the security
environment
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ User account data and credential
### C.2.2.4 User plane data integrity protection
_**-** Threat name:_ User plane data integrity protection
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Denial of Service
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the eNB does not handle integrity protection
for user plane packets for the S1/X2 reference points then all the
uplink/downlink user plane packets over X2-U and S1-U can be attacked and/or
manipulated by intruders to launch Denial of Service attack. This threat
scenario assumes that the S1, X2 reference points are not within the security
environment
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity.
## C.2.3 Threats related to key reuse
### C.2.3.1 Key reuse for eavesdropping
_**-** Threat name:_ Key reuse for eavesdropping
_**-** Threat Category:_ Information Disclosure
_**-** Threat Description:_ if the AS keys are not refreshed by the eNB, the
key stream reuse is possible. This can result in information disclosure of AS
signalling and user plane data. The threat of key stream reuse occurs under
the following conditions:
\- when the PDCP COUNT wraps around and is reused with the same Radio Bearer
(RB) identity and with the same K~eNB~, e.g. due to the transfer of large
volumes of data.
\- when the PDCP COUNT is reset to 0 but the RB identity and key stay the same
(e.g. the successive Radio Bearer establishment uses the same RB identity and
keys, or the RB identity is increased after multiple calls and wraps around).
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ User plane data, Mobility Management data.
###### ### Annex D: Aspects specific to the network product class gNB
# D.1 Network product class description for the gNB
### D.1.1 Introduction
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while Annexes cover the aspects specific to one network product
class.
## D.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the gNB network product class
As part of the gNB network product, it is expected that the gNB to contain gNB
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the gNB functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the gNB network product model. Functionalities specific to the gNB network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.511 [6].
Note: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of gNB functions contained in TS 38.300 [7], TS 38.323 [9], 3GPP
TS 38.322 [10], and TS 23.501 [8].
# D.2 Assets and threats specific to the gNB
# D.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the gNB to be protected are:
\- gNB Application;
\- Mobility Management data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. SUCI, GUTI),
subscriber keys (i.e. KUPenc, KUPint, KRRCenc, KRRCint, NH), authentication
parameters, APN name, data related to mobility management like UE
measurements, UE\'s IP address, etc., QoS and so on, etc.
\- user plane data
\- The interfaces of gNB whose data needs to be protected and which are within
SCAS scope:
\- N2 interface
\- Xn interface
\- N3 interface
\- Uu interface
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on gNB
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between gNB and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the gNB class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- gNB Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: gNB files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, gNB application, Mobility Management data or gNB
Software.
## D.2.2 Threats related to Control plane and User plane in the network
### D.2.2.1 Control plane data confidentiality protection
_**-** Threat name:_ gNB control plane data confidentiality protection.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Information Disclosure.
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the gNB does not provide confidentiality
protection for control plane packets on the N2/Xn/Uu reference points, then
the control plane packets sent over the N2/Xn/Uu reference points can be
intercepted by attackers without detection. This means the UE identifiers,
security capabilities, the security algorithms and key materials exchanged can
be accessed by the attackers leading to huge security breach. This threat
scenario assumes that the N2 and Xn reference points are not within the
security environment.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Mobility Management data.
### D.2.2.2 Control plane data integrity protection
_**-** Threat name:_ Control plane data integrity protection.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Denial of Service.
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the gNB does not provide integrity protection
for control plane packets on N2/Xn/Uu reference points, the control plane
packets sent over these reference points can be modified. The intruder
manipulations on control plane packets can lead to denial of service to
legitimate users. This threat scenario assumes that the N2 and Xn reference
points are not within the security environment.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity, Mobility Management
data.
### D.2.2.3 User plane data confidentiality protection at gNB
_**-** Threat name:_ User plane data confidentiality protection at gNB.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Information Disclosure.
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the gNB does not cipher and decipher user plane
packets on the Uu reference point and the N3/Xn reference points, then the
attackers can compromise user packets on Uu, Xn-U, and N3 interface. The
attackers can gain access to user identifiers, serving network identifiers,
location information and can perform user tracking. This threat scenario
assumes that the N3 and Xn reference points are not within the security
environment.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ user plane data.
### D.2.2.4 User plane data integrity protection
_**-** Threat name:_ User plane data integrity protection.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Denial of Service.
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the gNB does not handle integrity protection
for user plane packets for the Xn reference points then all the
uplink/downlink user plane packets over Xn-U can be attacked and/or
manipulated by intruders to launch Denial of Service attack. This threat
scenario assumes that the Xn reference points are not within the security
environment.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity, User plane data.
### D.2.2. 5 AS algorithm selection and use
  * _Threat name:_ AS algorithm selection and use
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : If AS does not use the highest priority algorithm to protect AS layer, i.e. RRC and PDCP, data on the AS layer risks being exposed and/or modified, or denial of service.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity, Mobility Management data
### D.2.2.6 Bidding down on Xn-Handover
  * _Threat name:_ Bidding down on Xn-Handover.
  * _Threat Category_ : Tampering Data, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service.
  * _Threat Description_ : If the gNB does not send the UE 5G security capabilities, the AMF cannot verify 5G security capabilities are the same as the UE security capabilities that the AMF has stored, the attacker (e.g gNB) may force the system to accept a weaker security algorithm than the system is allowed, forcing the system into a lowered security level making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient processing capability, Mobility Management data.
### D.2.2.7 Key Reuse
_\- Threat name:_ Key Reuse.
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure.
_\- Threat Description_ : If AS keys are not refreshed by the gNB when PDCP
COUNTs is about to be re-used with the same Radio Bearer identity and with the
same K~gNB~, key stream reuse is possible. This can result in information
disclosure of AS signalling and user plane data. The threat of key stream
reuse occurs under the following conditions when the PDCP COUNT is reset to 0
but the RB identity and key stay the same (e.g. the successive Radio Bearer
establishment uses the same RB identity and keys, or the RB identity is
increased after multiple calls and wraps around.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : User plane data, Mobility Management data.
### D.2.2.8 Security Policy Enforcement
_\- Threat name:_ Security Policy Enforcement.
_\- Threat Category_ : Tampering data, Information Disclosure.
_\- Threat Description_ : If gNB does not follow the security based on
security policy provided by SMF, this can lead to no security or reduced
security provided to the UE user plane, (e.g. not applying integrity
protection when it is required to do so), etc.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capability, User plane data.
### D.2.2.9 State transition from inactive state to connected state
_\- Threat name:_ State transition from inactive state to connected state
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service.
_\- Threat Description_ : When state transits from inactive state to the
connected state, if the gNB does not reactivate/activate the UP security based
on UP activation status included in the UE 5G AS security context, the UP
activation status between the gNB and the UE may be different. This will cause
the misalignment on UP activation status, and result in the UE has to
reconnect to the Network again which wastes resource both at UE and gNB.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capability.
###### ### Annex E: Aspects specific to the network product class UDM
# E.1 Network product class description for the UDM
## E.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the UDM network product class.
## E.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the UDM network product class
As part of the UDM network product, it is expected that the UDM to contain UDM
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the UDM functions and OAM functions that is specific
to the UDM network product model. Functionalities specific to the UDM network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.514 [21].
NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of UDM functions contained in clause 6.2.5 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# E.2 Assets and threats specific to the UDM
# E.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the UDM to be protected are:
\- UDM Application;
\- User Subscription Data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. SUPI),
Subscription related data (e.g., Credentials, Access and Mobility Subscription
data, SMF Selection Subscription data, UE context in SMF data, authentication
status, etc.), etc.
\- The interfaces of UDM to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service based interface, Nudm, for providing services to AMF, SMF, AUSF,
NEF, PCF, GMLC, SMSF
\- Service based interface for consuming services from AMF, AUSF, UDR, NRF.
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on UDM
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between UDM and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the UDM class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- UDM Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: UDM files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, UDM application, User Subscription data or UDM
Software.
## E.2.2 Threats related to UDM assets
### E.2.2.1 Incorrect SUCI de-concealment
_**-** Threat name:_ Incorrect SUCI de-concealment
_**-** Threat Category:_ Denial of Service
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the SUPI in the UE and the SUPI retrieved from
Nudm_Authentication_Get Response message are not the same, the AMF key
generated based on the SUPI in the UE is also not the same as the AMF key
generated in the AMF/SEAF. As a result the subsequent NAS SMC procedure will
always fail. Hence, UE will never be able to use the services provided by the
serving AMF.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity
### E.2.2.2 Synchronization failure
_**-** Threat name:_ Synchronization failure
_**-** Threat Category:_ Denial of Service
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the UDM cannot handle the synchronization
failure case during primary authentication, the SQN value stored in the UE and
that stored in the UDM will not be synchronized. Hence, the UE will not be
able to successfully authenticate with the core network.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity, User Subscription
data
### E.2.2.3 Failure to store the authentication status
_**-** Threat name:_ Failure to store of authentication status
_**-** Threat Category:_ Denial of Service
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the UDM does not store the authentication
status of a UE, the 5G network cannot support the increased home control,
which is useful in preventing certain types of fraud, e.g. fraudulent
Nudm_UECM_Registration Request sending a malicious AMF for registering the
malicious AMF in UDM that is not actually present in the visited network.
Without the authentication status in the UDM, or if the stored authentication
status is incorrect, the Nudm_UECM_Registration Request sent from malicious
AMF may be accepted.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity, User Subscription
data
### E.2.2.4 Incorrect security enforcement configuration
  * _Threat name:_ Incorrect security enforcement configuration
  * _Threat Reference_ : Tampering data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : In case where the UDM is configured to set and provide the User Security Policy to the SMF for TSC service, if the UP security policy is not set to \"required\", the gPTP message transferred from gNB to a 5GS TSC-enabled UE in the user plane may be removed, tampered or intercepted by an attacker.
### E.2.2.5 Incorrect UP security policy configuration for 5G LAN service
  * _Threat name:_ Incorrect UP security policy configuration for 5G LAN service
  * _Threat Reference_ : Tampering data, Information Disclosure
  * _Threat Description_ : It is assumed that two UEs are belonging to one 5G LAN group. In case where the UDM is configured to set and provide User Plane Security policy to the SMF, if the UP security policies set for all the UEs belonging to a specific 5G LAN service are not consistent, e.g. the UP security policy1 for the UE1 is set to \"required\", and the UP security policy2 for the UE2 is set to \"not needed\", the 5G LAN service data transferred from gNB to UE2 may be removed, tampered or intercepted by the attacker, even if the service data transferred to the UE1 is protected. That means, the 5G LAN service data will be in the risk of being attacked with the lowest security level set in the the UP security policy.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : User Subscription Data
###### ### Annex F: Aspects specific to the network product class AUSF
# F.1 Network product class description for the AUSF
### F.1.1 Introduction
This annex captures the aspects specific to network product class AUSF.
## F.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the AUSF network product class
As part of the AUSF network product, it is expected that the AUSF to contain
AUSF application, a set of running processes (typically more than one)
executing the software package for the AUSF functions and OAM functions that
is specific to the AUSF network product model. Functionalities specific to the
AUSF network product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as
described below. Related security requirements and test cases have been
captured in TS 33.516 [12].
Note: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of AUSF functions contained in clause 6.2.8 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# F.2 Assets and threats specific to the AUSF
## F.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the AUSF to be protected
are:
\- AUSF Application;
\- User Data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. SUPI), authentication
parameters (e.g. Serving network name, authentication vectors, AUSF key),
Routing indicator etc.
\- The interfaces of AUSF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service based interface, Nausf, for providing services for AMF and UDM
\- Service based interface for consuming services from UDM, and NRF
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on AUSF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between AUSF and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the AUSF class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- AUSF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: AUSF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, AUSF application, User data or AUSF Software.
## F.2.2 Threats related to authentication procedures
No specific threats are identified for AUSF in addition to the generic threats
identified in the main body of this document.
###### ### Annex G: Aspects specific to the network product class SEPP
# G.1 Network product class description for the SEPP
## G.1.1 Introduction
This annex captures the aspects specific to network product class SEPP.
## G.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the SEPP network product class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. Therefore, in
order to define the SEPP network product class, it is necessary to define the
common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities that is constitutive for a SEPP. As
part of the SEPP network product, it is expected that the SEPP contains SEPP
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the SEPP functions and OAM functions that is specific
to the SEPP network product model. Functionalities specific to the SEPP
network product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as
described below. Related security requirements and test cases have been
captured in TS 33.517 [13].
Note: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of functions contained in clause 6.2.17 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# G.2 Assets and threats specific to the SEPP
## G.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the SEPP to be protected
are:
\- SEPP Application;
\- Service Messages to be sent/received over N32.
\- SEPP security capability (i.e. N32 protection mechanisms): Mechanism 1 (N32
Application Layer Security), Mechanism 2 (TLS), etc.
\- Application layer security data: e.g. N32-f peer information, N32-f
security context, cryptographic material of peer SEPPs, cryptographic material
of IPX providers, etc.
\- Protection policies: e.g. data-type encryption policy and modification
policy for outgoing and incoming messages, as described in clause 13.2.3.5 of
TS 33.501 [14].
\- Internal topology information;
\- The interfaces of SEPP to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- N32 (N32-c, N32-f).
\- Interfaces between SEPP and NFs.
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on SEPP.
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between SEPP and OAM system.
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the SEPP network product class are
described in clause 4.3.6 of the present document.
\- SEPP Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: SEPP files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, SEPP application, supported N32 protection
mechanisms, application layer security data, protection policies, internal
topology information, or SEPP Software.
## G.2.2 Threats related to cryptographic material in the SEPP
### G.2.2.1 Misusing cryptographic material of peer SEPPs and IPX providers
_\- Threat name:_ Misusing cryptographic material of peer SEPPs and IPX
providers
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Spoofing identity, Tampering of
Data, Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : There are following threats if cryptographic
material of peer SEPPs and cryptographic material of IPX providers are not
clearly differentiated and misused:
\- The SEPP using the wrong cryptographic material will lead to the failure of
N32-c TLS connection establishment with the peer SEPP; or lead to rejecting
genuine N32-f JSON patches from an authentic intermediate IPX provider. This
can result in service interruption as well as waste of system resources.
\- The SEPP will wrongly accept forged N32-f JSON patches signed by a peer
SEPP, which maliciously impersonates an intermediate IPX provider. This can
result in service data tampering as well as waste of system resources.
\- The SEPP will wrongly establish N32-c TLS connection with an intermediate
IPX entity, which maliciously impersonates a peer SEPP. This can result in
information disclosure as well as waste of system resources.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SEPP Application, N32-c, N32-f, Application layer
security data, Sufficient Processing Capacity
### G.2.2.2 Misusing cryptographic material beyond connection-specific scope
_\- Threat name:_ Misusing cryptographic material beyond connection-specific
scope
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Tampering of Data, Information
Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : There are following threats if the SEPP
authenticates N32-f message modifications using the cryptographic material
from an IPX provider which was not exchanged as part of the _IPX security
information list_ via the related N32-c connection:
\- The SEPP using the wrong cryptographic material will lead to failed
authentication of N32-f message modifications signed by the authentic IPX
provider, who is a part of the related N32-c connection. This can result in
service interruption as well as waste of system resources.
\- The SEPP will wrongly accept N32-f JSON patches signed by an IPX provider,
who is a part of a different N32-c connection. This can result in service data
tampering as well as waste of system resources.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SEPP Application, N32-c, N32-f, Sufficient Processing
Capacity
## G.2.3 Threats related to error handling in the SEPP
### G.2.3.1 Incorrect handling for PLMN ID mismatch
_\- Threat name:_ Incorrect handling for PLMN ID mismatch
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Information Disclosure, Spoofing
Identity
_\- Threat Description_ : there are following threats if the SEPP does not
make correct handling when detecting that the PLMN-ID contained in the
incoming N32-f message does not match the PLMN-ID in the related N32-f
context:
\- Without receiving error signalling message from the SEPP which detected the
mismatch, the peer SEPP is not aware of such error and will continue to send
the messages with errors. This can result in waste of system resources.
\- If the SEPP sends an error signalling message without indicating the error
cause and the corresponding N32-f message ID, the peer SEPP is not able to
identify what error occurs and what is the source message on which the error
occurs. Hence the peer SEPP is not able to take actions accordingly. This can
result in service interruption as well as waste of system resources.
\- The serving PLMN ID appended in the subject claim of the access token sent
by a NF service consumer in the serving PLMN will not be checked by the NF
service producer in the home PLMN. If the SEPP in the HPLMN detected the
mismatch of serving PLMN ID in the access token but still forwards the NF
Service Request to the NF service producer, the serving PLMN ID mismatch will
not be detected by the NF service producer and the request will be wrongly
accepted if all the other checks on the access token get passed. This can
result in unauthorized service access by NF service consumer as well as waste
of system resources.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Application layer security data, Sufficient Processing
Capacity
### G.2.3.2 Incorrect handling for protection policies mismatch
_\- Threat name:_ Incorrect handling for protection policies mismatch
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure. Tampering of Data, Denial of
Service
_\- Threat Description_ :
For the following threats if the SEPP cannot detect the mismatch between the
policies received on N32-c connection from a specific roaming partner and the
policies manually configured on it for this specific roaming partner and IPX
provider:
\- The policies received on N32-c connection from a peer SEPP could be
tampered by an attacker, which is however not detected. Or the policies
manually configured on the SEPP could be misconfigured, which is however not
detected.
a) If Data-type encryption policies are tampered or misconfigured, the IEs on
N32-f which shall be encrypted may be disclosed due to policy tampering. This
can result in information disclosure.
b) If Modification policies are tampered or misconfigured, the IEs on N32-f
which cannot be modified/added/removed by IPX provider may be tampered. This
can result in tampering of data.
\- As the data-type encryption policies in the two partner SEPPs are not
equal, a consistent ciphering of IEs on N32-f cannot be enforced.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Protection policies, SEPP Application, Sufficient
Processing Capacity
## G.2.4 Threats related to sensitive information exposure
### G.2.4.1 Weak JWS algorithm
_\- Threat name:_ Use of weak JWS algorithm.
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure.
_\- Threat Description_ : There are multiple standard signature algorithms
defined for JWS, among which some algorithms may be considered weaker than the
others. If an IPX entity is misconfigured, a weak cryptographic algorithm can
be used to sign the modifiedDataToIntegrityProtect JSON object, which is more
prone to attacks. If the SEPP does not follow the restriction on the signature
algorithm for JWS operation as required (using only ES256), it can be exposed
to the threat described in clause 5.3.6.3. This can result in sensitive
information exposure.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SEPP Application.
### G.2.4.2 Exposure of confidential IEs in N32-f message
_\- Threat name:_ Exposure of confidential IEs in N32-f message.
_\- Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure.
_\- Threat Description_ : the following behaviours may lead to exposure of
confidential IEs in N32-message, which can result in information disclosure:
\- ▪ if the SEPP does not correctly replace the cleartext representations of
information elements requiring encryption with the value \"encBlockIdx\",
there is the threat that the sensitive information in original N32-f messages
may be exposed to IPX providers in the path or any other parties eavesdropping
on the connection between roaming partners.
\- ▪ if the SEPP does not correctly apply the basic validation rule and verify
that an intermediate IPX has not inserted an IE requiring encryption at a
different location in a JSON object, there is the threat that a misbehaving or
compromised intermediate IPX can copy the encrypted IE into a cleartext IE in
a request. Then the receiving SEPP decrypts the encrypted IE and puts its
value into the cleartext IE field, resulting in the confidential IEs in N32-f
message being exposed in the clear.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SEPP Application, Service Messages to be sent/received
over N32.
## G.2.5 Threats related to TLS protection between NF and SEPP
### G.2.5.1 Inter-PLMN routing using the incorrect reference
_\- Threat name:_ Inter-PLMN routing using the incorrect reference
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : TLS protection between the SEPP and NFs within a
PLMN may rely on using telescopic FQDN or 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header. When
telescopic FQDN is used between the NF and the SEPP, the NF shall use a
telescopic FQDN in the Request URI of the HTTP Request to convey the target
apiRoot to the SEPP. When 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header is used between the
NF and the SEPP, the NF shall use the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot HTTP header in
the HTTP Request to convey the target apiRoot to the SEPP. However, there may
be the case that a potentially malicious or misbehaving NF would include both
the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header and a request URI containing a telescopic
FQDN when communicating with the SEPP. In this case, the SEPP is given two
references for routing the NF request across PLMN. According to TS 33.501 [26]
clause 13.1.1.1, when communication between the NF and the SEPP that generated
the telescopic FQDN is based on using 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header, the NF
needs to use the telescopic FQDN in the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header of the
HTTP Request. That means whenever the telescopic FQDN is available on the NF,
it shall be used to convey the target apiRoot to the SEPP. If a malicious or
misbehaving NF includes a 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header containing an element
different than the telescopic FQDN contained in the Request URI and the SEPP
ignores the telescopic FQDN but uses the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header to
route the request, the NF request will not be correctly routed. This can
result in Denial of Service and Information Disclosure.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SEPP Application, Service Messages to be sent/received
over N32.
### G.2.5.2 Tampering of Target API Root
_\- Threat name:_ Tampering of target API root
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Information Disclosure
_\- Threat Description_ : TLS protection between the SEPP and NFs within a
PLMN may rely on using telescopic FQDN or 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header.
Security mechanism negotiated between the SEPPs can be TLS security or PRINS
security, and PRINS security shall be used if there are IPX entities on the
path between the SEPPs. When PRINS security is used between the SEPPs and
3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header is used between the NF and the SEPP, the HTTP
Request from the NF received by the SEPP will include the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-
apiRoot header, which is set to the apiRoot of the target NF. If the sending
SEPP forwards the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header together with the HTTP
Request on the N32-f interface, there are potentially two threats:
> \- Even if both negotiating SEPPs support the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot custom
> HTTP header, the IPX entities on the path between the SEPPs may possibly not
> support this custom HTTP header, which will lead to failed message
> transmission. This can result in Denial of Service.
>
> \- Even if all the IPX entities on the path between the SEPPs support the
> 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot custom HTTP header, the apiRoot of the target NF in
> the 3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot header could be potentially modified by a
> malicious IPX entity, which will lead to the message delivery to the
> incorrect target. This can result in Information Disclosure and Denial of
> Service.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SEPP Application, Service Messages to be sent/received
over N32.
###### ### Annex H: Aspects specific to the network product class NRF
# H.1 Network product class description for the NRF
## H.1.1 Introduction
The present document captures the network product class descriptions, threats
and critical assets that have been identified in the course of the work on
3GPP security assurance specifications. The main body of the present document
contains generic aspects that are believed to apply to more than one network
product class, while this clause covers the aspects specific to the NRF
network product class.
## H.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the NRF network product class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. Therefore, in
order to define the NRF network product class, it is necessary to define the
common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities that is constitutive for a NRF. As
part of the NRF network product, it is expected that the NRF contains NRF
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the NRF functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the NRF network product model. Functionalities specific to the NRF network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.518 [15].
Note: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of functions contained in clause 6.2.6 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# H.2 Assets and threats specific to the NRF
## H.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the NRF to be protected are:
\- NRF Application;
\- NF profile of available NF instances: e.g. NF instance ID, NF type, PLMN
ID, network slice related identifiers, FQND or IP address of NF, NF capacity
information, NF priority information, Names of supported services, NF Specific
Service authorization information, Location information for the NF instance,
etc., as described in clause 6.2.6 of TS 23.501 [8].
\- OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens for NF-NF authorization;
\- The interfaces of NRF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service Based Interfaces to other NFs.
\- N27.
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on NRF.
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between NRF and OAM system.
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the NRF network product class are described
in clause 4.3.6 of the present document.
\- NRF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: NRF files could be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, NRF application, NF profile of available NF
instances, OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens, or NRF Software.
## H.2.2 Threats related to NRF authorization
### H.2.2.1 No slice specific authorization for NF discovery
\- _Threat name_ : No slice specific authorization for NF discovery.
\- _Threat Category_ : Information Disclosure, Elevation of privilege.
\- _Threat Description:_ If NF discovery authorization for specific slice is
not supported by the NRF, the NF instance in one slice can discover NF
instances belonging to other slices. This can result in reduced assurance
level of slice data isolation, making the system easily attacked as well as
wasting resource.
\- _Threatened asset:_ NF profile of available NF instances.
###### ### Annex I: Aspects specific to the network product class NEF
# I.1 Network product class description for the NEF
### I.1.1 Introduction
This annex captures the aspects specific to network product class NEF.
## I.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the NEF network product class
As part of the NEF network product, it is expected that the NEF to contain NEF
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the NEF functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the NEF network product model. Functionalities specific to the NEF network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.519 [16].
Note: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of NEF functions contained in clause 6.2.5 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# I.2 Assets and threats specific to the NEF
# I.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the NEF to be protected are:
\- NEF Application;
\- NF and User Data: e.g. NF capabilities and events, network and user
sensitive information (e.g. DNN, S-NSSAI, etc.), structured data retrieved
from UDR, 5G LAN group information, NWDAF analytics, etc.
\- The interfaces of NEF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service based interface, Nnef, for providing services to SMF, and AF
\- Service based interface for consuming services from AMF, UDM, PCF, SMF,
UDR, Binding Support Function, NRF
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on NEF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between NEF and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the NEF class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- NEF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: NEF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, NEF application, NF and User data, or NEF
Software.
## I.2.2 Threats related to NEF assets
### I.2.2.1 No authentication on application function
_**-** Threat name:_ No Authentication on application function
_**-** Threat Category:_ Information Disclosure, tampering
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the authentication of the Application Function
is not supported, the application function without a legal certificates, or
pre-shared key could be able to establish a TLS connection with the NEF. The
data stored in the NEF may be exposed to an attacker.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ NF and User Data
### I.2.2.2 No authorization on northbound APIs
_**-** Threat name:_ No Authorization on northbound APIs
_**-** Threat Category:_ Elevation of Privilege, Information Disclosure
_**-** Threat Description:_ A malicious AF without OAuth-based authorization
or with an incorrect access token may invoke the NEF services arbitrarily. For
example, an attacker may invoke the Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe service
provide by the NEF without authorization. The Event data related with this
subscribe will be leaked to the attacker.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity, NF and User Data
###### ### Annex J: Aspects specific to the network product class SMF
# J.1 Network product class description for the SMF
### J.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the SMF network product class.
## J.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the SMF network product class
As part of the SMF network product, it is expected that the SMF to contain SMF
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the SMF functions and OAM functions that is specific
to the SMF network product model. Functionalities specific to the SMF network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.511 [6].
Note: For the purposes of the present Annex, this common set is defined to be
the list of SMF functions contained in 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# J.2 Assets and threats specific to the SMF
# J.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the SMF to be
protected are:
\- SMF Application;
\- Session related data (e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. SUPI), APN name,
UE\'s IP address, QoS, etc.), network usage, charging data record, charging
ID, etc.) ,
\- User plane data,
\- The interfaces of SMF to be protected and which are within SCAS scope:
> \- Service based interface, Nsmf, for providing services to AMF, AF, NEF,
> and SMF
>
> \- Service based interface for consuming services from UDM, AMF, PCF, NEF
> NRF, UDSF, CHF, and SMF
\- N4 interface
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on SMF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between SMF and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the SMF class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- SMF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: SMF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, SMF application, Mobility Management data or SMF
Software.
## J.2.2 Threats related to SMF assets
### J.2.2.1 Priority of UP security policy
_**-** Threat name:_ Non-compliant UP security policy handling
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Information Disclosure,
_**-** Threat Description:_ It is required that user Plane Security Policy
from UDM takes precedence over locally configured User Plane Security Policy
in SMF. If SMF fails to comply with the requirement, user plane security may
be degraded. For example, if the UP security policy from the UDM mandates the
ciphering and integrity protection of the user plane data, but no protection
is indicated in the local UP security policy at the SMF, and the local UP
security policy takes the priority, then the user plane data will be sent over
the air without any protection.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ User plane data
### J.2.2.2 TEID uniqueness failure
_**-** Threat name:_ Failure to assign unique TEID for a session
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Denial of Service, Information
disclosure, Spoofing Identity
_**-** Threat Description:_ TEID, as part of the CN Tunnel information, is
used by the UPF and gNB/ng-eNB for user plane routing. The failure to
guarantee the uniqueness of the TEID for a PDU session result in interruption
of the routing of the user traffic. It also create charging errors. If
multiple PDU sessions were to share the same TEID at the same time, the counts
for the network usage of a single PDU session will be in fact the counts for
the network usage of multiple sessions, creating charging errors.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Session related data
### J.2.2.3 Charging ID Uniqueness failure
_**-** Threat name:_ Failure to assign unique Charging ID for a session.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Information disclosure
_**-** Threat Description:_ At the SMF if more than one PDU session were to
share the same charging ID, the charging information for a PDU session would
be wrongly correlated, creating charging errors.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Session related data
### J.2.2.3 UP security policy check
_**-** Threat name:_ Unchecked UP security policy
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering data, Information disclosure
_**-** Threat Description:_ It is required that the SMF verifies that the UP
security policy received from the ng-eNB/gNB is the same as that stored
locally at the SMF. If the SMF fails to check, security degradation of UP
traffic may occur. For example, if the UP security policy received from the
ng-eNB/gNB indicates no security protection, while the local policy mandates
the opposite, and SMF uses the received UP security policy without validation,
then the user plane data will be unprotected.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ User plane data
###### ### Annex K: Aspects specific to the network product class AMF
# K.1 Network product class description for the AMF
## K.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the AMF network product class.
## K.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the AMF network product class
As part of the AMF network product, it is expected that the AMF to contain AMF
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the AMF functions and OAM functions that is specific
to the AMF network product model. Functionalities specific to the AMF network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.512 [22].
NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of AMF functions contained in clause 6.2.5 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# K.2 Assets and threats specific to the AMF
## K.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP as described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the AMF to be protected are:
\- AMF Application;
\- Mobility Management data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. SUCI),
subscriber keys (I.e. K~NASenc~, K~NASint~, NH), authentication parameters,
address of serving gNB, APN name, data related to mobility management like UE
status, UE\'s IP address, etc., session management like PDN type, QoS and so
on, or node selection and routing selection, e.g. IP address of UE related
UPF, selected routing connection based on UE\'s identity, etc.
\- The interfaces of AMF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope: for
example
\- Service based interface, Namf, for providing services to SMF, AUSF, NEF,
PCF, GMLC, SMSF, LMF and UDM
\- Service based interface for consuming services from NSSF, SMF, LMF, SMSF,
PCF, 5G-EIR, UDM, AUSF, and NRF
\- Reference point interfaces:
> \- N1.
>
> \- N2.
>
> \- N26.
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on AMF.
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between AMF and OAM system.
> NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the AMF class are described in clause 4,
> Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- AMF Software: binary code or executable code.
NOTE 2: AMF files could be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non
root users), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, AMF application, Mobility Management data or AMF
Software.
## K.2.2 Threats related to AKA procedures
### K.2.2.1 Resynchronization
\- Threat name: Resynchronization
\- Threat Category: Denial of Service
\- Threat Description: If RAND and AUTS are not included when synchronization
fails, the resynchronization procedure does not work correctly. This can
result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the
system.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
### K.2.2.2 Failed Integrity check of Initial Registration message
\- Threat name: Failed integrity check of Initial Registration message
\- Threat Category: Denial of Service
\- Threat Description: If integrity check of attach message fails, a user
identity cannot be verified. This can result in waste of system resources and
deny a legitimate user access to the system.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
### K.2.2.3 RES* verification failure
\- Threat name: RES* verification failure
\- Threat Category: Denial of Service
\- Threat Description: If a malicious UE initiates a registration request
using a SUCI and this request is followed by primary authentication in which
an incorrect RES* is sent to the network, then the RES* verification will
fail. In this case, if the RES* verification failure is not handled correctly,
e.g., AMF/SEAF does not reject the registration request directly, or initiates
a new authentication procedure with the UE, this would result in waste of
system resources.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
## K.2.3 Threats related to security mode command procedure
### K.2.3.1 Bidding Down
\- Threat name: Bidding down
\- Threat Category: Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
\- Threat Description: If SMC does not include the complete initial NAS
message if either requested by the AMF or the UE sent the initial NAS message
unprotected, the UE can force the system to reduce the security level by using
weaker security algorithms or turning security off, making the system easily
attacked and/or compromised.
\- Threatened Asset: User account data and credentials
### K.2.3.2 NAS integrity selection and use
\- Threat name: NAS integrity selection and use
\- Threat Category: Tampering of data, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service
\- Threat Description: If NAS does not use the highest priority algorithm, NAS
layer risks being exposed and/or modified or being exposed to denial of
service.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity, Control plane signalling
### K.2.3.3 NAS NULL integrity protection
\- Threat name: NAS NULL integrity protection
\- Threat Category: Elevation of Privilege
\- Threat Description: If NAS NULL integrity protection is used outside of
emergency call scenarios, an attacker can initiate unauthenticated non-
emergency calls.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
### K.2.3.4 NAS confidentiality protection
\- Threat name: NAS confidentiality protection
\- Threat Category: Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service
\- Threat Description: If security mode complete message is not
confidentiality protected, the AMF cannot be certain that the SMC is executed
correctly. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate
user access to the system.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
## K.2.4 Threats related to security in Intra-RAT mobility
### K.2.4.1 Bidding down on Xn-Handover
\- Threat name: Bidding down on Xn-Handover
\- Threat Category: Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
\- Threat Description: If AMF cannot verify that the 5G security capabilities
received from source gNB via the target gNB are the same as the UE security
capabilities that the AMF has stored, the source gNB may force the system to
accept a weaker security algorithm than the system is allowed forcing the
system into a lowered security level making the system easily attacked and/or
compromised.
\- Threatened Asset: User account data and credentials
### K.2.4.2 NAS integrity protection algorithm selection in AMF change
\- Threat name: NAS integrity protection algorithm selection in AMF change
\- Threat Category: Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
\- Threat Description: If the highest priority NAS integrity protection is not
selected by the new AMF in AMF change, the new AMF could end up using a weaker
algorithm forcing the system into a lowered security level making thee system
easily attacked and/or compromised.
\- Threatened Asset: User account data and credential
## K.2.5 Threats related to release of non-emergency bearer
\- Threat name: Release of non-emergency bearer
\- Threat Category: Denial of Service
\- Threat Description: If authentication fails in the AMF and the non-
emergency bearer is not released, the UE can continue receiving unauthorized
call, wasting valuable system resources.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity
## K.2.6 Threats related to initial registration procedure
### K.2.6.1 Invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities
\- Threat name: Invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities
\- Threat Category: Tampering of Data, Information Disclosure
\- Threat Description: A flawed AMF implementation accepting insecure or
invalid UE security capabilities may put User Plane and Control Plane traffic
at risk, without the operator being aware of it. If NULL ciphering algorithm
and/or NULL integrity protection algorithm of the UE security capabilities is
accepted by the AMF, all the subsequent NAS, RRC, and UP messages will not be
confidentiality and/or integrity protected. The attacker can easily intercept
or tamper control plane data and the user plane data. This can result in
information disclosure as well as tampering of data.
\- Threatened Asset: User account data and credentials, Mobility Management
data
## K.2.7 Threats related to 5G-GUTI allocation
### K.2.7.1 Failure to allocate new 5G-GUTI
\- Threat name: Failure to allocate new 5G-GUTI.
\- Threat Category: Information Disclosure.
\- Threat Description: If a new 5G-GUTI is not allocated by AMF in certain
registration scenarios (i.e. after receiving Registration Request message of
type \"initial registration\", or Registration Request message of type
\"mobility registration update\", or Service Request message sent by the UE in
response to a Paging message), an attacker could keep on tracking the user
using the old 5G-GUTI after these registration procedures. For a CIOT UE in
idle state with suspend indication, even though the UE will not initiate
Service Request after receiving a paging message, if a new 5G-GUTI is not
allocated, the attacker can replay the paging message multiple times, and
based on the responding messages the attacker could still be able to track the
UE.
\- Threatened Asset: Mobility Management data.
## K.2.8 NAS based redirection from 5GS to EPS in 5G CIoT
_\- Threat name:_ NAS based redirection from 5GS to EPS
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Information disclosure.
_\- Threat Description_ : In NAS based redirection from 5GS to EPS in 5G CIoT
, when a UE initiates registration procedure with the AMF, the AMF may
redirect the UE from 5GC to EPC with a Registration Reject message sent to the
UE, and if the Registration Reject message with an EMM cause which indicates
to the UE that the UE shall not use 5GC is not protected, the attacker can
modify the cause and the UE will try to connect to the EPS. This will lead to
a bidding down attack to the UE.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capability, N1 interface,
Mobility Management data.
## K.2.9 Threat related to Security for 5G CIoT
### K.2.9.1 Failed Verification of UE Identity during RRC Reestablishment
Procedure for CP CIoT 5GS Optimization
_\- Threat name:_ failed Verification of UE Identity during RRC
Reestablishment Procedure for CP CIoT 5GS Optimization
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service.
_\- Threat Description_ : If veritification of UE using CP CIoT 5GS
Optimization during RRC Reestablishment procedure fails, a user identity
cannot be verified. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a
legitimate user access to the system. In addition, if the AMF does not
correctly indicate the ng-eNB result of veritication, an unlegal UE may
successfully re-establish on the ng-eNB, and result in waste of system
resources.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity.
## K.2.10 Threats related to session establishment procedure
### K.2.10.1 Incorrect validation of S-NSSAIs
\- _Threat name_ : Incorrect Validation of S-NSSAIs.
\- _Threat category_ : Elevation of Privilege.
\- _Threat Description_ : After the successful network slice-specific
authentication and authorization, there will be an Allowed NSSAI list both in
UE and AMF. Then, the UE will initiate the PDU session establishment request
with the requested S-NSSAIs included. If the AMF does not verify whether the
received S-NSSAIs is within the Allowed NSSAI list stored at the AMF, an
attacker can still include the rejected S-NSSAIs in the request and access the
slice after it fails the NSSAA procedure.
_\- Threatened Asset:_ Mobility management data, sufficient processing
capacity.
###### ### Annex L: Aspects specific to the network product class UPF
# L.1 Network product class description for the UPF
## L.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the UPF network product class.
NOTE: Operators can deploy UPF(s) supporting the Inter PLMN User Plane
Security (IPUPS) functionality at the border of their network as specified in
TS 23.501[26] clause 5.8.2.14.
## L.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the UPF network product class
As part of the UPF network product, it is expected that the UPF contains UPF
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the UPF functions and OAM functions that are specific
to the UPF network product model. Functionalities specific to the UPF network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.513 [18].
Note: For the purposes of the present Annex, this common set is defined to be
the list of functions contained in clause 6.2.3 in 3GPP TS 23.501 [8].
# L.2 Assets and threats specific to the UPF
## L.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the UPF to be
protected are:
\- UPF Application;
\- User plane data;
\- Session related data, e.g. CN Tunnel information, packet detection rules,
network usage, traffic detection information, and etc.;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for N3, N4 and N9 interfaces
\- The interfaces of the UPF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- N3 interface between the UPF and the gNB/ng-eNB
\- N4 interface between the UPF and the SMF
\- N6 interface between the UPF and the DN
\- N9 interface between two UPFs
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the UPF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the UPF and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the UPF class are described in clause 4 of
the present document.
\- UPF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: UPF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, UPF application, user plane security mechanism,
or cryptographic materials.
## L.2.2 Threats related to user plane data transport
_**-** Threat name:_ No protection or weak protection for user plane data.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering, Information Disclosure.
_**-** Threat Description:_ User traffic is transported between the gNB/ng-eNB
and the UPF via N3 interface, or between two UPFs within a PLMN via N9
interface. If the user traffic transported over the interfaces is not
confidentiality protected, it can be subject to eavesdropping. Information is
leaked to unauthorized parties. If the user traffic is not integrity
protected, attackers can tamper with user traffic at will. The receiver of the
user traffic obtain false user traffic. If the user traffic is not replay
protected, attackers can insert historical legitimate user traffic. This can
lead to false network usage reported by the UPF, and consequently resulting in
billing fraudulence.
If the protection implemented for the user plane data transported over the N3
interface and the N9 interface within a PLMN uses the wrong security profile,
which may contain weak security algorithms or protocol versions known to be
vulnerable, the level of the security of the user plane data may be degraded
and fail to fulfil the required security.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ User plane data.
## L.2.3 Threats related to signalling data
_**-** Threat name:_ No protection or weak protection for signalling data over
N4 interface
_**-** Threat Category:_ Denial of service, tampering.
_**-** Threat Description:_ SMF controls the user plane path of PDU sessions
through N4 interfaces. If the signalling data over N4 interface is not
protected e.g. against tampering, the user traffic may be wrongly routed and
fail to arrive at the intended recipient. This can create Denial of Service.
To support billing, UPF reports network usage to SMF over N4 interface.
Unprotected network usage report can lead to billing fraud.
If the protection implemented for the signalling data over the N4 interface
uses the wrong security profile, which may contain weak security algorithms or
protocol versions known to be vulnerable, the security level of the signalling
data transported over N4 interface may be degraded and fail to fulfil the
required security.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ session related data.
## L.2.4 Threats related to TEID
_**-** Threat name:_ Failure to assign unique TEID for a session.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering.
_**-** Threat Description:_ TEID, as part of the CN Tunnel information, is
used by the UPF and gNB/ng-eNB for user plane routing. The failure to
guarantee the uniqueness of the TEID for a PDU session interrupts the routing
of user traffic. It also interrupts charging. If multiple PDU sessions were to
share the same TEID at the same time, the counts for the network usage of a
single PDU session will be in fact the counts for the network usage of
multiple sessions, creating charging errors.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ session related data.
## L.2.5 Threats related to user plane data forwarding
_**-** Threat name:_ invalid user plane data forwarding.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service.
_**-** Threat Description: User plane traffic is transported between UPFs over
the N9 interface. If the UPF with IPUPS functionality fails to discard GTP-U
packets that do not belong to any active PDU sessions, routing of user plane
traffic could be interrupted or Denial of Service attacks to the network could
be possible.This threat only applies if the UPF implements the IPUPS
functionality._
**-** _Threatened Asset_ : User plane data.
## L.2.6 Threats related to malformed GTP-U messages
\- Threat name: Threats of malformed GTP-U messages.
\- Threat Category: Denial of service.
\- Threat Description: Malicious sender may send malformed GTP-U messages to a
victim UPF with IPUPS functionality. If the malformed GTP-U messages are not
filtered, they may consume the processing resource of the victim UPF with
IPUPS functionality, and even cause the victim UPF functionality to crash,
causing denial of service attack.
\- Threatened Asset: Sufficient Processing Capacity.
###### ### Annex M: Aspects specific to the network product class N3IWF
# M.1 Threat to send EAP-Identity Request by N3IWF
_\- Threat name:_ N3IWF sends EAP-Identity Request
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of service.
_\- Threat Description_ : EAP-5G is used between UE and N3IWF. As specificed
in TS 33.501[14], the N3IWF shall refrain from sending an EAP-Identity
request. The UE may ignore an EAP Identity request or respond with the SUCI it
sent in the Registration Request. This means if the N3IWF happens to send an
EAP-Identity Request to the UE, the N3IWF shall not look forward an EAP-
Identity Reply. This is different from normal EAP framework. If the N3IWF
behaves the same as normal EAP framework, the N3IWF will wait for a reply till
time expires. This may casue the UE cannot access to the network via an N3IWF.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP services.
###### ### Annex N: Aspects specific to the network product class NWDAF
# N.1 Network product class description for the NWDAF
## N.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the NWDAF network product class.
## N.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the NWDAF network product class
As part of the NWDAF network product, it is expected that the NWDAF to contain
NWDAF application (for data analysis), a set of running processes (typically
more than one) executing the software package for the NWDAF functions and OAM
functions that is specific to the NWDAF network product model. Functionalities
specific to the NWDAF network product introduce additional threats and/or
critical assets as described below. Related security requirements and test
cases have been captured in TS 33.521 [23].
> NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined
> to be the list of NWDAF functions contained in clause 6.2.18 of 3GPP TS
> 23.501 [8].
# N.2 Assets and threats specific to the NWDAF
## N.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the NWDAF to be protected
are:
\- NWDAF Application;
\- Collected Data from NFs: e.g. part of mobility management data as depicted
in clause K.2.1 collected from AMF, part of Session related data, user plane
data as depicted in clause J.2.1 collected from SMF, part of user subscription
data as depicted in clause E.2.1 collected from UDM, part of NF and User Data
as depicted in clause I.2.1 collected from NEF, data collectd from NRF, PCF,
AF and OAM, etc.
\- The interfaces of NWDAF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service based interface, Nnwdaf, for providing services to AMF, SMF, NEF,
PCF, NSSF, OAM and AF.
\- Service based interface for consuming services from AMF, SMF, UDM, PCF,
NRF, NEF and AF.
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on NWDAF
\- OAM interface, for remote access and data collection: interface between
NWDAF and OAM system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the NWDAF class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- NWDAF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: NWDAF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root uses), including User account data and credentials, Log data,
configuration data, OS files, NWDAF application, Collected Data from NFs or
NWDAF Software.
## N.2.2 Void
###### ### Annex O: Aspects specific to the IMS network product classes
# O.1 Network product class description for the IMS
## O.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the IMS network products with
specific threats.
## O.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the IMS network product classes
As part of the IMS network products, it is expected that the IMS network
product classes (e.g. P-CSCF) contains IMS network product classes
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the IMS network product functions and OAM functions
that are specific to the IMS network product model. Functionalities specific
to the IMS network product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets
as described below. Related security requirements and test cases have been
captured in TS 33.226 [25].
Note: For the purposes of the present Annex, this common set is defined to be
the list of functions contained in clause 4.0 in 3GPP TS 23.228 [24].
# O.2 Assets and threats specific to the P-CSCF
## O.2.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the P-CSCF to be
protected are:
\- P-CSCF Application;
\- IMS signalling;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Gm, Mw, Mx, and Iq
interfaces
\- The interfaces of the P-CSCF to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Gm interface between the P-CSCF and UE
\- Mw interface between the P-CSCF and the C-CSCF/I-CSCF
\- Mx interface between the P-CSCF and IBCF
\- Iq interface between the P-CSCF and IMS AGW
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the P-CSCF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the P-CSCF and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the P-CSCF class are described in clause 4
of the present document.
\- P-CSCF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: P-CSCF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, P-CSCF application, user plane security
mechanism, or cryptographic materials.
## O.2.2 Threats related to set-up of security associations
### O.2.2.1 High-priority algorithm selection
\- Threat name: High-priority algorithm selection
\- Threat Category: Tampering of data, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service
\- Threat Description: If the P‑CSCF does not select the highest priority
algorithm combination on its own list which is also supported by the UE to
protect the messages between the P‑CSCF and the UE, the P‑CSCF could end up
using a weaker algorithm forcing the system into a lowered security level
making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling
### O.2.2.2 Bidding down on security association set-up
\- Threat name: Bidding down on security association set-up
\- Threat Category: Tampering of data, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service
\- Threat Description: If the P‑CSCF does not check whether the integrity and
encryption algorithms list, SPI_P and Port_P received in SM7 is identical with
the corresponding parameters sent in SM6, and check whether SPI_U and Port_U
received in SM7 are identical with those received in SM1, the attacker can
force the system to reduce the security level by tampering the integrity and
encryption algorithms list. Then, weaker security algorithms may be selected,
which will make the system easily attacked. Tampering the SPI will cause the
negotiated SA cannot be indexed. As a result, the following security
association fails to be established, leading to Denial of Service attack. The
port number is generally used to identify different applications. Tampering
the Port_P number by the attacker will cause messages to be sent to the UE or
P-CSCF through the tampered port. These messages including some sensitive
parameters may be leaked to another application, which is not intended to
receive this message.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling, security data
## O.2.3 Threats related to IMS signalling transport
_**-** Threat name:_ No protection or weak protection for IMS signalling data.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Tampering, Information Disclosure.
_**-** Threat Description:_ The following behaviours may lead to bidding down
attacks
\- If the protection implemented for the IMS signalling over Gm interface uses
the wrong security profile, which may contain weak security algorithms or
protocol versions known to be vulnerable, the level of the security of the IMS
signalling data may be degraded and fail to fulfil the required security.
\- If the P-CSCF policy requires confidentiality, then all UEs with no
encryption support would be denied access to the IMS network. For example, if
the UE sends the NULL encryption algorithm to the P-CSCF in SM1, and the SM1
message is not denied by the P-CSCF, the following negotiated SA between UE
and P-CSCF may be established without confidentiality protection, which
disobeys the P-CSCF policy requiring confidentiality. Hence, the following IMS
signalling data will be leaked.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ IMS signalling data.
## O.2.4 Threats related to SPI allocation
_**-** Threat name:_ Same SPIs between UE and P-CSCF.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Information disclosure, Denial of service.
_**-** Threat Description:_ If the P-CSCF selects the same SPIs as received in
the _Security-setup-line_ from the UE, the attacker could reflect the old
messages back to P-CSCF. Since the UE and the P-CSCF use the same key for
inbound and outbound traffic, the P-CSCF will decrypt the reflected messages
correctly with the same key, and perform the following operation accordingly.
Hence, the P-CSCF will suffer reflection attacks. The information may leak
within the response message as required by the reflected message, or the
ongoing services may be interrupted. The attack is also applicable on the UE
side.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ IMS signalling, P-CSCF application.
# O.3 Assets and threats specific to the S-CSCF
## O.3.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the S-CSCF to be
protected are:
\- S-CSCF Application;
\- IMS signalling;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mw, Mx, Mm, Mg, ISC, Cx,
Dx, Mr, and Mi interfaces
\- The interfaces of the S-CSCF to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mw interface between the S-CSCF and I-CSCF/P-CSCF
\- Mx interface between the S-CSCF and IBCF
\- Mm interface between the S-CSCF and IP multimedia network
\- Mg interface between the S-CSCF and MGCF
\- ISC interface between the S-CSCF and AS
\- Cx interface between the S-CSCF and HSS
\- Dx interface between the S-CSCF and SLF
\- Mr interface between the S-CSCF and MRFC
\- Mi interface between the S-CSCF and BGCF
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the P-CSCF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the P-CSCF and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the S-CSCF class are described in clause 4
of the present document.
\- S-CSCF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: S-CSCF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, S-CSCF application, user plane security
mechanism, or cryptographic materials.
## O.3.2 Threats related to de-registration during the authentication
_**-** Threat name:_ No de-registration during the authentication.
_**-** Threat Category:_ Denial-of-service attack.
_**-** Threat Description:_ Assume that a legal UE has already been registered
into the IMS network with the IMPU. An attacker could try to register an
already registered IMPU and respond with an incorrect authentication response
in order to make the HN de-register the IMPU of the legal UE. In this case,
the legal UE will be de-registered in the HSS. Therefore, the attacker could
open up a potential denial-of-service attack deny a legitimate user access to
the system.
_**-** Threatened Asset:_ Sufficient Processing Capacity.
## O.3.3 Threats related to authenticated re-registration
### O.3.3.1 Unprotected register message
\- Threat name: Unprotected REGISTER messages
\- Threat Category: Tampering of data, Information Disclosure, Denial of
Service
\- Threat Description: If the S‑CSCF does not authenticate the user by means
of the AKA protocol in case of the UE sends unprotected REGISTER messages, the
attacker without a legal certificates, or pre-shared key could be able to
access the network. The data and resources stored in the network may be
exposed to an attacker, making the system easily attacked and/or compromised.
\- Threatened Asset: S-CSCF Application, Security data
### O.3.3.2 No resynchronization
  * _Threat name:_ No resynchronization
  * _Threat Reference_ : Denial of Service
  * _Threat Description_ : In the synchronization failure scenario, after receiving the CM4 message from HSS, the UE may not be able to access to the network if no new authentication procedure is triggered by the S-CSCF, i.e. the UE is given no opportunity to resynchronize with the network. This can result in waste of system resources and deny a legitimate user access to the system.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : Sufficient Processing Capacity
# O.4 Assets and threats specific to the I-CSCF
## O.4.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the I-CSCF to be
protected are:
\- I-CSCF Application
\- IMS signalling, the Address of the S‑CSCF, Charging data records
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mw, Cx, Mx, Ma, and Mm
interfaces
\- The interfaces of the I-CSCF to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mw interface between the I-CSCF and S-CSCF/P-CSCF
\- Cx interface between the I-CSCF and the HSS and SLF
\- Mx interface between the I-CSCF and the IBCF
\- Ma interface between the I-CSCF and AS
\- Mm interface between the I-CSCF and IP Multimedia Networks
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the I-CSCF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the I-CSCF and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the I-CSCF class are described in clause 4
of the present document.
\- I-CSCF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: I-CSCF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, I-CSCF application, user plane security
mechanism, or cryptographic materials.
## O.4.2 Threats related to network hiding
### O.4.2.1 encryption in network hiding
\- Threat name: Encryption in network hiding
\- Threat Category: Spoofing identity, Tampering of data, Information
Disclosure
\- Threat Description: In casse of the network hiding mechanism is used and
the operator policy states that the topology shall be hidden, if the
encryption of the hiding information elements is not performed when the I-CSCF
forwards SIP Request or Response messages outside the hiding network's domain,
and the decryption of the hiding information elements is not performed when
the I-CSCF receives a SIP Request or Response message from the outside of the
hiding network's domain, the identities of the SIP proxies and the topology of
the hiding network will not be protected, and an attacker can read or modify
these information elements.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling
# O.5 Assets and threats specific to the IBCF
## O.5.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the IBCF to be
protected are:
\- IBCF Application
\- IMS signalling, Network configuration hiding, Charging data records
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mx, Cs, Ix, and Ici
interfaces
\- The interfaces of the IBCF to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mx interface between the IBCF and S-CSCF/P-CSCF/I-CSCF/BGCF
\- Ms interface between the IBCF and the AS
\- Ix interface between the IBCF and the TrGW
\- Ici interface between the IBCF and IP Multimedia Networks
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the IBCF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the IBCF and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the IBCF class are described in clause 4 of
the present document.
\- IBCF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: IBCF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, IBCF application, user plane security mechanism,
or cryptographic materials.
## O.5.2 Threats related to network hiding
### O.5.2.1 encryption in network hiding
\- Threat name: Encryption in network hiding
\- Threat Category: Spoofing identity, Tampering of data, Information
Disclosure
\- Threat Description: In cases of the encryption of the hiding information as
network hiding mechanism is used and the operator policy states that the
topology shall be hidden, and the encryption of the hiding information
elements is not performed when the IBCF forwards SIP Request or Response
messages outside the hiding network's domain, and the decryption of the hiding
information elements is not performed when the IBCF receives a SIP Request or
Response message from the outside of the hiding network's domain, the
identities of the SIP proxies and the topology of the hiding network will not
be protected, and an attacker can read or modify these information elements.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling
### O.5.2.2 replacement in network hiding
\- Threat name: Replacement in network hiding
\- Threat Category: Spoofing identity, Tampering of data, Information
Disclosure
\- Threat Description: In cases of the replacement of the hiding information
as network hiding mechanism is used and the operator policy states that the
topology shall be hidden, and the hiding information elements are not replaced
to constant values when the IBCF forwards SIP Request or Response messages
outside the hiding network's domain, and the constant values are not replaced
to the hiding information elements when the IBCF receives a SIP Request or
Response message from the outside of the hiding network's domain, the
identities of the SIP proxies and the topology of the hiding network will not
be protected, and an attacker can read or modify these information elements.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling
# O.6 Assets and threats specific to the AS
## O.6.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the AS deployed in
the user's home network to be protected are:
\- AS Application
\- IM service data
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Ma, Ms, ISC, Rc, Cr, Sh,
and Dh interfaces
\- The interfaces of the IBCF to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Ma interface between the AS and I-CSCF
\- Ms interface between the AS and the IBCF
\- ISC interface between the AS and S-CSCF
\- Rc interface between the AS and MRB
\- Cr interface between the AS and MRFC
\- Sh interface between the AS and HSS
\- Dh interface between the AS and SLF
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the AS
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the AS and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the AS class are described in clause 4 of
the present document.
\- AS Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: AS files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, AS application, user plane security mechanism,
or cryptographic materials.
## O.6.2 Threats related to authorization
### O.6.2.1 No user authorization
\- Threat name: No user identity authorization
\- Threat Category: Elevation of privilege
\- Threat Description: It was described that once the AS have tried to verify
the identity of the user, the AS either has a verified identity of the user or
it considers the user as anonymous. If the AS configured that anonymous user
is not allowed, does not reject the anonymous service request, the attacker
could request functioanlity using the anonymous idenity without any
authorizaiton.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling, security data
### O.6.2.1 No ID privacy
\- Threat name: No ID privacy
\- Threat Category: Information Disclosure
\- Threat Description: It was described where privacy is required, in any
initial request for a dialog or request for a standalone transaction, the AS
shall set a display-name of the From header field to \"Anonymous\"and set an
addr-spec of the From header field to Anonymous User Identity. If the AS does
not set the ID to anonymous, the content of the From header field will be
leaked.
\- Threatened Asset: IMS signalling, security data
# O.7 Assets and threats specific to the MRFC
## O.7.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the MRFC to be
protected are:
\- MRFC Application
\- Media stream resource, Charging data records
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mp, Mr, and Cr/Mr'
interfaces
\- The interfaces of the MRFC to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mp interface between the MRFC and MRFP
\- Mr interface between the MRFC and the S-CSCF
\- Cr/Mr' interface between the MRFC and AS
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the MRFC
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the MRFC and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the MRFC class are described in clause 4 of
the present document.
\- MRFC Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: MRFC files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, MRFC application, user plane security mechanism,
or cryptographic materials.
# O.8 Assets and threats specific to the IMS AGW
## O.8.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the IMS AGW to be
protected are:
\- IMS AGW Application;
\- Media stream resource;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Iq and Mp interfaces
\- The interfaces of the IMS AGW to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Iq interface between the IMS AGW and P-CSCF
\- Mb interface between the IMS AGW and IMS MGW
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the IMS AGW
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the IMS AGW and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the IMS AGW class are described in clause 4
of the present document.
\- IMS AGW Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: IMS AGW files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, IMS AGW application, user plane security
mechanism, or cryptographic materials.
# O.9 Assets and threats specific to the MRFP
## O.9.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the MRFP to be
protected are:
\- MRFP Application
\- Media stream resource
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mp interface
\- The interfaces of the MRFP to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mp interface between the MRFC and MRFP
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the MRFP
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the MRFP and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the MRFP class are described in clause 4 of
the present document.
\- MRFP Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: MRFP files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, MRFP application, user plane security mechanism,
or cryptographic materials.
# O.10 Assets and threats specific to the IMS MGW
## O.10.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the IMS MGW to be
protected are:
\- IMS MGW Application;
\- Media stream resource;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mn, Mb, and CS interfaces
\- The interfaces of the IMS MGW to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mn interface between the IMS MGW and MGCF
\- Mb interface between the IMS MGW and MRFP/IMS AGW
\- CS interface between the IMS MGW and CS Network
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the IMS AGW
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the IMS MGW and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the IMS MGW class are described in clause 4
of the present document.
\- IMS MGW Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: IMS MGW files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, IMS MGW application, user plane security
mechanism, or cryptographic materials.
# O.11 Assets and threats specific to the TrGW
## O.11.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the TrGW to be
protected are:
\- TrGW Application;
\- Media stream resource;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Ix and Izi interfaces
\- The interfaces of the TrGW to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Ix interface between the TrGW and IBCF
\- Izi interface between the TrGW and IP Multimedia Network
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the TrGW
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the TrGW and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the TrGW class are described in clause 4 of
the present document.
\- TrGW Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: TrGW files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as non-
root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, TrGW application, user plane security mechanism,
or cryptographic materials.
# O.12 Assets and threats specific to the MGCF
## O.12.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP has been described in clause 5.2
of the present document, the critical assets specific to the IMS AGW to be
protected are:
\- MGCF Application;
\- Media stream resource;
\- Security data, i.e. cryptographic materials for Mg, Mj, CS, and Mn
interfaces
\- The interfaces of the MGCF to be protected and which are within SECAM
scope:
\- Mg interface between the MGCF and I-CSCF
\- Mj interface between the MGCF and BGCF
\- CS interface between the MGCF and CS Network
\- Mn interface between the MGCF and IM MGW
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on the IMS AGW
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between the IMS AGW and the OAM
system
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the IMS AGW class are described in clause 4
of the present document.
\- IMS AGW Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: IMS AGW files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root users), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, IMS AGW application, user plane security
mechanism, or cryptographic materials.
###### ### Annex P: Aspects specific to the network product class NSSAAF
# P.1 Void
# P.2 Network product class description for the NSSAAF
### P.2.1 Introduction
This annex captures the aspects specific to network product class NSSAAF.
## P.2.2 Minimum set of functions defining the NSSAAF network product class
As part of the NSSAAF network product, it is expected that the NSSAAF to
contain NSSAAF application, a set of running processes (typically more than
one) executing the software package for the NSSAAF functions and OAM functions
that is specific to the NSSAAF network product model. Functionalities specific
to the NSSAAF network product introduce additional threats and/or critical
assets as described below. Related security requirements and test cases have
been captured in TS 33.326 [29].
NOTE: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of NSSAAF functions contained in clause 6.2.23 of 3GPP TS 23.501
[8].
# P.3 Assets and threats specific to the NSSAAF
## P.3.1 Critical assets
In addition to the critical assets of a GNP described in clause 5.2 of the
present document, the critical assets specific to the NSSAAF to be protected
are:
\- NSSAAF Application;
\- User Data: e.g. subscriber\'s identities (e.g. GPSI), S-NSSAIs, EAP
authentication parameters (e.g. EAP ID), etc.
\- Slice information: e.g. the the (S-NSSAI, ENSI) mappings
\- The interfaces of NSSAAF to be protected and which are within SECAM scope:
\- Service based interface, N~NSSAAF~, for providing services to AMF
\- Service based interface for consuming services from UDM, and AMF
\- Console interface, for local access: local interface on NSSAAF
\- OAM interface, for remote access: interface between NSSAAF and OAM system
\- AAA interface: interface betweeen NSSAAF and AAA-P or AAA-S
NOTE 1: The detailed interfaces of the NSSAAF class are described in clause 4,
Network Product Class Description of the present document.
\- NSSAAF Software: binary code or executable code
NOTE 2: NSSAAF files may be any file owned by a user (root user as well as
non-root uses), including user account data and credentials, log data,
configuration data, OS files, NSSAAF application, user data or NSSAAF
Software.
NOTE 3: The slice information is only applicable when AAA-S belongs to the
3^rd^ party and the mapping of S-NSSAI to ENSI is needed.
## P.3.2 Threats related to NSSAAF
#### P.3.2.1 Threats related to impersonating attack by AAA-S
  * _Threat name:_ Threats related to impersonating attack by AAA-S
  * _Threat Category_ : Denial of service, spoofing identity
  * _Threat Description_ : Network slice specific authentication and > authorization (NSSAA) is performed between UE and AAA server > (AAA-S). AAA-S may also trigger network slice-specific > authorization revocation by sending a request to NSSAAF. After > receiving the request to revoke the slice-specific authorization > for a slice for a UE from an AAA-S, if NSSAAF does not check > whether the AAA-S is legitimate in the sense that it had performed > the NSSAA for the slice for the UE, a malicious AAA-S may > masquerade as the legitimate AAA-S to invoke the slice-specific > authorization for the slice for the UE. Then UE is denied access > to the slice. Similarly a malicious AAA-S may also trick NSSAAF to > perform slice specific re-authentication and re-authorization just > to incur extra signalling load.
  * _Threatened Asset_ : user data related to NSSAA, processing capacity
#### P.3.2.2 Threat to select AAA-P and AAA-S
_\- Threat name:_ AAA-P and AAA-S wrong selection
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of service.
_\- Threat Description_ : AAA-S in NSSAA procedure may be hosted by the HPLMN
or third party which has a business relationship. When AAA-S belongs to a
third party, the AAA-P in the HPLMN may be involved. Different S-NSSAI may go
to different AAA-S. If the NSSAAF does not have the ability to select the
right receiver, the authentication will always fail.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : GNP Application.
###### ## Annex Q (normative): Aspects specific to the network product class
SCP
# Q.1 Network product class description for the SCP
## Q.1.1 Introduction
This Annex covers the aspects specific to the SCP network product class.
## Q.1.2 Minimum set of functions defining the SCP network product class
According to TR 33.916 [2], a network product class is a class of products
that all implement a common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities. Therefore, in
order to define the SCP network product class, it is necessary to define the
common set of 3GPP-defined functionalities that is constitutive for a SCP. As
part of the SCP network product, it is expected that the SCP contains SCP
application, a set of running processes (typically more than one) executing
the software package for the SCP functions and OAM functions that is specific
to the SCP network product model. Functionalities specific to the SCP network
product introduce additional threats and/or critical assets as described
below. Related security requirements and test cases have been captured in TS
33.522 [27].
Note: For the purposes of the present document, this common set is defined to
be the list of functions contained in clause 6.2.19 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [28].
# Q.2 Assets and Threats specific to SCP
## Q.2.1 Threats related to tokens handled by the SCP
### Q.2.1.1 Token forwarded to a wrong pNF instance
_\- Threat name:_ Token forwarded to a wrong pNF instance
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Information Disclosure, Spoofing
Identity, Elevation of Privilege
_\- Threat Description_ : According to TS 33.501 [14] clauses 13.4.1.3, the
SCP is able to obtain the access token and/or client credentials assertion
from the consumer NF, which are/is forwarded to the producer NF for
authorization and/or authentication. If the SCP failed to select the correct
target pNF instance due to e.g. mis-implementation or misconfiguration or weak
internal interface protection, which results in the token being forwarded to
the wrong pNF instance, there are the following threats:
\- The pNF instance receiving the access token will not be able to verify the
access token, hence leading to authorization failure for indirect
communication. Consequently, the access token, as a piece of sensitive
information of the cNF, is exposed to a NF instance which is not meant to have
it. This can result in denial of service, information disclosure, as well as
waste of system resources. In worse case, if the NF instance receiving the
access token wants to access the service granted in the token but not granted
to the NF, it may impersonate the cNF to invoke the service of the target pNF
using the received access token. This can result in spoofed identity and
elevation of privilege.
\- The pNF instance receiving the client credentials assertion will not be
able to verify the assertion, hence leading to failure of authenticating the
cNF. Consequently, the credentials assertion, as a piece of sensitive
information of the cNF, is exposed to a NF instance which is not meant to have
it. This can result in denial of service, information disclosure, as well as
waste of system resources. In worse case, if the NF instance receiving the
assertion wants to access the service granted in the token but not granted to
the NF, it may impersonate the cNF using the assertion for authentication with
the target pNF, so as to facilitate the service access to the target pNF with
the exposed access token. This can result in spoofed identity and elevation of
privilege.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SCP Application, Access Tokens, Client Credentials
Assertions, Service Messages forwarded/routed between NFs/NF services,
Sufficient Processing Capacity
### Q.2.1.2 Swapped token forwarded to the target pNF
_\- Threat name:_ Swapped token forwarded to the target pNF
_\- Threat Category_ : Denial of Service, Information Disclosure, Spoofing
Identity, Elevation of Privilege
_\- Threat Description_ : When NFs and NF services communicate indirectly via
the SCP, the SCP may receive multiple access tokens, which could come from
multiple cNFs requesting services or from a single cNF requesting access to
various services or network slices provided by the target pNFs. Particularly
for indirect communication with delegated discovery, the SCP is delegated to
request access tokens from the NRF for service requests from cNFs and then
include the correct access token in each of the service requests from cNFs. If
the SCP mixes-up the received multiple access tokens and includes the wrong
access token in a service request, due to mis-implementation or
misconfiguration, there are the following threats:
\- During indirect communication with delegated discovery, if the SCP
mistakenly includes an access token of the requesting cNF destined for a pNF
different from the target pNF (i.e. audience mismatch), the target pNF will
fail to verify the access token, hence leading to authorization failure for
indirect communication. Consequently, the access token, as a piece of
sensitive information of the cNF, is exposed to a NF instance which is not
meant to have it. This can result in denial of service as well as waste of
system resources. In worse case, if the target NF wants to access the service
granted in the token but not granted to the NF, it may impersonate the cNF to
invoke the service of another pNF using the received access token. This can
result in spoofed identity and elevation of privilege.
\- During indirect communication with delegated discovery, if the SCP
mistakenly includes the access token of a cNF different from the requesting
cNF (i.e. subject mismatch) or includes an access token of the requesting cNF
for a service/slice different from the requested service/slice (i.e. scope
mismatch), the target pNF will fail to verify the access token, hence leading
to authorization failure for indirect communication. This can result in denial
of service as well as waste of system resources.
\- During indirect communication with delegated discovery, if the SCP includes
the correct access token but mistakenly includes a client credentials
assertion of another cNF, the target pNF will fail to verify the assertion,
hence leading to authentication failure for indirect communication. This can
result in denial of service as well as waste of system resources.
_\- Threatened Asset_ : SCP Application, Service Messages forwarded/routed
between NFs/NF services, Sufficient Processing Capacity
#