# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes LTKUP solution 4b and LTKUP solution 5 from
3GPP TR 33.834 [2] in implementable detail.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 33.834: \"Security Aspects; Study on Long Term Key Update
Procedures (LTKUP)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.115: \"Secured packet structure for (Universal) Subscriber
Identity Module (U)SIM Toolkit applications\".
[4] 3GPP TS 31.116: \"Remote APDU Structure for (U)SIM Toolkit applications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
LTKUP Long Term Key Update Procedure
# 4 LTKUP solutions
## 4.1 Overview
TR 33.834 [2] recommends the production of detailed implementation for:
\- Solution 4b - Diffe-Hellman based key agreement over SIM OTA
\- Solution 5 - multiple sets of parameters on the USIM
Both solutions meet all of the key issues identified in TR 33.834 [2]:
\- Key Issue 1: individual subscription - K exposed
\- Key Issue 2: batch of subscriptions - K exposed
\- Key Issue 3: LTK Derivation vs. LTK Transport
\- Key Issue 4: Loss of synchronisation of long term keys
\- Key Issue 5: undetected leakage of K
Both solutions can be implemented in GSM, UMTS, LTE and 5G and both require
SIM/USIM changes and Home network HSS/AuC/UDM changes.
## 4.2 Solution 4b - Diffe-Hellman based Key agreement over SIM OTA
### 4.2.1 Solution overview
This solution involves a key exchange protocol being run between the USIM/ISIM
and the home network HSS, in order to create a newly agreed Ki value to
replace the existing one. This key agreement protocol is transported over USIM
OTA (TS 31.115 [3] and TS 31.116 [4]).
### 4.2.2 Architecture overview
The Architecture consists of a HSS / UDM, and OTA server and the USIM/UICC.
Figure 4.2.2-1
The HSS to OTA interface is proprietary.
The OTA server interface to the USIM/UICC is as specified in TS 31.115 [3] and
TS 31.116 [4].
### 4.2.3 Implementation recommendations
Elliptic Curve Diffie Hellman is recommended as a suitable key exchange
algorithm.
Exposing the HSS to update introduces risks, and so should be handled with
great care. It is possible to run the key exchange protocol with a proxy for
the HSS rather than with the HSS directly.
It is recommended that the update protocol take place over 3GPP-standardised
signalling, rather than over the internet; and it is also recommended that the
HSS, rather than the USIM/ISIM, be the entity to trigger the update protocol.
With these two points in mind, it is recommended for simplicity that the
update protocol be carried out by the HSS directly, rather than by a proxy.
In this solution, the key exchange protocol is authenticated using the pre-
existing shared secret, so that an attacker who does not already know the
secret cannot act as man-in-the-middle at all. An attacker who does already
know the secret is able to act as man-in-the-middle during the key exchange
protocol; however, a good protocol design can ensure that this attacker will
have to remain as an active man-in-the-middle, essentially forever, in order
to exploit that.
Using a key exchange protocol raises a risk that this protocol itself might be
compromised over the lifetime of next generation systems (perhaps using
quantum computers), and allow newly-exchanged keys to be recovered by an
attacker. One counter-measure is that where parties to the protocol already
have a shared secret (e.g. the USIM/ISIM and HSS already share Ki), then this
existing shared secret is fed into the new key derivation function, together
with the output from the key exchange protocol. That way, an attacker would
have to know the existing shared secret and compromise the key exchange to
learn the newly derived secret. A suitable key derivation algorithm can use
HMAC-SHA256, as defined in TS 33.220 [5], as follows:
new Ki = KDF (key exchange protocol output, initial Ki)
where \"key exchange protocol output\" refers to the shared secret resulting
from the key exchange protocol, and \"initial Ki\" refers to the Ki value that
was shared between the USIM/ISIM and the HSS before the protocol was run, and
that was used to authenticate the key exchange.
### 4.2.4 Example implementation
#### 4.2.4.1 OTA Transport
The LTKUP messages are securely transported to and from the USIM using APDUs
within SIM OTA messages (see TS 31.115 [3]).
The APDUs are FFS.
#### 4.2.4.2 LTKUP Message Flow
The LTKUP service is delivered using a Diffie-Hellman key agreement process as
follows:
{width="6.645833333333333in" height="6.743055555555555in"}
Figure 4.2.4.2-1: LTKUP key agreement process diagram
**Initiate LTKUP**
**parameters:**
**curve/ECIES profile id:**
\- Length: 1
\- Values: 0 - 5 + proprietary/reserved
**algorithm type:**
\- Length: 1
\- Values: MILENAGE, TUAK, other
**desired key length:**
\- Length: 1
\- Values: 16, 32
**key id:**
\- Length: 1
\- Values: 0 - 127
**LSoH public exponent:**
\- Length: 32, 48 (or 64)
\- Values: Random
**known secrets to include:**
\- Length: 4
\- Values: Identifiers for K, OPc/TOPc, \"initiate LTKUP message\", others
**proprietary flags:**
\- Length: Any
\- Values: Any
**LTKUP USIM Parameter Exchange**
**parameters:**
**USIM public exponent**
\- Length: 32, 48 (or 64)
\- Values:Random
**Confirm shared secret**
\- Length: 8
\- Values: Random
**LTKUP HLR Parameter Exchange**
**parameters:**
**Encrypted Associated Params**
\- Length: 16 for OPc, 32 for TOPc, Any for Other
\- Values: Random
**MAC-tag for Encrypted Associated Params**
\- Length: 8
\- Values: Random
**LTKUP Complete Confirmation**
**parameters:**
**Confirm Associated Params**
\- Length: 8
\- Values:Random
The \"confirm\" messages from the USIM are best done by MACing all the
parameters to be confirmed, using an integrity key derived from the shared
secret. TBC: whether it is acceptable to use the same integrity key that was
already derived for use in the \"HLR Parameter Exchange\" message (with some
additional flags like a message id included as part of the data to be MACed),
or whether it is better to derive an additional key just for the USIM
confirmation.
## 4.3 Solution 5 - Multiple sets of parameters on the USIM
### 4.3.1 Solution Overview
This solution aims to update the long term key K stored on a USIM application
on UICC. The solution relies on the presence of several sets of parameters
(K/OPc or K/TOPc) stored in the USIM. Only one set of parameters is active at
a time in the USIM.
NOTE: the UICC application mentioned in this solution is the USIM. But the
solution also applies to ISIM application.
The decision to launch the procedure to replace the long term key K in the
USIM is taken by the home network operator.
### 4.3.2 Solution description
#### 4.3.2.0 Overview
The solution requires steps when the UICC is in the personalisation centre and
then when the UICC is in the field.
#### 4.3.2.1 UICC in personalisation centre
For each UICC, several sets of parameters (K/OPc or K/TOPc) are generated and
provisioned in a USIM. But, only one set of parameters is active at a time in
this USIM.
The personalisation centre sends to the network operator an output file, which
contains only one single set of parameters (K and eventually OPc or TOPc).
This set of parameters is provisioned in the network operator backend. The
other sets of parameters generated may be retrieved on demand from the
personalisation centre.
The OTA command sent to the USIM/UICC is secured thanks to secured packet
mechanism specified in TS 31.115 [3]. Optionally, a shared key called
\"replacement mechanism protection\" key is provisioned in the UICC in order
to protect in integrity the payload of the OTA command. This \"replacement
mechanism protection\" key offers an additional level of security due to the
sensitivity of the procedure. This \"replacement mechanism protection\" key,
if present, is securely stored in the personalisation centre and never exits
the personalisation center.
#### 4.3.2.2 UICC in the field
Once the UICC is in a User Equipment in the field, the network operator can
launch when he wants the replacement procedure as follows:
Figure 4.3.2.2-1: Key replacement procedure
The procedure to replace the long term key K works as follows:
1) When the network operator decides to update the long term key K of a given
USIM within a UICC, the network operator sends an input file requesting the
personalisation centre to deliver an output file containing a new set of
parameters for a given USIM/UICC. The input file contains at least an
identifier enabling the personalisation centre to retrieve new set of
parameters (e.g. IMSI or ICCID).
2\. The personalisation centre generates a new output file. This new output
file contains the IMSI, a new set of parameters for this USIM (K and
eventually OPc or TOPC), and the OTA payload that the network operator will
have to send to the USIM. The OTA payload contains the request to activate the
replacement mechanism, and an index identifying the corresponding set of
parameters provisioned in the USIM.
> Optionally, in case that the \"replacement mechanism protection\" key was
> generated and stored in the personalisation centre, the personalisation
> centre protects the OTA payload in integrity.
3\. The personalisation centre sends securely the output file to the network
operator.
4\. At reception of the output file, the network operator launches an OTA
campaign targeting the corresponding USIM/UICC. The OTA campaign does not
intend to immediately update the parameters in the USIM; the OTA campaign only
activates the replacement mechanism for the targeted USIM.
5\. The network operator sends to the USIM/UICC the OTA command activating the
replacement mechanism in the USIM and providing the index of the new set of
parameters.
6\. The USIM/UICC in the UE receives the OTA command activating the
replacement mechanism.
> If the USIM is provisioned with the \"replacement mechanism protection\"
> key, then the USIM verifies the protection in integrity of the OTA payload.
> The replacement mechanism remains inactive if the if the OTA payload
> verification is unsuccessful.
>
> If the OTA playload is not protected in integrity or if the OTA payload
> verification is successful, then the USIM activates the replacement
> mechanism and stores the index of the corresponding set of parameters.
>
> Once the replacement mechanism is active, the USIM is ready to proceed the
> change of parameters set, but waits for an event to do so. The change of key
> is not yet done.
7\. The USIM sends OTA Proof of Receipt to the network operator, if requested
by the operator in step 4.
8\. The network operator provisions the received set of parameters (K and
eventually OPc or TOPC) in the backend using usual mechanism. Only one single
set of parameters (K and eventually OPc or TOPc) is active at a time in the
network operator for a given USIM.
9\. The network operator issues an authentication vector with the new set of
parameters.
NOTE: Since the USIM has not yet replaced the set of parameters, the USIM will
detect an authentication failure during the processing of AUTHENTICATE command
with this authentication vector. The authentication failure aims to trigger
the replacement mechanism in the USIM/UICC.
10\. The network operator sends an authentication procedure request.
11\. The USIM receives an AUTHENTICATE command and performs the authentication
procedure. If the USIM detects an authentication failure due to wrong key K
and if the replacement mechanism has been activated in the USIM, then the USIM
tries to perform the MAC verification of the AUTHENTICATE command with the new
set of parameters (K/OPc or K/TOPc) provisioned identified by the index
received in step 6.
If the MAC verification with the new set of parameters is successful, then:
\- the new set of parameters becomes active and the previous set of parameters
may be deleted,
\- the USIM continues the authentication procedure with the new set of
parameters, and
\- the USIM deactivates the replacement mechanism.
Otherwise:
\- the USIM increments a retry counter associated to the replacement
mechanism,
\- the USIM deactivates the replacement mechanism if the retry counter has
reached its maximum value, and
\- the USIM abandons the authentication procedure with MAC failure error.
12\. The UE sends the results of the authentication procedure.
13\. The network operator knows the status of the key replacement procedure
thanks to the results of the authentication procedure sent by the USIM. If the
result of the authentication procedure sent by the USIM indicates a MAC
failure, then the network operator knows that the replacement mechanism
failed.
If the replacement mechanism failed, the network operator can decide to
perform a new replacement procedure starting from step 9, or to perform a full
procedure starting from step 1, or to restore the existing set of parameters
active in the USIM.
#