# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document defines Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) signalling
within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present document describes how Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) signals
are supported in the 3GPP system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and Multiple Access on the Radio Path\".
[3] ETSI ES 201 235-1, v1.1.1: \"Specification of Dual Tone Multi-Frequency
(DTMF); Transmitters and Receivers; Part 1: General\".
[4] ETSI ES 201 235-2, v1.2.1: \"Specification of Dual Tone Multi-Frequency
(DTMF); Transmitters and Receivers; Part 2: Transmitters\".
[5] ETSI ES 201 235-3, v1.2.1: \"Specification of Dual Tone Multi-Frequency
(DTMF); Transmitters and Receivers; Part 3: Receivers\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.245: \"Control protocol for multimedia
communication\"
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations used in the
present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1a].
# 4 Requirement
Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) is an inband one out of four plus one out of
four signalling system, primarily used from terminal instruments in
telecommunication networks. The international recommendations which apply are
ETSI ES 201 235 [3, 4, 5] as detailed in subclauses 6.2 and 6.3. For PCS 1900
for North America the Standards which apply are operator specific.
In the 3GPP system the MSC must support DTMF in the mobile to land direction.
The support of this facility in the land to mobile direction is for further
study.
The use of DTMF is only permitted:
\- when the speech teleservice is being used or during the speech phase of
alternate speech/data and alternate speech/facsimile teleservices; the DTMF is
transmitted across the radio interface as specified in subclause 6 of this
specification; and
\- during a multimedia call; the DTMF is transmitted across the radio
interface using the H.245 UserInputIndication message (see ITU-T H.245 [6]).
This is transparent for the MSC.
The responsibility for checking this lies in the MS.
# 5 Cause of DTMF generation
A user may cause a DTMF tone to be generated by depression of a key in the
Mobile Station (MS). Optionally (on a MS basis) manufacturers of mobile
equipment may choose to allow DTMF to be controlled from a remote terminal.
The man-machine interface questions associated with this facility are not
discussed further in the present document.
# 6 Support of DTMF across the air interface
## 6.1 General
A message based signalling system is used across the 3GPP system air
interface.
This requires that the relevant user action (e.g. a key depression) is
interpreted by the MS as a requirement for a DTMF digit to be sent, this is
converted by the MS into a message, the message is transmitted across the air
interface, and is converted by the MSC into a DTMF tone which is applied
towards the network, which should then respond with an acknowledgement. When
the user completes the key depression, an message that the DTMF sending should
cease is also passed to the MSC, which again will respond with an
acknowledgement.
## 6.2 Specific
The messages to be sent across the air interface will use the frame stealing
mode of transmission.
The messages when sent across the air interface should contain the following
information:
a) START DTMF: Containing the digit value (0-9,A,B,C,D,*,#);
b) START DTMF ACKNOWLEDGE: Containing the digit value (0-9,A,B,C,D,*,#)
corresponding to the DTMF tone that the network applies towards the remote
user;
c) STOP DTMF: No further info;
d) STOP DTMF ACKNOWLEDGE: No further info.
Only a single digit will be passed in each START DTMF and START DTMF
ACKNOWLEDGE message.
The messages will be passed transparently through the base station and
interpreted at the MSC.
On receipt of a START DTMF message, the MSC will connect the correct dual-tone
to line. This tone will remain connected until either the call is cleared or a
STOP DTMF message is received.
As an operator option, the tone may be ceased after a pre-determined time
whether or not a STOP DTMF message has been received.
The tones that are to be generated by the MSC are specified as follows:
\- Frequencies are defined in ETSI ES 201 235-1 [3] (for PCS 1900 for North
America this is operator specific);
\- Tone sending levels are defined in ETSI ES 201 235-2 [4] (for PCS 1900 for
North America this is operator specific);
\- Durations as specified below.
## 6.3 Tone durations
The network shall ensure that the minimum length of tone and the minimum gap
between two subsequent tones according to ETSI ES 201 235-2 [4] is achieved.
For PCS 1900 for North America this is operator specific.
NOTE 1: In ETSI ES 201 235-2 [4] the minimum duration of a DTMF tone is 65 ms.
NOTE 2: In ETSI ES 201 235-2 [4] the minimum gap between DTMF tones is 65 ms.
There is no defined maximum length to the tone, which will normally cease when
a STOP DTMF message is received from the MS. However, the operator may choose
to put a pre-defined time limit on the duration of tones sent to line as
mentioned in clause 6.2.
Figures 1 to 3 show an overview of how the DTMF should operate.
Ta Association time for DTMF Generator in MSC, implementation dependent but
low.
Tp Pre-determined maximum tone length, operator option.
T~1~ Minimum length of tone.
NOTE: If the Network operator implements the time limit option (see subclause
6.2), then the tone ends if the timer expires before the \'Stop DTMF\' is
received.
Figure 1: Single DTMF Transmission
Ta Association time for DTMF Generator in MSC, implementation dependent but
low.
Tp Pre-determined maximum tone length, operator option.
T~1~ Minimum length of tone.
Figure 2: Single DTMF Transmission, Short Key Press
Ta Association time for DTMF Generation in MSC, implementation dependant but
low.
Tp Pre-determined maximum tone length, operator option.
T~2~ Minimum gap between tones.
Figure 3: Two Single DTMF Transmission
T~1~ Minimum length of tones
T~2~ Minimum gap between tones.
Figure 4: Two Single DTMF Transmissions, Short Gap Between Key Presses
# 7 Effect of Handover
## 7.1 Internal Handover
There is unlikely to be any impact on DTMF due to internal handover.
## 7.2 External Handover
Depending on the exact moment when handover occurs, there may be a slight
possibility of cutting short a DTMF tone.
For protocol reasons, in the case of an MSC receiving a STOP DTMF message when
no tone is being sent, it should respond with an acknowledgement as usual.
No other impact is seen due to external handover.
#