# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines an intermediate universal Geographical Area
Description which subscriber applications, GSM, UMTS, EPS or 5GS services can
use and the network can convert into an equivalent radio coverage map.
For GSM, UMTS, EPS or 5GS services which involve the use of an \"area\", it
can be assumed that in the majority of cases the Service Requester will be
forbidden access to data on the radio coverage map of a particular PLMN and
that the Service Requester will not have direct access to network entities
(e.g. BSC/BTS, RNC/Node B, eNB or gNB).
The interpretation by the PLMN operator of the geographical area in terms of
cells actually used, cells that are partly within the given area and all other
technical and quality of service aspects are out of the scope of the present
document.
This specification also provides a description of velocity that may be
associated with a universal Geographical Area Description when both are
applied to a common entity at a common time.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 04.07: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Mobile
radio interface signalling layer 3 General aspects\".
[3] Military Standard WGS84 Metric MIL-STD-2401 (11 January 1994): \"Military
Standard Department of Defence World Geodetic System (WGS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.572: \"5G System; Location Management Services; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply.
**Coordinate ID:** an identifier for a reference point that defines the origin
of a particular local Cartesian System.
**Local Co-ordinates:** co-ordinates relative to a local Cartesian System
whose origin is expressed by a reference point. The origin may have known
WGS84 coordinates. Local Co-ordinates are only applicable in 5GS.
**Service Requester** : Entity, which uses the Geographical Area Description
in any protocol to inform the network about a defined area.
**Target: E** ntity whose precise geographic position is to be described.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in GSM 01.04
[1] and the following apply.
GAD Geographical Area Description
GPS Global Positioning System
WGS World Geodetic System
# 4 Reference system
Except for local co-ordinates, the reference system chosen for the coding of
locations is the World Geodetic System 1984, (WGS 84), which is also used by
the Global Positioning System, (GPS). The origin of the WGS 84 co-ordinate
system is the geometric centre of the WGS 84 ellipsoid. The ellipsoid is
constructed by the rotation of an ellipse around the minor axis which is
oriented in the North-South direction. The rotation axis is the polar axis of
the ellipsoid, and the plane orthogonal to it and including the centre of
symmetry is the equatorial plane.
The relevant dimensions are as follows:
Major Axis (a) = 6378137 m
Minor Axis (b) = 6356752,314 m
First eccentricity of the ellipsoid
Co-ordinates are then expressed in terms of longitude and latitude relevant to
this ellipsoid. The range of longitude is ‑180° to +180°, and the range of
latitude is -90° to +90°. 0° longitude corresponds to the Greenwich Meridian,
and positive angles are to the East, while negative angles are to the West. 0°
latitude corresponds to the equator, and positive angles are to the North,
while negative angles are to the South. Altitudes are defined as the distance
between the ellipsoid and the point, along a line orthogonal to the ellipsoid.
Local Co-ordinates are relative to a known reference point defined by an
unique Coordinate ID configured by the PLMN operator. Local co-ordinates are
then expressed in a local Cartesian co-ordinates system relative to the
reference point.
# 5 Shapes
The intention is to incorporate a number of different shapes, that can be
chosen according to need.
\- Ellipsoid Point;
\- Ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle;
\- Ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse;
\- Polygon;
\- Ellipsoid point with altitude;
\- Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid;
\- Ellipsoid Arc;
\- High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse;
\- High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with scalable uncertainty ellipse;
\- High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid;
\- High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with altitude and scalable uncertainty
ellipsoid.
-Shapes relevant to Local Co-ordinates:
\- Local 2D point with uncertainty ellipse (only in 5GS);
\- Local 3D point with uncertainty ellipsoid (only in 5GS).
Each shape is discussed individually.
## 5.1 Ellipsoid Point
The description of an ellipsoid point is that of a point on the surface of the
ellipsoid, and consists of a latitude and a longitude. In practice, such a
description can be used to refer to a point on Earth\'s surface, or close to
Earth\'s surface, with the same longitude and latitude. No provision is made
in this version of the standard to give the height of a point.
Figure 1 illustrates a point on the surface of the ellipsoid and its co-
ordinates.
The latitude is the angle between the equatorial plane and the perpendicular
to the plane tangent to the ellipsoid surface at the point. Positive latitudes
correspond to the North hemisphere. The longitude is the angle between the
half-plane determined by the Greenwich meridian and the half-plane defined by
the point and the polar axis, measured Eastward.
Figure 1: Description of a Point as two co-ordinates
## 5.2 Ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle
The \"ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle\" is characterised by the co-
ordinates of an ellipsoid point (the origin) and a distance _r_. It describes
formally the set of points on the ellipsoid which are at a distance from the
origin less than or equal to _r_ , the distance being the geodesic distance
over the ellipsoid, i.e., the minimum length of a path staying on the
ellipsoid and joining the two points, as shown in figure 2.
As for the ellipsoid point, this can be used to indicate points on the Earth
surface, or near the Earth surface, of same latitude and longitude.
The typical use of this shape is to indicate a point when its position is
known only with a limited accuracy.
Figure 2: Description of an uncertainty Circle
## 5.3 Ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse
The \"ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse\" is characterised by the co-
ordinates of an ellipsoid point (the origin), distances _r1_ and _r2_ and an
angle of orientation _A_. It describes formally the set of points on the
ellipsoid which fall within or on the boundary of an ellipse with semi-major
axis of length _r1_ oriented at angle _A_ (0 to 180^o^) measured clockwise
from north and semi-minor axis of length _r2_ , the distances being the
geodesic distance over the ellipsoid, i.e., the minimum length of a path
staying on the ellipsoid and joining the two points, as shown in figure 2a.
As for the ellipsoid point, this can be used to indicate points on the
Earth\'s surface, or near the Earth\'s surface, of same latitude and
longitude. The confidence level with which the position of a target entity is
included within this set of points is also included with this shape.
The typical use of this shape is to indicate a point when its position is
known only with a limited accuracy, but the geometrical contributions to
uncertainty can be quantified.
Figure 2a: Description of an uncertainty Ellipse
## 5.3a High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse
The \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse\" is
characterised by the co-ordinates of an ellipsoid point (the origin),
distances _r1_ and _r2_ and an angle of orientation A, as described in clause
5.3. Compared to the \"ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse\", the \"high
accuracy ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse\" provides finer resolution
for the co-ordinates, and distances _r1_ and _r2_.
## 5.3b High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with scalable uncertainty ellipse
The \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with scalable uncertainty ellipse\" is
characterised by the co-ordinates of an ellipsoid point (the origin),
distances _r1_ and _r2_ and an angle of orientation A, as described in clause
5.3. Compared to the \"ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse\", the \"high
accuracy ellipsoid point with scalable uncertainty ellipse\" provides finer
resolution for the co-ordinates, and distances _r1_ and _r2_ , and
additionally provides possibility to choose uncertainty range compared to
\"high accuracy ellipsoid point with uncertainty ellipse\".
## 5.4 Polygon
A polygon is an arbitrary shape described by an ordered series of points (in
the example pictured in the drawing, A to E). The minimum number of points
allowed is 3, and the maximum number of points allowed is 15. The points shall
be connected in the order that they are given. A connecting line is defined as
the line over the ellipsoid joining the two points and of minimum distance
(geodesic). The last point is connected to the first. The list of points shall
respect a number of conditions:
\- a connecting line shall not cross another connecting line;
\- two successive points must not be diametrically opposed on the ellipsoid.
The described area is situated to the right of the lines with the downward
direction being toward the Earth\'s centre and the forward direction being
from a point to the next.
NOTE: This definition does not permit connecting lines greater than roughly 20
000 km. If such a need arises, the polygon can be described by adding an
intermediate point.
Computation of geodesic lines is not simple. Approximations leading to a
maximum distance between the computed line and the geodesic line of less than
3 metres are acceptable.
Figure 3: Description of a Polygon
## 5.5 Ellipsoid Point with Altitude
The description of an ellipsoid point with altitude is that of a point at a
specified distance above or below a point on the earth\'s surface. This is
defined by an ellipsoid point with the given longitude and latitude and the
altitude above or below the ellipsoid point. Figure 3a illustrates the
altitude aspect of this description.
Figure 3a: Description of an Ellipsoid Point with Altitude
## 5.6 Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
The \"ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid\" is
characterised by the co-ordinates of an ellipsoid point with altitude,
distances _r1_ (the \"semi-major uncertainty\"), _r2_ (the \"semi-minor
uncertainty\") and _r3_ (the \"vertical uncertainty\") and an angle of
orientation _A_ (the \"angle of the major axis\")_._ It describes formally the
set of points which fall within or on the surface of a general (three
dimensional) ellipsoid centred on an ellipsoid point with altitude whose real
semi-major, semi-mean and semi-minor axis are some permutation of _r1_ , _r2_
, _r3_ with _r1_ ≥ _r2_. The _r3_ axis is aligned vertically, while the _r1_
axis, which is the semi-major axis of the ellipse in a horizontal plane that
bisects the ellipsoid, is oriented at an angle _A_ (0 to 180 degrees) measured
clockwise from north, as illustrated in Figure 3b.
Figure 3b: Description of an Ellipsoid Point with Altitude and Uncertainty
Ellipsoid
The typical use of this shape is to indicate a point when its horizontal
position and altitude are known only with a limited accuracy, but the
geometrical contributions to uncertainty can be quantified. The confidence
level with which the position of a target entity is included within the shape
is also included.
## 5.6a High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid
The \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid\"
is characterised by the co-ordinates of an ellipsoid point with altitude,
distances _r1_ (the \"semi-major uncertainty\"), _r2_ (the \"semi-minor
uncertainty\") and _r3_ (the \"vertical uncertainty\") and an angle of
orientation A (the \"angle of the major axis\"), as described in clause 5.6.
Compared to the \"ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid\",
the \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid\"
provides finer resolution for the co-ordinates, and distances _r1_ , _r2_ ,
and _r3_.
## 5.6b High Accuracy Ellipsoid point with altitude and scalable uncertainty
ellipsoid
The \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with altitude and scalable uncertainty
ellipsoid\" is characterised by the co-ordinates of an ellipsoid point with
altitude, distances _r1_ (the \"semi-major uncertainty\"), _r2_ (the \"semi-
minor uncertainty\") and _r3_ (the \"vertical uncertainty\") and an angle of
orientation A (the \"angle of the major axis\"), as described in clause 5.6.
Compared to the \"ellipsoid point with altitude and uncertainty ellipsoid\",
the \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with altitude and scalable uncertainty
ellipsoid\" provides finer resolution for the co-ordinates, and distances _r1_
, _r2_ , and _r3_ , and additionally provides possibility to choose
uncertainty range compared to \"high accuracy ellipsoid point with altitude
and uncertainty ellipse\".
## 5.7 Ellipsoid Arc
An ellipsoid arc is a shape characterised by the co-ordinates of an ellipsoid
point _o_ (the origin), inner radius _r1,_ uncertainty radius _r2_ , both
radii being geodesic distances over the surface of the ellipsoid, the offset
angle (θ) between the first defining radius of the ellipsoid arc and North,
and the included angle (β) being the angle between the first and second
defining radii. The offset angle is within the range of 0° to 359,999...°
while the included angle is within the range from 0,000...1° to 360°. This is
to be able to describe a full circle, 0° to 360°.
This shape-definition can also be used to describe a sector (inner radius
equal to zero), a circle (included angle equal to 360°) and other circular
shaped areas. The confidence level with which the position of a target entity
is included within the shape is also included.
Figure 3c: Description of an Ellipsoid Arc
## 5.8 Local 2D point with uncertainty ellipse
The \"local 2D point with uncertainty ellipse\" is characterised by a point
described in 2D **[local]{.underline}** co-ordinates with origin in a known
reference location, distances _r1_ and _r2_ and an angle of orientation _A_.
The **[local Cartesian]{.underline}** co-ordinates system and the reference
location shall be identified with a unique identifier. It describes formally
the set of points which fall within or on the boundary of an ellipse with
semi-major axis of length _r1_ oriented at angle _A_ (0 to 180^o^) measured
clockwise from north and semi-minor axis of length _r2_. The confidence level
with which the position of a target entity is included within this set of
points is also included with this shape.
This shape is only applicable to 5GS.
The structure of local 2D point with uncertainty ellipse is defined in clause
6.1.6.2.38 in TS 29.572 [4].
## 5.9 Local 3D point with uncertainty ellipsoid
The \"local 3D point with uncertainty ellipsoid\" is characterised by a point
described in 3D **[local]{.underline}** co-ordinates with origin in a known
reference location, distances _r1_ (the \"semi-major uncertainty\"), _r2_ (the
\"semi-minor uncertainty\") and _r3_ (the \"vertical uncertainty\") and an
angle of orientation _A_ (the \"angle of the major axis\"). The **[local
Cartesian]{.underline}** co-ordinates system and the reference location shall
be identified with a unique identifier. It describes formally the set of
points which fall within or on the surface of a general (three dimensional)
ellipsoid centred on a 3D point whose real semi-major, semi-mean and semi-
minor axis are some permutation of _r1_ , _r2_ , _r3_ with _r1_ ≥ _r2_. The
_r3_ axis is aligned vertically, while the _r1_ axis, which is the semi-major
axis of the ellipse in a horizontal plane, is oriented at an angle _A_ (0 to
180 degrees) measured clockwise from north. The confidence level with which
the position of a target entity is included within the shape is also included.
This shape is only applicable to 5GS.
The structure of local 3D point with uncertainty ellipsoid is defined in
clause 6.1.6.2.39 in TS 29.572 [4].
# 6 Coding
## 6.1 Point
The co-ordinates of an ellipsoid point are coded with an uncertainty of less
than 3 metres.
The latitude is coded with 24 bits: 1 bit of sign and a number between 0 and
2^23^-1 coded in binary on 23 bits. The relation between the coded number _N_
and the range of (absolute) latitudes _X_ it encodes is the following (_X_ in
degrees):
except for _N_ =2^23^-1, for which the range is extended to include _N_ +1.
The longitude, expressed in the range -180°, +180°, is coded as a number
between -2^23^ and 2^23^-1, coded in 2\'s complement binary on 24 bits. The
relation between the coded number _N_ and the range of longitude _X_ it
encodes is the following (_X_ in degrees):
## 6.1a High Accuracy Point
The co-ordinates of a high accuracy ellipsoid point are coded with a
resolution of less than 5 millimetre for latitude, and less than 10 millimetre
for longitude.
The latitude for a high accuracy point, expressed in the range -90°, +90°, is
coded as a number between -2^31^ and 2^31^-1, coded in 2\'s complement binary
on 32 bits. The relation between the latitude _X_ in the range [-90°, 90°] and
the coded number _N_ is:
where denotes the greatest integer less than or equal to _x_ (floor operator).
The longitude for a high accuracy point, expressed in the range -180°, +180°,
is coded as a number between -2^31^ and 2^31^-1, coded in 2\'s complement
binary on 32 bits. The relation between the longitude _X_ in the range [-180°,
180°) and the coded number _N_ is:
## 6.2 Uncertainty
A method of describing the uncertainty for latitude and longitude has been
sought which is both flexible (can cover wide differences in range) and
efficient. The proposed solution makes use of a variation on the Binomial
expansion. The uncertainty _r_ , expressed in metres, is mapped to a number
_K_ , with the following formula:
with _C_ = 10 and _x_ = 0,1. With 0 _K_ 127, a suitably useful range between 0
and 1800 kilometres is achieved for the uncertainty, while still being able to
code down to values as small as 1 metre. The uncertainty can then be coded on
7 bits, as the binary encoding of _K_.
Table 1: Example values for the uncertainty Function
* * *
Value of _K_ Value of uncertainty 0 0 m 1 1 m 2 2,1 m \- - 20 57,3 m \- - 40
443 m \- - 60 3 km \- - 80 20 km \- - 100 138 km \- - 120 927 km \- - 127 1800
km
* * *
## 6.2a High Accuracy Uncertainty
The high accuracy uncertainty r, expressed in metres, is mapped to a number
_K_ , with the following formula:
with _C_ = 0.3 and _x_ = 0.02. With 0 _K_ 255, a suitably useful range between
0 and 46.49129 metres is achieved for the high accuracy uncertainty, while
still being able to code down to values as small as 6 millimetre. The
uncertainty can then be coded on 8 bits, as the binary encoding of _K_.
Table 6.2a-1: Example values for the high accuracy uncertainty function
* * *
Value of _K_ Value of uncertainty 0 0 m 1 0.006 m 2 0.01212 m \- - 20 0.14578
m \- - 40 0.36241 m \- - 60 0.68430 m \- - 80 1.16263 m \- - 100 1.87339 m \-
- 120 2.92954 m \- - 127 3.40973 m \- - 255 46.49129 m
* * *
## 6.2b High Accuracy Extended Uncertainty
The high accuracy extended uncertainty r, expressed in metres, is mapped to a
number _K_ , with the following formula:
with C = 0.3 and x = 0.02594, with 0 * _K_ * 253, and _r_ = 200 m with _K_
=254, and _r_ > 200 m with _K_ =255 a suitably useful range between 0 and 200
metres is achieved for the high accuracy uncertainty, while still being able
to code down to values as small as 8 millimetres. The uncertainty can then be
coded on 8 bits, as the binary encoding of _K_.
Table 6.2b-1: Example values for the high accuracy uncertainty function
* * *
Value of _K_ Value of uncertainty 0 0 m 1 0.00778 m 2 0.01577 m \- - 20
0.20068 m \- - 40 0.53560 m \- - 60 1.09457 m \- - 80 2.02744 m \- - 100
3.58434 m \- - 120 6.18271 m \- - 127 7.45551 m \- - 253 195.12396 m 254 200 m
255 > 200 m
* * *
## 6.3 Altitude
Altitude is encoded in increments of 1 meter using a 15 bit binary coded
number _N_. The relation between the number _N_ and the range of altitudes _a_
(in metres) it encodes is described by the following equation:
Except for _N_ =2^15^-1 for which the range is extended to include all greater
values of _a._
The direction of altitude is encoded by a single bit with bit value 0
representing height above the WGS84 ellipsoid surface and bit value 1
representing depth below the WGS84 ellipsoid surface.
## 6.3a High Accuracy Altitude
High accuracy altitude is encoded as a number _N_ between -64000 and 1280000
using 2\'s complement binary on 22 bits. The relation between the number N and
the altitude a (in metres) it encodes is described by the following equation:
So, the altitude for a high accuracy point, with a scale factor of 2^-7^,
ranges between -500 metres and 10000 metres. The altitude is encoded
representing height above (plus) or below (minus) the WGS84 ellipsoid surface.
## 6.4 Uncertainty Altitude
The uncertainty in altitude, _h_ , expressed in metres is mapped from the
binary number _K_ , with the following formula:
$h = C\left( \left( 1 + x \right)^{K} - 1 \right)$
with _C_ = 45 and _x_ = 0,025. With 0 _K_ 127, a suitably useful range between
0 and 990 meters is achieved for the uncertainty altitude. The uncertainty can
then be coded on 7 bits, as the binary encoding of _K_.
Table 2: Example values for the uncertainty altitude Function
* * *
Value of _K_ Value of uncertainty altitude 0 0 m 1 1,13 m 2 2,28 m \- - 20
28,7 m \- - 40 75,8 m \- - 60 153,0 m \- - 80 279,4 m \- - 100 486,6 m \- -
120 826,1 m \- - 127 990,5 m
* * *
## 6.5 Confidence
The confidence by which the position of a target entity is known to be within
the shape description, (expressed as a percentage) is directly mapped from the
7 bit binary number _K_ , except for _K_ =0 which is used to indicate \'no
information\', and 100 \ ::=
\ \|
\ \|
\ \|
\ \|
\ \|
\ \|
\;
\ : :=
0000 \(4)
\ ;
\ ::=
\ \
\ ;
\ ::=
0001 \(4)
\
\ \ ;
\ ::=
0011 \(4)
\
\ \
\ \
\
\ \;
\ ::=
0101 \
\(val(Number of points)) ;
\ ::=
0011 \| 0100 \| 0101 \| 0110 \| 0111 \| 1000 \| 1001 \| 1010 \|
1011 \| 1100 \| 1101 \| 1110 \| 1111 ;
\ ::=
1000 \(4)
\
\;
\ ::=
\ \
\ ::=
1001 \(4)
\
\
\ \
\ \
\
\ \
\ \;
\ ::=
\ spare(4)
\
\
\ \;
\
\
\ \;
\ ::=
\ \|
\ \|
\\|
\;
\ : :=
0000 \(3)
\
\;
\ : :=
0001 \(2)
\
\
\
\;
\ : :=
0010 \(3)
\
\
\;
\ : :=
0011 \(2)
\
\
\
\
\
\;
#