# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This specification gives the stage 2 description of the Completion of Calls to
Busy Subscriber (CCBS) supplementary service within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification gives the stage 2 description of the Completion
of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) supplementary service.
# 2 Normative references
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.093: \"Completion of calls to busy subscriber (CCBS)
supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services \-
General Aspects\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.018: \"Basic Call Handling - Technical Realization\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL) - Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.079: \"Support for Optimal Routeing (SOR) - Technical
Realization\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols Stage3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[10] ETSI ETS 300 358: \"ISDN Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
supplementary service; Functional capabilities and information flows\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Destination B:** The entity addressed in the original call set up, which is
busy when first called by subscriber A. Similarly, MSC B, VLR B and HLR B are
the network elements pertaining to Destination B when Destination B is a GSM
mobile.
**Originating queue:** The queue that manages CCBS requests for a subscriber,
when that subscriber is the originator of those CCBS Requests.
**SSAP** : Supplementary Service Application Part. SSAP is the protocol used
for CCBS procedures on the interface between the originating and destination
network. Communication across this interface is performed using SCCP
Connectionless Signalling (Refer to ETS 300 358).
**Subscriber A:** The user of MS A, requesting CCBS. Similarly, MSC A, VLR A
and HLR A are the network elements pertaining to Subscriber A.
**Subscriber B:** The user of destination B, who may not necessarily subscribe
to CCBS.
**Subscriber C:** The user of MS C, who is the forwarded-to-party when call
forwarding applies. Similarly, MSC C, VLR C and HLR C are the network elements
pertaining to Subscriber C.
**Target queue:** The queue that manages CCBS requests for a subscriber, when
that subscriber is the target of CCBS Requests.
**Timers:** For each of the service timers, the location, start and stop
conditions and action on expiry are given - Refer to clause 5.1.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
The CCBS service allows a calling subscriber A, encountering a NDUB
destination B, to be notified when destination B becomes idle and to have the
network automatically generate a CCBS call to destination B, if subscriber A
desires. Subscriber A may make distinct CCBS requests for calls to the same
destination B for different basic services.
## 4.2 Architecture
Figure 4.2.1 is an architectural overview of the CCBS service when
interworking between the originating and the destination networks involved.
The originating network may be a mobile network or a fixed network and the
destination network may also be a mobile network or a fixed network.
The call related signalling for CCBS is performed on ISUP links on the
following interfaces:
VMSC A - GMSC B;
VMSC A - DLE;
OLE - GMSC B;
whereas the specific CCBS procedures are performed via the SSAP protocol,
which is signalled on the following interfaces:
HLR A - HLR B;
HLR A - DLE;
OLE - HLR B.
Figure 4.2.1: Architectural overview showing common point of interworking
### 4.2.1 Architectural overview during roaming
Either the originating subscriber A or the destination subscriber B or both
may be located outside of their HPLMNs during the CCBS service. When all the
involved networks support CCBS service the normal handling described in this
specification applies. When some network entities do not support CCBS service
refer to clause 10 where the exceptions are described in more detail.
The signalling between different networks described in the clause 4.2 applies
also during roaming. HLR A and HLR B belongs always to the HPLMN of the
subscriber whereas VLR A and MSC A and GMSC, VLR B and MSC B respectively may
belong to a HPLMN or VPLMN. Refer to TS 23.018 where call handling in the
mobile network is described in more detail.
# 5 Handling of completion of calls to busy subscriber
Registration and erasure of CCBS are not applicable. Activation and Invocation
of CCBS are intrinsic parts of the operation of the service, and are described
in this section.
## 5.1 CCBS Timers
The timers used to control the operation of CCBS can be considered to consist
of two groups i.e. the timers which operate on a per subscriber basis (see
table 1) and the service duration timers (T3 and T7) which operate on a per
CCBS Request basis (see table 2).
Table 1: CCBS Service Timers
* * *
**Timer** **Name** **Value** **Run At** **Started** **Stopped** **Expiry** T1
Retention >15s MSC A Busy (CCBS Possible) sent to MS A CCBS Request received
from MS A Discard retained information T4 Recall 20-30s MSC A CCBS Recall sent
to MS A and MS A is idle Subscriber A initiates CCBS setup or rejects CCBS
Recall Cancel request T8 Destination idle guard 0-15s HLR B Event Report
received from VLR B indicating destination B is idle Event Report received
from VLR B indicating destination B is no longer idle Inform originating
network that Destination B is free T9 Recall B 40-55s HLR B Remote User Free
sent to the A-side Request cancelled, completed or suspended Cancel request
T10 CCBS notification 20-30s MSC A CCBS Recall sent to MS A and MS A is not
idle Subscriber A initiates CCBS setup, rejects CCBS Recall or requests
suspension Suspend request T11 CCBS resume 20-25s HLR A HLR A receives a
resume request and there are more than one suspended request in subscriber
A\'s queue Remote User Free received from destination network Resume next
suspended request in queue T12 CCBS Call Guard 20-30s HLRA HLRA receives a
CCBS RUF Ack and starts to wait CCBS Call Report CCBS Call Report received
Cancel request
* * *
Table 2: Service Duration Timers
* * *
**Timer** **Name** **Value** **Run At** **Started** **Stopped** **Expiry** T3
Originating service duration 15-45m HLR A Acknowledgement to CCBS Request
received from destination network Request cancelled or completed Cancel
request T7 Terminating service duration >45m HLR B HLR B acknowledges
successful activation of a CCBS Request Request cancelled or completed Cancel
request
* * *
## 5.2 Information flows
Figures 5.2.1 and 5.2.2 show the flow of information between network elements
for a mobile to mobile call for the following:
Figure 5.2.1: Successful CCBS request, destination B busy when request made,
subscriber A free when destination B becomes free.
Figure 5.2.2: Subscriber A is not idle when destination B becomes free.
Figures 5.2.3 and 5.2.4 show the flow of information between network elements
for a mobile to fixed call for the same situations described in figures 5.2.1
and 5.2.2 respectively.
Each information flow diagram has been divided where appropriate into four
distinct phases of operation. These are as follows:
(1) Pre-conditions (Initial Call encountering NDUB and CCBS possible in the
destination network). The detailed description of the basic call handling can
be found in TS 23.018;
(2) Activation;
(3) Invocation;
(4) Operation (CCBS Call Set-up).
Figure 5.2.1: Successful CCBS request. Destination B busy when request
activated, subscriber A free when destination B becomes free (mobile-to-
mobile)
Figure 5.2.2: Subscriber A not idle when destination B becomes free (mobile-
to-mobile);\ Processing of a single request
Figure 5.2.3: Successful CCBS request. Destination B busy when request
activated, subscriber A free when destination B becomes free (mobile-to-fixed)
Figure 5.2.4: Subscriber A not idle when destination B becomes free (mobile-
to-fixed)
## 5.3 Activation
Activation of a CCBS Request is carried out by subscriber A. VLR A is
considered to be transparent during the activation operation.
The information flows shown in figures 5.2.1 to 5.2.4 inclusive show the
information flow for the activation process.
## 5.4 Deactivation
Subscriber A may deactivate CCBS in any of the following ways:
\- Deactivate all outstanding CCBS requests; or
\- Deactivate a specific CCBS Request.
The different deactivation operations are identified by different MMI commands
as specified in TS 22.030.
Deactivation of CCBS requests by subscriber A shall be performed at HLR A.
To deactivate all outstanding CCBS requests, the Deactivate CCBS operation
request shall contain the SS-Code only.
To deactivate a specific CCBS request, the Deactivate CCBS operation request
shall contain the following parameters:
\- SS-Code;
\- CCBS Index.
On receipt of the deactivation request, HLR A shall cancel the CCBS request,
i.e. remove all record of a CCBS request from the subscriber A\'s originating
CCBS queue and instruct the destination B network to cancel the corresponding
CCBS request in the destination CCBS queue of subscriber B. HLR A shall return
a result indicating whether the deactivation attempt was successful or not.
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MS A | | MSC A | | VLR A | | HLR A | | D | | | | | | | | | | estin | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | | | | Ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Deact | | | | | | | | | | ivate | | | | | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --> | | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | Deact | | | | | | | | | | ivate | | | | | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --> | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | Deact | | | | | | | | | | ivate | | | | | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --> | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | | ancel | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --\ | | | | | | | | | | --- | | | | | | | | | | --> | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | note) | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | | cknow | | | | | | | | | | ledge | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | | | I | | | | | | | | nterrogate | | | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----> | | | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | nterrogate | | | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | -\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----> | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | | | | | | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | cknowledge | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | ------ | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | | | A | | | | | | | | cknowledge | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<\---\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | ------ | | | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | A | | | | | | | | cknowledge | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<-\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | -----\ | | | | | | | | ------ | | | | | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+ | | | | | | | | +------+------------+-------+------------+-------+------------+-------+
Figure 5.5.1: General interrogation of completion of calls to busy subscriber
The Interrogate CCBS operation request shall contain the SS-Code only.
In response to a general interrogation, MS A shall be given the AddressOfB,
BasicServiceCode and CCBS index for each CCBS Request in the queue. The
entries shall be ordered in the chronological order, the oldest entry shall be
presented first.
If there are no CCBS Requests in the queue, MS A shall be given an indication
that no entries exist in the queue.
NOTE: In the case where a subscriber attempts to perform an interrogation
operation but the subscriber is not provisioned with the CCBS service then,
the subscriber shall receive an indication that the CCBS service is not
provisioned for him.
## 5.6 Messages and their contents
This clause contains the detailed description of the information flows used by
CCBS.
Each Information Element, IE is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C) Conditional or
(O) Optional. A mandatory information element shall always be present. A
conditional information shall be present if certain conditions are fulfilled;
if those conditions are not fulfilled it shall be absent. An optional
information element may be present or absent, at the discretion of the
application at the sending entity. This categorisation is a functional
classification, i.e., stage 2 information and not a stage 3 classifications to
be used for the protocol.
The stage 2 and stage 3 message and information element names are not
necessarily identical.
### 5.6.1 Information elements used in the messages
In this clause constructed information elements are described.
#### 5.6.1.1 Call Information information element
Call Information information element is formed in the MSC A during the CCBS
activation. This information element contains unmodified copy of the SETUP
message received from the MS A. If CCBS Request is activated, the Call
Information is stored in the HLR A. During CCBS Recall Call Information is
relayed back to the MS. Refer to SETUP Container information element defined
in TS 24.008.
#### 5.6.1.2 AddressOfB information element
AddressOfB information element is formed in the MSC A during the CCBS
activation. It contains the number of the destination B dialled by the A-user.
Table 5.6.1.2: Structure of AddressOfB information element
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parent |** Child | **Information |** Information | | Information | Information | element | element | | Element**| element name** | Required**| description** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | AddressOfB | B subscriber | M | The number of | | | number, | | the | | | | C | destination B | | | B subscriber | | dialled by the | | | subaddress | | A-user; | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | present if it | | | | | was dialled by | | | | | the A-user; | | | | | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | shall be | | | | | absent | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.6.1.3 CCBS Description information element
CCBS Description information element is formed in the HLR A during the CCBS
activation.
Table 5.6.1.3: Structure of CCBS Description information element
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Parent |** Child | **Information |** Information | | Information | Information | element | element | | Element**| element name** | Required**| description** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CCBS | CCBS Index, | M | CCBS Index | | Description | | | (range 1 - 5) | | | AddressOfB, | M | identifies the | | | | | request in the | | | Bas | M | network. | | | icServiceGroup | | | | | | | The structure | | | | | of the | | | | | AddressOfB is | | | | | defined in | | | | | table 5.6.1.2; | | | | | | | | | | Bas | | | | | icServiceGroup | | | | | related to the | | | | | original call. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.6.2 Messages between MS and MSC
These messages are used in the originating network.
Table 5.6.2: Messages between MS and MSC
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | MSC | - | - | This | | POSSIBLE | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | MS | - | - | This | | REQUEST | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | MSC | CCBS Index, | M | CCBS Index | | REQUEST ACK | | | | (range 1 - | | | | AddressOfB, | O | 5) | | | | | | identifies | | | | BasicS | O | the request | | | | erviceGroup | | in the | | | | | | network. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the | | | | | | AddressOfB | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in table | | | | | | 5.6.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | BasicS | | | | | | erviceGroup | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the | | | | | | original | | | | | | call. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | MSC | Error | M | The | | REQUEST | | | | information | | ERROR | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Short | | | | | | term denial | | | | | | | | | | | | - Long | | | | | | term denial | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | MS | CCBS Index | C | If CCBS | | CCBS | | | | Index is | | | | | | present the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | request | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | deleted, | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | all | | | | | | requests | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | deleted. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | MSC | Deact | M | The | | CCBS ACK | | ivateResult | | information | | | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Success | | | | | | | | | | | | - Not | | | | | | Provisioned | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | MS | - | - | This | | CCBS | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | MSC | List(1-5) | C | The list | | CCBS ACK | | of CCBS | | shall | | | | De | C | contain one | | | | scription;\ | | entry for | | | | No Entries; | C | each CCBS | | | | | | Request for | | | | Not | | which the | | | | Provisioned | | HLR stores | | | | | | data or; | | | | | | | | | | | | the queue | | | | | | is empty | | | | | | or; | | | | | | | | | | | | CCBS is not | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | for the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | | | | | | | Exactly one | | | | | | of these | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the CCBS | | | | | | Description | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.6.1.3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | MSC | Call | M | The content | | INFO | | Information | | of the Call | | | | | | Information | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in the | | | | | | clau | | | | | | se 5.6.1.1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | MS | GSM BC | M | GSM BC | | INFO ACK | | | | indicates | | | | | | the BC the | | | | | | MS prefers | | | | | | to use. The | | | | | | network may | | | | | | allocate a | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | channel | | | | | | a | | | | | | ccordingly. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | MS | Error | M | The | | INFO ERROR | | | | information | | | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | I | | | | | | ncompatible | | | | | | Terminal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS RECALL | MSC | CCBS | M, | The | | | | D | | structure | | | | escription, | C | of the CCBS | | | | | | Description | | | | Alerting | | is defined | | | | Pattern | | in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.6.1.3. | | | | | | | | | | | | Alerting | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | it was | | | | | | received in | | | | | | the CCBS | | | | | | RUF message | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS SETUP | MS | - | - | The content | | | | | | of the | | | | | | message is | | | | | | the same as | | | | | | the MO | | | | | | Set-up | | | | | | message | | | | | | has. Refer | | | | | | to TS | | | | | | 24.008. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS RECALL | MS | Cause | M | The MS | | REJECT | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | the reason | | | | | | of CCBS | | | | | | Recall | | | | | | rejection. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Recall | | | | | | Rejected by | | | | | | the user | | | | | | | | | | | | - UDUB | | | | | | | | | | | | - ACMmax | | | | | | exceeded | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.6.3 Messages between MSC and VLR (B-interface)
#### 5.6.3.1 Messages between MSC and VLR in the originating network
These messages are used in the originating network. Some messages are used
also in the terminating network. They are marked accordingly.
Table 5.6.3.1: Messages between MSC and VLR in the originating network
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CALL END | MSC | - | - | This | | | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | MSC | Outcome | M | The | | DELIVERY | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | whether | | | | | | CCBS Call | | | | | | was | | | | | | successful | | | | | | or failure. | | | | | | It can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Success; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Failure; | | | | | | | | | | | | - NDUB; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Busy; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Absent | | | | | | S | | | | | | ubscriber.. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | MSC | - | - | This | | REQUEST | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | VLR | CCBS Index, | M | CCBS Index | | REQUEST ACK | | | | (range 1 - | | | | AddressOfB, | O | 5) | | | | | | identifies | | | | BasicS | O | the request | | | | erviceGroup | | in the | | | | | | network. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the | | | | | | AddressOfB | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in table | | | | | | 5.6.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | BasicS | | | | | | erviceGroup | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the | | | | | | original | | | | | | call. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | VLR | Error | M | The | | REQUEST | | | | information | | ERROR | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Short | | | | | | term | | | | | | denial; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Long | | | | | | term | | | | | | denial. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | COMPLETE | VLR | Call | M | The content | | RECALL | | Information | | of the Call | | | | | | Information | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in the | | | | | | clau | | | | | | se 5.6.1.1. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | COMPLETE | MSC | - | - | This | | RECALL ACK | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | COMPLETE | MSC | Negative | M | The | | RECALL | | Response | | negative | | NEGATIVE | | | | information | | RESPONSE | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Absent | | | | | | Subscriber; | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | I | | | | | | ncompatible | | | | | | Terminal; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Radio | | | | | | Congestion. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | MSC | CCBS Index | C | If CCBS | | CCBS | | | | Index is | | | | | | present the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | request | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | deleted, | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | all | | | | | | requests | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | deleted. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | VLR | Deact | M | The | | CCBS ACK | | ivateResult | | information | | | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Success; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Not | | | | | | P | | | | | | rovisioned. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | MSC | - | - | This | | CCBS | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 5.6.3.1: Messages between MSC and VLR in the originating network, cont.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | VLR | List(1-5) | C | The list | | CCBS ACK | | of CCBS | | shall | | | | De | C | contain one | | | | scription;\ | | entry for | | | | No Entries; | C | each CCBS | | | | | | Request for | | | | Not | | which the | | | | Provisioned | | HLR stores | | | | | | data; or | | | | | | | | | | | | the queue | | | | | | is empty; | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | CCBS is not | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | for the | | | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | | | Exactly one | | | | | | of these | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the CCBS | | | | | | Description | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.6.1.3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOT IDLE | MSC | - | - | This | | | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PAGE MS FOR | VLR | Location | M | Location | | RECALL | | area ID, | | area in | | | | | O | which the | | | | TMSI | | MS is to be | | | | | | paged | | | | | | | | | | | | TMSI to be | | | | | | broadcast | | | | | | to identify | | | | | | the MS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PAGE MS FOR | MSC | Negative | M | The | | RECALL | | Response | | negative | | NEGATIVE | | | | information | | RESPONSE | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown | | | | | | LAI; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Absent | | | | | | Subscriber; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Busy | | | | | | Subscriber. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PROCESS | MSC | - | - | Refer to TS | | ACCESS | | | | 23.018 | | REQUEST | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RADIO | MSC | - | - | This | | FAILURE | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RECALL | VLR | CCBS | M | The | | | | Description | | structure | | | | | C | of the CCBS | | | | Alerting | | Description | | | | Pattern | | is defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.6.1.3. | | | | | | | | | | | | Alerting | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | it was | | | | | | received in | | | | | | the CCBS | | | | | | RUF message | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RECALL ACK | MSC | Cause | M | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Accept; | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Rejected; | | | | | | | | | | | | - T4 | | | | | | Expiry; | | | | | | | | | | | | - T10 | | | | | | Expiry; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Radio | | | | | | Failure; | | | | | | | | | | | | - UDUB, | | | | | | busy; | | | | | | | | | | | | - UDUB, | | | | | | idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | I | | | | | | ncompatible | | | | | | terminal. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEARCH FOR | VLR | - | - | This | | MS MSC FOR | | | | message | | RECALL | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEARCH FOR | MSC | - | - | This | | MS MSC FOR | | | | message | | RECALL ACK | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEARCH FOR | MSC | Negative | M | The | | MS MSC FOR | | Response | | negative | | RECALL | | | | information | | NEGATIVE | | | | element can | | RESPONSE | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Absent | | | | | | Subscriber; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Busy | | | | | | Subscriber; | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEND INFO | MSC | - | - | Refer to TS | | FOR | | | | 23.018 | | OUTGOING | | | | | | CALL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | VLR | - | - | This | | STATUS | | | | message | | ENQUIRY | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | STATUS | MSC | Status | M | The | | ENQUIRY | | | | information | | RESULT | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | vales: | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Idle. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | STOP STATUS | VLR | - | - | This | | ENQUIRY | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.6.3.2 Messages between MSC and VLR in the destination network
These messages are used in the destination network. Some messages are used
also in the originating network. They are marked accordingly.
Table 5.6.3.2: Messages between MSC and VLR in the destination network
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CALL END | MSC | - | - | Refer to | | | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | MSC | - | - | Refer to | | DELIVERY | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | VLR | - | - | Refer to | | STATUS | | | | table | | ENQUIRY | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | STATUS | MSC | - | - | Refer to | | ENQUIRY | | | | table | | RESULT | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | STOP STATUS | VLR | - | - | Refer to | | ENQUIRY | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RADIO | MSC | - | - | Refer to | | FAILURE | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOT IDLE | MSC | - | - | Refer to | | | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.3.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | COMPLETE | VLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | CALL | | | | 23.018 | | | | Indicator | C | | | | | | | In | | | | | | addition: | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the call is | | | | | | CCBS Call; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PROCESS | VLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | CALL | | | | 23.018 | | WAITING | | Indicator | C | | | | | | | In | | | | | | addition: | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the call is | | | | | | CCBS Call; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEND INFO | VLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | FOR | | | | 23.018 | | | | CCBS Target | C | | | INCOMING | | | | In | | CALL ACK | | | | addition: | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the B | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | can be | | | | | | target of | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | request; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEND INFO | VLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | FOR | | | | 23.018 | | | | CCBS Target | C | | | INCOMING | | | | In | | CALL | | | | addition: | | NEGATIVE | | | | | | RESPONSE | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the B | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | can be | | | | | | target of | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | request; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.6.4 Messages between VLR and HLR (D-interface)
#### 5.6.4.1 Messages between VLR and HLR in the originating network
These messages are used between VLR - HLR in the originating network. Some
messages are used also in the destination network. They are marked
accordingly.
Table 5.6.4.1: Messages between VLR and HLR in the originating network
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | VLR | Call | M | The content | | REQUEST | | Information | | of the Call | | | | | M | Information | | | | ISDN BC | | is defined | | | | | C | in the | | | | ISDN HLC | | clau | | | | | C | se 5.6.1.1. | | | | ISDN LLC | | | | | | | C | ISDN BC | | | | P | | derived for | | | | resentation | M | the initial | | | | Indicator | | call. | | | | | C | | | | | Translated | | Shall be | | | | B No | M | present if | | | | | | ISDN HLC | | | | CAMEL | M | was present | | | | Invoked | | in the | | | | | | initial | | | | Basic | | call; | | | | Service | | otherwise | | | | Group | | shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | AddressOfB | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | ISDN LLC | | | | | | was present | | | | | | in the | | | | | | initial | | | | | | call; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | CLIR was | | | | | | invoked for | | | | | | the initial | | | | | | call; | | | | | | | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | The number | | | | | | used for | | | | | | routing | | | | | | purposes | | | | | | stored in | | | | | | in | | | | | | ternational | | | | | | E.164 | | | | | | format. | | | | | | | | | | | | Shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | MO CAMEL | | | | | | was invoked | | | | | | in the | | | | | | initial | | | | | | call; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | Elementary | | | | | | Basic | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Group which | | | | | | corresponds | | | | | | to the | | | | | | basic | | | | | | service | | | | | | used for | | | | | | initial | | | | | | call set-up | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the | | | | | | AddressOfB | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in table | | | | | | 5.6.1.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | HLR | CCBS Index | M | CCBS Index | | REQUEST ACK | | | | (range 1 - | | | | AddressOfB | O | 5) | | | | | | identifies | | | | Basic | O | the request | | | | Service | | in the | | | | Group | | network. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the | | | | | | AddressOfB | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in table | | | | | | 5.6.1.2 | | | | | | | | | | | | BasicS | | | | | | erviceGroup | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the | | | | | | original | | | | | | call. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS | HLR | Error | M | The | | REQUEST | | | | information | | ERROR | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Short | | | | | | term | | | | | | denial; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Long | | | | | | term | | | | | | denial; | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS RUF | HLR | Call | M | The content | | | | Information | | of the Call | | | | | M | Information | | | | CCBS | | is defined | | | | Description | M | in the | | | | | | clau | | | | Translated | C | se 5.6.1.1. | | | | B No | | | | | | | C | The content | | | | Replace B | | of the CCBS | | | | No | | Description | | | | | | is defined | | | | Alerting | | in | | | | Pattern | | tab | | | | | | le 5.6.1.3. | | | | | | | | | | | | The number | | | | | | used for | | | | | | routing | | | | | | purposes in | | | | | | in | | | | | | ternational | | | | | | E.164 | | | | | | format. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the HLR | | | | | | instructs | | | | | | the MSC to | | | | | | replace the | | | | | | destination | | | | | | B number | | | | | | with the | | | | | | translated | | | | | | B number; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | Alerting | | | | | | Pattern | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the HLR has | | | | | | determined | | | | | | an alerting | | | | | | category or | | | | | | an alerting | | | | | | level for | | | | | | the CCBS | | | | | | recall | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS RUF | VLR | Result | M | The | | ACK | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | whether | | | | | | CCBS Recall | | | | | | was | | | | | | accepted. | | | | | | It can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - RUF | | | | | | Accepted; | | | | | | | | | | | | - RUF | | | | | | Rejected; | | | | | | | | | | | | - T4 | | | | | | Expiry; | | | | | | | | | | | | - T10 | | | | | | Expiry; | | | | | | | | | | | | - UDUB, | | | | | | idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - UDUB, | | | | | | busy. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS RUF | VLR | Error | M | The | | ERROR | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the reason | | | | | | why CCBS | | | | | | Recall | | | | | | could not | | | | | | be | | | | | | s | | | | | | uccessfully | | | | | | delivered. | | | | | | It can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - IMSI | | | | | | Detached; | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Restricted | | | | | | Area; | | | | | | | | | | | | - No Page | | | | | | Response; | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | I | | | | | | ncompatible | | | | | | Terminal; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Absent | | | | | | Subscriber; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Radio | | | | | | Failure; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Ccomp | | | | | | Busy; | | | | | | | | | | | | - System | | | | | | Failure. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 5.6.4.1: Messages between VLR and HLR in the originating network, cont.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EVENT | VLR | Status | M | The | | REPORT | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | contains | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | status. It | | | | | | can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Reachable. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EVENT | HLR | - | - | This | | REPORT ACK | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EVEN | HLR | Error | M | The | | T_REPORT_ | | | | information | | | | | | element | | ERROR | | | | contains no | | | | | | application | | | | | | specific | | | | | | error | | | | | | values. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | HLR | - | - | This | | REPORTING | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | VLR | Status | M | The | | REPORTING | | | | information | | ACK | | | | element | | | | | | contains | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | status. It | | | | | | can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Reachable. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | VLR | Error | M | The | | REPORTING | | | | information | | ERROR | | | | element | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | application | | | | | | specific | | | | | | error | | | | | | values. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CONTINUE | HLR | - | - | This | | MONITORING | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | STOP | HLR | - | - | This | | REPORTING | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | VLR | Mode | M | The | | REPORT | | | | information | | | | Outcome | M | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | Status | C | the | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | mode. It | | | | | | can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values : | | | | | | | | | | | | - A; | | | | | | | | | | | | - B. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the outcome | | | | | | of the CCBS | | | | | | Call. It | | | | | | can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Success; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Busy | | | | | | (only for | | | | | | mode A); | | | | | | | | | | | | - NDUB | | | | | | (only for | | | | | | mode B) | | | | | | | | | | | | - Failure. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | contains | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | status. It | | | | | | is set only | | | | | | for mode B. | | | | | | It can take | | | | | | the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Idle; | | | | | | | | | | | | - CCBS Not | | | | | | Reachable. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | HLR | - | - | This | | REPORT ACK | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | HLR | Error | M | The | | REPORT | | | | information | | ERROR | | | | element | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | application | | | | | | specific | | | | | | error | | | | | | values. | | | | | | | | | | | | The message | | | | | | is used | | | | | | also in the | | | | | | terminating | | | | | | network. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | VLR | CCBS Index | C | If CCBS | | CCBS | | | | Index is | | | | | | present the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | request | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | deleted, | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | all | | | | | | requests | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | deleted. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | HLR | Deact | M | The | | CCBS ACK | | ivateResult | | information | | | | | | element can | | | | | | take the | | | | | | following | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Success; | | | | | | | | | | | | - Not | | | | | | P | | | | | | rovisioned. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DEACTIVATE | HLR | Error | M | The | | CCBS ERROR | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | application | | | | | | specific | | | | | | error | | | | | | values. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 5.6.4.1: Messages between VLR and HLR in the originating network, cont.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | VLR | - | - | This | | CCBS | | | | message | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | HLR | List(1-5) | C | The list | | CCBS ACK | | of CCBS | | shall | | | | D | C | contain one | | | | escription; | | entry for | | | | | C | each CCBS | | | | No Entries; | | Request for | | | | | | which the | | | | Not | | HLR stores | | | | Provisioned | | data or; | | | | | | | | | | | | the queue | | | | | | is empty | | | | | | or; | | | | | | | | | | | | CCBS is not | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | for the | | | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | | | Exactly one | | | | | | of these | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present. | | | | | | The | | | | | | structure | | | | | | of the CCBS | | | | | | Description | | | | | | is defined | | | | | | in | | | | | | tab | | | | | | le 5.6.1.3. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | INTERROGATE | HLR | Error | M | The | | CCBS ERROR | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | contains no | | | | | | application | | | | | | specific | | | | | | error | | | | | | values. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.6.4.2 Messages between VLR and HLR in the destination network
These messages are used between VLR - HLR in the destination network. Some
messages are used also in the originating network. They are marked
accordingly.
Table 5.6.4.2: Messages between VLR and HLR in the destination network
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EVENT | VLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORT | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EVENT | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORT ACK | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | EVENT | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORT | | | | table | | ERROR | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORTING | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | VLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORTING | | | | table | | ACK | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | START | VLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORTING | | | | table | | ERROR | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CONTINUE | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | MONITORING | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | STOP | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORTING | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | VLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORT | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORT ACK | | | | table | | | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | CCBS CALL | HLR | - | - | Refer to | | REPORT | | | | table | | ERROR | | | | 5.6.4.1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | PROVIDE | HLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | ROAMING | | | | 23.018 | | NUMBER | | CCBS Call | C | | | | | Reporting | | In | | | | Request | | addition: | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present for | | | | | | CCBS Call | | | | | | roaming | | | | | | number | | | | | | enquiry; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.6.5 Messages between MSC and HLR (C-interface)
Table 5.6.5: Messages between MSC and HLR
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEND | MSC | - | - | Refer to TS | | ROUTING | | | | 23.018 | | INFO | | CCBS | C | | | | | Supported | | In | | | | | C | addition: | | | | CCBS Call | | | | | | Indicator | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | GMSC | | | | | | supports | | | | | | CCBS; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present, if | | | | | | SRI is for | | | | | | CCBS Call; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEND | HLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | ROUTING | | | | 23.018 | | INFO_ACK | | CCBS Target | C | | | | | | | In | | | | Keep CCBS | C | addition: | | | | Call | | | | | | Indicator | C | The | | | | | | information | | | | Forwarding | | element | | | | Reason | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the call is | | | | | | forwarded | | | | | | on busy and | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | B can be | | | | | | target of | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | requests; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the VMSC | | | | | | supports | | | | | | CCBS and | | | | | | SRI enquiry | | | | | | was for | | | | | | CCBS Call; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | | | The reason | | | | | | CFBusy | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the HLR has | | | | | | determined | | | | | | that the | | | | | | call is to | | | | | | be | | | | | | forwarded | | | | | | for that | | | | | | CCBS case. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | SEND | HLR | - | - | Refer to TS | | ROUTING | | | | 23.018 | | INFO | | Negative | - | | | NEGATIVE | | Response | | New | | RESPONSE | | | | value(s) | | | | | | for | | | | | | existing | | | | | | pa | | | | | | rameter(s): | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Busy_CCBS | | | | | | _Possible; | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | Busy | | | | | | _CCBS_Not | | | | | | _Possible. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.6.6 Messages between MSC - MSC (E-interface)
Table 5.6.6: Messages between MSC and MSC
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Message** | **Message | ** | ** | ** | | | sender** | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name**| Required** | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RESUME CALL | MSC | - | - | Refer to TS | | HANDLING | | | | 23.079 | | | | CCBS Target | C | | | | | | | In | | | | | | addition: | | | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | the call is | | | | | | forwarded | | | | | | on busy and | | | | | | the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | B can be | | | | | | target of | | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | requests; | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | it shall be | | | | | | absent. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.6.7 Existing parameters containing CCBS specific information
Mobile Station Classmark 2 (refer to TS 24.008 contains information whether
\"Network initiated MO CM connection request\" is supported or not. This
information is vital for the recall mechanism.
CC capabilities (refer to TS 24.008) contains information whether \"Prolonged
Clearing Procedures\" are supported or not. This information is vital for the
activation mechanism.
SS-Code and SS-Status (refer to TS 29.002) contains information whether CCBS
service is provisioned to the subscriber. Both originating and destination
CCBS service have their own SS-Code.
# 6 Monitoring and CCBS Call Reporting
## 6.1 Monitoring
### 6.1.1 Overview
Monitoring is the process where the subscriber state is observed and reported.
When monitoring is started, the current subscriber state is reported and any
subsequent changes of subscriber state are reported until monitoring is
stopped.
Monitoring subscriber state information will be necessary against MS B and may
also be necessary against MS A.
For both these cases the monitoring functionality is located in the
appropriate serving VMSC/VLR and is controlled from the appropriate HLR. The
actions on the A-side and B-side for monitoring are completely independent and
the following description is generic to cover either case. The HLR sends an
explicit Start Reporting signal to the VLR to initiate monitoring. The VLR
acknowledges the request confirming that monitoring has started and indicates
the current status of the subscriber state in the VMSC/VLR. The VLR will
continue to send an Event Report to the HLR whenever the appropriate
subscriber state transition event occurs. The HLR sends an explicit Stop
Reporting signal to the VLR when reporting on the subscriber state transitions
is no longer required.
### 6.1.2 Monitoring Subscriber B-state information
The CCBS service requires monitoring of the subscriber state at the called
destination network (B-side). This monitoring enables the HLR B to be aware of
any transition of subscriber state in VMSC/VLR B while there is an active CCBS
Request in the HLR B queue. The basic service operation is that, when the
destination B subscriber state becomes Idle, the HLR B is informed and a
Remote User Free indication is sent towards the originating A network at the
appropriate time. If subsequently to that event the destination B subscriber
state becomes not Idle or not reachable, then the HLR B is informed by the
VMSC/VLR B in order that it can take an appropriate action towards HLR A, e.g.
defer sending of the Remote User Free indication.
### 6.1.3 Monitoring Subscriber A state information:
Monitoring Subscriber A state information will be necessary if the Remote User
Free indication from Destination B network cannot be acted upon because e.g.
MS A is not idle or not reachable and leads to the CCBS request being
suspended. The service action in this event is that, when the subscriber state
subsequently becomes Idle, the HLR A is informed and a Resume indication is
sent towards the destination B network at the appropriate time.
## 6.2 MSC/VLR Monitoring Model
The Monitoring model represents the information related to the status of the
subscriber connection in the MSC/VLR. A generic monitoring model is used in
the MSC/VLR covering the needs of both subscriber A and subscriber B state
information for CCBS. The MSC/VLR monitoring model for CCBS is shown in figure
6.2.1. Note that state transitions reported to the HLR are shown as solid
lines.
Figure 6.2.1: MSC/VLR Monitoring Model
### 6.2.1 Subscriber status
The monitoring model in the MSC/VLR makes use of the three subscriber states
described in table 6.2.1.
NOTE: Refer to TS 23.078 for equivalent subscriber state description.
Table 6.2.1: Subscriber States
* * *
**Subscriber states** **Description (for monitoring purposes)** **Notes** IDLE
The state of the MS is neither \"NOT IDLE\" nor \"NOT REACHABLE\" \"Assumed
Idle\" NOT IDLE The MS is engaged on a transaction for a MO or MT circuit
switched call \"CAMEL busy\" NOT REACHABLE The MSC/VLR can determine from its
internal data that the MS is not reachable e.g. IMSI detached, Restricted
Area, No Page Response. \"Network Determined Not Reachable\"
* * *
For each subscriber state a description can be found on the entry events,
functions and exit events.
#### 6.2.1.1 Idle
Entry events:
\- Indication of last call released (Mobile Originated or Mobile Terminated);
\- Indication of radio link failure;
\- Indication of MS activity related to e.g. MO-SMS, MT-SMS and CISS;
\- IMSI Attached;
\- Location Update.
Functions:
\- Events leading to a transition to the Not Idle or Not Reachable subscriber
state are awaited.
Exit events:
\- A Mobile Originated Set-up message is received from the MS for first (and
only) call;
\- A Mobile Terminated Set-up message is sent to the MS for first (and only)
call.
\- IMSI Detached;
\- Roaming in LA not allowed;
\- No Page Response;
\- An exception condition is encountered e.g. Cancel Location indication
received.
#### 6.2.1.2 Not Idle
Entry events:
\- A Mobile Originated Set-up message is received from the MS for first (and
only) call;
\- A Mobile Terminated Set-up message is sent to the MS for first (and only)
call.
Functions:
\- Events leading to a transition to the Idle or Not Reachable subscriber
state are awaited.
Exit events:
\- Indication of last call released (Mobile Originated or Mobile Terminated);
\- Indication of radio link failure;
\- An exception condition is encountered e.g. Cancel Location indication
received.
#### 6.2.1.3 Not Reachable
Entry events:
\- IMSI Detached;
\- Roaming in LA not allowed;
\- No Page Response.
Functions:
\- Events leading to a transition to the Idle or Not Idle subscriber state are
awaited.
Exit events:
\- Indication of MS activity related to e.g. MO-SMS, MT-SMS and CISS;
\- IMSI Attached;
\- Location Update;
\- A Mobile Originated Set-up message is received from the MS for first (and
only) call;
\- A Mobile Terminated Set-up message is sent to the MS for first (and only)
call;
\- An exception condition is encountered e.g. Cancel Location indication
received.
### 6.2.2 Reporting of subscriber state transitions
Transitions between subscriber states are reported from the MSC/VLR, while
monitoring in the MSC/VLR is on going. The table 6.2.2 indicates which
transitions are monitored in the MSC/VLR and whether these are reported to the
HLR for the CCBS service. An appropriate Event Report signal is sent from the
VLR to the HLR when a relevant state transition occurs. The Event Report
signal includes a status parameter which reflects the subscriber state
information.
Table 6.2.2: Reporting of Subscriber States Transitions
* * *
**Subscriber state transition event** **Event reporting\** Event report\ HLR
informed**Subscriber status**
IDLE to NOT IDLE Yes CCBS Not Idle
IDLE to NOT REACHABLE Yes CCBS Not Reachable
NOT IDLE to IDLE Yes CCBS Idle
NOT IDLE to NOT REACHABLE No -
NOT REACHABLE to IDLE Yes CCBS Idle
NOT REACHABLE to NOT IDLE No -
* * *
#### 6.2.2.1 Start Reporting of Monitoring Events
When a Start Reporting signal is received from the HLR, the VLR shall
acknowledge the request confirming that monitoring has started and indicate
the current status of the subscriber state in the MSC/VLR. The VLR shall
subsequently continue to send the Event Reports indicated in table 6.2.2
whenever the appropriate subscriber state transition event occurs.
Note where a single user has a CCBS request activated against him and has an
outstanding CCBS request suspended against someone else, (i.e. is effectively
both destination B and CCBS subscriber A) reporting on both A-side and B-side
is required. In this case, the VLR shall only send a single Event Report as
indicated in table 6.2.2 whenever the appropriate subscriber state transition
event occurs. The HLR shall not send another Start Reporting signal to the VLR
if monitoring is already ongoing in the MSC/VLR for either A-side or the
B-side.
#### 6.2.2.2 Stop Reporting of Monitoring Events
When a Stop Reporting signal is received from the HLR, the VLR shall stop
sending the Event Reports.
## 6.3 CCBS Call Reporting
### 6.3.1 Overview
As well as monitoring of the subscriber state, it is also necessary to report
the result of the CCBS Call. The basic reporting requirements are as follows
from both the A-side and the B-side.
**CCBS Call Reporting - A-side:**
The CCBS service logic in the originating network HLR A requires a report on
the outcome of the CCBS Call resulting from the acceptance of the CCBS Recall
by Subscriber A. The VLR A sends a CCBS Call Report to the HLR A indicating
the outcome of the CCBS call processing in MSC/VLR A when e.g. an address
complete message (ACM) is received from the destination B network. CCBS Call
Reporting on the A-side is completely independent of any monitoring of
subscriber state information. The sending of CCBS Call Report is required even
when there is no monitoring ongoing in the MSC/VLR.
**CCBS Call Reporting- B-side:**
The CCBS service logic in the destination network HLR B requires a report on
the outcome of CCBS Call processing in the MSC/VLR B. The HLR B initiates the
CCBS call outcome reporting in the VLR when the VLR is normally queried to
provide routing information for mobile terminated calls (by including an CCBS
indicator in the PRN message). The VLR B sends a CCBS Call Report to the HLR B
indicating the outcome of the CCBS call processing and the new status of the
subscriber state in the MSC/VLR B when e.g. MS B is alerted to the CCBS Call.
### 6.3.2 Originating Network (A-side)
When a CCBS RUF signal is received by the VLR, CCBS processing in the MSC/VLR
leads to a CCBS Recall signal being sent to the MS. When the response to the
CCBS Recall is received, the VLR shall subsequently send a CCBS Call Report
when the relevant processing for the outgoing CCBS call to the destination
network is completed as shown in the SDLs for MSC/VLR A.
### 6.3.3 Destination Network (B-side)
When an initiate CCBS Call Reporting Request signal (B-side) is received by
the VLR in the Provide Roaming Number message, the VLR shall subsequently send
a CCBS Call Report when the relevant processing of the incoming CCBS call is
completed as shown in the SDLs for MSC/VLR B.
#### 6.3.3.1 Interaction of Event Reporting and CCBS Call Report
Reporting on subscriber state transitions will be ongoing in the MSC/VLR B
when a report on the CCBS call outcome is required.
When a subscriber state transition from IDLE to NOT IDLE occurs due to an
incoming CCBS call, an Event Report shall not be sent. Instead, a CCBS Call
Report (containing CCBS call outcome information and the status) shall be sent
to the HLR B. After the CCBS Call Report has been sent, normal Event Reporting
will continue i.e. the VLR shall subsequently send only the Event Reports
indicated in table 6.2.2 when the next appropriate subscriber state transition
event occurs.
## 6.4 Location Update
The MS may roam to a new MSC/VLR area while monitoring is ongoing in the
previous MSC/VLR. When the VLR receives a Cancel Location signal from the HLR
due to normal mobility management procedures, any ongoing CCBS related
activities associated with the subscriber shall cease.
If the A-side monitoring is ongoing when the HLR receives a Location Update
request from the VLR, the Location Update signal is considered to indicate
that the subscriber state is idle and the appropriate CCBS process in the HLR
is informed. The normal mobility management procedures will lead to a Cancel
Location signal being sent to the old VLR causing the Event Reporting to stop.
If the B-side monitoring is ongoing when the HLR receives a Location Update
request from the VLR, the normal mobility management procedures are followed.
On successful completion of Location Update procedure, the HLR shall send a
Start Reporting signal to the new VLR. If during the handling of the normal
Location Updating procedure, it is detected that the new MSC/VLR does not
support CCBS, the HLR shall not send a Start Reporting signal to the new VLR.
NOTE: There is no impact to the MS due to CCBS monitoring, i.e. normal
Location Update procedures apply.
# 7 Mobility
The handling for CCBS specific mobility is described below.
## 7.1 Mobility during Activation
In order to allow the activation of CCBS when the call is released, the CC
connection towards the MS shall be kept, to avoid any problems of mobility
with the MS A.
Therefore the MSC shall maintain the CC connection with the MS A while T1 is
running and until either T1 expires or the MSC sends a CCBS REQUEST ACK or
CCBS REQUEST ERROR to the MS. After MSC has sent CCBS REQUEST ACK or CCBS
REQUEST ERROR, the MSC A shall release the CC connection with MS.
## 7.2 Number used within CCBS Call
The activating MSC A shall store the originally dialled number in the Call
Information container. The TranslatedBNo parameter shall contain destination B
address stored in international E.164 format.
If the MS A is registered outside of the HPLMN during the initial call or when
Remote_User_Free is received from the destination B network the HLR A may
request the recall MSC A to change the number used for CCBS Call to the
TranslatedBNo instead. Refer to the SDLs for originating MSC/VLR.
If CAMEL service was activated in the original call the HLR A shall not
request to change the number used for the CCBS Call.
## 7.3 MS does Location Update
CCBS does place extra requirements for the Location Update procedure in the
HLR when MS is monitored. Refer to clause 6.4.
## 7.4 Mobility during CCBS Call in the destination network
If MS registers to non-supporting network special handling has to be applied.
Refer to clause 10.1.3.
# 8 Interaction with other supplementary services
TS 22.093 specifies a number of interactions between CCBS and other
supplementary services. Additional details of how these interactions apply are
as follows.
## 8.1 Call forwarding unconditional (CFU)
If a call to destination B is forwarded to subscriber C by CFU and MS C is
NDUB, the GMSC shall inform MSC A that CCBS is not possible when it releases
the call. Refer to Process MT_GMSC (see TS 23.018) for further details.
If destination B activates CFU after subscriber A has activated a CCBS Request
against destination B, HLR B shall not process CCBS Requests in the queue
which are related to the relevant Basic Service Group, except that T7 shall
continue for each CCBS Request in the destination B queue. If T7 expires for a
particular request, HLR B shall cancel the request, as described in the SDLs
shown in figure 11.2.2.1.
If MSC B is monitoring MS B when CFU is activated by destination B and all the
CCBS Requests in the destination B queue subsequently become \"Active and
Quiescent\", then HLR B shall send \"Stop Reporting\" to MSC B. If destination
B deactivates CFU resulting in one or more requests becoming \"Active and
Operative\" in the destination B queue then, HLR B shall send \"Start
Reporting\" to MSC B if monitoring is not already ongoing.
A CCBS Call shall be forwarded without the CCBS call Indicator.
## 8.2 Call forward on busy (CFB)
If a call to destination B is forwarded to subscriber C by CFB and MS C is
NDUB, the forwarding switch (GMSC or VMSC) shall inform MSC A that CCBS is
possible when it releases the call. Refer to Process MT_GMSC or Process
ICH_MSC (see TS 23.018) for further details.
If destination B activates CFB after subscriber A has activated a CCBS Request
against destination B, HLR B shall continue to process CCBS Requests in the
queue. If a CCBS Call subsequently arrives at MSC B and MS B is NDUB, a
network provider option exists as to whether:
\- the CCBS call shall be treated as when MS B is busy for the CCBS call,
without CFB active; or
\- the CCBS call shall be forwarded without the CCBS call Indicator.
## 8.3 Call forwarding on no reply (CFNRy)
If a call to destination B is forwarded to subscriber C by CFNRy and MS C is
NDUB, the forwarding switch (VMSC) shall inform MSC A that CCBS is not
possible when it releases the call. Refer to Process MT_GMSC or Process
ICH_MSC (see TS 23.018) for further details
If destination B activates CFNRy after subscriber A has activated a CCBS
Request against destination B, HLR B shall continue to process CCBS Requests
in the queue.
A CCBS call shall be forwarded without the CCBS call Indicator.
## 8.4 Call forwarding on MS not reachable (CFNRc)
If a call to destination B is forwarded to subscriber C by CFNRc and MS C is
NDUB, the forwarding switch (GMSC or VMSC) shall inform MSC A that CCBS is not
possible when it releases the call. Refer to Process MT_GMSC or
Process_ICH_MSC (see TS 23.018) for further details.
If destination B activates CFNRc after subscriber A has activated a CCBS
Request against destination B, HLR B shall continue to process CCBS Requests
in the queue.
The CCBS call shall be forwarded without the CCBS call Indicator.
## 8.5 Call Waiting (CW)
No impact.
## 8.6 Multiparty service (MPTY)
No impact.
## 8.7 Closed user group (CUG)
No impact.
## 8.8 Advice Of Charge (AoC)
If subscriber A accepts a \"CCBS Recall\" indication but ACMmax exceeds, then
MSC A shall cancel the associated request and shall not establish the CCBS
Call.
## 8.9 Barring of all outgoing calls (BAOC)
If subscriber A accepts a \"CCBS Recall\" indication but MSC A detects that
BAOC is active and operative, then MSC A shall cancel the associated request
and shall not establish the CCBS Call.
## 8.10 Barring of outgoing international calls (BOIC)
If subscriber A accepts a \"CCBS Recall\" indication but the CCBS Call would
be an international call and MSC A detects that BOIC is active and operative,
then MSC A shall cancel the associated request and shall not establish the
CCBS Call.
## 8.11 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country (BOIC-exHC)
If subscriber A accepts a \"CCBS Recall\" indication but the CCBS Call would
be an international call except to the home PLMN country and MSC A detects
that BOIC-exHC is active and operative, then MSC A shall cancel the associated
request and shall not establish the CCBS Call.
## 8.12 Barring of all incoming calls (BAIC)
If a CCBS Request arrives at HLR B and HLR B detects that BAIC is active and
operative for the relevant Basic Service Group, then HLR B shall not accept
the activation attempt and shall indicate short term denial in the response.
If MSC B is monitoring MS B when BAIC is activated by destination B then all
the CCBS Requests in the destination B queue subsequently become \"Active and
Quiescent\" and HLR B shall send \"Stop Reporting\" to MSC B. If destination B
deactivates BAIC resulting in one or more requests becoming \"Active and
Operative\" in the destination B queue then, HLR B shall send \"Start
Reporting\" to MSC B if monitoring is not already ongoing.
If barring of all incoming calls becomes active and operative for a particular
Basic Service Group for destination B, such that a CCBS call from subscriber A
is not permitted, HLR B shall cancel the associated request related to the
Basic Service Group and select the next non-suspended request in the queue for
processing for other Basic Service Groups.
## 8.13 Barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
(BIC-Roam)
If a CCBS Request arrives at HLR B and HLR B detects that BIC-Roam is active
and operative for the relevant Basic Service Group, then HLR B shall not
accept the activation attempt and shall indicate short term denial in the
response.
If MSC B is monitoring MS B when BIC-Roam is activated by destination B then
all the CCBS Requests in the destination B queue subsequently become \"Active
and Quiescent\" and HLR B shall send \"Stop Reporting\" to MSC B. If
destination B deactivates BIC-Roam resulting in one or more requests becoming
\"Active and Operative\" in the destination B queue then, HLR B shall send
\"Start Reporting\" to MSC B if monitoring is not already ongoing.
If barring of incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country
becomes active and operative for a particular Basic Service Group for
destination B, such that a CCBS call from subscriber A is not permitted, HLR B
shall cancel the associated request related to the Basic Service Group and
select the next non-suspended request in the queue for processing for other
Basic Service Groups.
## 8.14 Completion of calls to busy subscriber (CCBS)
Subscriber A may have successfully activated one or more CCBS requests against
different destinations B, and also have one or more CCBS requests successfully
activated against him by different subscribers. In this case, HLR A shall co-
ordinate the different requests.
Checking for an identical CCBS request already existing shall include checks
in both directions, i.e. if subscriber A activates a CCBS Request against
destination B, HLR A shall check subscriber A\'s originating queue for any
previous requests activated by subscriber A against destination B for the same
basic service group. HLR A shall also check subscriber A\'s target queue for
any requests activated by destination B against subscriber A for the same
basic service group.
# 9 Interaction with other network features
TS 22.093 specifies a number of interactions between CCBS and other network
features.
## 9.1 Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL)
For a terminating CAMEL based service which changes the destination B address
for the original call which subsequently encounters NDUB, the GMSC shall
inform originating network that CCBS is not possible when it releases the
call.
If an originating CAMEL based service determines for a CCBS Call a different
destination B Address than for the original call, the CCBS Call shall be
released and the associated CCBS Request shall be cancelled.
If the CAMEL based service requests a call set-up to an alternative
destination after the original call has met Busy, CCBS Possible condition, the
CCBS activation shall be allowed if the alternative call set-up also
encounters Busy condition.
## 9.2 Support of Optimal Routeing (SOR)
The CCBS supporting GMSC shall include CCBS Supported indicator to the SRI
message.
If HLR B receives a request for routeing information when destination B is
blocked (i.e. the HLR B is waiting for an SRI for a CCBS call set-up) and the
SRI does not include a CCBS call indicator nor CCBS supported in the GMSC
indicator and the request is from a GMSC not in the same PLMN as HLR B, then
HLR B shall return an SRI negative response indicating OR not allowed. This
will force the GMSC to route the call to a GMSC in the same PLMN as HLR B (see
TS 23.079).
The GMSC in HPLMN B should be able to include the CCBS Call indicator in the
non-OR SRI, and the CCBS call set-up will proceed, although it won\'t be
optimally routed.
If the HLR receives an SRI indicating a CCBS-capable GMSC but not a CCBS call
while awaiting SRI for a CCBS call, it can treat the request as if the
B-subscriber were busy, regardless of where the GMSC is.
# 10 Interworking with other networks
The point of interworking shall be the interface between HLR A and HLR B. The
flow of information across this interface shall be identical to that between
exchanges for the ISDN version of CCBS.
Interworking with ISDNs which support the ISDN version of CCBS is therefore
available without further modification.
Interworking with networks other than ISDNs, e.g. private networks, is not
specified here, but is not precluded.
CCBS shall be able to interwork through networks which do not support CCBS. In
this situation, the CCBS service may fail.
## 10.1 Interworking with network entities not supporting CCBS
CCBS requires support of the service by the following entities for it to
operate as specified above:
\- MS A;
\- MSC A;
\- VLR A;
\- HLR A;
\- GMSC;
\- HLR B;
\- MSC B;
\- VLR B.
The following shows the actions required to cover the situations where these
entities do not support CCBS. Note that the situation is further complicated
by mobility. For example, MSC A may support CCBS when the initial request is
made, but if subscriber A has changed location, the new MSC A may not support
CCBS.
It is assumed that the entities support the service at the points in the call
where actions are initiated by them, and that an entity which receives an
indication for the CCBS service but does not support it can indicate its lack
of support to the sending entity.
### 10.1.1 CCBS not supported by MSC A
HLR A knows whether the MSC A supports CCBS or not through the transfer of
subscriber data.
[MS B becomes idle]{.underline}
When HLR A receives the \"Remote User Free\" indication for a particular CCBS
Request and detects that the MSC A where MS A is currently registered does not
support CCBS, then HLR A shall suspend the corresponding CCBS Request and
shall send \"CCBS Suspend\" to HLR B. When MS A registers in a different MSC
which supports CCBS, HLR A shall resume the corresponding CCBS Request and
shall send \"CCBS Resume\" to HLR B, continuing as if MS A had become free.
### 10.1.2 CCBS not supported by HLR B
Initial call encounters busy
If an MSC B that supports CCBS recognises that HLR B does not support CCBS
then \"CCBS Not Possible\" will be generated in the CCBS diagnostic.
### 10.1.3 CCBS not supported by MSC B
HLR B knows whether the MSC B supports CCBS or not through the transfer of
subscriber data.
[CCBS Request]{.underline}
If MSC B does not support CCBS, HLR B acknowledge the request and start T7. No
processing of the destination B queue and subsequently no monitoring of
destination B will be possible until destination B registers in a supporting
MSC.
[CCBS Call set-up]{.underline}
If HLR B knows that MSC B does not support CCBS the HLR B shall delete the
corresponding CCBS Request and shall request a Roaming No without including
the CCBS Call indicator in the request. Within Send Routeing Info Ack the HLR
shall inform the GMSC to remove CCBS Call Indicator from the IAM message.
After a \"Remote User Free\" has been sent from MSC B but before the CCBS call
set-up is completed, destination B may register in an MSC which does not
support the service. MSC B shall accept the CCBS call, but MSC B will not be
able to inform HLR B of the successful completion of the CCBS call, so the
request will remain active in HLR B until the recall B timer (T9) expires and
the request is cancelled.
# 11 Network entity functions
The following SDL diagrams describe the various processes and procedures
within individual network entities for handling CCBS. The SDL diagrams are as
follows:
## 11.1 Originating Network Processes
### 11.1.1 Processes and procedures in MSC/VLR
Figure 11.1.1.1: Process MSC_CCBS_Recall_Manager
This process controls the CCBS Recall handling in the MSC and controls timers
T4 and T10
Figure 11.1.1.2: Process VLR_CCBS_Recall_Manager
This process controls the CCBS Recall handling in the VLR and reports the
result of the Recall directly to the HLR.
Figure 11.1.1.3: Process OCH_CCBS_VLR
This process controls the CCBS Call Setup in the VLR
Figure 11.1.1.4: Procedure CCBS_Check_OG_Call
This procedure checks whether the outgoing call meets various conditions set
by the CCBS supplementary service. If CCBS is not implemented Pass exit shall
be taken.
Figure 11.1.1.5: Procedure CCBS_Check_If_CCBS_Possible
This procedure is called when Release message is received from the destination
network. It checks whether CCBS activation is possible.
Figure 11.1.1.6: Procedure CCBS_Activation_MSC
If CCBS activation is possible this procedure is called. It handles the
dialogue between MS and MSC and MSC and HLR respectively.
Figure 11.1.1.7: Procedure Page_MS_MSC_For_Recall
During CCBS recall this procedure handles paging of the MS if the location
area id is known.
Figure 11.1.1.8: Procedure Search_For_MS_MSC_For_Recall
During CCBS recall this procedure handles paging of the MS on MSC side if the
location area id is not known.
Figure 11.1.1.9: Procedure Search_For_MS_VLR_Recall
During CCBS recall this procedure handles paging of the MS on VLR side if the
location area id is not known.
Figure 11.1.1.10: Procedure Complete_Recall_MSC
During CCBS recall this procedure handles early channel allocation and
establish CC connection with the MS.
Figure 11.1.1.11: Procedure CCBS_OCH_Report_Success
This procedure is called when CCBS call is successfully delivered to the
destination network. The procedure informs HLR of successful call delivery.
Figure 11.1.1.12: Procedure CCBS_OCH_Report_Failure
This procedure is called when CCBS call delivery failed to the destination
network. The procedure informs HLR of call delivery failure.
Figure 11.1.1.1: Process MSC_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 1 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.1: Process MSC_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 2 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.1: Process MSC_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 3 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.1: Process MSC_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 4 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.2: Process VLR_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 1 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.2: Process VLR_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 2 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.2: Process VLR_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 3 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.2: Process VLR_CCBS_Recall_Manager (sheet 4 of 4)
Figure 11.1.1.3: Process OCH_CCBS_VLR
Figure 11.1.1.4: Procedure CCBS_Check_OG_Call
Figure 11.1.1.5: Procedure CCBS_Check_If_CCBS_Possible
Figure 11.1.1.6: Procedure CCBS_Activation_MSC (sheet 1 of 2)
Figure 11.1.1.6: Procedure CCBS_Activation_MSC (sheet 2 of 2)
Figure 11.1.1.7: Procedure Page_MS_MSC_For_Recall (sheet 1 of 2)
Figure 11.1.1.7: Procedure Page_MS_MSC_For_Recall (sheet 2 of 2)
Figure 11.1.1.8: Procedure Search_For_MS_MSC_For_Recall
Figure 11.1.1.9: Procedure Search_For_MS_VLR_Recall
Figure 11.1.1.10: Procedure Complete_Recall_MSC (sheet 1 of 2)
Figure 11.1.1.10: Procedure Complete_Recall_MSC (sheet 2 of 2)
Figure 11.1.1.11: Procedure CCBS_OCH_Report_Success
Figure 11.1.1.12: Procedure CCBS_OCH_Report_Failure
### 11.1.2 Processes and procedures in HLR
Figure 11.1.2.1: Block diagram of HLRA processes
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager
This process is in charge of the user interface procedures and queue handling,
i.e. whether the request to processed is present in the queue or not.
The process has three states, \"Idle\", \"Operative\" and \"Operative
Resuming\". In the \"Idle\" state the queue is empty and the only actions to
queue are creation of new request and interrogation of the queue. In other
states activation, interrogation and deactivation procedures similarly, that
is why they are grouped under \"*\" state.
Whenever the first request is created the process changes it\'s state to
\"Operative\", in this state there are request(s) in the queue and none of
them are suspended.
When HLRA_Request reports of suspension the process changes it\'s state to
\"Operative Resuming\" and the HLRA_Resume is started with correct trigger
signal i.e. idle indication from MSC or recall end is waited.
Only NET suspended request can be selected and resumed, USER type suspended
requests remain as suspended until them are marked as NET suspended. This
happens when idle indication is received from the MSC.
The resuming process is paused if there is new suspended request with cause
code Not reach i.e. The resuming starts again when idle condition is met again
or there is a new recall with successful outcome i.e. the recall ends without
Not Reach indication.
The resuming process will be stopped, if there are no suspended requests in
the queue any more. The process changes it\'s state to normal \"Operative\" or
\"Idle\" state.
Figure 11.1.2.3: Process HLRA_Request
This process is created during the activation of service and contains all
related data. The process has five different states, \"Wait_For_Answer\",
\"Active\", \"Recall\", \"Suspended\" and \"Frozen\". During its creation the
process sends CCBS_Request via SSAP interface to destination network B
containing all call related data as well originating networks retention
capabilities.
In the \"Wait_For_Answer\" state process receives response from destination
network which is further relayed to the HLRA_Request_Manager. In case of
positive acknowledgement destination network returns info whether the
retention is supported in both networks.
In \"Active\" state process waits recall from destination network, however
process can vanish if operation timer T3 expires or explicit deletion is
received from the user or destination network. In case of deletion the process
informs the queue. When the recall arrives the process transits to the
\"Recall\" state.
In the \"Recall\" state process waits the recall outcome, either positive or
negative. Depending of the recall outcome the request can be deleted, retained
or suspended. If the request is to be retained the process transits back to
the \"Active\" state. If the request is suspended due to the T10 expiry,
CCBS_Busy condition or the MS is not reachable the process transits to the
suspended state.
If the request is deleted during \"Recall\" due SSAP_Cancel, T3 expiry or
explicit deletion the queue is updated immediately and the request changes
it\'s state to \"Recall Deleted\" where it waits the recall to end.
In the \"Suspended\" state actions the request can be resumed if the MS is
known to be CCBS_Idle or the request can be deleted due to the explicit
deletion or timer T3 expiry.
The request is placed in \"Frozen\" state whenever it receives Remote User
Free indication from the destination network and the request can\'t be
fulfilled due service interaction or lack of support in MSCVLR. The request
shall indicate suspended back to the destination network and stay in the
queue. If the service becomes later possible, the request will revert back
\"Active\" state and indicate resumed to the destination network.
Whenever the state of the process is changed, the new state is stored and the
procedure CCBS_Notify_SS_Invocation is called.
Figure 11.1.2.4: Process HLRA_Recall_Manager
This process has two different states, \"Idle\" and \"CCBS_Busy\".
The process let\'s only one individual process to be in recall state in a time
and have a dialogue open to the MSC and it changes it\'s state to
\"CCBS_Busy\". In this state other requests are suspended immediately and
marked as NET suspended with cause code = Busy.
In \"CCBS_Busy\" state the process waits recall reporting from the MSC.
Possible inputs from the MSC are CCBS_RUF_Ack, CCBS_RUF_Error and
CCBS_Call_Report. CCBS_Call_Report can be received if the subscriber has
accepted the recall, otherwise the process changes it\'s state back to
\"Idle\". If the process receives Query_State request from the HLRA_Resume
during the recall the process informs the resume process whether a recall is
being processed.
Figure 11.1.2.5: Process HLRA_Resume
The process has four different states, \"Idle\", \"Resume pending\", \"Wait
For Selection\" and \"Resuming\". The process is started when a request is
suspended. For the first suspended request it is also set the trigger point
i.e. when it is correct to send out selection request for resuming. Two
triggers are provided, A_Idle from the monitoring process and Recall_End from
the recall handling. If the trigger is set to A_Idle the monitoring process is
also started.
When the process is started and correct trigger is set the process waits in
the \"Resume pending\" state to receive a permission to start resuming. When
the permission is received the process asks for the first NET request to
resumed. If A_Idle signal is received from the monitoring process the resuming
process asks the queue manager to set all suspended requests as NET type in
order to allow the selection.
When there are no active suspended request in the queue any more the resuming
process is stopped i.e. when the \"Deleted\" signal in the
HLRA_Request_Manager is handled.
Figure 11.1.2.6: Process HLRA_Monitoring
Monitoring process has two different states, \"Idle\" and \"Monitoring\".
Receival of \"A_Query\" signal transits the process to \"Monitoring\" state.
In this state the process reports \"Idle\" condition to the resuming process
and starts the monitoring again in the MSC if location update or restore data
happens.
Figure 11.1.2.7: Procedure HLRA_CCBS_Check_Interactions
This procedure checks whether the Remote User Free indication can be delivered
to the MSCVLR or not.
Figure 11.1.2.8: Procedure CCBS_Notify_SS_Invocation
This procedure is called by the process HLRA_Request whenever there is a
change of state. The procedure informs the gsmSCF of the state change if the
SS-CSI applicable to CCBS is stored in the HLR.
Figure 11.1.2.1: HLRA Processes
NOTE: Figure 11.1.2.1 is one possible method of implementing queue processing
in HLR A. Manufacturers are not constrained to follow the implementation given
in figure 11.1.2.1. However, the external behaviour of HLR A shall appear to
be the same.
**Description of above signals:**
**Relation HLRA_Request_Manager and HLRA_Request**
[CCBS_Request_Ack]{.underline} signal is acknowledgement of a successful
activation from the individual request to the queue manager.
[CCBS_Request_Error]{.underline} signal is sent if the destination networks
queue is full or the destination networks queue size is set to zero. The
individual request is deleted from the originating side.
[Suspend]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Request and HLRA_Request_Manager.
The queue shall update it\'s internal information.
[Delete]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Request_Manager and HLRA_Request. The
queue manager instructs the individual request the request to die.
[Deleted]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Request_Manager and HLRA_Request.
The individual request informs the queue of its expiry.
[Resume]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Request_Manager and HLRA_Request. The
individual request is resumed and it shall inform the destination network of
the resumption.
**Relation HLRA_Request_Manager and HLRA_Resume**
[Set_Trigger_Recall_End]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Request_Manager
and HLRA_Resume. If resuming is not ongoing this signal set the resuming
process to the \"ResumePending\" state and query is sent to the recall
process.
[Set_Trigger_A_Idle]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_request_manager and
HLRA_resume. If resuming is not ongoing this signal set the resuming process
to the \"ResumePending\" state. In all cases this causes \"A_Query\" signal to
be sent.
[Reset_Trigger_A_Idle]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_request_manager and
HLRA_resume. This signal sets the resuming process to the \"ResumePending\"
state and causes \"A_Query\" signal to be sent.
[Select_Resp]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_request_manager and
HLRA_resume. This signal informs the resuming process to start T11.
[Not_Selected]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_request_manager and
HLRA_resume. This signal informs the resuming process that the selection was
not done and the process will transit to \"ResumePending\" state.
[Stop_Resume]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_request_manager and
HLRA_resume. This signal informs the resuming process to stop it\'s actions
and stop the monitoring also.
[Set_All_Active]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Resume and
HLRA_request_manager. This signal informs the queue to set all suspended
requests as NET suspended and later on they can be resumed.
[Select_Active_Req]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Resume and
HLRA_request_manager. This signal informs the queue to select first NET
suspended request to be resumed. If successful the request process will return
\"Select_Resp\", otherwise \"Not_Selected\".
[Select_First_Req]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Resume and
HLRA_request_manager. This signal informs the queue to select first suspended
request to be resumed. If successful the request process will return
\"Select_Resp\", otherwise \"Not_Selected\".
**Relation HLRA_Recall_Manager and HLRA_Request**
[Recall]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Request and HLRA_Recall_Manager. It
contains all call related data in order to form the CCBS_Call.
[Completed]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Recall_Manager and
HLRA_Request. It informs the request of successful CCBS_Call and causes the
request to vanish.
[Failure]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Recall_Manager and HLRA_Request.
It informs the request of unsuccessful CCBS_Call and causes the request to
vanish.
[Busy]{.underline} is used within the HLRA_Recall_Manager and HLRA_Request. It
informs the request of unsuccessful CCBS_Call and causes the request to vanish
if retention is not supported.
[Suspend]{.underline} is used within HLRA_ Recall_Manager and HLRA_ Request.
The request shall change it\'s state and report the suspension to the queue
manager.
**Relation HLRA_Monitoring and HLRA_Resume**
[A_Query]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Resume and HLRA_Monitoring. It
instruct the HLRA_Monitoring to start it\'s actions and return the idle
condition when possible.
[A_Idle]{.underline} is used within HLRA_Monitoring and HLRA_Resume. It
informs the resuming process that the subscriber is now CCBS_Idle and not
CCBS_Busy.
[Stop_Monitoring]{.underline} is used with HLRA_Resume and HLRA_Monitoring. It
instructs the monitoring process to stop it\'s actions and stop the monitoring
from VLR also.
[Location_Update/Restore_Data]{.underline} events are tracked and external
reporting is started again.
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 1 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 2 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 3 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 4 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 5 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 6 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 7 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 8 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 9 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.2: Process HLRA_Request_Manager (sheet 10 of 10)
Figure 11.1.2.3: Process HLRA_Request (sheet 1 of 5)
Figure 11.1.2.3: Process HLRA_Request (sheet 2 of 5)
Figure 11.1.2.3: Process HLRA_Request (sheet 3 of 5)
Figure 11.1.2.3: Process HLRA_Request (sheet 4 of 5)
Figure 11.1.2.3: Process HLRA_Request (sheet 5 of 5)
Figure 11.1.2.4: Process HLRA_Recall_Manager (sheet 1 of 4)
Figure 11.1.2.4: Process HLRA_Recall_Manager (sheet 2 of 4)
Figure 11.1.2.4: Process HLRA_Recall_Manager (sheet 3 of 4)
Figure 11.1.2.4: Process HLRA_Recall_Manager (sheet 4 of 4)
Figure 11.1.2.5: Process HLRA_Resume (sheet 1 of 3)
Figure 11.1.2.5: Process HLRA_Resume (sheet 2 of 3)
Figure 11.1.2.5: Process HLRA_Resume (sheet 3 of 3)
Figure 11.1.2.6: Process HLRA_Monitoring (sheet 1 of 2)
Figure 11.1.2.6: Process HLRA_Monitoring (sheet 2 of 2)
Figure 11.1.2.7: Procedure HLRA_CCBS_Check_Interactions
Figure 11.1.2.8: Procedure CCBS_Notify_SS_Invocation
## 11.2 Destination Network Processes
### 11.2.1 Procedures in GMSC
Figure 11.2.1.1: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Check_CCBS_Call
This procedure checks from the IAM message whether the call is CCBS call. If
that is the case the CCBS Call parameter is set to the Send Routeing Info
message. This functionality shall be applied only to the initial call leg. The
procedure initialises also the CCBS Possible variable as True, the variable is
accessible to all CCBS specific procedures in the GMSC.
Figure 11.2.1.2: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Check_CCBS_Indicators
This procedure sets the CCBS_Call indicator to the outgoing IAM message when
needed. This functionality shall be applied only to the initial call leg.
Figure 11.2.1.3: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Remove_Indicators_Store_FWT
This procedure removes CCBS_Call indicator from the forwarded IAM message and
also stores the forwarding type. It also checks whether subscriber B can be
target of CCBS Requests and stores that information for later use.
Figure 11.2.1.4: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Remove_Indicators
This procedure removes CCBS_Call indicator from the outgoing IAM message. CCBS
activation is not possible for this call because T-CSI modified destination
address.
Figure 11.2.1.5: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Check_CCBS_Possible
This procedure contains the core logic to handle various interactions with
CAMEL, OR and received Release message content. The procedure alters CCBS
specific global variable CCBS Target which controls setting of the diagnostic
field in the Release message towards the originating network.
Global variables Reconnect and Resume Call are specific to CAMEL and OR
interaction respectively. They are initialised and updated in the process
MT_GMSC or MT_CF_MSC, refer to TS 23.018.
Figure 11.2.1.1: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Check_CCBS_Call
Figure 11.2.1.2: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Check_CCBS_Indicators
Figure 11.2.1.3: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Remove_Indicators_Store_FWT
Figure 11.2.1.4: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Remove_Indicators
Figure 11.2.1.5: Procedure CCBS_MT_GMSC_Check_CCBS_Possible
### 11.2.2 Processes and procedures in HLR
Figure 11.2.2.1: Block diagram of HLRB_processes
Figure 11.2.2.2: Process HLRB_Request_Manager
This process has the task of controlling the queue and determining whether
requests to be processed are present in the queue or not.
The process has two states \"idle\" and \"active\". In the \"idle\" state
there are no \"operative\" requests in the queue i.e. there are only suspended
requests or no requests at all. In the \"active\" state there is at least one
\"operative\" request in the queue which needs processing. A transition from
\"idle\" to \"active\" will trigger this process to start the process
\"HLRB_Recall_Manager\". Only a transition from \"active\" to \"idle\" will
result in this process stopping the process \"HLRB_Recall_Manager\".
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_Request
This process represents an individual CCBS request on the destination side.
Reception of signals on the external interface (SSAP signalling) are handled
by this process.
Retention is handled by this process. The individual request is informed by
the Recall manager process about the outcome of the CCBS Call. The individual
request is in charge to decide on whether it will stay in the destination
queue (retention) or not according to its data stored.
T7 expiry is controlled by the individual request in that way, that it
remembers T7 expiry when it is the selected request (i.e. a CCBS Recall has
been initiated for this request). The event is detected after the CCBS Recall
when retention has kept the request in the queue.
Figure 11.2.2.4: Process HLRB_Recall Manager
This process is in charge of the recall handling. It is started and stopped by
the process \"HLRB_Request_Manager\" depending on whether there are operative
requests in the terminating queue or not.
As soon as this process is started, it will start the process
\"HLRB_Monitoring\" and wait for a response from this process. The response
indicates that user B is idle guarded i.e. a CCBS Recall can be initiated.
Hence, the process asks the request manager for selection of an individual
request from the terminating queue.
When an individual process is selected, the process initiates a CCBS Recall
via the individual request (since the external interface is tied to the
individual request), starts T9 and takes over control of the blocking function
while waiting for the CCBS Call. Control of blocking is done by sending the
signal \"Recall_Block\" to process \"HLRB_Blocking\".
While waiting for the outcome of the CCBS Call, the process will be informed
either by the selected individual request in the case of negative outcome
(suspension or cancellation, both hidden to the process), or by process
\"HLRB_Monitoring\" in the case the CCBS Call has reached the terminating
PLMN.
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_Monitoring
This process takes care of monitoring events received from MSC/VLR and detects
potential conditions for initiating a CCBS Recall.
The process is controlled by the \"HLRB_Recall_Manager\" process which was
formerly in charge of detecting the recall condition.
When the process is started, it invokes the monitoring function in the MSC/VLR
and awaits the first event report. The process keeps track of the subscriber
state changes by running a state machine which reflects the subscriber states.
When there is a transition from subscriber state \"not idle\" to \"idle\",
then T8 is started. As soon as T8 expires, the process changes state again in
order to remember that the subscriber is now idle guarded and a recall could
be initiated
Whether a CCBS Recall is initiated or not depends on whether the process
\"HLRB_Recall_Manager\" has asked for this information by sending a
\"B_Query\" signal to the monitoring process. The process \"HLRB_Monitoring\"
gives this information only if the \"B_Query\" signal has been received. This
is done by sending the signal \"B_Guarded\" to the Recall Manager and it is
only done once per request. The monitoring process keeps track on whether a
query was received or not by appropriate state changes.
As the monitoring process is in charge for the idle guard function, it also
controls the blocking of incoming calls during the idle guard time (T8).
Hence, when the recall manager process has sent a \"B_Query\" (i.e. a CCBS
request needs to be processed) then the monitoring process starts the
corresponding blocking along with T8. The blocking is only stopped if T8 does
not expire. If T8 expires, then blocking is still needed for the following
CCBS Recall. The responsibility for controlling the blocking (i.e. switching
it off) is given to the recall manager process.
Figure 11.2.2.6: Process HLRB_Blocking
This process controls the CCBS Call delivery reporting when the processes are
in the proper state. This means that the reporting functionality of the
outcome of the CCBS Call is not blindly triggered whenever there is a
terminating CCBS Call.
The process has three different states: \"idle\", \"Blocking\" and \"Recall
Blocking\". The \"Idle\" state reflects the case when blocking is disabled. In
the \"Blocking\" state all incoming calls are blocked (e.g. while T8 is
running). The \"Recall Blocking\" state allows one CCBS Call to pass, which
will trigger the CCBS Call delivery reporting in the MSC/VLR via the TS 23.018
process \"SRI_HLR\". When this happens, the process will automatically change
back to state \"Blocking\" as no other CCBS Call is expected for now.
When the process has detected that destination B is idle, it will start the
blocking. Hence, the blocking process will change state to \"Blocking\". As
soon as the process \"HLRB_Recall_Manager\" has initiated a CCBS Recall, it
will cause a state change in the blocking process to state \"Recall
Blocking\". When the CCBS Call is received, \"result = OK\" indication in
signal \"SRI_Received_Ack\" will trigger the reporting mechanism for CCBS Call
delivery via a PRN request in the TS 23.018 process \"SRI_HLR\".
For Figure 11.2.2.6, sheet 2: The procedure Handle_CFB is specified in TS
23.018, clause 7.3.2.6.
Figure 11.2.2.7: Procedure HLRB_CCBS_Check_Interactions
This procedure checks whether the request is frozen due to the supplementary
service interactions.
Figure 11.2.2.8: Procedure CCBS_Handling_HLR
This procedure is called during Send Routeing Info message handling in the
HLR. If blocking is active only CCBS Calls can proceed, others will fail with
busy or forward indication. For CCBS Call CCBS Call Indicator is set to the
Provide Roaming Number message.
Figure 11.2.2.9: Procedure CCBS_Report_PRN_Failure
This procedure is called if Provide Roaming Number returns an error. For CCBS
call is then generated an internal call report.
The handling of multiple requests in HLR B can be further clarified by the
diagram shown in figure 11.2.2.1.
Figure 11.2.2.1: HLRB_Processes
**Description of above signals**
**Relation Originating Network and HLRB_Request_Manager**
[CCBS_Request]{.underline}: When the originating network attempts to activate
CCBS, it sends a CCBS_Request message to HLRB Request Manager.
[CCBS_Request_Ack]{.underline}: When the HLRB_Request_Manager acknowledges the
activation, it sends CCBS_Request Ack to originating network.
[CCBS_Reject:]{.underline} If the HLRB_Request_Manager does not accept the
activation attempt, it sends CCBS_Reject to the originating network indicating
long term or short term denial.
**Relation Originating Network and HLRB_Request**
[CCBS_Suspend]{.underline}: If the originating network suspends a CCBS
Request, it sends CCBS_Suspend to HLRB Request.
[CCBS_Resume]{.underline}: When a request that was suspended is now resumed,
the originating network sends a CCBS_Resume message to HLRB Request.
[CCBS Cancel]{.underline}: When a request is cancelled in the originating
network, it sends a CCBS Cancel message to HLRB Request.
[Remote_User_Free]{.underline}: HLRB_Request sends Remote_User_Free to the
originating network to inform the originating network that destination B is
now idle.
[CCBS_Cancel]{.underline}: If a CCBS Request is cancelled in the destination
network, HLRB_Request sends CCBS_Cancel to the originating network.
[TC_END]{.underline}: If a CCBS Call is successfully delivered to destination
B, then HLRB_Request ends the dialogue with the originating network by sending
a TC_END message.
**Relation HLRB_Request_Manager and HLRB_Request**
[Selection_Request]{.underline}: Once destination B is idle guarded, then the
HLRB_Request_Manager will select the first non-suspended request in the queue
for processing by sending \"Select_Request\" to HLRB_Request.
[Inactive]{.underline}: When a CCBS Request is either suspended or
unselectable due to the supplementary service interaction, HLRB_Request
informs HLRB_Request_Manager so that the queue status can be updated.
[Re-Activated]{.underline}: When either a suspended CCBS Request is resumed or
the supplementary service interaction with the request ends, then HLRB_Request
informs HLRB_Request_Manager so that the queue status can be updated.
[Deleted]{.underline}: When a CCBS Request is cancelled, then HLRB_Request
informs HLRB_Request_Manager so that the queue status can be updated.
**Relation HLRB_Recall_Manager and HLRB_Blocking**
[Stop_Blocking]{.underline}: When the Recall manager process is stopped by the
Request Manager process or the Recall manager receives and \'End\' signal from
the Request manager, the Recall manager sends \"Stop_Blocking\" to
HLRB_Blocking.
[Recall_Block]{.underline}: When a \"Send RUF\" signal is sent to
HLRB_Request, the HLRB_Recall_Manager also sends \"Recall Block\" to
HLRB_Blocking so that one CCBS Call can be delivered to destination B, but
other normal incoming calls are blocked.
**Relation HLRB Recall_Manager and HLRB_Request_Manager**
[Select_Request]{.underline}: On reception of a \"B_Guarded\" signal, the
Recall manager sends \"Select_Request\" to the Request manager. The Request
manager then selects the first non-suspended request in the queue for
processing.
[Start_Recall_Manager]{.underline}: When a CCBS Request is successfully
activated, the Request manager sends \"Start_Recall_Manager\" to
HLRB_Recall_Manager which subsequently causes the recall manager process to
start the monitoring process.
[Stop_Recall_Manager]{.underline}: The Request manager can stop the Recall
manager process by sending a \"Stop_Recall_Manager\" signal
[Select_Request_Response]{.underline}: When the Request manager has selected a
request for processing it sends a response to the recall manager causing the
recall manager to initiate a CCBS Recall.
**Relation HLRB_Recall_Manager and HLRB_Request**
[Send_RUF]{.underline}: The Recall manager requests the individual process to
send a Remote User Free indication to the originating network by sending a
\"Send_RUF\" signal to the individual process.
[Recall_Report]{.underline}: The Recall manager informs the individual process
of the result of processing a CCBS Recall by sending a \"Recall Report\"
signal.
[END]{.underline}: When a CCBS Request is suspended or cancelled the
HLRB_Request process sends an \"End\" signal to the Recall Manager process.
**Relation HLRB_Recall_Manager and HLRB_Monitoring**
[Start_Monitoring]{.underline}: When the Recall manager process is started by
the Request manager process, the Recall manager sends \"Start_Monitoring\" to
the HLRB_Monitoring process to request the status of destination B
[Stop_Monitoring]{.underline}: When the Recall manager process is stopped by
the Request manager process, the Recall manager sends \"Stop_Monitoring\" to
the HLRB_Monitoring process.
[B_Query]{.underline}: HLRB_Recall_Manager requests the HLRB_monitoring
process to get informed when destination B has become idle guarded.
**Relation HLRB_Monitoring and HLRB_Recall_Manager**
[B_Guarded]{.underline}: HLRB_Monitoring informs the HLRB_Recall_Manager that
destination B has become idle guarded.
[Call_Delivery]{.underline}: HLRB_Monitoring informs the HLRB_Recall_Manager
about the delivery of the CCBS call.
Figure 11.2.2.2: Process HLRB_REQUEST_MANAGER (sheet 1 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.2: Process HLRB_REQUEST_MANAGER (sheet 2 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.2: Process HLRB_REQUEST_MANAGER (sheet 3 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_REQUEST (sheet 1 of 6)
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_REQUEST (sheet 2 of 6)
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_REQUEST (sheet 3 of 6)
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_REQUEST (sheet 4 of 6)
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_REQUEST (sheet 5 of 6)
Figure 11.2.2.3: Process HLRB_REQUEST (sheet 6 of 6)
Figure 11.2.2.4: Process HLRB_RECALL_MANAGER (sheet 1 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.4: Process HLRB_RECALL_MANAGER (sheet 2 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.4: Process HLRB_RECALL_MANAGER (sheet 3 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 1 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 2 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 3 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 4 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 5 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 6 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.5: Process HLRB_MONITORING (sheet 7 of 7)
Figure 11.2.2.6: Process HLRB_BLOCKING (sheet 1 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.6: Process HLRB_BLOCKING (sheet 2 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.6: Process HLRB_BLOCKING (sheet 3 of 3)
Figure 11.2.2.7: Procedure HLRB_Check_Interactions
Figure 11.2.2.8: Procedure CCBS_Handling_HLR
Figure 11.2.2.9: Procedure CCBS_Report_PRN_Failure
### 11.2.3 Procedures in MSC/VLR
Figure 11.2.3.1: Procedure CCBS_MT_MSC_Check_Forwarding
This procedure is called to set the CCBS Target variable. That variable is
used in later phase to set the correct diagnostic value to the Release
message.
Figure 11.2.3.2: Procedure CCBS_Handle_PRN
This procedure is called to store CCBS call indicator when roaming number is
reserved in the VLR.
Figure 11.2.3.3: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Set_CCBS_Call_Indicator
This procedure is called when VLR receives Send Info For Incoming Call
message. If MSRN is related to the CCBS call, CCBS call indicator is set for
call handling.
Figure 11.2.3.4: Procedure CCBS_ICH_MSC_Report_Failure
This procedure is called when CCBS call fails in the destination MSC and the
reason is detected in the MSC side.
Figure 11.2.3.5: Procedure CCBS_ICH_VLR_Report_Failure
This procedure is called when CCBS call fails in the destination MSC and the
reason is detected in the VLR side.
Figure 11.2.3.6: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Report_Not_Reachable
This procedure is called when call fails in the destination MSC with special
cause of Not_Reachable. On normal call Not_Reachable message is sent to the
monitoring process, on CCBS call subscriber is reported being absent.
Figure 11.2.3.7: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Handle_NDUB
This procedure is called when call encounters NDUB condition in the
destination MSC. It is a network option to forward the call or release the
call.
Figure 11.2.3.8: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Handle_UDUB
This procedure is called when call encounters UDUB condition in the
destination MSC.
Figure 11.2.3.9: Procedure CCBS_ICH_MSC_Report_Success
This procedure is called when CCBS call is successfully delivered in the
destination MSC and the event is detected in the MSC side.
Figure 11.2.3.10: Procedure CCBS_ICH_VLR_Report_Success
This procedure is called when CCBS call is successfully delivered in the
destination MSC and the event is detected in the VLR side.
Figure 11.2.3.11: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Set_CCBS_Target
This procedure is called if when a call encounters busy condition in the
destination MSC. If busy cause is NDUB and the user has elected to be target
of CCBS requests, CCBS Target is set to True.
Figure 11.2.3.1: Procedure CCBS_MT_MSC_Check_Forwarding
Figure 11.2.3.2: Procedure CCBS_Handle_PRN
Figure 11.2.3.3: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Set_CCBS_Call_Indicator
Figure 11.2.3.4: Procedure CCBS_ICH_MSC_Report_Failure
Figure 11.2.3.5: Procedure CCBS_ICH_VLR_Report_Failure
Figure 11.2.3.6: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Report_Not_Reachable
Figure 11.2.3.7: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Handle_NDUB
Figure 11.2.3.8: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Handle_UDUB
Figure 11.2.3.9: Procedure CCBS_ICH_MSC_Report_Success
Figure 11.2.3.10: Procedure CCBS_ICH_VLR_Report_Success
Figure 11.2.3.11: Procedure CCBS_ICH_Set_CCBS_Target
## 11.3 Processes and procedures common in originating and destination network
entities
Figure 11.3.1: Process CCBS_Monitoring_VLR
This process is responsible for monitoring the subscriber in VLR and also
controls the MSC monitoring process.
Figure 11.3.2: Process CCBS_Monitoring_MSC
This process is responsible for monitoring subscriber in MSC.
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR
This process co-ordinates HLRA and HLRB monitoring interaction. Start and Stop
Reporting messages are sent only once towards MSC, CCBS_Call_Report messages
are directed to correct queue and Status information is distributed to both
queues when needed.
Figure 11.3.4: Procedure CCBS_Set_Diagnostic_For_Release
This procedure is called to set the diagnostic field to the Release message.
The diagnostic is set according to the internal CCBS Target variable.
Figure 11.3.5: Procedure CCBS_Report_Not_Idle
This procedure is called when either MO or MT setup is received or sent to the
MS. It informs the VLR monitoring process that the MS is engaged with a call.
Figure 11.3.6: Procedure CCBS_Report_MS_Activity
This procedure is called when Process_Access_Request is successfully
performed. It informs the VLR monitoring process and may cause transition to
the Idle state.
Figure 11.3.7: Procedure CCBS_Check_Last_Call
This procedure is called when a call is ending. If the call is the last CC
connection to the MS, that is reported to the VLR monitoring process.
Figure 11.3.1: Process CCBS_Monitoring_VLR (sheet 1 of 4)
Figure 11.3.1: Process CCBS_Monitoring_VLR (sheet 2 of 4)
Figure 11.3.1: Process CCBS_Monitoring_VLR (sheet 3 of 4)
Figure 11.3.1: Process CCBS_Monitoring_VLR (sheet 4 of 4)
Figure 11.3.2: Process CCBS_Monitoring_MSC
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR (sheet 1 of 6)
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR (sheet 2 of 6)
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR (sheet 3 of 6)
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR (sheet 4 of 6)
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR (sheet 5 of 6)
Figure 11.3.3: Process CCBS_Coordinator_HLR (sheet 6 of 6)
Figure 11.3.4: Procedure CCBS_Set_Diagnostic_For_Release
Figure 11.3.5: Procedure CCBS_Report_Not_Idle
Figure 11.3.6: Procedure CCBS_Report_MS_Activity
Figure 11.3.7: Procedure CCBS_Check_Last_Call
# 12 Information stored in the HLRs
Note that a given subscriber may be both the originator and the target of CCBS
requests; a given HLR may therefore be required to store both the data for HLR
A and the data for HLR B against a given subscriber.
## 12.1 Originating Network Data
The following logical states are applicable for the CCBS service in the
originating network (refer to TS 23.011 for an explanation of the notation):
**Provisioning State Registration State Activation State HLR Induction State**
(Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)
(Provisioned, Not Applicable, Active and Operative Not Induced)
The logical state shall be on a per subscriber basis and hence the same for
all basic service groups.
The HLR shall store the logical state of the CCBS service (which shall be one
of the valid states listed above) on a per subscriber basis. The HLR shall
store the following information for each CCBS Request that is successfully
activated by subscriber A:
\- AddressOfB;
\- Basic Service Group;
\- CCBS Call Information;
\- Translated Number;
\- Retention supported by destination network (if HLR A supports retention);
\- CCBS Index;
\- CAMEL Invoked.
The HLR shall store for the served subscriber as the originator of CCBS
requests:
\- The parameter \"Max Queue Size\",
\- This parameter takes a value in the range 1 to 5.
## 12.2 Destination Network Data
The following logical states are applicable for the CCBS service in the
destination network (refer to TS 23.011 for an explanation of the notation):
**Provisioning State Registration State Activation State HLR Induction State**
(Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)
(Provisioned, Not Applicable, Active and Operative, Not Induced)
The logical state shall be on a per subscriber basis and hence the same for
all basic service groups.
The HLR shall store the logical state of the CCBS service (which shall be one
of the valid states listed above) on a per subscriber basis.
The HLR shall store the following information for each CCBS Request that is
successfully activated against User B :
\- Basic Service Group;
\- Retention supported by originating network (if HLR B supports retention).
The HLR shall store on a per subscriber basis:
The parameter \"Number of terminating CCBS Requests\"
This parameter takes a value in the range 1 to 5.
## 12.3 Transfer of information from HLR to VLR
If the provisioning state for CCBS supplementary service is \"Provisioned\"
then, when the subscriber registers on a VLR, the HLR shall send that VLR
information about the logical state of CCBS supplementary service.
If the logical state of CCBS supplementary service is changed while a
subscriber is registered on a VLR, then the HLR shall inform the VLR of the
new logical state of CCBS supplementary service.
Both originating and destination network CCBS supplementary service logical
states are updated independently of each other to the VLR.
# 13 State transition model
## 13.1 State transition model for the CCBS service in the originating network
Figure 13.1.1 shows the successful cases of transition between the applicable
logical states of the CCBS service in the originating network. The state
changes may be caused by actions of the service provider or the network.
Figure 13.1.1: State Transition Model for CCBS Service in the originating
network
## 13.2 State transition model for the CCBS service in the destination network
Figure 13.2.1 shows the successful cases of transition between the applicable
logical states of the CCBS service in the destination network. The state
changes may be caused by actions of the service provider or the network.
Figure 13.2.1: State Transition Model for CCBS Service in the destination
network
## 13.3 State transition model for a CCBS Request
Figure 13.3.1 shows the successful cases of transition between the applicable
logical states of a CCBS Request. The state changes may be caused by actions
of the served subscriber or the network.
Each subscriber can be considered to have a set of n requests, where n is the
maximum number of CCBS requests allowed for a subscriber as an originator.
Figure 13.3.1: State Transition Model for a CCBS Request in Originating
Network
On provision of the CCBS service, all requests transit to the \"Start\" state
Figure 13.3.2: State Transition Model for a CCBS Request in Destination
Network
## 13.4 Information stored in the VLRs
**Originating Network Data**
For the CCBS service in the originating network the VLR shall store the
service state information received from HLR.
**Destination Network Data**
For the CCBS service in the destination network the VLR shall store the
service state information received from HLR.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Message flow diagrams showing a successful
CCBS request
The following message flow diagrams show a successful CCBS request.
Destination B busy when request activated, subscriber A free when destination
B becomes free (mobile-to-mobile).
#