# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 2 description of Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data (USSD).
The unstructured supplementary service data (USSD) mechanism allows the Mobile
Station (MS) user and a PLMN operator defined application to communicate in a
way which is transparent to the MS and to intermediate network entities. The
mechanism allows development of PLMN specific supplementary services. The
following diagram shows how handling of USSD is carried out, independently of
the applications.
Figure 1.1: Handling of USSD
The present document defines the requirements for handling USSD at the MS and
network entities. It does not include specification of particular
applications, nor does it specify how a particular application is selected.
Where more than one application exists at a network entity, routing of
messages to the correct application is carried out by the USSD handler. The
MMI for USSD is specified in TS 22.030 and TS 22.090. The alphabet indicator
and the data coding scheme are defined in TS 23.038.
USSD may be initiated by the MS user, or by the network in the following ways:
\- Network initiated USSD (clause 1);
\- Mobile initiated USSD (clause 2).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment
(UE)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) ‑ Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.038: \"Alphabets and language‑specific information\".
# 3 Abbreviations
In addition to those below, abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in TR 21.905 [1].
AI Application Initiated
MI Mobile Initiated
USSD Unstructured Supplementary Service Data
# 4 Cross phase compatibility
The Phase 1 series of GSM specifications defined the signalling protocol which
may be used, but they did not specify the operation of USSD as a service.
The main body of the present document assumes that the MS and all network
entities comply with this phase of USSD. In order to minimize any possible
problems between a Phase 1 implementation of USSD and this phase, clauses 5.6
and 6.6 define the additional requirements for when one or more entity
complies with the Phase 1 USSD specification for network initiated and mobile
initiated USSD respectively.
# 5 Network initiated unstructured supplementary service
## 5.1 Handling of network initiated USSD
The network (MSC, VLR or HLR) can at any time send a USSD operation towards an
MS. This operation may be either a request (asking the MS to provide
information) or a notification (requiring no information in the response from
the MS). No prior provision of USSD is required, although provision of
services which make use of USSD may be required. All USSD requests,
notifications and responses (except responses to notifications) contain the
USSD string, an alphabet indicator and language indicator.
## 5.2 Functions and information flows
The following text describes the handling of network initiated USSD.
Diagrammatic representations are as follows:
Figure 5.1 SDL for USSD invocation (HLR, VLR, MSC);
Figure 5.2 SDL for forwarding of USSD operations (VLR, MSC);
Figure 5.3 SDL for MS;
Figure 5.4 Information flow for successful single USSD request;
Figure 5.5 Information flow for successful single USSD notification;
Figure 5.6 Information flow for successful multiple USSD requests;
Figure 5.7 Information flow for failed USSD request.
### 5.2.1 Invoking unstructured SS operation from the HLR
When an application in the HLR is to send a USSD request or notification to an
MS, it shall set up a transaction to the VLR where the subscriber is currently
registered and send the operation to the VLR. It shall then await a response.
The HLR is responsible for controlling the transaction, and shall therefore
normally release the transaction when it receives a response from the VLR. The
HLR may also release the transaction before receiving a response if necessary
(e.g. if an application timer expires).
If an application in the HLR needs to send further operations to the same MS
as part of the same application, it may continue to use the same transaction
until all operations are completed (see figure 5.6). If a different
transaction is to be used for a subsequent operation, the HLR shall release
the first transaction before starting the next.
If the VLR releases the transaction at any time (e.g. due to user clearing),
the HLR shall inform the application and terminate the USSD operation.
See clause 5.2.4 for forwarding of an HLR invoked operation by the VLR and
MSC.
### 5.2.2 Invoking unstructured SS operation from the VLR
When an application in the VLR is to send a USSD request or notification to an
MS, it shall set up a transaction to the MSC where the subscriber is currently
registered and send the operation to the MSC. It shall then await a response.
The VLR is responsible for controlling the transaction, and shall therefore
normally release the transaction when it receives a response from the MSC. The
VLR may also release the transaction before receiving a response if necessary
(e.g. if an application timer expires).
If an application in the VLR needs to send further operations to the same MS
as part of the same application, it may continue to use the same transaction
until all operations are completed. If a different transaction is to be used
for a subsequent operation, the VLR shall release the first transaction before
starting the next.
See clause 5.2.4 for forwarding of a VLR invoked operation by the MSC.
If the MSC releases the transaction at any time (e.g. due to the user
clearing), the VLR shall inform the application and terminate the USSD
operation.
### 5.2.3 Invoking unstructured SS operation from the MSC
When an application in the MSC is to send a USSD request or notification to an
MS, it shall set up a transaction to the MS where the subscriber is currently
registered and send the operation to the MS. It shall then await a response.
The MSC is responsible for controlling the transaction, and shall therefore
normally release the transaction when it receives a response from the MS. The
MSC may also release the transaction before receiving a response if necessary
(e.g. if an application timer expires).
If an application in the MSC needs to send further operations to the same MS
as part of the same application, it may continue to use the same transaction
until all operations are completed. If a different transaction is to be used
for a subsequent operation, the VLR shall release the first transaction before
starting the next.
If the MS releases the transaction at any time (e.g. due to the user
clearing), the MSC shall inform the application and terminate the USSD
operation.
NOTE: MSC invoked USSD is only likely to be used for call related operations,
where the application is controlling a call to or from the MS.
### 5.2.4 Forwarding USSD operations
The VLR may any time receive a USSD operation from the HLR. If the subscriber
can be contacted, the VLR shall set up a transaction to the MSC and forward
the operation unchanged. Any further information exchange between the HLR and
MSC shall be transparent to the VLR. When one transaction is released, the VLR
shall release the other.
The MSC may at any time receive an USSD operation from the VLR. If the
subscriber can be contacted, the MSC shall set up a transaction to the MS and
forward the operation unchanged. Any further information exchange between the
VLR and MS shall be transparent to the MSC. When one transaction is released,
the MSC shall release the other.
### 5.2.5 Handling of unstructured SS operation at the MS
The MS may at any time receive a USSD operation (request or notification) from
the MSC.
If the MS receives a USSD transaction while another USSD transaction (network
or mobile initiated) or a non-call related supplementary service transaction
is in progress, the MS shall reject the new transaction.
If the MS receives a USSD operation when it is in a state where the MMI
required is not possible (e.g. during dialling) it shall reject the operation.
If the MS does not support the alphabet indicated in the USSD operation, it
shall inform the network.
If the MS is in a state where it can handle the operation, it shall process
the operation as follows:
\- The MS shall analyse the data coding scheme and decides whether the USSD
operation is MMI mode or application mode. See 3GPP TS 22. 030 [2] for details
of codes.
If the data coding scheme corresponds to the MMI mode :
\- For a USSD request, the MS shall display the text provided and await user
input. If the user enters a response, the MS shall return the response to the
MSC, maintaining the transaction. If the user requests release of the
transaction, the MS shall release the transaction.
\- For a USSD notification, the MS shall display the text provided and send
back a response.
If the data coding schemes corresponds to the application mode :
\- For a USSD request, the MS shall pass the message to the application
addressed in the ME, SIM or TE, and await application response . If the
application responds, the MS shall pass the response to the MSC, maintaining
the transaction. If the application releases the transaction, the MS shall
release the transaction.
\- For a USSD notification, the MS shall pass the message to the application
addressed in the ME, SIM or TE, and send back a response.
After sending the response to a USSD operation, the MS shall wait for the
network to release the transaction. If, while awaiting this release, the MS
receives any further USSD operations, it shall process them in the normal way.
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 5.1: Network initiated USSD invoked at HLR, VLR or MSC
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 5.2: Network initiated USSD forwarding at VLR or MSC
{width="6.201388888888889in" height="7.541666666666667in"}
Figure 5.3: Network initiated USSD at MS
MS MSC VLR HLR\ ┌─────┐ ┌─────┐ ┌─────┐ ┌─────┐\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │HLR
initiated │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │
│USSD request │ │\│ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │USSD response│
│\ │ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ Release │ │\ │ │
│ │ Release │ │\│ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │\ │ │ Release │
│\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │\ │
│\│ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │USSD response│
│\ │ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ Release │ │\ │ │
│ │ Release │ │\│ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ Release │ │ │ │\ │ │ Release │
│\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │\ │
│\│ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │USSD response│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\ : : : : : : : :\ : : : : : : : :\ : : : : : : : :\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request
│ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\│ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │USSD response│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\ │ │ │ │ │ │ Release │ │\ │ │ │ │ Release │ │\│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │MSC cannot contact
subscriber │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD
request │ │\│ │ Error │ │\ │ │ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │Error detected at MS │ │
│ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │
│\│ │ Error │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │ Error │ │\ │ │ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │MS clears transaction │
│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │
│\│ │ Release │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │ Release │ │\ │ │ │
│ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
Figure 5.7: Information flow for failed USSD request
## 5.3 Information stored in the HLR
The HLR shall not store any information specific to the use of USSD, although
information may be stored for services which are offered by USSD applications.
## 5.4 Information stored in the VLR
The VLR shall not store any information specific to the use of USSD, although
information may be stored for services which are offered by USSD applications.
## 5.5 Handover
Handover will have no impact on the operation of this service.
## 5.6 Cross-phase compatibility
Network initiated USSD shall not be permitted if the MS or any network entity
involved in the operation is of Phase 1. If, when setting up a transaction, a
network entity discovers that the other end is of Phase 1, it shall reject the
request and release the transaction being set up.
# 6 Mobile initiated unstructured supplementary service data
## 6.1 Handling of mobile initiated USSD
A MS can at any time initiate a USSD request to the network. No prior
provision of the service is required, although provisioning of services which
make use of USSD may be required. All USSD messages (requests and responses),
contain the USSD string, an alphabet indicator and language indicator.
## 6.2 Functions and information flows
The following text describes the handling of mobile network initiated USSD.
Diagrammatic representations are as follows:
Figure 6.1 SDL, request from user at MS;
Figure 6.2 SDL, request from MS at MSC;
Figure 6.3 SDL, request from application at MSC;
Figure 6.4 SDL, request from MSC at VLR;
Figure 6.5 SDL, request from application at VLR;
Figure 6.6 SDL, request from VLR at HLR;
Figure 6.7 Information flow, no further information required;
Figure 6.8 Information flow, further information required;
Figure 6.9 Information flow for failed USSD request.
### 6.2.1 Handling of USSD request at MS
When the user or the application in the MS makes a request which the MS
determines is to make use of USSD, the MS shall set up a transaction to the
network, send the request to the MSC and await a response. When the MS
receives the response, it shall display the information contained to the user
or relay the message to the application in the MS.
While awaiting the response, the MS may receive a network initiated USSD
request or notification on the same transaction. If this occurs, the MS shall
process that operation (see clause 1) and continue to await the response to
the mobile initiated request.
If, when the MS determines that a user request is to make use of USSD, the MS
is already involved in a USSD or a non-call related supplementary service
transaction, the MS shall reject the request.
### 6.2.2 Handling of USSD request at MSC
When an MSC receives a USSD request containing an HPLMN service code, it shall
set up a transaction to the VLR and forward the request unchanged. If this
forwarding fails, an error shall be returned to the MS. The MSC shall be
transparent to any further requests or responses (in either direction) for
that transaction, passing them between the MS and VLR without taking any
action. When one transaction is released (MS-MSC or MSC-VLR), the MSC shall
release the other.
If an HPLMN service code is not included, the MSC shall process the request
locally (see clause 6.2.5).
If the MSC does not support the alphabet used in a USSD request, it shall set
up a transaction to the VLR and forward the request unchanged, in the same way
as when a HPLMN service code is received.
### 6.2.3 Handling of USSD request at VLR
When a VLR receives a USSD request containing an HPLMN service code and the
user is not in the HPLMN, it shall set up a transaction to the HLR and forward
the request unchanged. If this forwarding fails, an error shall be returned to
the MS. The VLR shall be transparent to any further requests or responses (in
either direction) for that transaction, passing them between the MSC and HLR
without taking any action. When one transaction is released (MSC-VLR or VLR-
HLR), the VLR shall release the other.
If an HPLMN service code is not included, or the user is in the HPLMN, the VLR
shall process the request locally (see clause 6.2.5).
If the VLR does not support the alphabet used in a USSD request, it shall set
up a transaction to the HLR and forward the request unchanged, in the same way
as when a HPLMN service code is received and the user is not in the HPLMN.
### 6.2.4 Handling of USSD request at HLR
An HLR shall always process a USSD request locally (see clause 6.2.5).
If the HLR does not support the alphabet used in a USSD request, it shall
inform the MS and release the transaction.
### 6.2.5 Processing the USSD request
When a network entity is to process a USSD request locally, the request shall
be handled by an appropriate application. The location, nature and contents of
USSD applications is, by definition, service provider and network operator
dependent, but may include:
\- Setting up or releasing signalling and/or speech channels;
\- Passing the request to another network entity (unchanged or changed);
\- Passing a different USSD request to another network entity;
and/or
\- Requesting further information from the MS (one or more times).
Upon completion of handling the request, the network entity shall respond to
the request and release the transaction.
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.1: Mobile initiated USSD at MS
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.2 (sheet 1 of 3): Mobile initiated USSD at MSC
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.2 (sheet 2 of 3): Mobile initiated USSD at MSC
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.2 (sheet 3 of 3): Mobile initiated USSD at MSC
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.3: Application initiated USSD at MSC
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.4 (sheet 1 of 3): Mobile initiated USSD at VLR
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.4 (sheet 2 of 3): Mobile initiated USSD at VLR
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.4 (sheet 3 of 3): Mobile initiated USSD at VLR
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.5: Application initiated USSD at VLR
{width="6.215277777777778in" height="7.506944444444445in"}
Figure 6.6: Mobile initiated USSD at HLR
\ MS MSC VLR HLR\ ┌─────┐ ┌─────┐ ┌─────┐ ┌─────┐\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │Request
handled by MSC │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │USSD request │ │ │ │ │ │\ │
├────────────>│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │OR1:N│ │ │ │ │\ │ │USSD response│ │ │ │ │ │\ │
│\│OR1:Y│ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │ │ │\ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │OR2:N│ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │
│USSD response│ │\│OR1:Y│ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD
request │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│OR2:Y│ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\
│ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │\ │ │
│ │USSD response│ │\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │ │ │\
│ │ │ ├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD
request │ │\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│
│ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\ : : : : : : : :\ : : : : : : : :\ : : : : : : : :\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request
│ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │ │ │\
│ │ │ ├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │\ │ │ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD response│ │\ │ │ │ │USSD
response│ │\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ Error │ │ │ │ │ │\ │
│\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│
│ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ Error │ │ │ │\ │ │ Error │ │\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│
│ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│\ │ │ │ │ │ │ Error │ │\ │ │ │ │ Error │ │\│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │USSD request
│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │USSD request │ │\ │ │ │ │ │
├────────────>│ │\ │ │ Release │ │ │ │ │ │\ │ ├────────────>│ │ │ │ │ │\ │ │ │
│ Release │ │ │ │\ │ │ │ ├────────────>│ │ │ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ Release │ │\ │ │ │
│ │ ├────────────>│ │\ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
NOTE: This call flow only shows a limited number of examples to illustrate the
possible scenarios. See the SDL diagrams for a complete description.
Figure 6.9: Information flow for mobile initiated failed USSD Request
## 6.3 Information stored in the HLR
The HLR shall not store any information specific to the use of USSD, although
information may be stored for services which are offered by USSD applications.
## 6.4 Information stored in the VLR
The VLR shall not store any information specific to the use of USSD, although
information may be stored for services which are offered by USSD applications.
## 6.5 Handover
Handover will have no impact on the operation of this service.
## 6.6 Cross-phase compatibility
If, when a Phase 2 MS sends a mobile initiated USSD request, any network
entity is of Phase 1, the request will be rejected. If it is possible to
encode the content of the USSD request using the Phase 1 protocol, the MS
shall repeat the request, using the Phase 1 protocol.
A Mobile initiated USSD request from a Phase 1 MS uses the Phase 1 protocol.
On receipt of such a request, the application shall also use the Phase 1
protocol when sending the response.
A Phase 2 network shall not send network initiated requests or notifications
during a mobile initiated USSD request if the MS or any network entity
involved in the operation is of Phase 1.
#