# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies architecture enhancements for supporting
Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) connectivity, identification, and tracking,
according to the use cases and service requirements defined in TS 22.125 [5].
The following functions are specified:
\- UAV Identification, authentication and authorization.
\- UAV tracking in the 3GPP system:
\- this includes how the 3GPP system can provide support for UAV to ground
identification (e.g. to authorized third parties such as police devices).
\- handling of unauthorized UAVs and revocation of authorization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.273: \"5G System (5GS) Location Services (LCS); Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.256: \"Security aspects of Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1] or TS 23.501 [2].
**3GPP UAV ID:** Identifier assigned by the 3GPP system and used by external
AF (e.g. USS) to identify the UAV. GPSI is used as the 3GPP UAV ID.
**Broadcast Remote ID:** The capability of providing Remote Identification and
Tracking over broadcast radio links.
NOTE 1: In the scope of this release, the radio link for Broadcast Remote ID
is assumed to utilize radio technologies outside the scope of 3GPP.
**CAA (Civil Aviation Administration)-Level UAV Identity:** a UAV identity
assigned by USS/UTM, and uniquely identifies a UAV at least within the scope
of a USS.
**Command and Control (C2) Communication:** the user plane link to deliver
messages with information of command and control for UAV operation from a UAV
controller or a UTM to a UAV or to report telemetry data from a UAV to its UAV
controller or a UTM.
**C2 Aviation Payload:** Contains application layer information sent by the
UAS to the USS containing UAV pairing information and/or flight authorization
information that is transparent to the 3GPP System.
**C2 Authorization Payload:** Contains application layer information sent by
the USS to the UAV containing e.g. C2 pairing information and/or C2 security
information that is transparent to the 3GPP System.
**C2 Pairing Information:** Contains UAV-C Addressing Information which may
e.g. include the UAV-C IP Address.
**Networked UAV Controller:** a UAV Controller connected to the 3GPP network
and connected to the UAV via a 3GPP network.
**Non-Networked UAV Controller:** a UAV Controller not connected to the 3GPP
network and connected to UAV via a transport outside the scope of 3GPP, e.g.
internet connectivity or direct wireless communication over a technology
outside the scope of 3GPP.
**Networked Remote ID:** The capability of providing Remote Identification and
Tracking to a USS over 3GPP network.
**Remote Identification (Remote ID) of UAS:** The ability of a UAS in flight
to provide identification and tracking information that can be received by
other parties, to facilitate advanced operations for the UAS (such as Beyond
Visual Line of Sight operations as well as operations over people), assist
regulatory agencies, air traffic management agencies, law enforcement, and
security agencies when a UAS appears to be flying in an unsafe manner or where
the UAS is not allowed to fly. The Remote ID information payload may include
Serial Number or Session ID assigned to the UAV, location of the ground-
station controller, emergency status indication, etc.
**Third Party Authorized Entity:** is either a privileged Networked UAV
Controller, or a privileged Non-Networked UAV Controller, or another entity
which gets information on sets of UAV controllers and UAVs from the 3GPP
network, and may be connected to the UAV via the Internet; it may be
authorized by the UTM to interface with sets of UAV(s).
**UAS NF:** a 3GPP UAS Network Function for support of aerial functionality
related to UAV identification, authentication/authorization and tracking, and
to support Remote Identification.
**UAS Service Supplier (USS):** An entity that provides services to support
the safe and efficient use of airspace by providing services to the operator /
pilot of a UAS in meeting UTM operational requirements. A USS can provide any
subset of functionality to meet the provider\'s business objectives (e.g. UTM,
Remote Identification). In the scope of this specification, the term USS
refers to both USS and USS/UTM.
**UAS Traffic Management (UTM):** a system that can safely and efficiently
integrate the flying UAV along with other airspace users. It provides a set of
functions and services for managing a range of autonomous vehicle operations
(e.g. authenticating UAV, authorizing UAS services, managing UAS policies, and
controlling UAV traffics in the airspace).
**UAV controller:** The UAV controller of a UAS enables a drone pilot to
control an UAV.
**UAV operator:** the entity owning and operating a UAV.
**UAS Container:** A container to the 3GPP system that includes UUAA
Aviation/Authorization Payload and/or C2 Aviation/Authorization Payload. The
internal content of the individual payloads is transparent to the 3GPP system.
**UAS Services:** refers to establishment of connectivity for a UAS for
communication with USS, for C2, for remote identification, and for UAV
location and tracking.
**USS communication: A communication between a UAV and a USS other than C2
communication, by means of user plane data transmission for some UAS
Services.**
NOTE 2: The PDU session/PDN connection for C2 communication and the PDU
session/PDN connection for USS communication can be common or separate.
**UUAA Authorization Payload** : Contains application layer information
optionally including UUAA result for UAV consumption provided by the USS to
the UAS which is transparent to the 3GPP System.
**UUAA Aviation Payload:** Contains application layer information provided by
the UAS to USS and is transparent to the 3GPP System
**Uncrewed Aerial System (UAS):** Composed of Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (UAV)
and related functionality, including command and control (C2) links between
the UAV and the control station, the UAV and the network, and for remote
identification. An UAS may comprise of a UAV and a UAV controller.
**Unknown UAVs** : A list of the UAVs to be identified in the target area and
served by the PLMN as the result of the UAV tracking requested by USS/UTM.
**UUAA:** UAV USS authentication and authorization procedure of the UAV to
ensure that the UAV has successfully registered with a USS and has therefore
been authorized for operations by the USS. An UAV is authenticated and
authorized by USS via a UUAA procedure with the support of the 3GPP system
before connectivity for UAS services is enabled.
**UUAA-MM:** the UUAA procedure optionally performed during registration to a
5GS.
**UUAA-SM:** the UUAA procedure performed during the establishment of a PDU
session and performed during the establishment of a PDN connection.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
BRID Broadcast Remote Identification
BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight
C2 Command and Control
NRID Networked Remote Identification
RID Remote Identification
TPAE Third Party Authorized Entity
UAS Uncrewed Aerial System
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
USS UAS Service Supplier
UTM Uncrewed Aerial System Traffic Management
UUAA USS UAV Authorization/Authentication
UUID Universal Unique Identifier
# 4 Architecture model and concepts
## 4.1 General concept
The architecture enhancements for UAVs introduce the following functionality:
\- Authentication and authorization of a UAV with the USS during 5GS
registration (optional).
\- Authentication and authorization of a UAV with the USS during PDU session
establishment and PDN connection establishment.
\- Support for USS authorization of C2 Communication.
\- A reference model for UAV tracking, supporting three UAV tracking modes:
UAV location reporting mode, UAV presence monitoring mode, and list of Aerial
UEs in a geographic area. The 3GPP system supports geofencing (for in-flight
UAV) and geocaging (for UAV on the ground intending to fly) functionality in
USS by providing enablers such as location services, event notification to a
subscribing USS, etc.
NOTE: Geofencing/geocaging mechanisms are an air traffic control functionality
performed by the USS and are out of scope of this specification. The 3GPP
system provides enablers to support geofencing/geocaging functionality in USS,
e.g. location services, enablement of C2 connectivity, event notification to a
subscribing USS, etc. However, no specific geofencing/geocaging mechanisms are
defined in 3GPP.
## 4.2 Architectural reference model
### 4.2.1 General
This specification covers UAV functionality provided by 5GC connected to NG-
RAN and EPC connected to LTE.
The following functionality is defined for UAV support in the 3GPP system:
\- An UAV is authenticated and authorized by USS via a USS UAV Authentication
& Authorization (UUAA) with the support of the 3GPP system before connectivity
for UAS services is enabled.
\- Depending on 3GPP network operator and/or regulatory requirements, the UUAA
is performed:
\- In 5GS: either as a separate procedure during the 5GS registration
procedure (optional and based on specific PLMN policies, USS requirements, and
geographic regulatory requirements), or when the UAV requests user plane
resources for UAV operation (i.e. PDU session establishment). The UAV shall
support UUAA during Registration and PDU session establishment procedure. The
network shall support UUAA during PDU session establishment.
\- In EPS: during the attach procedure and the corresponding PDN connection
establishment. The network shall support UUAA during PDN connection
establishment. The UAV shall support UUAA during PDN connection establishment
procedure.
\- A UAV that is provisioned with a CAA-Level UAV ID shall provide the CAA-
Level UAV ID in 5GS in both Registration and in PDU Session establishment. In
EPC, a UAV that is provisioned with a CAA-Level UAV ID provides the CAA-Level
UAV ID in PDN Connection establishment in SM-PCO. The CN determine whether
UUAA is executed at 5GS registration or at PDU session/PDN Connection
establishment, based on local policies.
\- If UUAA is not performed during the Registration procedure in 5GS, the UUAA
is performed at PDU session establishment when the UAV requests user plane
resources for UAV operation and the UAV provides its CAA Level ID during PDU
session (PDN connection) establishment.
\- The UAV flight authorization and UAV-UAVC pairing authorization is
performed at PDU session/PDN connection establishment/modification procedures.
\- The 3GPP system supports USS authorization of pairing between a UAV and a
networked UAVC or a UAVC that connects to the UAV via Internet connectivity
during either the establishment of the PDN connection/PDU session for C2
communication or a modification of a PDN connection/PDU session either
dedicated to C2 communication or common to USS communication and C2
communication. Modifications of the pairing or re-authorization take place via
modification of the established PDN connection/PDU session. During such
procedures, the USS provides to the 3GPP system information (e.g. QoS
requirement, data flow descriptors, etc.) that enable traffic between the UAV
and the UAVC.
NOTE 1: How the USS is made aware of the UAVC is outside the scope of 3GPP in
this Release.
\- For EPC, the PDN connections used by UAV are served by SMF+PGW-C regardless
of whether the UAV support 5G NAS or whether their subscription allows access
to 5GC. The APN(s) used by the UAV for contacting USS or for C2 communication
always resolves to a SMF+PWG-C.
The following architectural assumptions apply:
\- It is assumed that the UAV trying to access UAS services using 3GPP
connectivity is already registered with a USS and has been assigned a CAA-
Level-UAV ID. The procedure for UAV registration and assignment of CAA-Level-
UAV ID is out of scope of 3GPP. The USS assigns to the UAV a CAA-Level UAV ID,
or is made aware of the assigned CAA-Level UAV ID.
\- A UAV is associated with an Aerial subscription in the UDM. The Aerial
subscription contains aerial UE indication in the Access and Mobility
Subscription data (to be used similarly to aerial UE indication defined in
EPS), an aerial service indication in the Session Management Subscription data
for each DNN dedicated for UAS services (C2 and UUAA-SM) which indicates that
corresponding authentication/authorization has to be done using API based
mechanism.
\- An UAV is identified by USS using a CAA-level UAV ID, and identified by the
3GPP System using a 3GPP UAV ID assigned by the MNO:
\- It is assumed that an aerial subscription associated to a UAV includes at
least one GPSI to be used as 3GPP UAV ID.
\- A UAV is registered with the USS either before connecting with the 3GPP
system or using plain internet connectivity via the 3GPP system. Before
registering for UAS services with the 3GPP system, the UAV shall be
provisioned with a CAA-Level UAV Identity.
\- In roaming scenarios, it is assumed that access to USS is in the VPLMN,
thus packet data connectivity for UAV-USS communication is in local breakout,
and the UAS NF function is located in the VPLMN.
\- In this Release, the UAV uses 3GPP access (i.e. LTE & NR) for 3GPP UAV
related operations.
\- Activation of RAN aerial features for UAV accessing via E-UTRA reuses the
existing mechanism defined in TS 36.300 [7].
NOTE 2: In this Release, an UAV is served by single USS for the duration of
the connectivity between the USS and the UAV.
\- One or more USS(s) may be present in a specific region and may manage UAVs
over one or more 3GPP networks.
\- The 3GPP Network subscription for the UAV is not assumed to contain any
information about the USS.
\- The USS address, if known to the UAV, is configured in the UAV via
mechanisms outside the scope of 3GPP.
### 4.2.2 Logical UAV Reference Architecture
Figure 4.2.2-1: Logical 5GS and EPS architecture for UAV
NOTE 1: Provisioning of UAS services over EPC is based on the use of an
SMF+PGW-C node.
Figure 4.2.2-2: Non-roaming architecture for interworking between 5GS and
EPC/E-UTRAN
Figure 4.2.2-3: Local breakout roaming architecture for interworking between
5GS and EPC/E-UTRAN
NOTE 2: Transferring the UUAA context from AMF to MME when the UE moves from
5GS to EPS and the UUAA was performed at 5GS registration is not supported on
the N26 interface.
NOTE 3: No new UAV-specific functionality is defined for T6a.
### 4.2.3 5GS Non-roaming Reference Architecture
Figure 4.2.3-1: 5G System non-roaming architecture for UAV
### 4.2.4 5GS Roaming Reference Architecture
Figure 4.2.4-2: Roaming 5G System architecture for UAV - local breakout
scenario in service-based interface representation
### 4.2.5 Service-based interfaces
The 5G System Architecture for UAVs contains the service-based interfaces
defined in TS 23.501 [2].
### 4.2.6 Reference points
The 5G System Architecture for UAV contains the reference points defined in TS
23.501 [2].
## 4.3 Functional entities
### 4.3.1 General
In addition to the 5GS functional entities defined in TS 23.501 [2] and the
EPS functional entities defined in TS 23.401 [6], the following functional
entities are defined for UAS.
### 4.3.2 UAS NF
The UAS Network Function is supported by the NEF or SCEF+NEF and used for
external exposure of services to the USS. The UAS-NF makes use of existing
NEF/SCEF exposure services for UAV authentication/authorization, for UAV
flight authorization, for UAV-UAVC pairing authorization, and related re-
authentication/re-authorization and revocation; for location reporting,
presence monitoring, obtaining list of Aerial UEs in a geographic area and
control of QoS/traffic filtering for C2 communication.
The UAS NF may coordinate with the USS to assist CAA-Level UAV ID assignment.
A dedicated NEF may be deployed to provide only the UAS NF functionality, i.e.
to support the UAS specific features/APIs and the NEF features/APIs that are
specified for capability exposure towards the USS.
For external exposure of services related to specific UAV(s), the UAS NF
resides in the VPLMN, in order to interface with country specific USS(es).
When CAPIF is supported by the UAS NF, the UAS NF supports the CAPIF API
provider domain functions as specified in TS 23.222 [4].
To support re-authentication/re-authorization and revocation request by USS,
the UAS NF stores information as to whether the re-authentication/re-
authorization and revocation is towards an AMF or SMF/SMF+PGW-C and the
address of the serving AMF or SMF/SMF+PGW-C.
UAS NF stores the result of UUAA-MM procedures and the result of UUAA-SM
procedures.
### 4.3.3 UAV
The UAV is a 3GPP UE supporting the UE functionality defined in TS 23.401 [6]
and in TS 23.501 [2].
In addition:
\- a UAV that is configured for UAS services is provisioned with a single CAA-
Level UAV ID;
\- a UAV that is configured for UAS services (i.e. is provisioned with a CAA-
Level UAV ID) registers to the 3GPP system for UAS services (i.e. to take
advantage of aerial features, connectivity with USS and for C2 connectivity)
and provides the CAA-Level UAV ID and a UUAA Aviation Payload to 5GS or EPS. A
UAV that has not performed a registration with aviation authorities shall not
attempt to request for UAS services.
NOTE: A UAV that is configured for UAS services but does not have an aerial
subscription is not allowed by the network to register for UAS services.
### 4.3.4 AMF
In addition to the functionality defined in TS 23.501 [2], the AMF:
\- may trigger the UUAA-MM procedure for a UE requiring UAV authentication and
authorization by a USS when registering with 5GS when the UE has Aerial UE
subscription information and based on local operator policy, or when the USS
that authenticated the UAV triggers a re-authentication, or when AMF itself
determines to re-authentication the UAV after the initial registration.
### 4.3.5 SMF
In addition to the functionality defined in TS 23.501 [2], the SMF:
\- triggers the UUAA-SM procedure for a UE requiring UAV authentication and
authorization by a USS when requesting user plane resources for UAV operation,
or when the USS/UTM that authenticated the UAV triggers a re-authentication;
\- may trigger the authorization of pairing between a UAV and a networked UAVC
or a UAVC that connects to the UAV via Internet connectivity during the
establishment/modification of the PDN connection/PDU session for C2
communication.
### 4.3.6 SMF+PGW-C
The SMF+PGW-C implements the functions of the SMF described in clause 4.3.5.
## 4.4 High level function
### 4.4.1 Service Operations
#### 4.4.1.1 NEF Services
##### 4.4.1.1.1 General
In addition to those defined in TS 23.501 [2] clause 7.2.8 and TS 23.502 [3]
clause 5.2.6, the following table illustrates additional NEF services to
support UAS.
Table 4.4.2.1.1-1: NF Services provided by NEF
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service Name | Service | Operation | Example | | | Operations | | Consumer(s) | | | | Semantics | | +================+================+================+================+ | Nnef_ | Authent | Re | AMF, SMF | | Authentication | icateAuthorize | quest/Response | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Notification | Su | AMF, SMF | | | | bscribe/Notify | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 4.4.1.1.2 Nnef_Authentication service
##### 4.4.1.1.2.1 General {#general-3 .H6}
**Service Description** : This service enables the consumer to either
authenticate and authorise, or just authorize, the Service Level Device
Identity. In case of UAS, the service is used to authenticate and/or authorize
the UAV identified by a CAA-Level UAV ID.
When creating an authentication session, the AMF/SMF implicitly subscribes to
NEF about notification related with the authentication/authorization (e.g. re-
authenticate, update authorization data or revoke the UUAA authorization).
This implicit subscription is implicitly released by UAS NF/NEF when the
corresponding authentication association is removed (e.g. in the case of re-
authentication failure and USS indicating to release network resource, or in
the case of authorization revocation).
##### 4.4.1.1.2.2 Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize service operation
{#nnef_authentication_authenticateauthorize-service-operation .H6}
**Service operation name:** Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize
**Description:** Provides the authentication and authorization result of the
Service Level device Identity.
**Input, Required:** Service Level Device Identity (i.e. CAA-Level UAV ID) for
authentication, GPSI, NF Type.
**Input, Conditional Required:** Notification endpoint (required for initial
authentication request), DNN, S-NSSAI (in case the consumer NF is SMF).
**Input, Optional:** Authorization Server Address (i.e. USS Address), PEI, UE
IP address (in case the consumer NF is SMF), authentication/authorization
container provided by UE, UAV location.
**Output, Required:** None.
**Output, Conditional Required:** Success/Failure indication [Not required
when PDU Session Modification for C2 Communication], Authorization Data
container, Indication whether the PDU sessions associated with the \"DNN(s)
subject to aerial services\" can be released [Required for re-authentication
failure].
**Output, Optional:** None.
##### 4.4.1.1.2.3 Nnef_Authentication_Notification service operation
{#nnef_authentication_notification-service-operation .H6}
**Service operation name:** Nnef_Authentication_Notification
**Description:** Re-authenticate, update authorization data or revoke the UUAA
authorization of a UAV.
NOTE: This notification corresponds to an implicit subscription by
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize service operation.
**Input, Required:** Notification Correlation Information, Service Level
Device Identity, 3GPP UAV ID, Notify reason (revoke, re-authentication, or
authorization data update).
**Input, Conditional Required:** Authorization Data container (if the Notify
reason is authorization data update).
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** Acknowledge indication.
**Output, Optional:** None.
#### 4.4.1.2 AF Services
##### 4.4.1.2.1 General
In addition to the AF services defined in TS 23.501 [2] clause 7.2.19 and TS
23.502 [3] clause 5.2.19, the following table shows the AF services to support
UAS.
Table 4.4.1.2.1-1: NF Services provided by AF
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Service Name | Service | Operation | Example | | | Operations | | Consumer(s) | | | | Semantics | | +================+================+================+================+ | Naf_ | Authent | Re | UAS NF/NEF | | Authentication | icateAuthorize | quest/Response | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Notification | Su | UAS NF/NEF | | | | bscribe/Notify | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 4.4.1.2.2 Naf_Authentication service
##### 4.4.1.2.2.1 General {#general-5 .H6}
**Service Description** : This service enables the consumer to authenticate
and authorize the Service Level Device Identity. In case of UAS, the service
is used to authenticate and authorize the UAV identified by a CAA-Level UAV
ID.
When creating an authentication session, the UAS NF/NEF implicitly subscribes
to USS about notification related with the authentication/authorization (e.g.
re-authenticate, update authorization data or revoke the UUAA authorization).
This implicit subscription is implicitly released by USS when the
corresponding authentication session is removed (e.g. in the case of re-
authentication failure and USS indicating to release network resource, or in
the case of authorization revocation).
##### 4.4.1.2.2.2 Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize service operation
{#naf_authentication_authenticateauthorize-service-operation .H6}
**Service operation name:** Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize
**Description:** Provides the Authentication and Authorization result of the
Service Level Device Identity (i.e. CAA-Level UAV ID for UAS).
**Input, Required:** Service Level Device Identity for authentication, GPSI.
**Input, Optional:** Notification endpoint (required for initial
authentication request), PEI, UE IP address, authentication container provided
by UE, UAV location.
**Output, Required:** None.
**Output, Conditional Required:** Success/Failure indication and GPSI [Not
required when PDU Session Modification for C2 Communication], Authorization
Data container, Indication whether the UAS service related network resource
can be released [Required for re-authentication failure]
**Output, Optional:** None.
##### 4.4.1.2.2.3 Naf_Authentication_Notification service operation
{#naf_authentication_notification-service-operation .H6}
**Service operation name:** Naf_Authentication_Notification
**Description:** Re-authenticate, update authorization data or revoke the UUAA
authorization of a UAV.
NOTE: This notification corresponds to an implicit subscription by
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize service operation.
**Input, Required:** Notification Correlation Information, Service Level
Device Identity, GPSI, Notify reason (revoke, re-authentication, or
authorization data update).
**Input, Conditional Required:** Authorization Data container (if the Notify
reason is authorization data update).
**Input, Optional:** PDU Session IP address.
**Output, Required:** Acknowledge indication.
**Output, Optional:** None.
#### 4.4.1.3 AMF Services
AMF services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.502 [3] clause 5.2.2.
In addition, when SMF invokes Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer service
operation, it may provide the UUAA result to the UAV.
#### 4.4.1.4 SMF Services
SMF services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.502 [3] clause 5.2.8.
#### 4.4.1.5 UDM Services
UDM services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.502 [3] clause 5.2.3.
#### 4.4.1.6 LMF Services
LMF services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.273 [8] clause 8.3.
#### 4.4.1.7 GMLC Services
GMLC services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.273 [8] clause 8.4.
#### 4.4.1.8 UDR Services
UDR services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.502 [3] clause 5.2.12.
#### 4.4.1.9 PCF Services
PCF services related to UAS are defined in TS 23.502 [3] clause 5.2.5.
### 4.4.2 USS Discovery
There may be multiple USS(es) serving UASs in a country, and no direct
association is expected between the 3GPP network serving a UAS and the USS
providing services to the UAS. How the association between a UAV and a USS is
realized, is outside the scope of 3GPP and is not related to the UAV
subscription with the mobile operator.
In order to enable the interaction between the 3GPP network and the USS
serving a UAS, the 3GPP network needs to discover the correct USS serving a
specific UAV. This is required either during 5GS registration (when the UUAA
is performed during 5GS registration), or during PDU session/PDN connection
establishment.
It is assumed that mechanisms for resolution of CAA Level UAV ID to the USS
serving the corresponding UAV, defined outside 3GPP, and available to entities
outside the 3GPP system (e.g. the TPAE), are used in the 3GPP system to
discover the USS for the UAV.
Optionally, the UAV may also provide to the 3GPP system, in addition to the
CAA-level UAV ID, the USS address or USS FQDN in order to discover the USS for
the UAV.
When the UAV provides the USS Address separately from the CAA-Level UAV ID in
UUAA-MM or UUAA-SM, the USS Address shall be used to discover the USS. The USS
address, when available, is used by the UAS NF in addition to CAA-Level UAV ID
to discover a specific USS.
NOTE: A USS, of which the address is provided by the UE, is assumed accessible
to any UAS NF/NEF in the 3GPP network.
### 4.4.3 CAA-Level UAV ID Assignment
The format of the CAA-Level UAV ID is defined outside 3GPP, however how such
identity is used to enable a TPAE to query about UAV information is defined
with respect to the 3GPP functionality.
In this release, the assignment of a CAA-level UAV ID for Remote
Identification functionality applies solely to the UAV. No CAA-level UAV ID is
assigned to and used by a UAVC.
Various formats of CAA-level UAV ID must be supported by the UAV to support
various geo-specific regulations. At least Serial Number Identification, a
CAA-Issued Registration Identifier (aka Session ID), and USS Issued UUID shall
be supported.
In the case of Session ID, though the actual format of the CAA-Level UAV ID is
defined outside 3GPP and is not decided by 3GPP, it is assumed that the CAA-
Level UAV ID used for Remote Identification contains at least the following
information:
\- an identity unique to the UAV, which may preferably have temporary
validity: this identifies uniquely the UAV with the entity that allocates the
CAA-level UAV ID.
NOTE 1: Whether privacy or confidentiality requirements will apply to the
unique UAV temporary identity depends on regulations in various regions.
\- CAA-level UAV ID Routing Information, used by an entity attempting to
retrieve the UAV data (e.g. TPAE) to identify and address the appropriate UAS
NF/NEF where to send the query. This is also used in USS discovery.
Two types of CAA-level UAV ID assignment are supported:
1\. USS-assigned CAA-Level UAV ID: the identity is assigned completely at USS
level.
2\. 3GPP-assisted CAA-Level UAV ID assignment:
\- The allocation to the UAV of a CAA-Level UAV ID by the USS is done in
collaboration with the UAS NF, for the use by the UAV for UUAA, and for the
use for Remote Identification.
\- The USS interacts with the UAS NF to allocates the UAV identities to be
used for Remote Identification (i.e. the CAA-Level UAV ID). When the UAV
registers with the USS before registering to a 3GPP system for UAS services,
the UAV operator provides information about the serving PLMN to the USS. In
order to allocate a CAA-Level UAV ID, the USS interacts with a UAS NF if 3GPP
Assisted CAA-Level UAV ID Assignment is desired. The 3GPP network selects a
UAS NF to respond to the USS, and the UAS NF provides to the USS the CAA-Level
Routing Information to enable a resolver of the CAA-level UAV ID to resolve to
the UAS NF.
\- The USS delegates to the UAS NF the role of \"resolver\" of the CAA-Level
UAV ID and return to an entity (e.g. the TPAE) querying information about the
UAV based on the CAA-Level UAV ID the UAV data that the UAS NF retrieves from
the USS.
Editor\'s note: The details of mechanisms of exposure of UAS-NF to entities
beyond USS outside the 3GPP system is FFS.
\- It is assumed that the mapping between USS assigned CAA-level UAV ID and
the associated 3GPP UAV ID is known by the UAS NF after the UAV is authorized
by the USS via a successful UUAA. If UAS NF receives a remote identification
and tracking query from a TPAE with the USS-assigned CAA-Level UAV ID, the UAS
NF uses the mapped 3GPP UAV ID to coordinate with different 3GPP functions to
collect the UAV remote identification and tracking information. In addition,
the UAS NF can retrieve aviation-level information (e.g. pilot information,
USS operator, etc.) from the USS to provide it to the querying party (e.g.
TPAE).
NOTE 2: It is assumed that the UAV is not aware of which assignment mechanisms
is used for the CAA-Level UAV ID.
## 4.5 Identifiers
### 4.5.1 General
The UAV is associated with the following identifiers in the 3GPP system.
### 4.5.2 CAA-Level UAV Identity
A UAV is assigned a CAA-level UAV Identity by functions in the aviation domain
(e.g. USS). This assigned identity is used for Remote Identification and
Tracking and to identify the UAV.
The UAV provides the CAA-level UAV Identity to the 3GPP system during UUAA
procedures.
The CAA-level UAV Identity is used by the UAV as UAV identity in Remote
Identification.
The aviation domain may allocate a new CAA-level UAV Identity for the UAV at
any time. The new CAA-level UAV Identity may be provided to the UAV and 3GPP
system during UAS related procedures.
NOTE: It is assumed that mechanisms are available to ensure privacy and
protection (e.g. anti-spoofing) of the CAA-assigned UAV Identity when it is
used for Remote Identification. Security solutions to provide such privacy are
outside the scope of this specification.
### 4.5.3 3GPP UAV ID
A 3GPP UAV ID is associated to the UAV by the 3GPP system in the subscription
information and is used by the 3GPP system to identify the UAV. GPSI in the
format of External Identifier is used as the 3GPP UAV ID.
The USS stores the association of the CAA-level UAV ID (provided by the UAV or
a new one allocated by the aviation domain) to the 3GPP UAV ID (which is
provided during the UUAA procedure).
# 5 Functional description and information flows
## 5.1 Control and user plane stacks
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the protocol stacks on the control
and user planes for each of the interfaces required for UAS.
## 5.2 UAV Authentication and Authorization
### 5.2.1 UUAA Model
The following applies for UUAA for a UAV:
\- UUAA-MM is optional and performed at 5GS registration based on operator\'s
policy. If required by the operator, UUAA-MM is performed if the UAV has an
aerial UE subscription in the Access and Mobility Subscription Data and
provides the CAA-Level UAV ID in the Registration Request message. If UUAA-MM
is not performed, the UAV shall be authenticated by UUAA-SM during the PDU
session establishment procedure for UAS service.
\- UUAA-SM is in 5GS performed at PDU session establishment to a subscribed
DNN applicable for UAS services if the UAV provides the CAA-Level UAV ID in
the PDU Session Establishment Request message. Whether the DNN is applicable
for UAS services is determined by the aerial service indication being set for
the DNN in the Session Management Subscription Data.
\- UUAA-SM is in EPS performed at PDN Connection Establishment when activating
a PDN Connection to a subscribed APN applicable for UAS service if the UAV
provides the CAA-Level UAV ID in the ESM container. Whether the APN is
applicable for UAS services is determined by the aerial service indication
being set for the corresponding DNN in the Session Management Subscription
Data (fetched from UDM triggered by CAA-Level UAV ID being provided in
request).
\- UUAA-SM may be performed to re-authenticate the UAV or to reauthorize at
PDU session modification or EPS bearer modification (e.g. in case of C2
authorization or flight plan authorization change) if the UE includes CAA-
Level UAV ID and a UUAA Aviation Payload.
NOTE: If the network is configured to perform UUAA at registration, UAV has
not provided CAA-Level UAV ID and the UE has aerial subscription, then the AMF
can allow the UAV to register as a normal UE. If the network is configured to
perform UUAA at PDU Session Establishment, the UE has not provided CAA-Level
UAV ID and the SM subscription data indicates that UUAA-SM to be performed,
the SMF rejects the PDU Session Establishment request.
### 5.2.2 UUAA at Registration in 5GS (UUAA-MM)
#### 5.2.2.1 General
The UUAA-MM procedure is optional and triggered for a UE that requires UAV
authentication and authorization by a USS when registering with 5GS. The UUAA-
MM procedure is triggered by the AMF. UUAA-MM is triggered during the UE
Registration based on the local network policy, if the UE has an Aerial UE
subscription with the 5GS and if the UE has provided the CAA-Level UAV ID of
the UAV in the Registration Request, or when the USS that authenticated the
UAV triggers a re-authentication.
The UE is authenticated and authorized by USS using a CAA-Level UAV ID and
credentials associated to the CAA-Level UAV ID, different from the 3GPP
subscription credentials (e.g. SUPI and credentials used for PLMN access).
During UUAA-MM procedure, the AMF communicates with the USS via a UAS NF and
forwards authentication messages transparently between the UE and UAS NF.
UAS NF stores the UAV UEs UUAA context after successful UUAA procedure. The
UUAA context may be stored in the UDSF or may be stored locally in the UAS NF
depending on deployments. The UAS NF shall also create an implicit
subscription for notification towards the AMF after the successful UUAA
procedure. This notification is used by the UAS NF to trigger re-
authentication, update authorization data or revoke authorization of the UAV,
upon receipt of such request from the USS.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: UUAA in the context of the Registration procedure (UUAA-MM)
1\. The UE sends a Registration request message and, if configured with one,
it shall provide a CAA-level UAV ID of the UAV and optionally a USS address
when registering for UAS services.
2\. If primary authentication is required (e.g. if this is an initial
Registration), AMF invokes it as described in step 9 in Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1 of
TS 23.502 [3]. Subsequently AMF retrieves UE subscription data from UDM as
described in step 14 in Figure 4.2.2.2.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3] - (not shown in
the figure).
3\. AMF shall determine whether UUAA-MM is required for the UAV. The AMF
decides that UUAA is required if:
a) the UE has a valid Aerial UE subscription information;
b) UUAA is to be performed during Registration according to local operator
policy;
c) there is no successful UUAA result from a previous UUAA-MM procedure;
d) the UE has provided a CAA-Level UAV ID.
AMF shall not perform UUAA-MM for non-3GPP access and shall ensure that the UE
is not allowed to access any aerial services in non-3GPP access by rejecting
PDU session establishment requests for aerial services (identified by
DNN/S-NSSAI).
4\. If AMF determines in step 3 that a UUAA-MM is to be performed, AMF shall
include a pending UUAA-MM indication in the Registration Accept message. The
AMF stores in the UE context that a UUAA is pending. The UE shall wait for
completion of the UUAA-MM procedure without attempting to register for UAS
services or to establish user plane connectivity to USS or UAV-C.
If AMF determines that UUAA is not to be performed during this Registration
procedure, UUAA may be triggered during PDU Session Establishment later on.
If UUAA is configured in the AMF to be performed during 5GS registration and
the UE has provided a CAA-Level UAV ID in the registration request in step 1,
but the UE does not have an aerial subscription in the UE subscription data
retrieved from the UDM in step 2, then the AMF rejects the registration with
an indication informing no aerial subscription. This information indicates to
the UAV of the reason for the rejection for aerial services and ensures that
the UE is not allowed to access any aerial service.
If UAS services become enabled or disabled (e.g. because the aerial
subscription becomes a part of the UE subscription data retrieved from UDM as
described in clause 5.2.3.3.1 of TS 23.502 [3]) then AMF may trigger a UE
Configuration Update procedure as described in clauses 4.5.1 and 4.2.4.2 of TS
23.502 [3] to notify the UE. The UE may initiate a mobility registration
update procedure to get the UAS services after completion of the UE
Configuration Update procedure.
If UUAA is configured in the AMF to be performed during 5GS registration, the
UE did not provide a CAA-Level UAV ID in the registration request in step 1,
but UE has aerial subscription in the UE subscription data retrieved from UDM
in step 2, then the AMF accepts the registration and ensures that the UE is
not allowed to access any aerial service by storing in the UE context that
\'UUAA-MM has FAILED\', and further rejecting PDU session establishment
requests for aerial services (identified by DNN/S-NSSAI). At a later point in
time, if the UE wants to use the aerial services by providing the CAA Level
UAV ID later on via UUAA-MM procedure, then the UE shall first perform
Mobility Registration Update as explained in clause 4.2.2.2.2 of TS 23.502
[3].
5\. If UE indicates its support for Network Slice-Specific Authentication and
Authorization (NSSAA) procedure in the UE MM Core Network Capability, and if
the UE includes Requested S-NSSAI in Registration Request which is subject to
NSSAA, however, the Requested S-NSSAI has not been successfully authenticated,
the NSSAA procedure is executed as described in clause 4.2.2.2.2 of TS 23.502
[3].
6\. If required based on step 3 determination, and if the S-NSSAI that is
associated with the UAS services is part of the Allowed NSSAI, UUAA-MM
procedure (see clause 5.2.2.2) is executed at this step. Once the UUAA-MM
procedure is successfully completed for the UAV, the AMF stores a successful
UUAA result and updates the UE context indicating that UUAA is no longer
pending and the authorized CAA-Level UAV ID if provided by the USS. The USS
may provide a new CAA-Level UAV ID as the authorized CAA-Level UAV ID. The AMF
shall trigger a UE Configuration Update procedure (see TS 23.502 [3], clause
4.2.4.2) to deliver the UUAA result, the UUAA Authorization Payload containing
UAV configuration and the authorized CAA-Level UAV ID if received from the USS
to the UE.
NOTE 1: The UAV configuration is application layer information outside the
scope of 3GPP.
If UUAA fails, based on local network policy, the AMF may decide to de-
register the UE with an appropriate cause value in the De-Registration Request
message, or keep the UE-registered with a failure UUAA result in UE context as
described in step 7 of clause 5.2.2.2 and ensures that the UE is not allowed
to access any aerial service based on the DNN/S-NSSAI value. If the UE is de-
registered, the UE may re-attempt to re-register without including the CAA-
level UAV ID.
NOTE 2: Security details will be determined by SA WG3.
#### 5.2.2.2 UUAA-MM Procedure
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: UUAA-MM procedure
1\. For a UE that requires UUAA or when triggered by re-authentication by USS,
the AMF triggers a UUAA-MM procedure. If the UE does not have an Aerial
subscription in the UE subscription data retrieved from the UDM, the AMF shall
not trigger a UUAA-MM procedure.
2\. AMF to UAS NF/NEF: The AMF invokes
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize Request message. For initial
authentication, this shall include the GPSI and the CAA-Level UAV ID and may
include USS address (e.g. FQDN), UUAA Aviation Payload if it was provided by
the UE. For re-authentication triggered by AMF, this may not include the CAA-
Level UAV ID. UAS NF resolves the USS address based on CAA-Level UAV ID or
uses the provided USS address, as described in clause 4.4.2. In addition, the
AMF may also include the User Location Information (e.g. Cell ID). The UAS NF
should store the serving AMF ID.
The AMF identifies the UAS NF/NEF based on local configuration or by NF
discovery procedure using DNN/S-NSSAI and/or UE provided identity e.g. USS
address.
The AMF also provides a Notification Endpoint to the UAS NF/NEF, so that UAS
NF/NEF can include this Notification Endpoint together with UUAA updated
parameters, as shown in clause 5.2.4. By providing the Notification Endpoint,
the AMF is implicitly subscribed to be notified of re-authentication, update
authorization data or revocation of UAV from UAS NF/NEF, if the UUAA result is
successful in step 5.
NOTE 1: Security details will be determined by SA WG3.
3\. UAS NF/NEF to USS: Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize Request
message, shall include the GPSI and CAA-Level UAV ID and optionally UAV
location obtained from AMF in step 2 e.g. to support geo-caging functionality.
UAS NF/NEF may translate the Cell ID received as UAV location from AMF in step
2 into a corresponding geographic area and/or may further obtain the UE
location information using Location Service Procedures as defined in TS 23.273
[8].
The UAS NF/NEF also provides a Notification Endpoint to the USS, so that USS
can include this Notification Endpoint together with UUAA updated parameters,
as shown in clause 5.2.4. By providing the Notification Endpoint, the UAS
NF/NEF is implicitly subscribed to be notified of re-authentication, update
authorization data or revocation of UAV from USS, if the UUAA result is
successful in step 5.
4\. [Conditional] Multiple round-trip messages as required by the
authentication method used by USS. Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize
Response messages from USS shall include GPSI and shall include a
authentication message based on authentication method used that is forwarded
transparently to UE over NAS MM transport messages. The authentication message
in step4d may contain UUAA Aviation Payload required by the USS if it was not
provided by the UE before.
5\. USS to UAS NF/NEF: (final) Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize
Response message, shall include: GPSI, a UUAA result (success/failure) for the
UAV and the UAS NF, may include an authorized/new CAA-Level UAV ID for the UAV
and a UUAA Authorization Payload to the UAV (e.g. security info to be used to
secure communications with USS), and a final authentication message (e.g.
indicating success or failure, and if the UUAA is for re-authentication,
indicating whether the UAS service related network resource can be released in
case of UUAA failure) based on authentication method used that is forwarded
transparently to UE over NAS MM transport messages.
6\. UAS NF/NEF to AMF: (final) Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize
Response message, forwards information received from USS in step 5. If UUAA
for re-authentication failed and UAS NF/NEF received indication that the UAS
service related network resource can be released in step 5, the UAS NF/NEF
includes an indication that the PDU sessions associated with the \"DNN(s)
subject to aerial services\" can be released.
7a. [Conditional] UAS NF/NEF to AMF: If UUAA-MM succeeded and UAS NF/NEF has
not subscribed to AMF for the Mobility Event Exposure before, UAS NF/NEF
subscribes to AMF for the mobility event notification by sending
Namf_EventExposure_Subscribe request with the mobility events as described in
TS 23.502 [3], Table 5.2.2.3.1-1 with Event ID = Reachability Filter.
7b. [Conditional] UAS NF/NEF to AMF: If UUAA-MM failed and UAS NF/NEF has
subscribed to AMF for the Mobility Event Exposure earlier, UAS NF/NEF
unsubscribes to AMF for the mobility event notification by sending
Namf_EventExposure_Unsubscribe request with Subscription Correlation ID.
8a. [Conditional] AMF to UAS NF/NEF: The AMF acknowledges the subscription
request from 7a by sending Namf_EventExposure_Subscribe response with
Subscription Correlation ID.
8b. [Conditional] AMF to UAS NF/NEF: The AMF acknowledges the un-subscription
request from 7b by sending Namf_EventExposure_Unsubscribe response.
9\. AMF to UE: (final) NAS MM transport message forwarding authentication
message from USS including authentication/authorization result
(success/failure).
10\. [Conditional] if UUAA-MM succeeded, AMF triggers a UE Configuration
Update procedure to deliver to the UAV authorization information from USS, as
described in clause 5.2.2.1.
11\. [Conditional] If UUAA-MM fails during a Re-authentication and Re-
authorization and there are PDU session(s) established using UAS services, and
the USS has indicated that the network resources can be released, AMF may
trigger these PDU Sessions release. AMF identifies the relevant PDU session(s)
for UAS services based on the DNN/S-NSSAI value of the PDU session.
NOTE 2: When the UUAA-MM fails during a Re-authentication, and the USS has not
indicated that the network resources can be released, the USS can initiate
UUAA revocation as described in clause 5.2.7.
[Conditional] if UUAA-MM fails, based on network policy the AMF may trigger
Network-initiated Deregistration procedure described (as specified in clause
4.2.2.3.3 of TS 23.502 [3]) and it shall include in the explicit De-
Registration Request the appropriate rejection cause value.
If there is an AMF relocation for the UAV, the new serving AMF shall notify
the UAS NF about the new AMF ID and the related CAA-level UAV ID using the
existing AMF event notification service.
At any time after the initial registration, the USS (via UAS NF/NEF) or the
AMF may initiate Re-authentication procedure for the UAV. For AMF initiated
case the Re-authentication procedure shall start from step 2. USS initiated
re-authentication procedure is described in clause 5.2.4.
If the UE is deregistered as per clause 4.2.2.3 of TS 23.502 [3], then the AMF
shall unsubscribe to UAS NF and then UAS NF/NEF may clear the UUAA-MM context
and update USS.
### 5.2.3 UUAA At PDN Connection/PDU Session Establishment (UUAA-SM)
#### 5.2.3.1 General
NOTE 1: The security aspects for this procedure is defined in TS 33.256 [10].
An UAV uses PDU Sessions or PDN Connections in the UE for connectivity with
the USS and for connectivity with a networked UAV-C.
A networked UAV-C is a UE which uses existing procedures for establishing PDU
Session or PDN Connection for communication with the USS/UTM, and the
procedures described in this clause do not apply to a networked UAV-C.
This clause describes procedure that applies both for 5GS and EPS, where PDU
Session refers to 5GS and PDN Connection refers to EPS.
PDU Session(s)/PDN Connection(s) for UAS services shall only be established
after a UAV has been authenticated and authorized by the USS. This may happen
during UUAA-MM, as described in clause 5.2.2, or during UUAA-SM as described
in this clause.
A UAV may use either a common or separate PDU Session/PDN connection for
connectivity with the USS and a UAV-C.
When the UAV requests establishment of a PDU session/PDN connection, the PDU
session/PDN Connection may require UUAA authorization of the UAV, subject to
operator policy and regulatory requirements.
If the UAV uses the PDU session/PDN connection for C2 the PDU session is
subject to C2 authorization as described in clause 5.2.5.
The PDU Session/PDN Connection is identified by the SMF/SMF+PGW-C as being for
USS/C2 communication based on the aerial service indication set in the Session
Management Subscription data for the DNN or DNN and S-NSSAI combination.
To subscribe to the PDU Session/PDN Connection Status Event, UAS NF/NEF
determines the APN/DNN or DNN and S-NSSAI combination as below:
\- The UAS NF/NEF may receive APN/DNN or DNN and S-NSSAI combination from the
USS as specified in clause 4.15.3.2.3 of TS 23.502 [3];
\- The UAS NF/NEF may map the AF-Identifier from the USS into APN/DNN or DNN
and S-NSSAI combination based on local configuration as specified in clause
4.15.3.2.3 of TS 23.502 [3]; or
\- The UAS NF/NEF may map the External Application Identifier from the USS
into the APN/DNN or DNN and S-NSSAI combination based on local configuration.
NOTE 2: If the PDU session/PDN connection for C2 communication and the PDU
session/PDN connection for USS communication are separate, different AF-
Identifiers or External Application Identifiers can be used.
During the establishment or modification procedure of the PDU Session/PDN
connection for C2 communication, the USS shall provide the 3GPP system with
following information for enabling basic C2 communication between UAV and
UAV-C:
\- Traffic filters;
\- QoS requirements.
The USS can enable/disable C2 communication between UAV and UAV-C necessary
for services used during the flight operation at any point in time as
described in clause 5.2.9.
UAS NF stores the UAV UEs UUAA context after successful UUAA-SM procedure. The
UUAA context may be stored in the UDSF or may be stored locally in the UAS NF
depending on deployments. The SMF shall subscribe for notifications from UAS
NF which may be used to trigger re-authentication, update authorization data
or revoke authorization of the UAV, upon receipt of such request from the USS.
Clause 5.2.3.2 defines the USS UAV Authorization/Authentication (UUAA)
procedures at PDU Session Establishment in 5GS and clause 5.2.3.3 is for the
PDN Connection Establishment in the Attach procedure for EPS using the
interworking functionality.
When the C2 authorization is revoked by the USS, the SMF or SMF+PGW-C shall
release the PDU Session/PDN connection for C2 communication (in case separate
PDU Sessions/PDN Connections are used), or disable C2 communication for the
PDU Session/PDN connection (in case common PDU Session/PDN Connection is
used), e.g. by removing the traffic filters for C2 communications and the QoS
flow for C2 communication, and informs the UE with a PDU session
modification/bearer modification request.
When the UUAA is revoked by the USS, all UAV related PDU Session/PDN
connections shall be released.
#### 5.2.3.2 USS UAV Authorization/Authentication (UUAA) during the PDU
Session Establishment
The USS UAV Authorization/Authentication (UUAA) is triggered by the SMF during
the PDU Session Establishment, specified in TS 23.502 [3], clause 4.3.2.2 and
additionally based on the SM subscription data obtained from UDM, and the
Service Level Device Identity provided by the UE in the PDU Session
establishment request.
Figure 5.2.3.2 -1: UUAA during PDU Session Establishment
The procedure assumes that the UE/UAV has already registered on the AMF.
0\. Steps 1 - 5 as in TS 23.502 [3] figure 4.3.2.2.1-1.
The UAV includes the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. the CAA-Level UAV ID
of the UVA) and may include the Authentication Server Address (i.e. the USS
address) and optionally Authentication Data (i.e. the UUAA Aviation Payload)
in the PDU Session Establishment request.
The SMF determines that it needs to invoke UAS NF/NEF service operation for
UUAA Authentication/Authorization of the PDU session establishment request
based on that the provided DNN/S-NSSAI combination is dedicated for aerial
services (have aerial service indicator set) and that the Service Level Device
Identity (CAA-Level-UAV ID) is included in the request. If the provided
APN/DNN is dedicated for aerial services but Service Level Device Identity
(CAA-Level UAV ID) is not provided, the SMF shall reject the establishment of
the PDU Session and steps 1 - 9 are not performed.
The SMF identifies the UAS NF/NEF based on local configuration or by NF
discovery procedure using DNN/S-NSSAI and/or UE provided identity e.g. USS
address.
1\. The SMF invokes Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize service
operation, including the Service Level Device Identity (that contains the CAA-
Level UAV ID of the UAV), DNN, S-NSSAI, and may include the Authentication
Server Address (i.e. the USS address) and the UUAA Aviation Payload if it was
provided by the UE, GPSI, optionally UAV location, PEI if available, and the
UE IP Address if available. The UAV location is the User Location Information
provided by the AMF (e.g. Cell ID). The UAS NF/NEF selects a USS based on
either the Service Level Device Identity (i.e. CAA-Level UAV ID of the UAV) or
the Authentication Server address (i.e. USS address) as described in clause
4.4.2.
SMF also provides a Notification Endpoint to the UAS NF/NEF, so that UAS
NF/NEF can include this Notification Endpoint together with UUAA updated
parameters, as shown in clause 5.2.4. By providing the Notification Endpoint,
the SMF is implicitly subscribed to be notified of re-authentication, update
authorization data or revocation of UAV from UAS NF/NEF, if the UUAA result is
successful in step 4.
2\. From UAS NF/NEF to USS: Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize service
operation forwarding the authentication request received information from the
SMF. UAS NF may translate the Cell ID received as part of UAV location in the
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request at step 1 into a
corresponding geographic area and/or may further obtain the UE location
information using Location Service Procedures as defined in TS 23.273 [8] and
include them in the Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize message towards
the USS e.g. to support geo-caging functionality.
UAS NF/NEF also provides a Notification Endpoint to the USS, so that USS can
include this Notification Endpoint together with UUAA updated parameters, as
shown in clause 5.2.4. By providing the Notification Endpoint, the UAS NF/NEF
is implicitly subscribed to be notified of re-authentication, update
authorization data or revocation of UAV from USS, if the UUAA result is
successful in step 4.
3\. [Conditional] Multiple round-trip messages as required by the
authentication method used by USS. This step is performed if the
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response messages from USS in step 3a
does not contain a UUAA result (SUCCESS/FAILURE).
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response messages from USS shall
include GPSI and shall include an authentication message based on
authentication method used that is forwarded transparently to UE over NAS MM
transport messages. The authentication message in step3e may contain UUAA
Aviation Payload required by the USS if it was not provided by the UE before.
4\. From USS to UAS NF/NEF: Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response.
The USS sends Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response to the UAS
NF/NEF with the Authentication/Authorization result containing the UUAA result
(SUCCESS/FAILURE) for the UAS NF and indication whether the UAS service
related network resource can be released in the case of UUAA failure for re-
authentication or re-authorization, optionally a Service Level Device Identity
containing the authorized CAA-Level UAV ID, requested policy information and
the UUAA Authorization Payload. The requested policy information from USS may
contain a DN Authorization Profile Index and/or a DN authorized Session AMBR.
The USS may include a new CAA-Level UAV ID as authorized CAA-Level UAV ID.
NOTE 1: The USS stores a mapping between CAA-Level UAV ID and the External
Identifier (i.e. GPSI as defined in clause 4.5.3). The External Identifier
(GPSI) and/or UAV IP Address can be used at a later point by the USS for
accessing various services exposed by 3GPP network e.g. location information
retrieval, monitoring event configuration, requesting dedicated policies for
e.g. C2, etc.
5\. The UAS NF/NEF confirms the successful Authentication/Authorization of the
PDU Session. The UAS NF/NEF stores the UUAA result together with the GPSI. UAS
NF/NEF forwards the Authentication/Authorization result, a Service Level
Device Identity containing the authorized CAA-Level UAV ID and the
Authorization Data (i.e. the UUAA Authorization Payload), if received from the
USS, to the SMF.
6\. [Conditional] If the authentication/authorization is successful, the USS
shall subscribe to the PDU Session Status Event as described in steps 1-5 in
Figure 4.15.3.2.3-1 of TS 23.502 [3]. This step can be executed in parallel to
step 4. The UAS NF/NEF determines the DNN, S-NSSAI to subscribe to the PDU
Session Status Event notification as specified in clause 5.2.3.1.
7\. The PDU Session establishment continues with steps 7 to 21 in Figure
4.3.2.2.1-1 of TS 23.502 [3] and completes. In the step 7b in Figure
4.3.2.2.1-1of TS 23.502 [3], if the SMF receives the DN Authorization Profile
Index from the UAS NF/NEF, it sends the DN Authorization Profile Index to
retrieve the PDU Session related policy information (described in clause 6.4
of TS 23.503 [9]) and the PCC rule(s) (described in clause 6.3 of TS 23.503
[9]) from the PCF. If the SMF receives the DN authorized Session AMBR in from
the UAS NF/NEF, it sends the DN authorized Session AMBR within the Session
AMBR to the PCF to retrieve the authorized Session AMBR (described in clause
6.4 of TS 23.503 [9]).
The SMF transfers the Authentication/Authorization result, the Service Level
Device Identity containing the authorized CAA-Level UAV ID and the
Authorization Data (i.e. the UUAA Authorization Payload) to the UAV if
received from the UAS NF, as in steps 11, 12 and 13 in figure 4.3.2.2.1-1 of
TS 23.502 [3].
If the authentication/ authorization result is a failure, the SMF rejects the
PDU session establishment with a proper cause value.
8\. [Conditional] If the USS in step 6 subscribed to the PDU Session Status
Event the SMF will, as described in steps 6-7 in Figure 4.15.3.2.3-1 of TS
23.502 [3], detect when the PDU Session is established, and send the PDU
Session Establishment event report to the UAS NF/NEF by means of
Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify message, including GPSI and the UE IP Address. Then,
the UAS-NF/NEF forwards the event message to the USS.
If UUAA-SM fails during a Re-authentication and Re-authorization and the USS
has indicated that the network resources can be released, SMF may trigger PDU
Session release for UAS services with a proper cause value.
NOTE 2: When the UUAA-SM fails during a Re-authentication, and the USS has not
indicated that the network resources can be released, the USS can initiate
UUAA revocation as described in clause 5.2.7.
NOTE 3: If C2 information reference is available from USS during the initial
PDU Session Establishment procedure the SMF can interact with the PCF to set
up a predefined PCC rule(s) profile for the C2 communication.
If the PDU session is released as per clause 4.3.4 of TS 23.502 [3] then the
SMF shall unsubscribe to UAS NF/NEF and then UAS NF/NEF may clear the UUAA-SM
context and update USS.
#### 5.2.3.3 USS UAV Authorization/Authentication (UUAA) during default PDN
connection at Attach
In the figure 5.2.3.3-1 the execution of the UUAA is specified.
Figure 5.2.3.3-1: UUAA during PDN connection establishment at Attach procedure
in EPS
0\. Steps 1 - 13 in TS 23.401 [6] figure 5.3.2.1-1 and steps 1 - 2 in TS
23.502 [3] figure 4.11.1.5.2-1 or clause 4.11.2.4.1 in TS 23.502 [3].
UE sends Attach Request including the Service Level Device Identity (i.e. the
CAA-Level UAV ID of the UAV), and may include the Authentication Server
Address (i.e. the USS address) and optionally Authentication Data (i.e. the
UUAA Aviation Payload), etc. in the PCO to the SMF+PGW-C.
Based on that the Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level UAV ID) is provided
with the request, the SMF+PGW-C retrieves the Session Management Subscription
Data from the UDM+HSS using the Nudm_SDM_Get service operation, and based on
that the provided APN/DNN is dedicated for aerial services (have aerial
service indicator set), it determines to invoke UAS NF/NEF service operation
for UUAA Authentication/Authorization. If the provided APN/DNN is dedicated
for aerial services but Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level UAV ID) is
not provided, the SMF+PGW-C shall reject the establishment of the PDU Session
and steps 1 -9 are not performed.
NOTE 1: The definition of the PCO field is for stage 3 to specify.
1\. SMF+PGW-C configures an Access Control List (ACL) in UPF+PGW-U to stop any
traffic over the default PDN Connection until the UUAA has been done and
successful.
2\. Steps 14 - 22 in figure 5.3.2.1-1 of TS 23.401 [6] and steps 3 - 6 in
figure 4.11.1.5.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3] or clause 4.11.2.4.1 of TS 23.502 [3].
During the Attach procedure, at step 15 of Figure 5.3.2.1-1 in TS 23.401, the
SMF+PGW-C includes, in PCO, an Indication to the UE that \"UpLink Data NOT
ALLOWED\" on the PDN connection. The UE shall not send Uplink data to the
network, until it receives an indication further from the network that
\"UpLink Data ALLOWED\".
3\. UUAA is invoked as described in steps 1 and 2 of figure 5.2.3.2-1.
4\. [Conditional] Multiple round-trip messages as required by the
authentication method used by USS. This step is performed if the
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response messages from USS in step 4a
does not contain a SUCCESS/FAILURE indication. The PCO including the
authentication message from the USS is transferred to the UE by the SMF+PGW-C
in Update Bearer Request and Downlink NAS Transport (steps 4b \- 4d). The
response from the UE is transferred to the SMF+PGW-C in an Uplink NAS
Transport and Update Bearer Response (steps 4e - 4g).
5\. UUAA procedure continues as described in steps 4 & 5 of figure 5.2.3.2-1.
6\. If the authentication/authorization is successful, the USS shall subscribe
to the PDN Connection Status Event as described in steps 1-5 in figure
4.15.3.2.3-1 of TS 23.502 [3]. This step can be executed in parallel to step
5. The UAS NF/NEF determines the APN/DNN to subscribe to the PDN Connection
Status Event notification as specified in clause 5.2.3.1.
7\. If the UUAA is successful, the SMF+PGW-C contacts the PCF to update the
PDN Connection. Then the SMF+PGW-C updates the Access Control List (ACL) and
policies in the UPF+PGW-U to allow traffic over the default PDN Connection. If
a DN Authorization Profile Index was received from the UAS NF/NEF SMF+PGW-C in
previous step, the SMF+PGW C includes that when retrieving the ACL from the
PCF. If the SMF receives the DN authorized Session AMBR in from the UAS
NF/NEF, it sends the DN authorized Session AMBR within the Session AMBR to the
PCF to retrieve the authorized Session AMBR (described in clause 6.4 of TS
23.503 [9]).
8\. The SMF+PGW-C updates the UE by invoking the PDN GW initiated bearer
modification without QoS update procedure (figure 5.4.3-1 of TS 23.401 [6])
initiated by sending an Update Bearer Request message to the SGW. The PCO
includes an indication that \"UpLink Data ALLOWED\", the UUAA Aviation Payload
i.e. the Authentication/Authorization result and the Authorization Data. The
UE (for the UAV) confirms the update (see clause 5.4.3 of TS 23.401 [6]).
9\. If the USS in step 6 subscribed to the PDN Connection Status Event the
SMF+PGW-C will, as described in steps 6-7 in Figure 4.15.3.2.3-1 of TS 23.502
[3], detect when the PDN Connection is established and send the PDN Connection
Establishment event report to the UAS NF/NEF by means of
Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify message, including GPSI and the UE IP Address. Then,
the UAS NF/NEF forwards the event message to the USS.
### 5.2.4 UUAA Re-authentication and Re-authorization by USS/UTM
#### 5.2.4.1 UAV Re-authentication procedure in 5GS
Figure 5.2.4.1-1: UAV Re-authentication procedure in 5GS
UAS NF stores the UE UUAA context after successful UUAA procedure as explained
in clause 5.2.2.2 for UUAA-MM and in clause 5.2.3 for UUAA-SM procedure. The
UUAA context may be stored in the UDSF or may be stored locally in the UAS NF
depending on deployments.
1\. The USS sends a Naf_Authentication_Notification request to UAS NF for re-
authentication of the UAV. The USS includes GPSI, CAA-Level UAV ID, PDU
Session IP address if available in the re-authentication request and an
authentication message to be transparently delivered to the UAV.
2\. UAS NF retrieves the stored UUAA context for the UE. From the stored UUAA
context the UAS NF determines the target AMF or SMF for sending the
notification.
3a or 3b. The UAS NF sends Nnef_Authentication_Notification request to notify
the target NF, i.e. either the AMF or the SMF, to initiate re-authentication
of the UAV.
4\. The UAS NF responds back to the USS indicating that re-authentication
request has been successfully initiated
5\. If UE is in CM_Idle state, the target NF (i.e. either the AMF or the SMF)
initiates the Network Triggered Service Request procedures as described in
clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 23.502 [3].
6a. If UUAA-MM was performed, the AMF initiates re-authentication of the UAV
as described in steps 4c to 10 of UUAA-MM procedure, clause 5.2.2.2.
6b. If UUAA-SM was performed, the SMF then initiates re-authentication of the
UAV as described in steps 3c to 7 of the UUAA-SM procedure, clause 5.2.3.2.
#### 5.2.4.2 UAV Re-authentication procedure in EPS
Figure 5.2.4.2-1: UAV Re-authentication procedure in EPS
UAS NF stores the UE UUAA context after successful UUAA-SM procedure as
explained in clause 5.2.3. The UUAA context may be stored in the UDSF or may
be stored locally in the UAS NF depending on deployments.
1\. The USS sends a Naf_Authentication_Notification request to UAS NF for re-
authentication of the UAV. The USS includes GPSI, CAA-Level UAV ID, UE IP
address in the re-authentication request and an authentication message to be
transparently delivered to the UAV.
2\. UAS NF retrieves the UE stored UUAA context. From the stored UUAA context
the UAS NF determines the target SMF+PGW-C for sending the notification.
3\. The UAS NF sends Nnef_Authentication_Notification request to notify the
SMF+PGW-C, to initiate re-authentication of the UAV.
4\. The UAS NF responds back to the USS indicating that re-authentication
request has been successfully initiated
5\. The SMF+PGW-C then initiates re-authentication of the UAV as in steps 5b
to 8 in Figure 5.2.3.3-1: UUAA during PDN connection establishment at Attach
procedure in EPS.
#### 5.2.4.3 USS initiated UAV Re-authorization procedure in 5GS
Figure 5.2.4.3-1: UAV Re-authorization procedure in 5GS
UAS NF stores the UE UUAA context after successful UUAA procedure as explained
in clause 5.2.2.2 for UUAA-MM and in clause 5.2.3 for UUAA-SM procedure. The
UUAA context may be stored in the UDSF or may be stored locally in the UAS NF
depending on deployments.
1\. The USS sends a Naf_Authentication_Notification request to UAS NF for re-
authorization of the UAV. The USS includes GPSI, CAA-Level UAV ID,
Notification Correlation Information, an authorization message to be
transparently delivered to the UAV. The CAA-Level UAV ID may be a new CAA-
Level UAV ID. The authorization message may e.g. include a UUAA Authorization
Payload, a C2 Authorization Result and a C2 Authorization Payload (e.g.
containing C2 pairing information and C2 security information).
2\. Based on the received GPSI and Notification Correlation Information from
the USS, the UAS NF/NEF determines the corresponding Notification Correlation
Information for Nnef_Authentication_Notification request.
3a For UUAA-MM re-authorization, the UAS-NF/NEF sends a
Nnef_Authentication_Notification request including the CAA-Level UAV ID and
the authorization message to the serving AMF.
3b For UUAA-SM re-authorization or C2 re-authorization, the UAS-NF/NEF sends a
Nnef_Authentication_Notification request to the SMF serving the UUAA or C2 for
the UE which includes the corresponding PDU session identity, CAA-Level UAV ID
and the authorization message.
4\. The UAS NF responds back to the USS indicating that re-authorization
request has been successfully initiated.
5a. In the case of UUAA-MM:
If the UE is in CM_Idle state, the AMF initiates the Network Triggered Service
Request procedures as described in clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 23.502 [3].
The AMF delivers the CAA-Level UAV ID and the authorization message to the UE
using NAS MM Transport.
5b In the case of UUAA-SM or C2 re-authorization:
The SMF identifies, based on the received information, the PDU Session that is
serving the UUAA-SM or C2 re-authorization and invokes the Network Requested
PDU Session Modification procedure (figure 4.3.3.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3]
triggering event SMF Requested modification) by sending
Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer, including the CAA-Level UAV ID and the
authorization message in the N1_SM_Container (step 3b in figure 4.3.3.2-1 of
TS 23.502 [3]) .
The Network Triggered service request procedure is invoked by AMF to forward
the CAA-Level UAV ID and the authorization message included in the
N1_SM_container to the UE (from step 3a in figure 4.2.3.3-1 of TS 23.502 [3]).
6\. The UE receives the CAA-Level UAV ID and the authorization message, which
may e.g. include a UUAA Authorization Payload, a C2 Authorization Result and a
C2 Authorization Payload (e.g. containing C2 pairing information and C2
security information). The UE acts on it accordingly (outside the scope of
3GPP).
NOTE: The UAV-C replacement procedure is described in clause 5.2.8. The C2
connectivity revocation procedure is described in clause 5.2.9.
#### 5.2.4.4 USS initiated UAV Re-authorization procedure in EPS
Figure 5.2.4.4-1: UAV Re-authorization procedure in EPS
UAS NF/NEF stores the UE UUAA context after successful UUAA procedure as in
clause 5.2.3 for UUAA-SM procedure. The UUAA context may be stored in the UDSF
or may be stored locally in the UAS NF/NEF depending on deployments.
1\. The USS sends a request to UAS NF/NEF for re-authorization of the UAV. The
USS includes GPSI, Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID),
Notification Correlation Information and authorization message to be
transparently delivered to the UAV. The Service Level Device Identity (e.g.
CAA-Level UAV ID) may be a new Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level
UAV ID). The authorization message may e.g. include a UUAA Authorization
Payload, a C2 authorization result and a C2 Authorization Payload (e.g.
containing, C2 pairing information and C2 security information).
2\. Based on the received GPSI and Notification Correlation Information from
the USS, the UAS NF/NEF determines the corresponding Notification Correlation
Information for Nnef_Authentication_Notification request.
NOTE 1: In EPS the UUAA context is always UUAA-SM.
3\. The UAS NF/NEF sends a Nnef_Authentication_Notification request to the
SMF+PGW-C serving the UUAA or C2 which includes the corresponding PDN
Connection identity, Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID) and
the authorization message.
4\. The UAS NF/NEF responds back to the USS indicating that re-authorization
request has been successfully initiated.
5\. The SMF+PGW-C identifies, based on the received information, the PDN
Connection that is serving the UUAA-SM and invokes the PDN GW initiated bearer
modification without QoS update procedure (figure 5.4.3-1 of TS 23.401 [6]) by
sending Update Bearer Request message, including the Service Level Device
Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID) and the authorization message in the PCO.
The Update Bearer Request message including the Service Level Device Identity
(e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID) and the authorization message is forwarded by MME as
Downlink NAS Transport to the UE (steps 4 and 5 in figure 5.4.3-1 of TS 23.401
[6]).
6\. The UE receives the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID)
and the authorization message (which may e.g. include a UUAA Authorization
Payload, a C2 authorization result and a C2 Authorization Payload (e.g.
containing C2 pairing information and C2 security information). The UE acts on
it accordingly (outside scope of 3GPP).
NOTE 2: The UAV-C replacement procedure is described in clause 5.2.8. The C2
connectivity revocation procedure is described in clause 5.2.9.
### 5.2.5 Authorization for C2
#### 5.2.5.1 General
Authorization for C2 is required when a UAV establishes a user plane
connection for C2 operations, i.e. to deliver messages with information of
command and control for UAV operations from a UAV-C or USS to a UAV or to
report telemetry data from a UAV to its UAV-C. Two sides of C2 communication,
i.e. UAV and UAV-C, belong to the same UAS.
A UAV shall be authorized by the USS to use a PDU Session/PDN connection for
C2. Authorization for C2 includes the following:
\- UAV to UAV-C pairing authorization: Authorization for pairing with a
networked UAV-C or a UAV-C that connects to the UAV via Internet connectivity,
before the UAV and the UAV-C can exchange C2 communication. One UAV can be
paired with only one UAV-C at the any time. One UAV-C may be paired with one
or more UAVs at the same time.
\- Flight Authorization: Authorization for flight when UAV also provides
Flight Authorization information.
C2 authorization may be carried out:
\- During the UUAA procedure (if UUAA is carried out at PDU session/PDN
connection establishment) as described in clause 5.2.3 when the UAV requests
establishment of PDU Session/PDN connection for connectivity.
\- During PDU Session Modification/ UE requested bearer resource modification
when the UAV requires to use an existing PDU session/PDN connection to
exchange C2 communication related messages.
\- During a new PDU Session/PDN connection establishment, if the UAV requires
to use a separate PDU Session/PDN connection for C2 communication.
#### 5.2.5.2 Procedure for C2 authorization in 5GS
##### 5.2.5.2.1 C2 Authorization request during UUAA-SM procedure in 5GS
If C2 authorization is requested during the UUAA-SM procedure the procedure
described in clause 5.2.3.2 takes place with the following additions:
\- In Step 0, the UE includes pairing information (if available) in a C2
Aviation Payload. which is forwarded further to the USS;
\- In step 4, the USS performs C2 authorization taking into account the
included pairing information, the Service Level Device Identity/CAA-Level UAV
ID and 3GPP UAV ID/GPSI. The USS includes the resulting C2 Authorization
result and optionally a C2 authorization payload in the
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response returned to the UAS-NF/NEF
and the UAS NF/NEF forwards to the UAV/UE in step 7.
\- The USS shall:
\- in step 4 include a DN Authorization profile Index specifying a predefined
set of PCC-rules in the PCF with initial restriction on the type of traffic
allowed to pass on the PDU-session. For example, only traffic exchanged with
the USS might be allowed to pass.
Once the authentication is complete, after step 4, the USS subscribes to PDU
Session Status Events for the PDU session used for C2 communication,
applicable for the GPSI received in step 2.
\- when the USS in step 8 receives a PDU Session State Event Report indicating
session start and including the PDU Session IP address the USS invokes the USS
initiated pairing policy configuration procedure (see figure 5.2.5.4.1-1) with
the received PDU Session IP address and authorized paired UAV-C IP-address as
input to request corresponding traffic to be allowed on the PDU session in the
UPF.
##### 5.2.5.2.2 UE initiated PDU Session Modification for C2 Communication
C2 authorization is requested at PDU session Modification:
\- After UUAA-SM is performed and a common PDU session is used for
connectivity to USS and C2 communication to a UAV-C (as configured in the
UAV); or
\- If the UE has already established a PDU session for C2 communication to a
UAV-C.
Figure 5.2.5.2.2-1: PDU Session modification for C2 communication (common PDU
session for UAS services)
1\. The UE establishes a PDU Session for USS communication as described in
clause 5.2.3.
2-3. When the UAV needs to establish C2 communication the UAV determines that
an existing PDU session can be used and initiates a PDU Session Modification
procedure. The UE shall include in the request a CAA-Level UAV ID and shall
include a C2 Aviation Payload within a UAS container that includes C2
authorization information. The USS may also use its locally configured pairing
information for UAV - UAV-C pairing authorization which takes precedence over
UAV provided pairing information. The pairing information includes the CAA-
level UAV ID of the requesting UE and also includes identification information
of UAV-C to pair if available. The UAV may also include other information such
as Flight Authorization information.
NOTE: How the pairing information is configured in the UAV is outside the
scope of 3GPP specifications.
4\. The SMF determines that authorization is required based on that the
DNN/S-NSSAI of the PDU session is dedicated for aerial services (have aerial
service indicator set) and that the Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level
UAV ID) is included in the request and Then sends a
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request to the UAS-NF including the
UAS container provided by the UAV in step 2 (including the C2 Aviation
Payload), the CAA-Level UAV ID, GPSI, PDU Session IP address, and optionally
the UAV location (e.g. Cell ID) provided by the AMF.
5\. The UAS-NF forwards the received authorization request as a
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request to the USS.
6\. Triggered by step 5, the USS performs C2 authorization based on the
received information and invokes, in order to forward the C2 authorization
result to the UAV/UE, the UAV Re-authorization procedure (see figure
5.2.4.3-1) including GPSI, CAA-Level UAV-ID (potentially new) and included in
the authorization message, the C2 Authorization Result and the C2
Authorization Payload (e.g. containing C2 pairing information and C2 security
information).
7\. PDU Session Modification procedure forwards the C2 authorization result to
the UAV/UE and completes as in figure 4.3.3.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
8\. The USS invokes, with the received PDU Session IP address and the IP
address of the authorized paired UAV-C as input, the USS initiated pairing
policy configuration procedure (see figure 5.2.5.2.4-1) to request
corresponding traffic to be allowed on the PDU session in the UPF.
Unless a dedicated QoS is requested for the C2 flows, this procedure does not
invoke any interaction with the UE, AMF or RAN.
##### 5.2.5.2.3 UE initiated PDU Session Establishment for C2 Communication
If C2 authorization is requested during PDU session establishment to a PDU
session used specifically for C2 communication to UAV-C the UAV requests C2
authorization as follows.
Figure 5.2.5.2.3-1: PDU Session establishment for C2 communication (separate
PDU Sessions for UAS services)
0\. The UAV has performed a successful UUAA with the USS (UUAA-SM or UUAA-MM)
and the USS has for the corresponding GPSI subscribed for PDU Session Status
Event from the NEF.
1\. When the UAV needs to establish C2 communication the UAV determines that a
new dedicated PDU session is required for connectivity to UAV-C. The UE
initiates PDU Session establishment procedure for a DNN/S-NSSAI dedicated for
connectivity to UAV-C. In the PDU Session establishment request CAA-Level UAV
ID and a C2 Aviation Payload to be used for C2 authorization shall be included
and forwarded to the SMF. The pairing information includes the CAA-Level UAV
IDs of the requesting UAV and identification information for the UAV-C to pair
may be included in C2 Aviation Payload. The UAV may also include other
information such as Flight Authorization information. The USS may also use its
locally configured pairing information for UAV - UAV-C pairing authorization
which then takes precedence over UAV provided pairing information.
2\. The SMF determines that authorization is required based on that the
requested DNN/S-NSSAI combination dedicated for aerial services (have aerial
service indicator set), and that the Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level
UAV ID) is included in the request. The SMF then sends a
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request, which is used to request
authorization to pair the UAV with UAV-C, to the UAS NF/NEF that includes the
GPSI, CAA-Level UAV ID and C2 Aviation Payload and optionally the UAV location
(e.g. Cell ID) if provided by the AMF and the DNN and S-NSSAI of the PDU
session.
If the requested DNN/S-NSSAI is dedicated for aerial services but no Service
Level Device ID (CAA-Level UAV ID) has been provided with the request, the SMF
rejects the PDU session establishment with a cause indicating that USS
authorization is required.
The SMF also provides a Notification Endpoint to the UAS NF/NEF. By providing
the Notification Endpoint, the SMF is implicitly subscribed to be notified of
re-authorization, update authorization data or revocation of C2 connectivity
from UAS NF/NEF, if the C2 authorization result is successful in step 5.
3\. The UAS NF/NEF checks that a valid UUAA is stored for the GPSI and
forwards the received authorization request as a
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request to the USS. If not, the
request is not forwarded to the USS and the PDU session is rejected.
The UAS NF/NEF also provides a Notification Endpoint to the USS. By providing
the Notification Endpoint, the UAS NF/NEF is implicitly subscribed to be
notified of re-authorization, update authorization data or revocation of C2
connectivity from USS, if the UUAA result is successful in step 5.
NOTE: The USS may trigger a UAV re-authentication/re-authorization in response
to the query from the UAS NF/NEF.
4\. The USS performs C2 authorization based on the received information and
sends the Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response to the UAS NF/NEF
including the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. the CAA-Level UAV-ID)
(potentially new), the C2 Authorization Result and the C2 Authorization
Payload (e.g. C2 pairing information and C2 security information).
5\. The UAS-NF/NEF forwards the information received from the USS in the
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response sent to the SMF.
6\. To inform the UE about the C2 Authorization Result the SMF includes the
authorization result and, optionally, a new CAA-Level UAV ID if received from
the USS, in the PDU Session Accept sent to the UE and let the PDU session
establishment procedure continue until finalized.
If a failed C2 Authorization Result is received from the USS, the SMF instead
rejects the PDU establishment and include a reason code indicating not
authorized.
7\. [Conditional] If the C2 authorization is successful the USS subscribes via
the UAS-NF to a PDU Session Status event for the PDU session used for C2
including in the request the GPSI of the UAV. The UAS NF determines DNN,
S-NSSAI corresponding to the PDU session used for C2 communication and uses
this DNN, S-NSSAI to subscribe to SMF for PDU Session Status event. The SMF
detects, as described in step 6-7 of figure 4.15.3.2.3-1 in TS 23.502 [3],
when the PDU Session is established and send the PDU Session Status event
report to the UAS NF/NEF by means of Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify message,
including GPSI and UE IP Address. The UAS NF/NEF then forwards the event
message to the USS.
8\. [Conditional] The USS stores the received UE IP address and invokes, with
the received PDU Session IP address and the IP-address of the authorized
paired UAV-C as input, the USS initiated pairing policy configuration
procedure (see figure 5.2.5.2.4-1) to request corresponding traffic to be
allowed on the PDU session by the UPF.
Unless a dedicated QoS is requested for the C2 flows, this procedure does not
invoke any interaction with the UE, AMF or RAN.
#### 5.2.5.3 Procedure for C2 authorization in EPS
##### 5.2.5.3.0 C2 Authorization request during UUAA-SM procedure in EPS
If C2 authorization is requested during the UUAA-SM procedure the procedure
described in clause 5.2.3.3 takes place with the following additions:
\- In step 0, the UE includes pairing information (if available) in a C2
Aviation Payload, which is forwarded further to the USS.
\- Initially in step 5, the USS performs C2 authorization taking into account
the included pairing information, the Service Level Device Identity/CAA-Level
UAV ID and 3GPP UAV ID/GPSI. The USS includes the resulting C2 Authorization
result in the Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response returned to
the UAS-NF/NEF and UAS NF/NEF forwards to the UAV/UE in step 8.
\- The USS shall:
\- in step 5 include a DN Authorization profile Index specifying a predefined
set of PCC-rules in the PCF with initial restriction on the type of traffic
allowed to pass on the PDN Connection. For example, only traffic exchanged
with the USS might be allowed to pass.
Once the authentication is complete, after step 5, the USS subscribes to PDN
Connectivity Status Events for the PDN Connection used for C2 communication,
applicable for the GPSI received in step 2.
\- when the USS in step 9 receives a PDN Connectivity Status Event Report
indicating session start and including the PDN Connection IP address, the USS
invokes the USS initiated pairing policy configuration procedure (see figure
5.2.5.4.2-1) with the received PDN Connection IP address and authorized paired
UAV-C IP-address as input to request corresponding traffic to be allowed on
the PDN Connection in the PGW-U.
##### 5.2.5.3.1 UE requested PDN connectivity for C2 authorization
When the UAV requests to establish connectivity to an additional PDN over
E-UTRAN for C2, the procedure described in clause 5.10.2 of TS 23.401 [6]
takes place with the following modifications:
Figure 5.2.5.3.1-1: UE requested PDN Connectivity for C2 authorization
0\. The UAV has performed a successful UUAA with the USS (UUAA-SM) and the USS
has for the corresponding GPSI subscribed for PDN Connectivity Status Event
reports from the NEF.
1\. Steps 1 - 3 performed as in Figure 5.10.2-1 of TS 23.401 [6].
When the UAV needs to establish C2 communication, the UAV determines that a
new PDN Connection is required for connectivity to UAV-C. The UE initiates a
UE Requested PDN Connectivity procedure for connectivity to UAV-C. In the PCO
in the PDN Connectivity Request, the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. the
CAA-Level UAV ID) and a C2 Aviation Payload to be used for C2 authorization
shall be included and forwarded to the MME. The pairing information includes
the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV IDs) of the requesting
UAV and identification information for the UAV-C to pair may be included in C2
Aviation Payload. The UAV may also include other information such as Flight
Authorization information. The USS may also use its locally configured pairing
information for UAV - UAV-C pairing authorization which then takes precedence
over UAV provided pairing information.
If Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level UAV ID) is provided with the
request, the SMF+PGW-C retrieves (if not already available) the Session
Management Subscription Data for the UE from the UDM+HSS using the
Nudm_SDM_Get service operation.
2\. The SMF+PGW-C determines that authorization is required based on that the
requested APN/DNN is dedicated for aerial services (have aerial service
indicator set) and that the Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level UAV ID)
is included in the request. The SMF+PGW-C then sends a
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request, which is used to request
authorization to pair the UAV with UAV-C, to the UAS NF/NEF that includes the
GPSI, Service Level Device Identity (e.g. the CAA-Level UAV ID) and C2
Aviation Payload and optionally the UAV location (e.g. Cell ID) if provided by
the MME and the APN/DNN of the PDN Connection.
If the SMF+PGW-C determines that the authorization procedure with the USS is
required, but the UAV has not provided the Service Level Device Identity (e.g.
the CAA-Level UAV ID), the SMF+PGW-C rejects the PDN Connectivity Request with
a cause indicating that USS authorization is required.
3\. The UAS NF/NEF checks that a valid UUAA is stored for the GPSI and
forwards the received authorization request as a
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request to the USS. If not, the
request is not forwarded to the USS and the PDN connection is rejected.
4\. The USS performs C2 authorization based on the received information and
sends the Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response to the UAS NF/NEF
including the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. the CAA-Level UAV-ID)
(potentially new), the C2 Authorization Result and the C2 Authorization
Payload (e.g. C2 pairing information and C2 security information).
5\. The UAS NF/NEF forwards the information received from the USS in the
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize response sent to the SMF+PGW C.
6\. To inform the UE about the C2 authorization result the SMF+PGW-C includes
the C2 Authorization Result and optionally, the Authorization Payload (e.g. C2
pairing information and C2 security information) and a new Service Level
Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID) if received from the USS, in the PCO
in the PDN Connectivity Accept sent to the UE and let the PDN Connectivity
Request procedure continue until finalized.
If a failed C2 authorization result is received from the USS, the SMF+PGW-C
instead rejects the PDN Connectivity Request and includes a cause code
indicating not authorized.
7\. If the C2 authorization is successful the USS subscribes via the UAS
NF/NEF to a PDN Connection Status Event report for the PDN Connection used for
C2 including in the request the GPSI of the UAV. The UAS NF/NEF determines the
APN/DNN and uses this APN/DNN to subscribe to SMF+PGW-C for PDN Connection
Status Event. The SMF+PGW-C detects, as described in step 6-7 of figure
4.15.3.2.3-1 in TS 23.502 [3], when the PDN Connection is established and
sends the PDN Connection Status Event report to the UAS NF/NEF by means of
Nsmf_EventExposure_Notify message, including GPSI and UE IP Address. The UAS
NF/NEF then forwards the event message to the USS.
8\. The USS stores the received UE IP address and invokes, with the received
PDN Connection IP address and the IP-address of the authorized paired UAV-C as
input, the USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration in EPS procedure (see
figure 5.2.5.4.2-1) to request corresponding traffic to be allowed on the PDN
Connection by the PGW-U.
Unless a dedicated QoS is requested for the C2 flows, this procedure does not
invoke any interaction with the UE, MME or RAN.
##### 5.2.5.3.2 UE requested bearer resource modification of an existing PDN
connection for C2 authorization
C2 authorization is requested at UE requested bearer resource modification
(see clause 5.4.5 of TS 23.401 [6]):
\- After UUAA-SM is performed and a common PDN Connection is used for
connectivity to USS and C2 communication to a UAV-C (as configured in the
UAV); or
\- If the UE has already established a PDN Connection for C2 communication to
a UAV-C.
Figure 5.2.5.3.2-1: UE requested bearer resource modification of an existing
PDN connection for C2 authorization
0\. The UE establishes a PDN Connection for USS communication as described in
clause 5.2.3.
1\. When the UAV needs to establish C2 communication, the UAV determines that
an existing PDN Connection can be used and initiates a UE requested bearer
resource modification procedure as Steps 1 - 3 in Figure 5.4.5-1 of TS 23.401
[6]. In the PCO in the request, the UE includes a Service Level Device
Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID) and shall include a C2 Aviation Payload that
includes C2 authorization information. The USS may also use its locally
configured pairing information for UAV - UAV-C pairing authorization which
takes precedence over UAV provided pairing information. The pairing
information includes the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-level UAV ID)
of the requesting UE and also includes identification information of UAV-C to
pair if available. The UAV may also include other information such as Flight
Authorization information.
NOTE: How the pairing information is configured in the UAV is outside the
scope of 3GPP specifications.
2\. The SMF+PGW-C determines that authorization is required based on that the
APN/DNN of the PDN Connection is dedicated for aerial services (have aerial
service indicator set) and that the Service Level Device Identity (CAA-Level
UAV ID) is included in the request and then sends a
Nnef_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request to the UAS-NF including the
UAS information provided by the UAV in step 1 (including the C2 Aviation
Payload), the Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV ID), GPSI, PDN
Connection IP address, and optionally the UAV location (e.g. Cell ID) provided
by the MME.
The UAS-NF forwards the received authorization request as a
Naf_Authentication_AuthenticateAuthorize request to the USS.
3\. The UE requested bearer resource modification procedure completes as in
clause 5.4.5-1 of TS 23.401 [6].
4\. Triggered by step 5, the USS performs C2 authorization based on the
received information and invokes, in order to forward the C2 authorization
result to the UAV/UE, the UAV Re-authorization procedure (see figure
5.2.4.4-1) including GPSI, Service Level Device Identity (e.g. CAA-Level UAV-
ID) (potentially new) and, included in the authorization message, the C2
Authorization Result and the C2 Authorization Payload (e.g. containing C2
pairing information and C2 security information).
5\. The USS invokes, with the received PDN Connection IP address and the IP
address of the authorized paired UAV-C as input, the USS initiated pairing
policy configuration procedure (see figure 5.2.5.4.2-1) to request
corresponding traffic to be allowed on the PDN Connection in the UPF/PGW-U.
Unless a dedicated QoS is requested for the C2 flows, this procedure does not
invoke any interaction with the UE, MME or RAN.
#### 5.2.5.4 USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration
##### 5.2.5.4.1 USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration in 5GS
The USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration Figure 5.2.5.4.1-1.
Figure 5.2.5.4.1-1: USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration in 5GS
0\. The UAV is registered in the network and a PDU session is established as
specified in clause 5.2.3.2.
1\. The USS initiates the PDU Session modification by invoking the
Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Create request including USS Identity/AF Identifier,
UAV-UAVC Pairing info/Flow description(s), QoS reference. The UAV-UAVC Pairing
info/Flow description(s) includes the UAV-C IP address. See step 1 in clause
4.15.6.6 of TS 23.502 [3]: Setting up an AF session with required QoS.
2\. UAS NF/NEF authorizes the request from the USS followed by interacting
with PCF triggering a Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create request and provides
relevant parameters to the PCF.
PCF determines whether the request is authorized and if the requested QoS is
allowed. PCF informs UAS NF/NEF if the request is accepted by invoking
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create response. See steps 2 - 4 in figure
4.15.6.6.6-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
3\. UAS NF/NEF sends a Nnef_AFsessionWithQoS_Create response message
(Transaction Reference ID, Result) to the USS. Result indicates whether the
request is granted or not. See step 5 in figure 4.15.6.6.6-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
NOTE: Use of Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Create can be further evaluated with stage
3 work.
4\. If the PCF determines that the SMF needs updated policy information, the
PCF issues a Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify request with updated policy
information. The updated policy information includes the UAV-C IP address. See
steps 3 - 5 in figure 4.16.5.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
5\. The PDU Session Modification continues and completes as in steps 2a \- 13
in figure 4.3.3.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3], UE or network requested PDU Session
Modification (for non-roaming and roaming with local breakout). Based on the
updated policy information received, the SMF determines and provides N4 rules
to enable communication between UAV and UAV-C, e.g. Packet Detection Rules,
Forwarding Action Rules.
6-7. [Optional] The PCF sends Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Notify message to the
UAS NF/NEF when the modification of the transmission resources corresponding
to the QoS update succeeded or failed. The UAS NF/NEF transfers this
information to the USS by sending Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Notify message. See
steps 6 and 7 in figure 4.15.6.6-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
##### 5.2.5.4.2 USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration in EPS
The USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration in EPS figure 5.2.5.4.2-1.
Figure 5.2.5.4.2-1: USS initiated C2 pairing policy configuration in EPS
0\. The UAV is registered in the network and a PDN Connection is established
as specified in clause 5.2.3.3.
1\. The USS initiates the PDN Connection modification by invoking the
Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Create request including USS Identity/AF Identifier,
Transaction Reference ID, UAV-UAVC Pairing info/Flow description(s), QoS
reference. The UAV-UAVC Pairing info/Flow description(s) includes the UAV-C IP
address. See step 1 in clause 4.15.6.6 of TS 23.502 [3]: Setting up an AF
session with required QoS.
2\. UAS NF/NEF authorizes the request from the USS followed by interacting
with PCF triggering a Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create request and provides
relevant parameters to the PCF.
PCF determines whether the request is authorized and if the requested QoS is
allowed. PCF informs UAS NF/NEF if the request is accepted by invoking
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Create response. See steps 2 - 4 in figure
4.15.6.6.6-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
3\. UAS NF/NEF sends a Nnef_AFsessionWithQoS_Create response message
(Transaction Reference ID, Result) to the USS. Result indicates whether the
request is granted or not. See step 5 in figure 4.15.6.6.6-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
NOTE: Use of Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Create can be further evaluated with stage
3 work.
4\. If the PCF determines that the SMF+PGW-C needs updated policy information,
the PCF issues a Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify request with updated policy
information. The updated policy information includes the UAV-C IP address. See
steps 3 - 5 in figure 4.16.5.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
5\. Based on the updated policy information received, the SMF+PGW-C determines
and provides N4 rules to enable communication between UAV and UAV-C, e.g.
Packet Detection Rules, Forwarding Action Rules.
6\. [Conditional] If QoS needs to be updated: Based on the updated policy
information received, the SMF+PGW-C determines N4 rules for QoS update and
provides to the PGW-U.
Based on the updated policy information received, the SMF+PGW-C invokes the
PDN GW initiated bearer modification with bearer QoS update procedure (clause
5.4.2.1 in TS 23.401 [6]) by sending Update Bearer Request message to the SGW.
Steps 2 - 11 in clause 5.4.2.1-1 of TS 23.401 [6] are executed to update QoS
in the UE and the RAN.
7-8. [Optional] The PCF sends Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Notify message to the
UAS NF/NEF when the modification of the transmission resources corresponding
to the QoS update succeeded or failed. The UAS NF/NEF transfers this
information to the USS by sending Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Notify message. See
steps 6 and 7 in figure 4.15.6.6-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
### 5.2.6 Void
### 5.2.7 UUAA Revocation by USS/UTM
Figure 5.2.7.1-1: Procedure for UAV authorization revocation by USS
UAS NF stores the UAV UE\'s UUAA context after successful UUAA procedure as
explained in clause 5.2.2.2 for UUAA-MM and in clause 5.2.3.2 for UUAA-SM
procedure.
1\. The USS sends Naf_Authentication_Notification to UAS NF for authorization
revocation. The USS includes GPSI, CAA-Level UAV ID, cause of revocation, PDU
Session IP address if available in the authorization revocation request.
2\. UAS NF retrieves the UAV UE\'s stored UUAA context. From the stored UUAA
context the UAS NF determines the target AMF or SMF for sending the
notification.
3a or 3b. The UAS NF sends Nnef_Authentication_Notification request to notify
the target NF, i.e. either the AMF or the SMF that the UAV is not authorized
anymore, indicating the cause is revocation. The target NF shall remove the
successful UUAA result and respond to the UAS NF.
4\. The UAS NF shall remove the UAV UE\'s UUAA context. The UAS NF responds
back to the USS indicating that authorization revocation request has been
successfully initiated.
5a. If UAS NF has subscribed to AMF for the Mobility Event Exposure with Event
ID = Reachability Filter before, UAS NF unsubscribes to AMF for the mobility
event notification by sending Namf_EventExposure_Unsubscribe request with
Subscription Correlation ID.
5b. The AMF acknowledges the un-subscription request from 5a by sending
Namf_EventExposure_Unsubscribe response.
6\. If UE is in CM_Idle state, the target NF (i.e. either the AMF or the SMF)
initiates the Network Triggered Service Request procedures as described in
clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 23.502 [3].
7a. If the target NF is AMF, the AMF initiates UCU procedure to inform the UE
that UUA is revoked. The AMF shall also initiate the release of PDU Sessions
related to UAS services.
7b. If the target NF is AMF, based on network policy the AMF may start network
initiated de-registration process as described in clause 4.2.2.3.3 of TS
23.502 [3].
7c. If the target NF is SMF, the SMF starts network initiated PDU session
release process as described in clause 4.3.4 of TS 23.502 [3] to release the
associated PDU session.
### 5.2.8 UAV Controller Replacement
#### 5.2.8.1 UAV controller replacement in 5GS
If USS determines that UAV controller replacement is required the USS invokes
an Nnef_AFsessionWithQoS_Update service operation to the UAS NF including in
the request authorization information (i.e. new pairing information). NEF
authorizes the request from the USS followed by interacting with PCF
triggering a Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update request and provides relevant
parameters to the PCF. The PCF uses the information provided by the NEF to
derive new PCC rules to allow C2 communication between the UAV and the new UAV
controller.
The procedure for UAV-C replacement is as follows:
Figure 5.2.8-1: UAV-C replacement procedure
0\. A UAV has already established user plane connectivity for C2 operation.
The USS determines that the UAV-C controlling the UAV needs to be replaced
(e.g. if the UAV is misbehaving).
1\. The USS initiates the UAV-C replacement by invoking the
Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Update request including Transaction Reference ID, UAV-
UAVC Pairing info/Flow description(s), QoS reference. See step 1 in TS 23.502
[3] clause 4.15.6.6a, AF session with required QoS update procedure.
2\. NEF authorizes the request from the USS followed by interacting with PCF
triggering a Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update request and provides relevant
parameters to the PCF. PCF determines whether the request is authorized and if
the requested QoS is allowed. PCF informs NEF if the request is accepted by
invoking Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update Response. See Steps 2 - 4 in TS
23.502 [3] figure 4.15.6.6.6a-1.
3\. NEF sends a Nnef_AFsessionWithQoS_Update response message (Transaction
Reference ID, Result) to the USS. Result indicates whether the request is
granted or not. See step 5 in TS 23.502 [3] figure 4.15.6.6.6a-1.
4\. Steps 4 - 7 in Figure 5.2.5.4.1-1.
5\. USS invokes the UAV Re-authorization procedure in Figure 5.2.4.3-1 to
deliver the new pairing information to the UE. The USS includes the 3GPP UAV
ID, the IP address of the PDU session and included in the authorization
message the C2 Authorization Result and the C2 Authorization Payload
(containing the C2 pairing information containing the new UAV-C identifier and
C2 security information) which is further forwarded to the UE.
#### 5.2.8.2 UAV controller replacement in EPS
The procedure for UAV-C replacement in EPS is as follows:
Figure 5.2.8.2-1: UAV controller replacement in EPS
0\. UAV is attached to EPC with a PDN connection established
1\. The USS determines that the UAV-C controlling the UAV needs to be replaced
(e.g. if the UAV is misbehaving).
2\. USS initiates the Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Update request including USS
Identity/AF Identifier, Transaction Reference ID, UAV-UAVC Pairing info/Flow
description(s), QoS reference. Steps 1-3 as in Figure 5.2.7.1-1 takes place.
3\. The PCF determines updated policy information and configures the resources
and routing information as in steps 2 - 4 in Figure 5.2.5.4.2-1.
4\. The USS is informed whether the UAV-C replacement and authorization has
succeeded or failed as in steps 6- 7 in Figure 5.2.5.4.1-1.
5\. The USS invokes the UAV re-authorization procedure in EPS as in Figure
5.2.4.4-1. The USS includes the 3GPP UAV ID, the IP address of the PDU session
and included in the authorization message, the C2 Authorization Result and the
C2 Authorization Payload (e.g. containing the C2 pairing information
containing the new UAV-C identifier and C2 security information) which is
further forwarded to the UE.
### 5.2.9 Revocation of C2 Connectivity
#### 5.2.9.1 Revocation of C2 connectivity in 5GS
When the USS decides to revoke an existing C2 connection between the UAV and
UAV-C the USS invokes an Nnef_AFsessionWithQoS_Revoke request to NEF in order
to revoke the AF request as described in Figure 5.2.9.1-1.
Figure 5.2.9.1-1: Revocation of C2 connectivity in 5GS
0\. USS decides to revoke C2 connectivity.
1\. USS identifies the AF session corresponding to the C2 connectivity and
invokes an Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Revoke Request including USS identity/AF
identifier, Transaction Reference ID.
2\. UAS NF/NEF indicates to the PCF to delete the context of application level
session information by invoking an Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete request.
3\. The PCF initiates a network requested PDU session modification procedures
as in steps 1b-13 in Figure 4.3.3.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3] removing the
corresponding PCC rules installed at the SMF to support the AF session or may
trigger a network requested PDU session release as in Steps 1b-13 Figure
4.3.4.2-1 of TS 23.502 [3].
4\. The PCF acknowledge the request by sending an
Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Delete response.
NOTE: Steps 3 and 4 can be carried out in parallel.
5\. The UAS NF/NEF acknowledge the USS request by sending an
Nnef_AFSessionWithQoS_Revoke response.
6\. USS may invoke the UAV Re-authorization procedure in Figure 5.2.4.3-1 to
deliver a C2 authorization payload indicating that C2 authorization has been
revoked.
#### 5.2.9.2 Revocation of C2 connectivity in EPS
The procedure is as follows:
Figure 5.2.9.2-1: Revocation of C2 connectivity in EPS
0\. USS decides to revoke C2 connectivity.
1\. Steps 1 - 2 as described in Figure 5.2.9.1-1 are performed.
2\. The PCF deletes policy information associated with the AF session and
configures the resources and routing information as in steps 5 - 6 in Figure
5.2.5.4.2-1.
3\. Steps 4-5 as described in Figure 5.2.9.1-1 are performed.
NOTE: Step 2 in Figure 5.2.9.2-1 and step 4 in Figure 5.2.9.1-1 can be carried
out in parallel.
4\. The USS may invoke the UAV re-authorization procedure in EPS as in Figure
5.2.4.4-1 to deliver a C2 authorization payload indicating that C2
connectivity is revoked.
## 5.3 UAV Tracking
### 5.3.1 UAV Tracking Model
3GPP network supports the functionality of UAV Tracking via the service
exposure support towards USS. The USS invokes 3GPP network service through a
UAS-NF for UAV tracking. The UAS-NF acts as an NEF/SCEF and interacts with
other network functions (e.g. GMLC and AMF/MME) to support UAV tracking. The
USS shall use 3GPP UAV ID (e.g. GPSI) for identifying an individual target
UAV. When USS/TPAE initiates UAV tracking via USA NF, it should include an
indication of reliable UE location information required in the request. For
further details on the architecture reference model, see clause 4.2.
Three UAV tracking modes are supported:
\- UAV location reporting mode;
\- UAV presence monitoring mode; and
\- List of Aerial UEs in a geographic area..
USS/TPAE could at any time choose a UAV tracking mode and provide the
corresponding request to UAS NF. The USS/TPAE logic on its choice of UAV
Tracking Model is out of scope of 3GPP.
The 3GPP network may also provide the UAV location to the USS during the UUAA
procedures, as described in clause 5.2.2 and clause 5.2.3.
#### 5.3.1.1 UAV Location Reporting Mode
For UAV location reporting mode, the USS/TPAE that wants to be reported on the
UAV location subscribes to the UAS NF with the target 3GPP UAV ID. The
USS/TPAE could indicate the required location accuracy, reliable UE location
information required and whether it\'s for immediate reporting or deferred
reporting (e.g. periodic reporting). With the request received from USS/TPAE,
UAS NF identifies the related NF, i.e. GMLC and trigger existing procedures to
retrieve the location report. Then UAS NF reports back the UAV\'s location
together with the 3GPP UAV ID to the USS/TPAE.
#### 5.3.1.2 UAV Presence Monitoring Mode
For UAV presence monitoring mode, the USS/TPAE may subscribe for the event
report of UAV moving in or out of the geographic area (e.g.
longitude/latitude, zip code, etc). The request includes target 3GPP UAV ID,
indication of reliable UE location information required and geographic area
info.
If the requested geographic area info can be mapped to 3GPP defined area, such
as a list of Tracking Areas or a list of cells as currently supported by 3GPP
network as the Area Of Interest, UAS NF subscribes to AMF/MME for reporting
the presence of the UAV in Area Of Interest using existing AMF/MME procedures,
otherwise UAS NF subscribes to GMLC for configuring the presence monitoring.
Upon receiving the report from AMF/MME or GMLC, the UAS NF notifies USS/TPAE
for the UAV presence in the geographic area.
The USS may provide policies or rules to UAS NF based on the received event
notification. If the traffic routing policies or rules were provided to UAS
NF, when the location of UAV or the UAV presence in the monitoring area
matches a policy, UAS NF based on the policy indicates SMF to take the
appropriate network layer actions, e.g. revoke the connectivity between UAV
and UAV controller. UAS NF considers those policies as active and ongoing
instructions from USS without constant or repeated triggers/requests from USS.
The traffic routing policy includes 3GPP UAV ID(s) (i.e. GPSI(s)) to identify
the UAV(s) and the corresponding network layer actions e.g. revoke the
resources of the related C2 communications.
#### 5.3.1.3 List of Aerial UEs in a geographic area
In this mode, the USS/TPAE requests UAS NF for a list of the UAVs in the
geographic area and served by the PLMN (i.e. no 3GPP UAV ID provided by the
USS/TPAE). The request includes geographic area info, indication of reliable
UE location information required and indication of one-time reporting by
setting \"maximumNumberOfReports\" to 1. If the geographic area info can be
mapped to 3GPP defined area such as a list of Tracking Areas or a list of
cells, UAS NF triggers existing AMF/MME procedures to get the UE list within
the TAI(s) or Cell Id(s). The UAS NF may include Aerial UE indication as an
event filter in the request, that is used by the AMF/MME to separate out the
UEs that are actual UAVs based UEs with aerial subscriptions. If the
geographic area info cannot be mapped to 3GPP defined area such as a list of
Tracking Areas or a list of cells, UAS NF provides a list of Tracking Areas
which is larger than the geographic area to AMF/MME to retrieve the UE list
within the list of Tracking Areas. Then UAS NF identifies UAVs from the UE
list and obtains the location for each identified UAV via LCS procedure toward
GMLC. The UAS NF compares the UAV location with the geographic area to
identify the UAVs in the geographic area and provides feedback to USS/TPAE.
For the UAV list received from the AMF/MME or the UAV list identified with
GMLC provided location, the UAS NF performs the filtering by checking for each
3GPP UAV ID reported whether there is match for the corresponding UAV context.
The UAS NF may also verify whether the requesting USS is authorized to obtain
the location info of the UAV.
In the above UAV tracking modes, UAS NF may need to map the 3GPP UAV ID to
3GPP internal IDs and vice versa. The CAA Level UAV ID may be optionally
provided by the UAS NF, if available, to the USS/TPAE during tracking and
location reporting of UAV.
### 5.3.2 Procedure for UAV location reporting
The following procedures describe the 5GC UAV\'s location reporting service to
USS.
Figure 5.3.2-1: UAV Location Reporting
1\. USS to UAS NF/NEF: The USS sends Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe request to
the UAS NF/NEF as described in step 1b-1 from clause 6.1.2 of TS 23.273 [8]
for immediate location reporting (i.e. 5GC-MT-LR) and step 1b-1 from clause
6.3.1 of TS 23.273 [8] for periodic, triggered and UE available location
reporting (i.e. deferred 5GC-MT-LR). USS should include an indication of
reliable UE location information required in the request.
2\. UAS NF/NEF determines the relevant NF, i.e. GMLC for location reporting
based on the UAV\'s capability or network capability, location accuracy etc.
3\. UAS NF sends request to GMLC with the GPSI (i.e. 3GPP UAV ID) provided by
USS to retrieve the UE location via the current location services supported by
GMLC. The UAS NF/NEF performs 5GC-MT-LR Procedure as described in clause 6.1.2
of TS 23.273 [8] or deferred 5GC-MT-LR procedure as described in clause 6.3.1
(up to step 21b-1) of TS 23.273 [8] depending on whether the request received
in step 1 was for immediate location reporting or deferred location reporting
respectively.
4\. UAS/NEF NF to USS: UAS NF/NEF provides the UAV location to USS/TPAE in
Nnef_EventExposure_Notify operation as described in step 24b-2 of Figure
6.1.2-1, if the request in step 1 was for immediate location reporting. The
UAS NF/NEF includes the GPSI in the location reporting message to USS/TPAE as
well as the UAV\'s location information (in the form of geo co-ordinates)
which is understood by USS/TPAE (not assuming the knowledge of TA and Cell
Id).
If the request in step 1 was for deferred 5GC-MT-LR, the UAS NF/NEF sends
Nnef_EventExposure_Notify indicating whether or not the periodic or triggered
location was successfully activated in the target UE, as described in step
21b-2 of Figure 6.3.1-1.
5\. For deferred 5GC-MT-LR with periodic or triggered location request steps
22 to 30b-2 of Figure 6.3.1-1 are executed and the UAS NF/NEF provides the
location report to USS/TPAE in Nnef_EventExposure_Notify operation.
### 5.3.3 Procedure for UAV presence monitoring
The following procedures describe the 3GPP UAV presence monitoring mode
operation.
Figure 5.3.3-1: UAV Presence Monitoring
1\. USS to UAS NF/NEF: The USS initiates the UAV presence monitoring request
via the Nnef_EventExposure_Subscribe service operation to UAS NF/NEF to
subscribe to the target UAV presence events from 3GPP network (e.g. moving in
or out of the monitoring area). In addition to providing a GPSI corresponding
to the target UAV for the presence monitoring, the request also includes the
geographic area info (e.g. longitude/latitude, zip code, etc.), an indication
of reliable UE location information required. Optionally, it includes a policy
or rule indicating the 3GPP network to take the corresponding action when the
Area of Interest (AOI) event report is detected. The policy or rule contains a
moving in or moving out event associated with an indication of revoking the
connectivity between UAV and UAV controller.
2\. UAS NF/NEF maps the geographical area into an area of interest that is
represented by a list of Cell IDs, gNB IDs or TAIs, and determines the
relevant NF (s), i.e. AMF or GMLC for location reporting based on the UAV\'s
capability or network capability, the geographic area info etc.
3a. If the requested geographic area info can be mapped to 3GPP defined area
and the relevant NF is determined as AMF in step 2, then the UAS NF/NEF maps
the GPSI provided by USS to SUPI, and provides the SUPI and the mapped 3GPP
defined area to the AMF to obtain the UE presence status by reusing the Area
of Interest mechanism.
3a. If the requested geographic area info cannot be mapped to 3GPP defined
area and the relevant NF is determined as GMLC in step 2, then the UAS NF/NEF
uses GMLC based procedure for configuring the presence monitoring. It is
preferrable for UAS NF/NEF to use GMLC based procedure if presence monitoring
is needed in a granularity finer than the Cell Id. The UAS NF/NEF invokes an
Ngmlc_Location_ProvideLocation Request service operation towards the GMLC
including the geographical area of interest for presence monitoring. The UAS
NF/NEF may first use AMF based procedure for UE presence monitoring as
described in step 3a before invoking GMLC service.
4\. UAS NF/NEF receives the UAV presence monitoring report from AMF or GMLC.
5a. UAS NF/NEF reports the UAV presence in the geographic area to USS by
including its GPSI in the report. The CAA Level UAV ID, if available with the
UAS NF/NEF, may be optionally provided in the report.
5b-5c. [Optional] If policies have been provided to UAS NF/NEF in step1 from
USS, when the UAV presence in the monitoring area matches a policy, UAS NF/NEF
based on the policy indicates SMF (via PCF) to take the appropriate network
layer actions, e.g. revoke the connectivity between UAV and UAV controller,
etc. The UAS NF/NEF uses the Npcf_PolicyAuthorization_Update service operation
as described in clause 4.15.6.6.6a of TS 23.502 [3] and provides relevant
parameters to the PCF. UAS NF/NEF considers those policies as active and
ongoing instructions from USS without constant or repeated triggers/requests
from USS. The PCF issues a Npcf_SMPolicyControl_UpdateNotify request with
updated policy information received from the UAS NF/NEF about the PDU Session
as described in the PCF initiated SM Policy Association Modification procedure
in clause 4.16.5.2.
### 5.3.4 Procedure for obtaining list of Aerial UEs in a geographic area
This procedure may be used by USS/TPAE to obtain a list of the UAVs in a
geographic area and served by the PLMN. The USS/TPAE provides the geographic
area information to the UAS-NF. Based on the received information, the UAS NF
may either trigger the AMF/MME monitoring event configuration procedure with
event ID \"Number of UEs present in a geographical area\" or the GMLC based
location reporting procedure. The AMF/MME may filter the list of UAVs before
sending it to the UAS NF (e.g. may filter only based on UE having Aerial
subscription), if Aerial UE indication was included as an event filter in the
monitoring event configuration request from the UAS NF. The UAS NF performs
the filtering on the received list from AMF or MME before responding back to
the USS/TPAE. The UAS-NF includes the 3GPP UAV ID and may include the CAA
Level UAV ID, if available, for each of the UAVs in the tracking and location
response to the USS/TPAE.
Figure 5.3.4-1: List of Aerial UEs in a geographic area
1\. USS to UAS NF: The USS/TPAE sends the UAV list request to UAS NF to
request UAV identity (e.g. 3GPP UAV ID, CAA Level UAV ID). The USS/TPAE
includes geographic area info, an indication of reliable UE location
information required and indication for immediate reporting in the request
message to the UAV-NF.
2\. UAS NF to AMF/MME: UAS NF decides the AMF(s) based on the geographic area
info and obtains the UE list in the target area from AMF by reusing the event
\"Number of UEs present in a geographical area\" with any UE in the event
filter. The UAS NF may also include \"Aerial UE\" indication and/or \"PDU
session established for DNN(s) subject to aerial service\" as event filters.
If the target area cannot be mapped to 3GPP network areas, UAS NF provides a
TA List which is larger than the target area to the AMF(s)/MME(s) for the list
of UEs to be queried. The AMF(s)/MME(s) identifies UEs corresponding to the
geographic area info and may also filter out the list of UAVs based on
checking for UEs with aerial subscriptions, if \"Aerial UE\" indication was
included as an event filter in the request from UAS NF/NEF. In addition, the
AMF(s) may also further identify UAVs that have successfully established PDU
session for DNN(s) subject to aerial services, if it was included as an event
filter in the request from UAS NF/NEF.
3\. [Optional] UAS NF to GMLC: From the list of UEs generated in step 2, for
UAVs that are in target areas that do not map to 3GPP network areas, the UAS-
NF then queries the UAV(s) location from GMLC.
4\. [Conditional] If step 3 above was executed, from the list of locations
returned by the GMLC, the UAS NF compares the UAV\'s locations to the target
area (provided in step 1 above) to identify the UAV to be included in the
report for USS.
5\. For either the UAV list received from the AMF(s)/MME(s), or the UAV list
identified in step 4, the UAS NF performs the filtering by checking for each
reported 3GPP UAV ID whether there is match for the corresponding UUAA
context.
6\. UAS NF to USS: UAS NF responds to the USS/TPAE with the list of filtered
UAVs (step 5). The CAA Level UAV ID, if available, may be provided by the UAS
NF in the response message to USS/TPAE. If the USS performed the UUAA of the
UAV, or the UAS NF is configured to know the USS is authorized to receive such
information, then the 3GPP UAV ID is also included.
#