# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The use of 5GS to support MC services (i.e., MCPTT defined in 3GPP TS 23.379
[6], MCVideo defined in 3GPP TS 23.281 [4], MCData defined in 3GPP TS 23.282
[5]) including common application plane and signalling plane entities is
specified in the present document.
Each MC service supports several types of communications amongst the users
(e.g. group communication, peer to peer communication). There are several
general functions and entities (e.g. configuration, identity) which are used
by the MC services. The general functional architecture to support MC services
utilizes aspects of the IMS architecture specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [2].
An MC service UE in the 5GS context obtains access to a MC service via 3GPP
access (i.e., E-UTRA, 5G NR), wireless non-3GPP access (e.g. WLAN or
Satellite) and/or wireline access using the 5GS architecture defined in 3GPP
TS 23.501 [7]. Certain MC service functions such as dispatch and
administrative functions can be supported using MC service UEs with 3GPP
access and non-3GPP wireless/wireline access. External applications usage of
MC services can be enabled via 3GPP access and/or non-3GPP access.
NOTE: Dispatch consoles and devices used by MC service administrators are
considered as MC service UEs to support MC services.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the use of the 5G System (5GS) considering
common functional architecture, procedures and information flows needed to
support mission critical services encompassing the common services core
architecture.
The corresponding service requirements applied in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3], 3GPP TS
22.179 [11], 3GPP TS 22.280 [12], 3GPP TS 22.281 [13] and 3GPP TS 22.282 [14]
also apply here.
The corresponding MC service specific procedures and information flows are
defined in TS 23.379 [6], TS 23.281[4], and TS 23.282 [5].
The present document is applicable primarily to mission critical services
using 3GPP access (5G NR and/or E-UTRA) and non-3GPP access (WLAN, Satellite
and/or wireline) based on the 5GC architecture defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
The common functional architecture to support mission critical services can be
used for public safety applications and for general commercial applications
e.g. utility companies and railways.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network Architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and Charging Control Framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements (MCCoRe);
Stage 1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical (MC) Video\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical (MC) Data\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms given in 3GPP TS
23.280 [3] apply:
**MC service**
**MC service user**
**MC service UE**
**MC system**
**MC user**
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Void.
# 4 MC service system resource requirements
## 4.1 Multiple Access
### 4.1.1 General
5GS provides simultaneous integration of different access types 3GPP and
non-3GPP (wireline and wireless), defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7]. Accordingly,
this enables the MC service UE to be used under both stationary and non-
stationary conditions.
With the convergence of multiple access technologies in 5GS, service features
can be assigned agnostically without taking the access type into account for
the MC service user.
### 4.1.2 Requirements
With the use of 5GS, MC services shall be available via 3GPP access as well as
via non-3GPP access. To enable access to the MC service system, the use of the
various access types shall be authorized by the 5GC. The simultaneous use of
different access types (Access Traffic Steering, Switching and Splitting) is
defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7] and its characteristics are subject to
respective operators policy.
## 4.2 Session connectivity
### 4.2.1 General
The access from 5GS to the MC service environment takes place via the Data
Network (DN) in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7]. A Data Network Name (DNN)
as part of the 5GS user profile allows access to the Data Network with up to 8
connectivity sessions (PDU sessions) each with up to 64 communication flows
(QoS flows). Different data networks require different DNNs.
### 4.2.2 Requirements
For MC service UEs who only utilize 5GS, a single DNN may be used for:
\- for the SIP-1 reference point;
\- for the HTTP-1 reference point; and
\- for the CSC-1 reference point.
The DNN shall be made available to the MC service UE either via UE
(pre)configuration or via initial UE configuration on a per HPLMN and
optionally also per VPLMN basis.
NOTE 1: The Data Network access can also be shared with the \"IMS\" access
taking into account the communication flow limits.
The MC service UE may exploit secondary authentication/authorization by a DN-
AAA server during the establishment of session connectivity as specified in
3GPP TS 23.501 [7] using the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) to
access the DN identified by the MC service DNN. If required, DN access
credentials shall be made available to the MC service UE via initial MC
service UE configuration on a per DNN basis.
The DN connection to the DNN defined within the present subclause can be of
PDU session type \"IPv4\", \"IPv6\", \"IPv4v6\", Ethernet or Unstructured (see
3GPP TS 23.501 [7]). If a DN connection to an DNN defined within the present
subclause is of type \"IPv4v6\" then the MC service client shall use
configuration data to determine whether to use IPv4 or IPv6.
NOTE 2: In accordance to 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], the use of PDU session type
Ethernet and Unstructured has limited support in the Session and Service
Continuity context.
For MC service UEs who utilize EPS and 5GS 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] clause 5.2.7
applies.
## 4.3 QoS characteristics
### 4.3.1 General
In 5GS, quality of service is enforced at QoS flow level and corresponding
packets are classified and marked with an identifier in accordance with 3GPP
TS 23.501 [7]. Every QoS flow is characterized by a QoS profile provided by
the 5GC. and can be used for all connectivity types (PDU sessions) in
accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
5G QoS characteristics, standardized or non-standardized, are indicated
through the 5QI value in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7]. Standardized 5QI
values have a one-to-one mapping to a standardized combination of 5G QoS
characteristics and non-standardized 5QI values allows a dynamic assignment of
QoS parameter values.
NOTE 1: The use of non-standardized 5QI values can be subject for
harmonisation within the individual user area.
The QoS parameter Allocation Retentions Priority (ARP) determines the priority
level, the pre-emption capability and the pre-emption vulnerability of each
QoS flow. ARP priority level defines the relative importance of a resource
request to allow in deciding whether a new QoS Flow may be accepted or needs
to be rejected in the case of resource limitations in accordance with 3GPP TS
23.501 [7].
NOTE 2: The use of ARP is regulated by the individual MC service.
### 4.3.2 QoS requirements for general purposes
The selection, deployment, initiation, and termination of QoS signalling and
resource allocation shall consider the QoS mechanisms described in 3GPP TS
23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [9].
MC system as well as MC service UE may share one DNN using multiple QoS flows
for the settlement of MC services, application plane and signalling plane.
For the transport of SIP-1 reference point signalling, the standardized 5QI
value of 69 in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7] shall be used.
For the transport of HTTP-1 reference point signalling, the standardized 5QI
value of 8 in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7] or better shall be used.
MC services shall use standardized 5QI values or may use non-standardized 5QI
values in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501.
When the MC system utilizes IMS services, at least one QoS flow shall be
associated for IMS signalling. The generic mechanisms for interaction between
QoS and session signalling applicable for the use of IMS in the 5GS context
are defined in 3GPP TS 23.228 [2].
### 4.3.3 QoS requirements for Mission Critical Push to Talk
#### 4.3.3.1 General
The requirements listed here apply for the use of 5GS and replace the
corresponding requirements in 3GPP TS 23.379 [6].
#### 4.3.3.2 5QI values for MCPTT
The MCPTT system may use the N5 reference point or Rx reference point for
direct interaction with 5GS PCF to determine the required QoS flow parameters.
Alternatively, the MCPTT system may use the N33 reference point for indirect
interaction with 5GS NEF. A QoS flow for an MCPTT voice call and MCPTT-4
reference point signalling shall utilize 5QI value 65 in accordance with 3GPP
TS 23.501 [7].
#### 4.3.3.3 Use of priorities
The QoS flow for an MCPTT emergency call shall have highest priority level
among MCPTT call types. The QoS flow for MCPTT imminent peril call shall have
higher priority level than one for a MCPTT call.
Depending on operators\' policy, the MCPTT system may be able to request
modification of the priority (ARP) of an established QoS flow.
NOTE: Operators\' policy takes into account regional/national requirements.
### 4.3.4 QoS requirements for Mission Critical Video
#### 4.3.4.1 General
The requirements listed here apply for the use of 5GS and replace the
corresponding requirements in 3GPP TS 23.281.
#### 4.3.4.2 5QI values for MCVideo
The MCVideo system may use the N5 reference point or Rx reference point for
direct interaction with 5GS PCF to determine the required QoS flow parameters.
Alternatively, the MCVideo system may use the N33 reference point for indirect
interaction with 5GS NEF. Video media and control of the video media (i.e.
MCVideo‑4 and MCVideo‑7) may use independent QoS flows and utilizes 5QI values
depending on the MCVideo mode of the MCVideo call/session, as per table
4.3.4.2-1.
Table 4.3.4.2-1: MCVideo mode associated 5QI values
* * *
MCVideo mode 5QI value utilized\ (in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7])
* * *
Urgent real-time mode 67
Non-urgent real-time mode 67
Non real-time mode 4
* * *
For transmission and reception control signalling, the 5QI value 69 is
recommended in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
#### 4.3.4.3 Use of priorities
The MCVideo audio media and video media may transmit over dedicated QoS flows,
in which case the priority for each QoS flow is determined by the operator
policy.
MCVideo services shall be able to use ARP pre-emption capability and the pre-
emption vulnerability of each individual QoS flow according to operators\'
policy. Depending on operators\' policy, the MCVideo system may be able to
request modification of the priority (ARP) of an established QoS flow.
NOTE: Operator policy takes into account regional/national requirements.
### 4.3.5 QoS requirements for Mission Critical Data
#### 4.3.5.1 General
The requirements listed here apply for the use of 5GS and replace the
corresponding requirements in 3GPP TS 23.282.
#### 4.3.5.2 5QI values for MCData
The MCData system may use the N5 reference point or Rx reference point for
direct interaction with 5GS PCF to determine the required QoS flow parameters.
Alternatively, the MCData system may use the N33 reference point for indirect
interaction with 5GS NEF. A QoS flow for MCData media may utilize standardized
5QI value 70 or may utilize non-standardized 5QI values in accordance with
3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
#### 4.3.5.3 Use of priorities
The QoS flows for MCData emergency communications shall have highest priority
level among MCData communication types. The QoS flow for MCData imminent peril
call shall have higher priority level than one for a MCData communication.
MCData services shall be able to use ARP pre-emption capability and the pre-
emption vulnerability of each individual QoS flow according to operators\'
policy.
NOTE: Operators\' policy takes into account regional/national requirements.
## 4.4 Network Slicing
### 4.4.1 General
Network slicing in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7] can be used for several
purposes such as to separate MC service users, UEs as well as applications in
accordance with the various QoS requirements independent from 3GPP or non-3GPP
access.
The corresponding slice information identifies a network slice across the 5G
core, access network and the UE. In accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7]
standardized and non-standardized slice selection information can be used.
### 4.4.2 Requirements
For the use of network slicing in the MC service context, the following
minimum requirements in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7] shall be
considered:
One network slice shall be assigned per PDU session and may benefit from a
dedicated transmission resource allocation.
The network slicing for MC services follows the concepts defined in 3GPP TS
23.501 [7]. The Initial MC service UE configuration shall contain at least one
network slice identity (S-NSSAI). Those S-NSSAIs shall be considered as part
of the Default Configured S-NSSAI(s), and should be utilized by the MC service
UE to form the Requested S-NSSAI(s) at registration as specified in 3GPP TS
23.501 [7].
If the MC service UE requests a slice which is subject to Network Slice-
Specific Authentication and Authorization, the corresponding aspects as well
as the MC service UE behaviour are to be followed as described in 3GPP TS
23.501 [7], and 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]. The corresponding credentials per S-NSSAI
can be configured in the initial MC service UE configuration or UE
(pre-)configuration.
The use of network slices corresponding to non-standardized NSSAIs across PLMN
boundaries requires harmonisation in order to guarantee their availability.
Initial MC service UE configuration data may contain information for the PDU
session to be used for each MC service (including among others the S-NSSAI).
## 4.5 Use of public and non-public networks
### 4.5.1 General
MC services are service agnostic with respect to 5GS, i.e., the available
service options are identical in both public networks (i.e. PLMN) and non-
public networks (NPNs). A non-public network (NPN) can be deployed in
organization defined premises and the 5G network services are provided to a
defined set of users or organizations in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
### 4.5.2 Requirements
An MC service system shall be able to utilize connectivity from public 5GS
networks and non-public 5GS networks in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
## 4.6 Migration
### 4.6.1 General
For the migration of an MC service user the general assumptions in 3GPP TS
23.280 [3] clause 5.2.9.1 are applied.
### 4.6.2 Public network utilization
Migrated MC service users should utilize the home PLMN of the partner MC
system to access MC services in the partner MC system, however, utilizing the
home PLMN of the primary MC system is not precluded.
NOTE 1: The above recommendation ensures the security policy of the partner MC
system and is not compromised, the expected 5QIs are used on the 5GS to ensure
that service‑level delay requirements are consistently met (which are
especially at risk when the home PLMN of the primary MC system and the home
PLMN of the partner MC system are far apart from a geographical point of
view).
NOTE 2: Whether the home PLMN of partner MC systems or the home PLMNN of the
primary MC system is used to access MC services in partner MC systems is left
to business agreements between MC service providers and is outside the scope
of the present document.
NOTE 3: The MC service user\'s MCData message store will not be available when
using the home PLMN of the partner MC system to access MC services in
migration.
The MC service user profile enabled for migration shall be provisioned with
configuration data that specifies which PLMNs supporting 5GS are to be
selected when migrating to another MC system.
If the home PLMN of a partner MC system is different from the home PLMN of the
primary MC system (i.e. migrating MC service users roam into the home PLMN of
the partner MC system), then:
\- 5GS‑level roaming is required between the home PLMN of the primary MC
system and home PLMN of the partner MC system;
\- the home PLMN of the partner MC system needs to enable local break-out for
the DNNs in accordance to subclause 4.2.2 that identify the DNs of the partner
MC system; and
\- the 5GS user profile of the home PLMN of the primary MC system used by the
MC service users who are allowed to migrate to the partner MC system needs to
be provisioned with, and local break-out enabled for, the DNNs proposed in
subclause 4.2.2 that identify the DNs of the partner MC system.
If the home PLMN of the partner MC system and the home PLMN of the primary MC
system are the same (i.e. migrating MC service users continue to use the home
PLMN of their primary MC system), then:
\- the 5GS user profile of the home PLMN of the primary MC system utilized by
the MC service users who are allowed to migrate to the partner MC system needs
to be provisioned with the DNNs specified in subclause 4.2.2 that identify the
DNs of the partner MC system.
### 4.6.3 Non-Public network utilization
Editor\'s Note: The utilization of NPN is FFS.
# 5\. MC system functional model
## 5.1 General
The functional model for the MC services architecture is defined as a series
of planes to allow for the breakdown of the architectural description. Each
plane is expected to operate in an independent manner, providing services to
the connected planes as and when requested by the connected plane, and
requesting services from other planes as required.
In this context, each plane manages on its own behalf:
a) Use of identities: Each plane is responsible for the privacy of that
plane\'s own identities; and
b) Security for that plane: It does not preclude a plane requesting security
services from another plane, but that is a decision made within the plane, as
to whether to use offered security services or mechanisms within the plane
itself.
NOTE: Terminology such as client and server are not meant to imply specific
physical implementation of a functional entity.
## 5.2 Description of the planes
The following planes are identified:
a) application plane: The application plane provides all of the services (e.g.
call control, floor control, video control, data control, conferencing of
media, provision of tones an announcements) required by the user together with
the necessary functions to support MC service. It uses the services of the
signalling control plane to support those requirements.
b) signalling control plane: The signalling control plane provides the
necessary signalling support to establish the association of users involved in
an MC service, such as an MCPTT call or other type of MC services. The
signalling control plane also offers access to and control of services across
MC services. The signalling control plane uses the services of session
connectivity.
The corresponding session connectivity supporting these planes are defined for
the use of 5GS within 3GPP TS 23.501 [7]. The associated resource control to
support these planes is defined within 3GPP TS 23.503 [9].
> Editor\'s Note: The use of multicast session connectivity and associated
> procedures for the application plane is FFS.
## 5.3 Common functional model description
### 5.3.1 On-network functional model
Each MC service can be represented by an application plane functional model.
The corresponding functional model across MC services may be similar but is
described by the individual functional entities and reference points that
belong to that MC service. Within the application plane for an MC service, a
common set of functions as well as reference points is shared across MC
services and is referred as the common services core.
Figure 5.3.1-1 shows the common functional model for the application plane for
an MC system using 5GS.
Figure 5.3.1-1: Common functional model for application plane for an MC system
The common services core functions and reference points shown in figure
5.3.1-1 are shared across each MC service.
Figure 5.3.1-2 shows the common functional model for the signalling control
plane using 5GS.
Figure 5.3.1-2: Common functional model for signalling control plane
In the model shown in figure 5.3.1-2, the SIP core may interact directly with
5GS via the N5 reference point or Rx reference point to control QoS on a per
communication flow in accordance with 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
NOTE 1: Indirect interaction between SIP core and 5GS Network Exposure
Function using N33 reference point is not supported by 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
Figure 5.3.1-3 shows the relationships between the reference points of the
common application plane of an MC service server and the common signalling
plane.
Figure 5.3.1-3: Relationships between reference points of the common MC
service application plane and signalling control planes
NOTE 2: Application plane reference point CSC-7 makes use of SIP-2 reference
point when the group management servers are connected by a single SIP core.
Where they are joined by more than one SIP core, CSC-7 also makes use of the
SIP-3 reference point.
NOTE 3: For simplicity, the HTTP proxy, which provides the interconnection
between HTTP-1, HTTP-2 and HTTP-3 reference points, is not shown in figure
5.3.1-3.
NOTE 4: CSC-5, CSC-9, and CSC-15 make use of SIP-1 and SIP-2 reference points.
For simplicity, this mapping relationship is not shown in figure 5.3.1-3.
### 5.3.2 Functional entities description
#### 5.3.2.1 General
Each subclause is a description of a functional entity and does not imply a
physical entity.
#### 5.3.2.2 Application plane
The description of the application plane entities in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3]
applies.
#### 5.3.2.3 Signalling control plane
The description of the signalling control plane entities in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3]
applies.
### 5.3.3 Reference points
#### 5.3.3.1 General reference point principle
The protocols on any reference point that is exposed for MC service
interoperability with other SIP core or other IMS entities in other systems
shall be compatible with the protocols defined for the corresponding reference
point defined in 3GPP TS 23.002 [8].
#### 5.3.3.2 Application plane
##### 5.3.3.2.1 General
The definition of the application plane reference points in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3]
applies.
#### 5.3.3.3 Signalling control plane
##### 5.3.3.3.1 General
The reference points for the SIP and HTTP signalling are described in the
following subclauses.
##### 5.3.3.3.2 Reference point SIP-1(between the signalling user agent and
the SIP core)
The SIP-1 reference point, which exists between the signalling user agent and
the SIP core for establishing a session in support of MC service, shall use
the Gm reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.002 [8] (with necessary
enhancements to support MC service requirements and profiled to meet the
minimum requirements for support of MC services). The SIP-1 reference point is
used for:
\- SIP registration;
\- authentication and security to the service layer;
\- event subscription and event notification;
\- overload control;
\- session management; and
\- media negotiation.
Editor\'s Note: Necessary functions in the context of multicast operation are
FFS.
##### 5.3.3.3.3 Reference point SIP-2 (between the SIP core and the SIP AS)
The SIP-2 reference point, which exists between the SIP core and the SIP AS
for establishing a session in support of MC service, shall use the ISC and Ma
reference points as defined in 3GPP TS 23.002 [8]. The SIP-2 reference point
is used for:
\- notification to the MC service server(s) of SIP registration by the MC
service UE;
\- authentication and security to the service layer;
\- event subscription and event notification;
\- session management; and
\- media negotiation.
Editor\'s Note: Necessary functions in the context of multicast operation are
FFS.
##### 5.3.3.3.4 Reference point SIP-3 (between the SIP core and SIP core)
The description of the SIP-3 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] applies.
##### 5.3.3.3.5 Reference point HTTP-1 (between the HTTP client and the HTTP
proxy)
The description of the HTTP-1 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] applies.
##### 5.3.3.3.6 Reference point HTTP-2 (between the HTTP proxy and the HTTP
server)
The description of the HTTP-2 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] applies.
##### 5.3.3.3.7 Reference point HTTP-3 (between the HTTP proxy and HTTP proxy)
The description of the HTTP-3 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] applies.
##### 5.3.3.3.8 Reference point AAA-1 (between the SIP database and the SIP
core)
The description of the AA1-1 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] applies.
##### 5.3.3.3.9 Reference point AAA-2 (between the SIP core and Diameter
proxy)
The description of the AA1-2 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] applies.
##### 5.3.3.3.10 Reference points N5 and Rx (between the SIP core and the 5GS)
The N5 reference point and Rx reference point, which exist between the SIP
core and the 5GS, are used for resource management of MC service sessions,
e.g. QoS control, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502 [10] and
3GPP TS 23.503 [9].
## 5.4 MCPTT functional model description
### 5.4.1 On-network functional model
Figure 5.4.1-1 shows the functional model for the application plane for an
MCPTT system using the 5GS.
Figure 5.4.1-1: MCPTT functional model for application plane
In the functional model shown in figure 5.4.1-1, the following is considered:
\- The description of the corresponding functional entities and reference
points in 3GPP TS 23.379 [6] applies.
\- The description of the MCPTT-4 and MCPTT-7 reference points in 3GPP TS
23.379 [6] applies considering that it utilizes the N6 reference point defined
in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
\- The description of the MCPTT-5 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.379 [6]
applies considering that it exists between the MCPTT server and the 5GS. It is
used for resource management of MCPTT sessions, e.g. QoS control, and utilizes
the N5 reference point or the Rx reference point or the N33 reference point as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [9].
\- MCPTT-5, utilizing Rx reference point or N5 reference point, may be used
when the MCPTT service provider directly interacts with operator\'s relevant
5GS network function for QoS control.
\- MCPTT-5, utilizing N33 reference point, may be used when the MCPTT service
provider is limited by the operational agreement, i.e., indirect interaction
with operator\'s 5GS network functions for QoS control.
## 5.5 MCVideo functional model description
### 5.5.1 On-network functional model
Figure 5.5.1-1 shows the functional model for the application plane for an
MCVideo system using the 5GS.
Figure 5.5.1-1: MCVideo functional model for application plane
In the functional model shown in figure 5.5.1-1, the following is considered:
\- The description of the corresponding functional entities and reference
points in 3GPP TS 23.281 [4] applies.
\- The description of the MCVideo-4 and MCVideo-7 reference points in 3GPP TS
23.281 [4] applies considering that it utilizes the N6 reference point defined
in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7].
\- The description of the MCVideo-5 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.281 [4]
applies considering that it exists between the MCVideo server and the 5GS. It
is used for resource management of MCVideo sessions, e.g. QoS control, and
utilizes the N5 reference point or the Rx reference point or the N33 reference
point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.503
[9].
\- MCVideo-5, utilizing Rx reference point or N5 reference point, may be used
when the MCVideo service provider directly interacts with operator\'s relevant
5GS network function for QoS control.
\- MCVideo-5, utilizing N33 reference point, may be used when the MCVideo
service provider is limited by the operational agreement, i.e., indirect
interaction with operator\'s 5GS network functions for QoS control.
## 5.6 MCData functional model description
### 5.6.1 On-network functional model
Figure 5.6.1-1 shows the generic functional model for the application plane
for an MCData system using the 5GS.
Figure 5.6.1-1: Generic MCData functional model for application plane
In the functional model shown in figure 5.6.1-1, the following is considered:
\- The description of the corresponding functional entities and reference
points in 3GPP TS 23.282 [5] applies.
\- The description of the MCData-5 reference point in 3GPP TS 23.282 [6]
applies considering that it exists between the MCData server and the 5GS. It
is used for resource management of MCData sessions, e.g. QoS control, and
utilizes the N5 reference point or the Rx reference point or the N33 reference
point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.503
[9].
\- MCData-5, utilizing Rx reference point or N5 reference point, may be used
when the MCData service provider directly interacts with operator\'s relevant
5GS network function for QoS control.
\- MCData-5, utilizing N33 reference point, may be used when the MCData
service provider is limited by the operational agreement, i.e., indirect
interaction with operator\'s 5GS network functions for QoS control.
\- The respective functional models supporting MCData capabilities (e.g., SDS,
FD, DS, IPcon) over unicast transmissions along with the corresponding
reference points (i.e., MCData-cap-1 to MCData-cap-n) described in 3GPP TS
23.282 [5] also apply when the 5G system is used.
# 6\. Application of functional models and deployment scenarios
## 6.1 General
This clause describes the application of the functional models described in
clause 5. It also describes deployment scenarios that highlight some of the
possible variations in the way that the functional models can be applied in
different situations.
## 6.2 On-network architectural model
### 6.2.1 On-network architectural model diagram
Figure 6.2.1-1 below is the on-network architectural model for the MC system
solution, where the MC system provides one or more MC services via a single
PLMN.
Figure 6.2.1-1: On-network architectural model
### 6.2.2 Application services layer
#### 6.2.2.1 Overview
The application services layer includes application functions of one or more
MC services and any required supporting functions grouped into common services
core.
#### 6.2.2.2 Common services core
Common services core is composed of the functional entities described in the
common functional model in clause 5.3.
#### 6.2.2.3 MC services
MC services are composed of the functional entities described in the
corresponding MC service functional models in clause 5.
### 6.2.3 SIP core
The SIP core provides rendezvous (contact address binding and URI resolution)
and service control (application service selection) functions, as described in
clause 5.3.
### 6.2.4 5GS
The 5GS provides data connectivity and services with QoS control for the
support of MC service sessions.
### 6.2.5 UE 1
UE 1 is an MC service UE in on-network mode supporting data connectivity and
application(s) related to one or more MC services over the 5GS. It is composed
of the corresponding MC service functional entities described in clause 5.
## 6.3 Deployment scenarios
### 6.3.1 Administration of MC service, SIP core and 5GS
#### 6.3.1.1 General
This clause describes deployment scenarios in which different administration
of MC service, SIP core and 5GS are described, together with the sensitivities
of identities and other forms of signalling in those scenarios.
In each of these scenarios, the owner of the devices at each plane may be
different from the organization that administers these devices. For example,
the MC service provider may own some RAN components within the 5GS even when
the 5GS is administered by the PLMN operator, and the MC service UE may be
owned by an organization that is independent from PLMN and MC service
providers.
#### 6.3.1.2 Common administration of all planes
In this scenario, all planes (application services layer, SIP core and 5GS)
are administered by the same party. This is illustrated in figure 6.3.1.2-1
below.
Figure 6.3.1.2-1: Common administration of all services by one operator
Although the identities in each plane are separate as described in 3GPP TS
23.280 [3], there is no particular sensitivity of identities and other
information at the application plane, and these may be exposed to the SIP core
and the 5GS.
All authorization and authentication mechanisms at each plane, i.e. the
application services layer, SIP core and 5GS, shall be separate, but there may
be no need for any restrictions in how these are stored and managed; for
example the same entity could provide services to each of the application
services layer, SIP core and 5GS.
#### 6.3.1.3 MC service provider separate from SIP core and 5GS
In this scenario, as illustrated in figure 6.3.1.3-1, the MC service provider
is separate and independent from the PLMN operator, and the MC service is
administered independently of the 5GS and SIP core. The PLMN operator
administers the 5GS and the SIP core.
Figure 6.3.1.3-1: MC service provider administers MC service separately from
SIP core and 5GS
The MC service provider may require that all application services layer
identities and other sensitive information are hidden both from the SIP core
and the 5GS.
When required by the MC service provider, all authentication and authorization
mechanisms, including security roots, at the application services layer are
hidden from and not available to the PLMN operator.
#### 6.3.1.4 MC service provider administers SIP core, separate from 5GS
In this scenario, as illustrated in figure 6.3.1.4-1, the MC service provider
administers the SIP core, and the MC services and SIP core are independent of
the PLMN operator.
Figure 6.3.1.4-1: MC service provider provision of SIP core, separate domain
from 5GS
The MC service provider may require that all identities and other sensitive
information at the application services layer are hidden from the 5GS. The MC
service provider need not hide the identities and signalling at the
application services layer from the SIP core. However, the MC service provider
may require that identities and other sensitive information between SIP core
and SIP client in the MC service UE are also hidden from the 5GS.
All authentication and authorization mechanisms, including security roots, at
both application services layer and at SIP signalling plane may need to be
hidden from, and not available to, the PLMN operator.
#### 6.3.1.5 SIP core partially administered by both PLMN operator and MC
service provider
In this scenario, as illustrated in figure 6.3.1.5-1, the SIP core is
partially administered by both parties, for example when the SIP core
registrar is administered by the MC service provider, but the SIP core
registrar finder and proxy is administered by the PLMN operator.
Figure 6.3.1.5-1: MC service provider partial provision of SIP core, separate
domain from 5GS
The MC service provider may require that all identities and signalling at the
application services layer are hidden from the 5GS, and may require identities
and other sensitive information to be hidden from the PLMN operator
administered part of the SIP core.
All authentication and authorization mechanisms, including security roots, at
the application services layer may need to be hidden from, and not available
to, the PLMN operator.
#### 6.3.1.6 PLMN operator administers SIP core with SIP identities
administered by MC service provider
In this scenario, the PLMN operator administers the SIP core. However, the
identities used by the SIP core (IMPI and IMPU) for MC service UEs served by
the MC service provider are provided from the SIP database of the MC service
provider.
Figure 6.3.1.6-1: MC service provider provides identities to PLMN operator SIP
core
The MC service provider may require that all identities and signalling at the
application services layer are hidden from the SIP core and 5GS.
When required by the MC service provider, all authentication and authorization
mechanisms, including security roots, at the application services layer may
need to be hidden from, and not available to, the PLMN operator.
The security roots (authentication keys) required for access to the signalling
control plane are not available to the PLMN operator as these are held in the
MC service provider\'s SIP database. However, derived parameters e.g.
authentication vectors are provided to the SIP core to allow signalling
control plane authentication to take place.
### 6.3.2 Resource management of MC service sessions by SIP core and MC
service server
#### 6.3.2.1 General
This clause describes two different scenarios in which resource management of
MC service sessions is performed via the Rx reference point, or N5 reference
point, or N33 reference point as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502
[10] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [9], by either the SIP core or the MC service server
with the 5GS (PCF).
These may provide suitable models for each of the scenarios listed in clause
6.3.1. However, there is no direct correlation of any of the scenarios
described in this clause to each of the scenarios described in clause 6.3.1.
#### 6.3.2.2 Resource Management of MC service sessions by SIP core
In the scenario shown in figure 6.3.2.2-1, resource management of MC service
sessions is performed by the SIP core.
Figure 6.3.2.2-1: Resource management of MC service sessions by SIP core
#### 6.3.2.3 Management of MC service sessions by MC service server
In the scenario shown in figure 6.3.2.3-1, resource management of MC service
sessions is performed by the MC service server.
Figure 6.3.2.3-1: Resource management of MC service sessions by MC service
server
## 6.4 Involved business relationships
### 6.4.1 General
For the relationship between the MC service provider, the MC service
organization and the MC service user 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] clause 6 applies.
### 6.4.2 Public network and non-public network utilization
For the relationship between MC service provider and the utilization of public
networks and/or non-public networks the following service arrangements apply:
\- A home public network operator or a home non-public network operator can
have service arrangements with multiple MC service providers.
\- A MC service provider can have service arrangements with multiple home
public network operators and/or home non-public network operators.
\- As part of the service arrangement between the MC service provider and the
home public network operator/home non-public network operator, the
corresponding 5GS user profile can be provided which allows the MC service UEs
to register to the home public network operator/home non-public network
operator.
\- The home PLMN operator can have PLMN roaming agreements with multiple
visited PLMN operators and the visited PLMN operator can have PLMN roaming
agreements with multiple home PLMN operators.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Business relationships for MC services
Editor\'s Note: The utilization of NPN is FFS.
# 7\. MC procedures for 5GS
## 7.1 General
In this clause, only the procedures and information flows which are different
from that over EPS are captured. The MC service specific procedures and
information flows over 5GS remains the same as specified in TS 23.379 [6], TS
23.281[4], TS 23.282 [5] if not specially described in this clause.
## 7.2 MC service resource management (on-network)
### 7.2.1 General
These clauses specify the procedures for resource management for mission
critical services. The procedures are utilized by the following MC services:
\- MCPTT (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.379 [6]);
\- MCVideo (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.281 [4]); and
\- MCData (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.282 [5]).
Session management, QoS model and QoS policy control are defined in 3GPP TS
23.501 [7], 3GPP TS 23.502 [10] and 3GPP TS 23.503 [9].
### 7.2.2 Request for unicast resources at session establishment
The procedure defined in this clause specifies how communication resources are
requested from 5GS at session establishment. If concurrent sessions are used
the MC service server may utilize the capability of resource sharing specified
in 3GPP TS 23.503 [9]. The exchange of the QoS characteristics of the required
resources takes place exclusively by means of direct interaction between SIP
core and PCF using N5 reference point or Rx reference point and encompass
media type, bandwidth, priority, application identifier and resource sharing
information.
Establishment, modification or release of communication resources are managed
according to 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]. The procedure is generic to any type of
session establishment that requires communication resources.
Procedures in figure 7.1.2-1 show the signalling procedures for the requesting
resource at session establishment.
Figure 7.2.2-1: Resource request at session establishment
1\. MC service client sends a call/session establishment request.
2\. MC service server receives evaluates the need of communication resources
and the use of media resource sharing.
3\. MC service server sends a session progress request containing request for
communication resources.
4\. Session management procedures using PCF policy control enforcement (as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]) initiated from SIP core local inbound/outbound
proxy using direct interaction between SIP core and PCF.
5\. The SIP core local inbound/outbound proxy forwards the call control
protocol request to the MC service client.
6\. The MC service client acknowledges the session progress request with an OK
message.
7\. The SIP core local inbound/outbound proxy forwards the OK message to the
MC service server.
8\. The MC service call/session is established, and resources have been
allocated.
### 7.2.3 Request for unicast resources at session establishment from MC
service server
#### 7.2.3.1 General
The procedure defined in this clause specifies how communication resources are
requested from 5GS at session establishment from the MC service server. The
required QoS characteristics for resources are sent directly to the PCF via
the N5 reference point or Rx reference point from the MC service server.
Alternatively, QoS characteristics for resources can be exchanged indirectly
utilizing N33 reference point between MC service server and NEF. QoS
characteristic information encompasses media type, bandwidth, priority,
application identifier, resource sharing information and network slice
information. If concurrent sessions are used, the MC service server may
utilize the capability of resource sharing specified in 3GPP TS 23.503 [8].
For the request of communication resources by the MC service server via N5
reference point or Rx reference point, or N33 reference point, the MC service
client provides to the MC service server the corresponding communication
resource details (e.g. IP addresses and ports) of the MC service client and
the corresponding media anchoring points.
This procedure is generic to any type of session establishment with the MC
service server requesting network resources.
#### 7.2.3.2 Procedure
Figure 7.2.3.2-1 describes the procedure for the request of resources at
session establishment from the MC service server.
Figure 7.2.3.2-1: Resource request at session establishment from the MC
service server
1\. The MC service client sends a call/session establishment request. The
request includes, apart from the SDP offer, access resource details, e.g. IP
addresses and ports of the MC service client related to the media session.
2\. The MC service server evaluates the need of communication resources and
use of media resource sharing.
3\. The MC service server sends a session progress request to the SIP core.
NOTE: The session progress request does not include a request for network
communication resources to be performed by the SIP core.
4\. The SIP core local inbound/outbound proxy forwards the session progress
request to the MC service client.
5\. The MC service client acknowledges the session establishment to the MC
service server. This message contains the final negotiated media parameters,
e.g. IP addresses and ports related to the media anchoring points received in
the SDP answer from the SIP core.
6\. To trigger resources allocation, the MC service server sends a request for
communication resources to 5GS. For direct interaction, the resource
allocation request is exchanged between MC service server and 5GS PCF using N5
reference point or Rx reference point. For indirect interaction, the resource
allocation request is exchanged between MC service server and 5GS NEF using
N33 reference point. The respective procedures are defined in 3GPP TS 23.502
[10]).
7\. Session management procedures using PCF policy control enforcement (as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]) initiated from MC service server either
directly via PCF or indirectly via NEF.
8\. The MC service call/session is established, and resources have been
allocated.
### 7.2.4 Request for modification of unicast resources
To modify an unicast media flow, the MC service server shall send a resource
modification request containing the parameters to be modified, using the call
control protocol via the SIP core to the UE. The exchange of the QoS
characteristics of the concerned resources takes place exclusively by means of
direct interaction between SIP core and PCF.
Possible scenarios when this procedure may be used are:
> \- Modify the allocation and retention priority for unicast resources;
>
> \- Release and resume resources in-between MC service calls when using the
> chat model; or
\- Releasing resources for the media plane should give the option to allow the
SIP session to either be torn down or continue.
Procedures in figure 7.2.4-1 are the signalling procedures for the
modification of a unicast:
Pre-conditions:
\- An MC service call or session is already in progress;
Figure 7.2.4-1: Media flow modification request
1\. MC service server decides to modify the parameters of a unicast bearer
(e.g. a request to upgrade the existing MC service call to an MC service
emergency or imminent threat call).
2\. MC service server sends a session update which includes a resource
modification request containing the modified parameters of the unicast bearer.
3\. Session management procedures using PCF policy control enforcement (as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]) initiated by the MC service server using
direct interaction between SIP core and PCF.
4\. The SIP core local inbound / outbound proxy forwards the session update
request to the MC service client.
5\. The MC service client acknowledges the call control protocol request with
an OK message.
6\. The SIP core local inbound / outbound proxy forwards the OK message to the
MC service server.
7\. The MC service call continues with the modified unicast resources.
NOTE: If multiple audio streams are sent to the UE, additional QoS flows could
be required during an established session. Pre-allocation of additional QoS
flows already at session establishment could be useful.
### 7.2.5 Request for media resources from MC service server
#### 7.2.5.1 General
The procedure in this sub clause specifies how to request resources for floor
control (or transmission control in MCVideo and MCData) and for the media
plane can be handled independently. This procedure utilizes the N5 reference
point or Rx reference point for direct interaction between MC service server
and 5GS (PCF) and for direct interaction between SIP core and 5GS (PCF).
Alternatively, resource requests for the media plane can be exchanged
indirectly using N33 reference point between MC service server and NEF.
Resources for transmission control are requested at session establishment, in
this case the IMS standard procedures using for direct interaction N5
reference point or Rx reference point as specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [2] are
used. The session description in this procedure shall encompass bandwidth
information applicable for the transmission control traffic requirement. At
group call setup the request for resources for the media plane is triggered.
Either this request is sent directly from the MC service server to 5GS (PCF)
or indirectly from the MC service server to 5GS (NEF).
The procedure is optional and is suitable when the procedures for pre-
established sessions are used. It may also be used to setup and tear down the
media plane used between consecutive group calls in one communication session
using the chat call model.
#### 7.2.5.2 Procedure
The figure 7.2.5.2-1 illustrates the procedure for resource allocation.
Figure 7.2.5.2-1: Request of resources for transmission control and media
plane
1\. The MC service client sends a request for group affiliation.
2\. The MC service client sends a request to the MC service server for
establishment of a communication session.
3\. The MC service server answer the session establishment request and adjust
the bandwidth information in the session description. The requested bandwidth
shall be minimized to cover the bandwidth requirements for floor control
signalling (or transmission control for MCVideo or MCData).
4\. The SIP core request resources towards the 5GS according to the session
establishment request.
5\. Session management procedures using PCF policy control enforcement (as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]) initiated by the SIP Core.
6\. The session establishment request is completed, and a response is sent
towards the MC service client.
7\. The MC service client sends a call setup message according to existing
procedures.
8\. The MC service server sends a request for resources for the media plane to
5GS, and the media plane is by that established. For direct interaction, the
resource allocation request is exchanged between MC service server and 5GS PCF
using N5 reference point or Rx reference point. For indirect interaction, the
resource allocation request is exchanged between MC service server and 5GS NEF
using N33 reference point. The respective procedures are defined in 3GPP TS
23.502 [10]). This request includes media description relevant for the media
plane.
9\. Session management procedures using PCF policy control enforcement (as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.502 [10]) initiated by the MC service server either
directly via PCF or indirectly via NEF.
10\. Group call is ongoing on the group communication session.
11\. The MC service serve sends a release of media resources to 5GS, and the
media plane is by that terminated.
NOTE 1: The resources for transmission control are retained.
NOTE 2: Step 7-11 can be repeated several times within the life cycle of one
communication session.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Configuration data for MC services using 5GS
# A.1 General
This Annex provides information about the static data needed for configuration
of MC services encompassing the following category:
\- Initial MC service UE configuration data (see subclause A.2).
Each parameter that can be configured online shall only be configured through
one online reference point. Each parameter that can be configured offline
shall only be configured through one offline reference point. The most recent
configuration data made available to the MC service UE shall always overwrite
previous configuration data, irrespective of whether the configuration data
was provided via the online or offline mechanism.
# A.2 Initial MC service UE configuration data
The configuration data defined in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] in Annex A.6 apply, with
the following exceptions:
\- DNN and the corresponding DN credentials instead of the PDN credentials
shall be used, along with the S-NSSAI to be used for each MC service;
\- The Default Configured slice(s) information may be pre-configured at the MC
service UE and be utilized as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [7];
NOTE: It is up to UE implementation, whether an S-NSSAI value is included in
the Requested NSSAI. If not included, the corresponding MC traffic could be
handled according to the URSP rule with the \"match all\" Traffic descriptor.
\- Additional MC network slice identification information may be provided for
each S-NSSAI, e.g., the corresponding network slice credentials.
#