# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The LTE MBMS bearer service is used to support group communications of mission
critical services through the GCSE enabler. The present document is targeted
at facilitating interactions of group communications between mission critical
applications and MBMS bearer services within the UE.
The present document defines abstract functionalities of application
programming interface that allow mission critical applications to use MBMS
capabilities without requiring access to implementation logic of MBMS
operations. The API functionalities defined in the present document are
platform and language independent. Related study was conducted in 3GPP TR
23.792 [7].
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the application programming interface on the UE
for mission critical applications to access mission critical services over
MBMS.
This document identifies system architecture and functional model for the
definition of the MBMS API for mission critical services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.379: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.281: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Video (MCVideo); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Data (MCData); Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.792: \"Study on MBMS APIs for Mission Critical Services\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**MC MBMS API:** An application programming interface on the UE to enable the
use of MBMS bearer service for mission critical applications.
**MBMS bearer availability:** Presence of the TMGI identifying an MBMS bearer
within the radio control channels.
**MBMS bearer quality monitoring:** Continuous evaluation of the reception
quality of an MBMS bearer, with or without data being received on the MBMS
bearer.
**MBMS subchannel:** A logical channel which uses resources of an activated
and announced MBMS bearer identified by the TMGI of the MBMS bearer and
additional parameters, e.g. UDP port.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
API Application Programming Interface
BM-SC Broadcast Multicast Service Centre
ECGI E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FEC Forward Error Correction
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MCA MC Application
MC-MUA MC MBMS user agent
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MCData Mission Critical Data
MCPTT Mission Critical Push To Talk
MCVideo Mission Critical Video
ROHC Robust Header Compression
SAI Service Area Identity
SDP Session Description Protocol
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
# 4 Functional architecture
## 4.1 General
This clause specifies the functional model of the MC MBMS API within the MC
service UE (as described in clause 4.3), and the system architecture (as
described in clause 4.2).
## 4.2 System architecture
This clause demonstrates the end-to-end MC service architecture with the use
of MC MBMS API for MC multicast operations.
Figure 4.2-1 shows the system architecture for mission critical
communications. In the system architecture GCSE communications as defined in
3GPP TS 23.468 [2] is supported. When representing the MC service client, the
MC application accesses the MBMS resource on MC MBMS user agent through the MC
MBMS API, based on information in application signalling over MCPTT-1,
MCVideo-1 or relevant interfaces of MCData service. Some multicast related
information acquired through the MC MBMS API are used by the MC application to
report to the MC service server over application signalling.
Figure 4.2-1: System architecture for MC MBMS API
## 4.3 Functional model
### 4.3.1 Functional model of MC MBMS API
Figure 4.3.1-1 shows the functional model of the MC MBMS API which resides
between the MC application and MC MBMS user agent on the MC service UE.
Figure 4.3.1-1: MC MBMS API functional model
In the functional model the MC application can represent an MC service client.
The MC MBMS user agent supports the MC service client functions in receiving
the MBMS bearer data for the use of MBMS transmission defined in 3GPP TS
23.280 [3], 3GPP TS 23.379 [4], 3GPP TS 23.281 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.282 [6].
### 4.3.2 MC application
The MC application invokes the MC MBMS API to access and manage the MBMS
bearers to support MC services.
The MC application supports the following functions:
\- Registration and deregistration to the MC MBMS user agent;
\- Reception of application level control signalling messages;
\- Activation and termination of MBMS bearer quality monitoring;
\- Obtaining MBMS bearer availability through the MC MBMS API;
\- Obtaining MBMS bearer suspension and resumption status through the MC MBMS
API;
\- Reception of media with or without FEC encoding and media with or without
ROHC compression from the MC MBMS user agent;
\- Obtaining location information for MBMS usage through the MC MBMS API;
\- Configuration of the MC MBMS user agent; and
\- Retrieve capabilities of MC MBMS user agent.
### 4.3.3 MC MBMS user agent
The MC MBMS user agent may provide MBMS media with FEC and ROHC to the MC
application.
One or more MC application(s) use the MC MBMS API provided by the MC MBMS user
agent.
The MC MBMS user agent supports the following functions:
\- Detection of location information for MBMS usage;
\- Detection of MBMS bearer availability;
\- Report of MBMS bearer quality to the MC application;
\- Reception of MBMS data from a lower layer of the UE;
\- Detection of suspension of MBMS bearer; and
\- Delivery of media with or without FEC encoding and media with or without
ROHC compression to the MC application.
# 5 Mission critical MBMS application programming interfaces
## 5.1 General
This clause defines the MC MBMS API that enables the MC applications to get
access to MBMS capabilities exposed by MC MBMS user agent, corresponding to
the function models defined in clause 4. The MC MBMS API supports the use of
MBMS transmission for mission critical services as defined in 3GPP TS 23.280
[3], 3GPP TS 23.379 [4], 3GPP TS 23.281 [5] and 3GPP TS 23.282 [6]; and these
API functions comply with multicast group communications enabled by GCSE as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.468 [2].
## 5.2 Get MBMS SAI
### 5.2.1 General
This subclause defines API functions of get MBMS SAI request and get MBMS SAI
response.
The get MBMS SAI request is asynchronous API function call and the get MBMS
SAI response providing the result is sent via callback mechanism.
The MC application uses this API function call to obtain the MBMS SAI(s) of
which the UE is currently located.
### 5.2.2 Procedures
Figure 5.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure of get MBMS SAI by which the MC
application queries the current MBMS SAI(s) that the MC service UE is located.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application has registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
Figure 5.2.2-1: Get MBMS SAI procedure
1\. The MC application queries the MBMS SAI information from the MC MBMS user
agent.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent responds with the SAI(s) of which the UE is
currently located.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application is able to report the MBMS SAI information.
### 5.2.3 Information flows
#### 5.2.3.1 Get MBMS SAI request
The get MBMS SAI request does not have input parameters.
#### 5.2.3.2 Get MBMS SAI response
Table 5.2.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the get MBMS SAI response.
Table 5.2.3.2-1: Get MBMS SAI response
* * *
Information element Status Description MBMS SAIs M A list of MBMS SAIs that
are available where the MC service UE is currently located Result M Result of
the API call (success or failure) Reason code O The code for failure
* * *
## 5.3 MBMS SAI update notification
### 5.3.1 General
This subclause defines API function of MBMS SAI update notification.
The SAI update notification is a callback function that notifies about the
updated MBMS SAI(s) detected by MC MBMS user agent.
The MC application receives the notification when the MBMS SAI(s) of the UE
changed.
The subscription for the notification is performed with the registration of
the MC application.
### 5.3.2 Procedures
Figure 5.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure of MBMS SAI update notification by
which the MC application is notified about the updated MBMS SAIs upon the
occurrence of the MBMS SAI change.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application has registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
\- The MBMS SAI(s) where the MC service UE is located has changed.
Figure 5.3.2-1: MBMS SAI update notification procedure
1\. The MC MBMS user agent detects the MBMS SAI(s) of which the MC service UE
resides on has changed.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent notifies the MC application about the updated SAI
information.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application is able to report the MBMS SAI information.
### 5.3.3 Information flows
#### 5.3.3.1 MBMS SAI update notification
Table 5.3.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the MBMS SAI update
notification.
Table 5.3.3.1-1: MBMS SAI update notification
* * *
Information element Status Description MBMS SAIs M A list of MBMS SAIs that
are available where the MC service UE is currently located
* * *
## 5.4 Get cell info
### 5.4.1 General
This subclause defines API functions of get cell info request and get cell
info response.
The get cell info request is an asynchronous API function call and the get
cell info response providing the result is sent via callback mechanism.
The MC application uses this API function call to obtain the information of
the cell where the UE is currently located.
### 5.4.2 Procedures
Figure 5.4.2-1 illustrates the procedure of get cell info by which the MC
application queries the current cell information of the MC service UE.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application has registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Get cell info procedure
1\. The MC application queries the cell information from the MC MBMS user
agent.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent responds with the cell information of which the UE
is currently located.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application is able to report the cell location information.
### 5.4.3 Information flows
#### 5.4.3.1 Get cell info request
The get cell info request does not have input parameters.
#### 5.4.3.2 Get cell info response
Table 5.4.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the get cell info response.
Table 5.4.3.2-1: Get cell info response
* * *
Information element Status Description Cell Info M ECGI of the cell where the
MC service UE is currently located Result M Result of the API call (success or
failure) Reason code O The code for failure
* * *
## 5.5 Cell update notification
### 5.5.1 General
This subclause defines API function of cell update notification.
The cell update notification is a callback function that notifies about the
updated cell location detected by MC MBMS user agent.
The MC application receives the notification when the cell location of the UE
changed.
The subscription for the notification is performed with the registration of
the MC application.
### 5.5.2 Procedures
Figure 5.5.2-1 illustrates the procedure of cell update notification by which
the MC application is notified about the updated cell information upon the
occurrence of cell change.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application has registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
\- The cell of the MC service UE has changed.
Figure 5.5.2-1: Cell update notification procedure
1\. The MC MBMS user agent detects the cell change on the MC service UE.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent notifies the MC application about the updated cell
information.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application is able to report the cell information update.
### 5.5.3 Information flows
#### 5.5.3.1 Cell update notification
Table 5.5.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the cell update
notification.
Table 5.5.3.1-1: Cell update notification
* * *
Information element Status Description Cell Info M ECGI of the cell where the
MC service UE is currently located
* * *
## 5.6 Application registration
### 5.6.1 General
Registration is required to perform initialization operations for using the MC
MBMS API. The purpose of application registration is to allow access of MBMS
service on the UE for MC applications. This registration also uniquely
identifies each MC application that can access MBMS service on the UE and
provides the MC MBMS user agent the call back listeners to receive
asynchronous notifications on relevant events.
### 5.6.2 Procedures
Figure 5.6.2-1 illustrates the procedure for application registration. This
procedure allows the MC application to register with the MC MBMS user agent to
consume MC services delivered over MBMS. It has two purposes:
a) It identifies the MC application registering with the MC MBMS user agent;
b) It allows the MC application to identify its callback listeners for the MC
MBMS user agent to provide asynchronous notifications on relevant events.
NOTE: Since some application development frameworks do not support callback
functions, an MC application for these frameworks will not provide callback
listeners in this procedure. Instead, the MC application will implement the
necessary approach available on these frameworks to receive event
notifications from the MC MBMS user agent in place of callback functions. The
notifications implemented on these frameworks will include the same
information content.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application has discovered the availability of the MC MBMS API.
Figure 5.6.2-1: Application registration procedure
1\. MC application registers to the MC MBMS user agent with the application
registration request.
2\. MC MBMS user agent registers the application
3\. Registration result is notified to the MC application.
Post-conditions:
\- If registration is successful, the MC application can proceed with other MC
MBMS API interactions with the MC MBMS user agent.
### 5.6.3 Information flows
#### 5.6.3.1 Application registration request
Table 5.6.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the application
registration request.
Table 5.6.3.1-1: Application registration request
+---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Information element | Status | Description | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Application ID | M | Provides a unique ID for | | | | the application | | | | registering with the MC | | | | MBMS user agent. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Group communication | O | Provides the call back | | callback | | listener. | | | (see NOTE) | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | Application specific | O | Enables the MC MBMS user | | context | | agent to distinguish | | | | different applications. | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+ | NOTE: The callback | | | | element is optional and | | | | only included when the | | | | application development | | | | framework supports | | | | programmatic callback | | | | interfaces. If callbacks | | | | are not supported on a | | | | given application | | | | development framework, | | | | the same information | | | | content as defined on the | | | | callback structures is to | | | | be provided to the | | | | application via the | | | | notification callback | | | | available with that | | | | development framework | | | | when the respective | | | | condition is met. | | | +---------------------------+------------+---------------------------+
#### 5.6.3.2 Application registration response
Table 5.6.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the application
registration response.
Table 5.6.3.2-1: Application registration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Response code M Provides the result of
the registration request: success, failure or missing parameters. Message O
Provides an associated text description of the error message, if registration
failed
* * *
## 5.7 Application deregistration
### 5.7.1 General
The application deregistration allows the MCA to deregister from the MC-MUA.
### 5.7.2 Procedures
Figure 5.7.2-1 illustrates the procedure for application deregistration.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application is registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
Figure 5.7.2-1: Application deregistration procedure
1\. The MC application deregisters. No additional notification from the MC
MBMS user agent is expected by the MC application.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent interrupts all operations previously requested by
the MC application and deletes any parameters and/or internal state associated
to this application.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application can no more proceed any API interactions with the MC
MBMS user agent till a new execution of the application registration
procedure.
### 5.7.3 Information flows
#### 5.7.3.1 Application deregistration request
There are no information elements within the application deregistration
request.
## 5.8 MBMS bearer registration
### 5.8.1 General
The MBMS bearer registration is used by the MC application to exchange
information about an announced MBMS bearer with the MC MBMS client. The MC
MBMS user agent checks the availability of this MBMS bearer and, if required,
monitors its quality.
### 5.8.2 Procedures
Figure 5.8.2-1 illustrates the procedure for MC MBMS bearer registration. This
procedure allows the MC application to inform the MC MBMS user agent about an
MBMS bearer announced to the MC application.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application is registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
\- An MC MBMS bearer has been announced to the MC application by the MC
service server.
Figure 5.8.2-1: MC MBMS bearer registration procedure
1\. The MC application registers a newly announced MBMS bearer to the MC MBMS
user agent. The MC application informs the MC MBMS user agent if reception
quality evaluation is expected from the MC MBMS user agent.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent registers the new MBMS bearer.
NOTE: If the MBMS bearer is announced with a list of alternative TMGIs, the MC
application can register the MBMS bearer several times, for each distinct
TMGI.
3\. The MC MBMS user agent notifies the MC application about the registration
result.
Post-conditions:
\- If registration is successful, the MC MBMS user agent checks the MBMS
bearer presence and executes MC MBMS bearer availability procedure.
### 5.8.3 Information flows
#### 5.8.3.1 MC MBMS bearer registration request
Table 5.8.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the MC MBMS bearer
registration request.
Table 5.8.3.1-1: MC MBMS bearer registration request
* * *
Information element Status Description TMGI M TMGI information List of service
area identifier M A list of service area identifier for the applicable MBMS
broadcast area Frequency O Identification of frequency if multi carrier
support is provided Monitoring reception quality O This boolean is used to
control if the MC MBMS user agent is actively monitoring the MBMS bearer
quality or not
* * *
#### 5.8.3.2 MC MBMS bearer registration response
Table 5.8.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the MC MBMS bearer
registration response.
Table 5.8.3.2-1: MC MBMS bearer registration response
* * *
Information element Status Description TMGI M TMGI information Response code M
Provides the result of the registration request: success, failure or missing
parameters Message O Additional details
* * *
## 5.9 MBMS bearer deregistration
### 5.9.1 General
The MBMS bearer deregistration allows the MC application to deregister an MBMS
bearer with the MC MBMS user agent.
### 5.9.2 Procedures
Figure 5.9.2-1 illustrates the procedure for MC MBMS bearer deregistration.
The MC application can execute this procedure when this MBMS bearer has been
de-announced.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application is registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
\- An MBMS bearer has been announced to the MC application and registered
within the MC MBMS user agent.
\- The MBMS bearer is de-announced by the MC service server towards the MC
application.
Figure 5.9.2-1: MC MBMS deregistration procedure
1\. The MC application deregisters the MBMS bearer with the MC MBMS user
agent. No additional notification from the MC MBMS user agent is expected by
the MC application related to this MBMS bearer.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent interrupts all operations previously requested by
the MC application for this MBMS bearer and deletes any parameters and/or
internal state associated to this MBMS bearer.
> 3\. The MC MBMS user agent notifies the MC application about the
> deregistration result.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application can no more proceed any API interactions with the MC
MBMS user agent related to this MBMS bearer, e.g. API interactions for media
consumption.
### 5.9.3 Information flows
#### 5.9.3.1 MC MBMS bearer deregistration request
Table 5.9.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the MC MBMS bearer
deregistration request.
Table 5.9.3.1-1: MC MBMS bearer deregistration request
* * *
Information element Status Description TMGI M TMGI information
* * *
#### 5.9.3.2 MC MBMS bearer deregistration response
Table 5.9.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the MC MBMS bearer
deregistration response.
Table 5.9.3.2-1: MC MBMS bearer deregistration response
* * *
Information element Status Description Response code M Provides the result of
the deregistration request: success, failure or missing parameters Message O
Additional details
* * *
## 5.10 MBMS bearer notification
### 5.10.1 General
The MBMS bearer notification is used by the MC MBMS user agent to notify the
MC application about events related to the MBMS bearer availability and
quality.
### 5.10.2 Procedures
#### 5.10.2.1 MC MBMS bearer availability
Figure 5.10.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure for MC MBMS bearer availability.
This procedure allows the MC MBMS user agent to notify the MBMS application
that a registered MBMS bearer is available within the UE location.
Pre-conditions:
> \- The MC application is registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
>
> \- An MBMS bearer has been announced to the MC application.
>
> \- The MC application has registered this MBMS bearer within the MC MBMS
> user agent
>
> \- No MBMS bearer availability notification has been sent since the MBMS
> bearer registration, or the MBMS bearer availability status has changed.
NOTE: The MC MBMS user agent may additionnally repeat the MBMS bearer
availability notification even if the bearer availability status is unchanged.
Such behavior is left to implementation.
Figure 5.10.2.1-1: MC MBMS bearer availability procedure
1\. The MC MBMS user agent continuously checks if the MBMS bearer is available
at the UE location.
2\. If the MBMS bearer availability status has changed, the MC MBMS user agent
sends a MC MBMS bearer availability notification. If the MBMS bearer is
resumed, the MC MBMS bearer availability notification contains the status of
MBMS resumption. If the MBMS bearer is suspended, the MC MBMS bearer
availability notification contains the status of MBMS suspension.
Post-conditions:
> \- If the MBMS bearer became available and if MBMS bearer quality evaluation
> is required by the MC application, as asked during the MBMS registration
> procedure, the MC MBMS user agent executes the MC MBMS bearer quality
> evaluation procedure.
>
> \- If the MBMS bearer became unavailable, the MBMS bearer quality evaluation
> procedure, if in execution, is interrupted.
>
> \- If the MBMS bearer is resumed, the MC application may send the MBMS
> suspension report to the MC service server indicating the MBMS resumption.
\- If the MBMS bearer is suspended, the MC application may send the MBMS
suspension report to the MC service server indicating the MBMS suspension.
#### 5.10.2.2 MC MBMS bearer quality evaluation
Figure 5.10.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure for MC MBMS bearer quality
evaluation. This procedure allows the MC MBMS user agent to notify the MBMS
application about the evaluated quality of the MBMS bearer.
Pre-conditions:
> \- The MC application is registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
>
> \- An MBMS bearer has been announced to the MC application by the MC service
> server.
>
> \- The MC application has registered this MBMS bearer within the MC MBMS
> user agent and required quality evaluation.
\- The MBMS bearer is available at the UE location.
Figure 5.10.2.2-1: MC MBMS bearer quality evaluation procedure
1\. The MC MBMS user agent continuously evaluates reception for the MBMS
bearer.
2\. When reception quality evaluation is done and
\- No notification for the reception quality evaluation has been done since
the last MC MBMS bearer availability notification for this given MBMS bearer;
or
\- The reception quality evaluation or reception quality level is different to
the last reception quality notification.
Then, the MC MBMS user agent notifies the MC application about the reception
quality.
Note: The need for a hysteresis within the MC MBMS user agent, to avoid
sending too frequent reception quality evaluation notifications is left to
implementation.
Post-conditions:
> \- The MC MBMS user agent keeps executing the MC MBMS bearer quality
> evaluation procedure.
### 5.10.3 Information flows
#### 5.10.3.1 MC MBMS bearer availability
Table 5.10.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the MC MBMS bearer
availability notification. This information flow is used for notification
about MBMS bearer availability and unavailability.
Table 5.10.3.1-1: MC MBMS bearer event notification
* * *
Information element Status Description TMGI M TMGI information Event code M
Code providing the nature of the event Message O Additional details
* * *
Table 5.10.3.1-2 provides the list of events identified by the event code IE,
sent by MC MBMS bearer availability notifications.
Table 5.10.3.1-2: Event list
* * *
Event Description Available The MBMS bearer is available Resumed The MBMS
bearer is resumed after suspension. Unavailable The MBMS bearer is unavailable
Suspended The MBMS bearer is suspended
* * *
#### 5.10.3.2 MC MBMS bearer quality evaluation
Table 5.10.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the MC MBMS bearer quality
evaluation. This information flow is used for notification about MBMS bearer
reception quality.
Table 5.10.3.2-1: MC MBMS bearer quality evaluation
Information element Status Description
* * *
TMGI M TMGI information Reception quality evaluation M Indicates if the
reception quality for the MBMS bearer is evaluated good or bad (binary
evaluation). Reception quality level O Level of reception quality (see NOTE)
Message O Additional details NOTE: The set of discrete quality levels helps
enable the make-before-break procedure (subclause 5.3.3.2 of 23.468 [2]) by
the application. How these levels are derived is implementation specific.
## 5.11 Open media
### 5.11.1 General
This subclause specifies the open media to start the reception of a given
media delivered over an MBMS subchannel.
With this API function, header decompression and FEC decoding can be performed
by the MC MBMS user agent or by the MC application.
This API function allows two methods to return the media from the MC MBMS user
agent to the MC application: by providing them on a local network interface or
by returning them with a callback mechanism.
NOTE: This specification does not specify wether the local network interface
for returning the media is managed by the MC MBMS user agent or by the lower
layer of the UE (modem).
### 5.11.2 Procedures
The procedure specified in figure 5.11.2-1 allows the consumption of a media
delivered over MBMS.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application is registered towards the MC MBMS user agent
\- A MBMS bearer has been announced to the MC application through the MBMS
procedures specified in 3GPP TS 23.280 [3] and registered toward the MC MBMS
user agent.
\- This MBMS bearer is available within the UE location.
\- The MC application has received a MapGroupToBearer message (see 3GPP TS
23.379 [4], table 10.10.1.1-1 for MCPTT and 3GPP TS 23.281 [5], table
7.10.1.2-1 for MCVideo).
Figure 5.11.2-1: Open media procedure
1\. The MC application asks to access to the communication with the open media
request, by indicating the TMGI of the MBMS bearer and a list of media
description information. If the MC application requests FEC decoding and/or
header decompression, relevant FEC and ROHC information are included within
the open media request; if the MC application wants the media packets to be
returned by callback, the MC application provides a callback listener.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent checks if the MBMS bearer of the media is available
and starts its reception.
NOTE: The MBMS bearer may transport several media, e.g. application control
signalling, media. The MBMS bearer reception may already be started if another
media transported by this MBMS bearer has been opened.
3\. When the media is available, the MC MBMS user agent sends an open media
response to the MC application, including a description of the required media
(which can be with or without FEC decoding). If packets are returned to the MC
application through a local network interface, this network interface name is
included in the response.
4\. The MC MBMS user agent makes the media streams available to the MC
application according to the configured method for returning media with a help
of a local network interface, or by returning the media packets to the
callback listener provided in step 1.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application can consume the required media, until interruption if
the MBMS bearer becomes unavailable, or until it closes the media with the
close media procedure.
### 5.11.3 Information flows
#### 5.11.3.1 Open media request
Table 5.11.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the open media request.
Table 5.11.3.1-1: Open media request
* * *
Information element Status Description TMGI M TMGI information of the
announced MBMS bearer Media description O Describes the multicast IP adresses
and ports of the requested media. (e.g. the MBMS subchannel). FEC information
O FEC information if the MC application requests the MC MBMS user agent to
perform the FEC decoding. ROHC information O ROHC information for the
requested media. Indicates if header decompression by the MC MBMS user agent
is requested. Callback O Dedicated callback listener where to return the
received media packets. If this IE is not present, the media packets are
returned over a local network interface.
* * *
#### 5.11.3.2 Open media response
Table 5.11.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the open media response.
Table 5.11.3.2-1: Open media response
* * *
Information element Status Description Media identifier M Identifier from the
open media request Response code M Indicates if the open media request was
successful, otherwise an error code Message O Additional details Media
description O Description of opened media, including the multicast IP address
and port of the media, after FEC decoding Network interface O The local
network interface, identified by the name of a network interface card, where
the given media can be consumed by the MC application, if packet are forwarded
to the MC application over a local network interface according the configured
method for media reception
* * *
## 5.12 Close media
### 5.12.1 General
This subclause specifies the close media invoked by the MC application to stop
the reception of a given media.
### 5.12.2 Procedures
Figure 5.12.2-1 illustrates the procedure for close media.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application is consuming a media, after having called the open media
procedure.
\- The MC application has received a UnMapGroupToBearer message (see 3GPP TS
23.379 [6], table 10.10.1.2 -1 for MCPTT and 3GPP TS 23.281 [4], table
7.10.1.3-1 for MCVideo).
Figure 5.12.2-1: Close media procedure
1\. The MC application asks the MC MBMS user agent to stop the reception of
media streams with the close media request.
2\. The MC MBMS user agent stops the possible header decompression and FEC
decoding.
3\. The MC MBMS user agent notifies the MC application that the media has been
closed.
Post-conditions:
\- The closed media streams are no more available to the MC application.
\- If no other media from this MBMS bearer are opened, the MC MBMS user agent
can end the reception of this MBMS bearer.
### 5.12.3 Information flows
#### 5.12.3.1 Close media request
Table 5.12.3.1-1 describes the information flow for the close media request.
Table 5.12.3.1-1: Close media request
* * *
Information element Status Description Media identifier M Identifier from the
open media request
* * *
#### 5.12.3.2 Close media response
Table 5.12.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the close media response.
Table 5.12.3.2-1: Close media response
* * *
Information element Status Description Media identifier M Identifier from the
open media request Response code M Indicates if the close media request was
successful, otherwise an error code Message O Additional details.
* * *
## 5.13 Retrieve capability
### 5.13.1 General
This subclause defines API function of retrieve capability.
The retrieve capability request is an API function call and retrieve
capability response is returned with a list of capabilities.
The MC application uses this API function call to query what capabilities
(e.g. FEC and ROHC) are supported by the MC MBMS user agent.
### 5.13.2 Procedures
Figure 5.13.2-1 illustrates the procedure of retrieve capability.
Pre-conditions:
\- The MC application has registered towards the MC MBMS user agent.
Figure 5.13.2-1: Retrieve capability procedure
1\. The MC application sends a request to query the capabilities of the MC
MBMS user agent.
2\. A retrieve capability response is returned with a list of available
capabilities.
Post-conditions:
\- The MC application can further decide whether or not to use these
capabilities of the MC MBMS user agent for subsequent communication.
### 5.13.3 Information flows
#### 5.13.3.1 Retrieve capability request
The retrieve capability request does not have input parameters.
#### 5.13.3.2 Retrieve capability response
Table 5.13.3.2-1 describes the information flow for the retrieve capability
response.
Table 5.13.3.2-1: Retrieve capability response
* * *
Information element Status Description FEC M FEC capability of the MC MBMS
user agent ROHC M ROHC capability of the MC MBMS user agent
* * *
###### ##
#