# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the restoration procedures in the 5G System.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.281: \"General Packet Radio System (GPRS) Tunneling Protocol
User Plane (GTPv1-U)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.244: \"Interface between the Control Plane and the User Plane
Nodes; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.502:\"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\"
[6] 3GPP TS 29.518: \"5G System; Access and Mobility Management Service; Stage
3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network Function Repository Services; Stage
3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service (CBS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); NG Application
Protocol (NGAP)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.247: \"Architectural enhancements for 5G multicast-broadcast
services; Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and 3GPP TS 29.244 [4] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and 3GPP TS 29.244 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5MBS 5G Multicast-Broadcast Services
AF/AS Application Function / Application server
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
C-TEID Common Tunnel Endpoint IDentifier
F-SEID Fully Qualified SEID
F-TEID Fully Qualified TEID (i.e. IP address and TEID)
PFCP Packet Forwarding Control Protocol
GTP-U GTP User plane
LLC SM Low Layer Source Specific Multicast (address)
MBS Multicast/Broadcast Service
MBSF Multicast/Broadcast Service Function
MB-SMF Multicast/Broadcast Session Management Function
MB-UPF Multicast/Broadcast User Plane Function
NEF Network Exposure Function
NG-RAN Next Generation (5G) RAN
PSA PDU Session Anchor
SMF Session Management Function
TEID Tunnel Endpoint IDentifier
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 Restoration Procedures related to the N4 Interface
## 4.1 General
This clause specifies the procedures supported in the 5G System to detect and
handle failures affecting the N4 interface.
## 4.2 N4 Failure and Restart Detection
Across PFCP based interfaces, an SMF and UPF shall utilize the PFCP Heartbeat
Request and Heartbeat Response messages to detect a peer PFCP entity failure
or restart as described in clause 19A of 3GPP TS 23.007 [2].
A PFCP function shall ignore the Recovery Timestamp received in PFCP
Association Setup Request and PFCP Association Setup Response messages (see
clause 6.2.6 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [4]).
## 4.3 UPF Restoration Procedures
### 4.3.1 General
When a UPF fails, all its Session contexts and PFCP associations affected by
the failure become invalid and may be deleted.
### 4.3.2 Restoration Procedure for PSA UPF Restart
If F-TEID and/or UE IP address allocation is performed in the UPF, the UPF
shall ensure that previously used F-TEID values and/or UE IP addresses are not
immediately reused after a UPF restart, in order to avoid inconsistent F-TEID
and/or UE IP address allocation throughout the network and to enable the
restoration of PFCP sessions affected by the failure. How this is ensured is
implementation specific.
The UPF shall not send GTP-U Error indication message for a configurable
period after an UPF restart when the UPF receives a G-PDU not matching any
PDRs.
During or immediately after an UPF Restart, the UPF shall place a local UPF
Recovery Time Stamp value in all Heartbeat Request/Response messages.
Immediately after the re-establishment of a PFCP association between the SMF
and the UPF, the SMF may start restoring PFCP sessions in the UPF.
The SMF should prioritize the PFCP sessions to restore based on operator\'s
policy.
The SMF should control the load induced on the UPF when performing the PFCP
restoration procedures, the way it is done is implementation specific.
When re-establishing a PFCP session and if F-TEID allocation and/or UE IP
address is performed in the PSA UPF by network configuration, the SMF shall
include a restoration indication in the PFCP Session Establishment Request
message to indicate to the UPF it is for a restoration of an existing PFCP
session and the UPF shall accept SMF allocated F-TEID and/or UE IP address if
possible. If the UPF cannot accept the requested F-TEID and/or UE IP address
because the IP address is no longer available at the UPF, the UPF shall reject
the PFCP Session Establishment Request with the cause \"PFCP session
restoration failure due to requested resource not available\".
NOTE: The cause \"PFCP session restoration failure due to requested resource
not available\" corresponds to scenarios where the requested address is no
longer available at the UPF, i.e. it cannot be assigned to any PFCP session,
due to e.g. the address having been decommissioned by OAM from the UPF or e.g.
the address being no longer operational due to a partial hardware failure at
the UPF. This cause is not to be used for scenarios where the requested
address would be available at the UPF but would have been re-assigned to a
different PFCP session, which is a scenario that is not expected to happen
based on the requirements specified above.
### 4.3.3 Restoration Procedure for PSA UPF Failure without Restart
Procedures for PSA UPF failure without restart are implementation specific.
### 4.3.4 Restoration Procedure for Intermediate UPF Restart
The SMF will receive the UPF recovery time stamps in PFCP heartbeat
requests/responses.
After an Intermediate UPF restart, the PFCP association between the SMF(s) and
the Intermediate UPF has to be re-established.
The restoration of the PFCP sessions may start immediately after the PFCP
association setup procedure:
\- if the restoration is supported in the SMF on a proactive basis, the SMF
may start re-establishing PFCP sessions matching any PDRs.
\- as defined in clause 4.3.2, the SMF should prioritize the PFCP sessions
restoration.
\- if the restoration is supported in the SMF on a reactive basis:
\- the SMF shall establish an PFCP session with a wildcarded PDR to instruct
the Intermediate UPF to forward G-PDU packets which are not matching any other
PDRs to the SMF (to a F-TEID uniquely assigned in the SMF for this PFCP-u
tunnel);
\- upon receipt of G-PDUs from this PFCP-u tunnel, the SMF shall then check if
it has an active session for each received G-PDU packet:
\- if so, the SMF shall perform the PFCP Session establishment procedures to
re-establish the corresponding PFCP sessions in the Intermediate UPF;
\- otherwise the SMF shall generate a GTP-U Error Indication with a
destination address set to the source IP address of the received G-PDU, and
send it to the Intermediate UPF. The Intermediate UPF shall forward this GTP-U
Error Indication transparently. The SMF shall delete the G-PDU after the check
for active sessions.
NOTE 1: The UPF can filter the G-PDU packets with same target F-TEID and send
only one such G-PDU to the Intermediate SMF.
When re-establishing a PFCP session and if F-TEID allocation is performed in
the Intermediate UPF by network configuration, the SMF shall include a
restoration indication in the PFCP Session Establishment Request message to
indicate to the UPF it is for a restoration of an existing PFCP session and
the UPF shall accept SMF allocated F-TEID if possible. If the UPF cannot
accept the requested F-TEID because the IP address is no longer available at
the UPF, the UPF shall reject the PFCP Session Establishment Request with the
cause \"PFCP session restoration failure due to requested resource not
available\".
The Intermediate UPF shall not send any Error indication messages for an
operator configurable period after an Intermediate UPF restart when the
Intermediate UPF receives G-PDU not matching any PDRs.
NOTE 2: If restoration on a reactive basis is used, the period needs to be
longer than the time required by the SMF to detect the UPF restart, to
establish the PFCP association and provision the wildcarded PDR. Otherwise,
the period needs to be longer than the time required by the SMF to restore all
the PFCP sessions on a proactive basis.
NOTE 3: The cause \"PFCP session restoration failure due to requested resource
not available\" corresponds to scenarios where the requested address is no
longer available at the UPF, i.e. it cannot be assigned to any PFCP session,
due to e.g. the address having been decommissioned by OAM from the UPF or e.g.
the address being no longer operational due to a partial hardware failure at
the UPF. This cause is not to be used for scenarios where the requested
address would be available at the UPF but would have been re-assigned to a
different PFCP session, which is a scenario that is not expected to happen
based on the requirements specified above.
### 4.3.5 Restoration Procedure for Intermediate UPF Failure without Restart
Procedures for Intermediate UPF failure without restart are implementation
specific.
## 4.4 SMF Restoration Procedures
### 4.4.1 General
When a SMF fails, all its PDU session contexts and PFCP associations affected
by the failure may become invalid and may be deleted.
If F-TEID allocation is performed in the SMF, the SMF should ensure as far as
possible that previously used F-TEID values are not immediately reused after a
SMF restart, in order to avoid inconsistent TEID allocation throughout the
network.
NOTE: This is to ensure that F-TEIDs are not reused until earlier PDU sessions
using them are released.
### 4.4.2 Restoration Procedure for SMF Restart
During or immediately after a SMF Restart, the SMF shall place local SMF-C
Recovery Time Stamp value in all Heartbeat Request/Response messages.
The UPF will receive the SMF recovery time stamps in PFCP heartbeat
requests/responses.
When a UPF detects that a peer PFCP entity in the SMF has restarted (as
specified in clause 4.2), the UPF shall delete all session contexts affected
by the PFCP entity restart that it may have stored. When the UPF receives a
GTP‑U PDU not matching any PDRs, it shall discard the GTP‑U PDU and return a
GTP error indication to the originating node (e.g. other UPF, gNB or N3IWF).
### 4.4.3 Restoration Procedure for SMF Failure without Restart
When a UPF detects that a peer PFCP entity in the SMF is not reachable for a
preconfigured time, the UPF shall delete all the session contexts affected by
the peer PFCP entity failure that it may have stored.
## 4.5 N4 path failure
If the N4 path to the UPF is down, the SMF should handle this as an UPF
Failure without Restart, see clause 4.3.3.
If the N4 path to the SMF is down, the UPF should handle this as a SMF Failure
without Restart, see clause 4.4.3.
## 4.6 Partial failure handling over N4
### 4.6.1 General
The SMF and UPF may support the partial failure handling feature over N4. If
so, they shall support the requirements specified in this clause.
This feature enables to clean up PFCP sessions optimally in the peer PFCP node
(i.e. SMF or UPF), when a hardware or software failure affects a significant
number of PFCP sessions. When it is not possible to recover the affected PFCP
sessions, it is useful to inform the peer PFCP node about the affected PFCP
sessions using an identifier that represents a large set of PFCP sessions,
rather than doing so per PFCP session.
A Connection Set Identifier (CSID) shall identify a set of PFCP sessions
within a PFCP node that may belong to an arbitrary number of UEs. A CSID is an
opaque parameter local to a PFCP node. Each PFCP node that supports the
feature shall maintain a local mapping of CSID to its internal resources. When
one or more of these resources fail, the corresponding one or more fully
qualified CSIDs shall be signalled to the peer PFCP nodes.
The fully qualified CSID (FQ-CSID) is the combination of the PFCP node
identity and the CSID assigned by the PFCP node which together globally
identifies a set of PFCP sessions.
The node identifier shall be globally unique across all 3GPP EPS and 5GS
networks. Its format is defined in 3GPP TS 29.244 [4].
### 4.6.2 Procedures
The SMF and the UPF may each assign one FQ-CSID to a PFCP session during the
PFCP session establishment, by signalling the SMF FQ-CSID in the PFCP Session
Establishment Request or the UPF FQ-CSID in the PFCP Session Establishment
Response, as shown in Figure 4.6.2-1.
Figure 4.6.2-1 : PFCP Session Establishment procedure with FQ-CSID
The SMF and the UPF shall assign only one FQ-CSID for a given PFCP session and
each FQ-CSID shall have exactly one CSID within the FQ-CSID. The peer PFCP
node shall store the received FQ-CSID for the related PFCP session.
The receipt of a FQ-CSID also implicitly indicates that the peer FFCP node
supports the feature.
The SMF and the UPF may update the FQ-CSID associated to a PFCP session during
a PFCP session modification procedure, by signalling the SMF FQ-CSID in the
PFCP Session Modification Request or the UPF FQ-CSID in the PFCP Session
Modification Response, as shown in Figure 4.6.2-2.
Figure 4.6.2-2: PFCP Session Modification procedure with change of FQ-CSID
An SMF that detects then that it has undergone a partial failure shall send a
PFCP Session Set Deletion Request, including all its CSIDs corresponding to
the component(s) that failed, to the UPF, if the UPF is known to support the
feature, as shown in Figure 4.6.2-3.
Figure 4.6.2-3: SMF initiated PFCP Session Set Deletion procedure
Likewise, an UPF that detects then that it has undergone a partial failure
shall send a PFCP Session Set Deletion Request, including all its CSIDs
corresponding to the component(s) that failed, to the SMF, if the SMF is known
to support the feature, as shown in Figure 4.6.2-4.
Figure 4.6.2-4: UPF initiated PFCP Session Set Deletion procedure
Upon receiving a PFCP Session Set Deletion Request reporting a partial failure
for one or more FQ-CSID(s), the SMF or UPF shall find the PFCP sessions
matching the FQ-CSID(s) and then proceed with the restoration procedures
specified in clause 4 for an SMF or UPF failure.
## 4.7 Restoration of PFCP sessions associated with a specific FQ-CISD, Group
ID or SMF IP Address
### 4.7.1 General
To reduce signalling latency and achieve a better load balancing among SMFs in
a SMF Set when it is deployed, an SMF in a SMF Set and a UPF may support the
procedures specified in this clause. These procedures enable an SMF from the
same set to request UPF to move PFCP sessions associated with certain FQ-CSIDs
(when partial failure handling is supported as specified in clause 4.6), Group
IDs or SMF IP addresses, to (another) SMF(s) in the set proactively, without
causing massing signalling (per PFCP session) towards UPF(s).
NOTE: The FQ-CSID can only be used in the procedure specified in this clause
when the partial failure feature (using FQ-CSID) is deployed and used (not to
force the NF to use a Group ID). For a network where the partial failure
feature is not deployed, a Group ID or a SMF IP address needs to be used.
### 4.7.2 Allocation of Group Id or FQ-CSID to a PFCP session
To optimize the resource utilization for PFCP session(s), e.g. to meet
different traffic requirements for different APNs/DNNs and/or DCNs/Network
Slices, and also to facilitate moving a (sub)set of PDN connections/PFCP
sessions among an SMF set, e.g. for a partial or complete SMF failure or a
scale-in operation, an SMF in a SMF Set may:
\- allocate a globally unique Group Id in the PFCP Session Establishment
Request message for a PFCP session during a PFCP session establishment
procedure and update the Group Id, if necessary, in subsequent PFCP Session
Modification Request messages (see also clause 5.22.X of 3GPP TS 29.244 [43]).
Alternatively, if partial failure handling is supported, the SMF may assign an
FQ-CSID to a PFCP session as specified in clause 4.6.
Subsequently, e.g. when a partial or complete failure takes place affecting
all PFCP sessions which are sharing either the same FQ-CSID or the Group ID
(see clause 4.7.1), a PGW-C/SMF in a PGW-C/SMF Set may trigger the restoration
procedure for those affected PFCP sessions as specified in clauses 4.7.3.
### 4.7.3 Restoration of PFCP sessions associated with an FQ-CSID, Group ID or
SMF IP Address
When there is a need to change the SMF controlling certain PFCP sessions, e.g.
when a partial or complete failure takes place, the SMF (either the SMF
serving the PFCP sessions or another SMF in the same Set taking over the
control of the PFCP sessions) may send a PFCP Session Set Modification Request
message to the UPF(s) to request the UPF(s) to send subsequent PFCP Session
Report Request messages to the alternative SMF (as indicated in the
Alternative SMF IP Address IE) for the PFCP sessions which are associated with
the FQ-CSID(s) or Group ID(s), or which have their CP F-SEIDs containing the
SMF IP Address as shown in Figure 4.7.3-1.
The SMF may instruct the UPF to move sessions associated with different SMF
FQ-CSIDs, Group Ids or SMF IP addresses, to different SMF addresses.
Figure 4.7.3-1: SMF initiated PFCP Session Set Modification procedure
# 5 Restoration Procedures related to the User Plane Interfaces N3 and N9
## 5.1 General
This clause specifies the procedures supported in the 5G System to detect and
handle failures affecting the user plane interfaces N3 and N9
## 5.2 User Plane Failure Detection
### 5.2.1 Loss of GTP-U contexts
A GTP-U entity may lose its GTP-U contexts upon a failure or restart.
When a GTP-U node receives a G-PDU for which no corresponding GTP-U tunnel
exists, the GTP-U node shall discard the G-PDU and return a GTP-U Error
Indication to the sending node, as specified in clause 7.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.281
[3].
The receipt of a GTP-U Error Indication is an indication for the sending GTP-U
entity that the peer GTP-U entity cannot receive any more user plane traffic
on the corresponding GTP-U tunnel.
### 5.2.2 User Plane Path Failure
A GTP-U entity may detect a user plane path failure by using GTP-U Echo
Request and Echo Response messages, as specified in clause 20.3.1 of 3GPP TS
23.007 [2].
## 5.3 Restoration Procedures upon Loss of GTP-U contexts
### 5.3.1 General
The following clauses specify the behaviour of the different network entities
when receiving a GTP-U Error Indication.
### 5.3.2 Procedure for GTP-U Error Indication received from 5G-AN
#### 5.3.2.1 Principles
Figure 5.3.2.1-1: GTP-U Error Indication from 5G-AN
1\. The user plane connection of an existing PDU session is activated.
Downlink G-PDUs are sent towards the 5G-AN.
2\. The 5G-AN returns a GTP-U Error Indication if it does not have a
corresponding GTP-U context (see clause 5.2).
3\. Upon receipt of a GTP-U Error Indication, the UPF shall identify the
related PFCP session and send an Error Indication Report to the SMF, as
specified in clause 5.10 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [4].
4\. For a GTP-U Error Indication received from a 5G-AN, the SMF shall modify
the PFCP session to instruct the UPF to buffer downlink packets.
5\. If the user plane connection of the PDU session is seen as activated by
the SMF, the SMF shall initiate an Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer
service operation to request the 5G-AN to release the PDU session\'s
resources, as specified in clause 4.3.7 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [5].
6\. Upon receipt of an Namf_Communication_N1N2MessageTransfer request to
transfer the PDU Session Resource Release Command, the AMF shall:
\- proceed with the request, as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.1 of 3GPP TS
29.518 [6], if the UE is in CM-CONNECTED state for the Access Network Type
associated to the PDU session;
\- otherwise, reject the request with an error indicating that the UE is in
CM-IDLE state for the Access Network Type associated to the PDU session.
7\. If the AMF sent a PDU Session Resource Release Command to the 5G-AN, the
PDU session\'s resource release is acknowledged to the SMF.
8\. The SMF initiates the Network Triggered Service Request procedure
specified in clause 4.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [5], to re-activate the user
plane connection of the PDU session.
### 5.3.3 Procedure for GTP-U Error Indication received from UPF
#### 5.3.3.1 GTP-U Error Indication received by 5G-AN
Upon receipt of a GTP-U Error Indication, the 5G-AN shall proceed as follows:
\- if the GTP-U Error Indication was received from an UPF over a NG-U tunnel
that is not an indirect forwarding tunnel, the 5G-AN shall initiate a PDU
Session Resource Notify procedure and release immediately the resources of the
PDU session for which the Error Indication was received;
\- if the GTP-U Error Indication was received from a peer5G-AN over a Xn-U
direct forwarding tunnel or an UPF over a NG-U indirect forwarding tunnel, the
5G-AN may ignore the error indication or delete the forwarding tunnel context
locally without deleting the corresponding PDU session and bearers.
NOTE: The 5G-AN behaviour for dual connectivity is not described in this
specification.
#### 5.3.3.2 GTP-U Error Indication received by another UPF
Upon receipt of a GTP-U Error Indication, the UPF shall identify the related
PFCP session and send an Error Indication Report to the SMF, as specified in
clause 5.10 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [4].
Upon receipt of an Error Indication Report from the UPF, the SMF shall
identify the PDU session for which the Error Indication is received using the
remote F-TEID included in the report.
For a GTP-U Error Indication received from another UPF, the SMF shall delete
the PFCP session and PDU session, unless the UPF from which the Error
Indication was received is controlled by the same SMF and the SMF is able to
restore the user plane connectivity of the PDU session (e.g. Error Indication
received from an Intermediate UPF controlled by the same SMF).
## 5.4 Restoration Procedures upon User Plane Path Failure
Upon detecting a GTP-U user plane path failure as specified in clause 5.2.2,
the UPF shall report the user plane path failure to the SMF, by sending a PFCP
Node Report Request (see 3GPP TS 29.244 [4]) including a User Plane Path
Failure Report with the IP address of the remote GTP-U peer(s) towards which a
failure has been detected. The UPF should also notify the GTP-U user plane
path failure via the Operation and Maintenance system.
Upon detecting a failed GTP-U user plane path become recovered, the UPF shall
report the user plane path recovery to the SMF, by sending a PFCP Node Report
Request (see 3GPP TS 29.244 [4]) including a User Plane Path Recovery Report
with the IP address of the remote GTP-U peer(s) associated with the recovered
user plane path. The UPF should also notify the GTP-U user plane path recovery
via the Operation and Maintenance system.
When the SMF receives the PFCP Node Report Request with a User Plane Path
Failure Report, the SMF may:
\- delete the PDU session contexts associated with the path in failure; or
\- maintain the PDU session contexts associated with the path in failure
during an operator configurable maximum path failure duration. The SMF shall
delete the PDU session contexts associated with the path in failure if the
path is still down when this duration expires; or
NOTE 1: During transient path failures (e.g. path failures not exceeding few
minutes at most), maintaining the PDU session contexts associated with the
peer\'s IP address enables the delivery of end user services (when the path is
re-established again) and this also avoids unnecessary signalling in the
network for restoring those PDU sessions.
NOTE 2: It is not intended to maintain PDU session contexts during long path
failures (e.g. exceeding few minutes at most) as this would imply undesirable
effects like undue charging.
\- maintain the PDU session contexts associated with the path in failure if
the path in failure is towards a 5G-AN. When deciding to maintain the PDU
session contexts, it shall send a PFCP Session Modification Request message
with changing Apply-Action from FORW to BUFF and NOCP for each affected PFCP
session. In addition, upon receipt of subsequent downlink data notifications
from the UPF or the service request from affected UE, the SMF will try to
reestablish the PDU session resources in the NG-RAN. As an implementation
option, the SMF may try to re-establish the PDU session resources in the NG-
RAN for those PDU sessions associated with the user plane path in failure
prior to receiving downlink data notifications from the UPF or service request
from the affected UE.
NOTE 3: This approach (as above for user plane path failure towards a 5G-AN)
allows to maintain the PDU session even for non-transient path failures. For a
PDU session with I/V-SMF, the pause of charging (as specified in clause 4.4.4
of 3GPP TS 23.502 [5]) ensures that there is no undue charging.
When deciding to delete the PDU session contexts associated with the path in
failure, the SMF shall modify or delete the affected PFCP sessions in the UPF.
NOTE 4: The SMF need to take care to smoothen the signalling load towards the
UPF if a large number of PFCP sessions are affected by the user plane path
failure.
## 5.5 Reporting of a Peer GTP-U Entity Restart
To reduce massive amount of N4 signalling to report the receiving of GTP-U
Error Indication messages and to perform subsequent PFCP Session Modification
for PFCP sessions affected by the peer GTP-U restart, a user plane function
(UPF) and a control plane function (SMF) may optionally support reporting of a
peer GTP-U entity restart.
A GTP-U entity, e.g. in a UPF, may detect the restart of the peer GTP-U entity
as specified in clause 18A of 3GPP TS 23.007 [2].
When the user plane function detects the peer GTP-U entity has restarted via
receiving one or more GTP-U Error Indication message(s) or Echo
Request/Response message(s) containing a larger Recovery Time Stamp, and when
the control plane function supports Reporting of a GTP-U Entity Restart, it
shall send a PFCP Node Report Request message to the control plane function to
report that:
\- the peer GTP-U entity identified by Remote GTP-U Peer IE has restarted; and
\- all PFCP sessions associated with the restarted peer GTP-U entity have been
modified by the user plane function, i.e. the F-TEID(s) that had been
allocated by the restarted GTP-U entity have been removed from the FARs and
the Apply-Action in these FARs changed to BUFF and NOCP, if the restarted
GTP-U entity is a 5G-AN.
NOTE: The UP function can learn if the restarted GTP-U entity is a 5G-AN by
using the Destination Interface Type included in the Forwarding Parameters in
the FAR (which contains the F-TEID that had been allocated by the restarted
GTP-U entity). The control plane function shall send a PFCP Node Report
Response message to acknowledge the receipt of the report of the peer GTP-U
entity restart; and the control plane may further behave as if it receives a
Error Indication Report for those PFCP sessions affected by the peer GTP-U
entity restart, e.g. to trigger a Network Triggered Service Request procedure
if the restarted GTP-U entity is a 5G-AN. (see also clause 5.3)
# 6 Restoration Procedures related to Service-Based Interfaces
## 6.1 General
A NF may detect a failure or a restart of a peer NF or NF service using the
NRF as specified in clause 6.2.
A NF may also detect a restart of a peer NF or NF service by receiving
recovery time information in signalling exchanged with that peer NF or NF
service.
When NF (Service) Set is deployed in the network as specified in clauses
5.21.3 and 6.3.1.0 of 3GPP TS 23.501[9], an NF Service Producer in a NF
(Service) Set creates resource contexts and the context data is shared by all
the NF (Service) instances pertaining to the same NF (Service) set, i.e. the
resource context is bound to the NF (Service) Set. So, requests targeting the
resource may be served by any NF (Service) Instance within the NF (Service)
set, unless the shared contexts are lost (which is further referenced in this
specification as \"the NF (Service) Set has failed or restarted\").
In order to enable peer NFs to detect the loss of the resource contexts, i.e.
the \"restart of the NF (Service) Set or NF instance\", and trigger
appropriate restoration procedures, the NF Service Producer may provide a
recovery timestamp associated to the highest resiliency level that it supports
for the resource context, i.e. the binding entity with which the context data
is shared (bound). Binding entities are sorted from the highest to the lowest
resilience levels as follows: an NF Set, NF Instance, NF service set or NF
service instance. The NF Service Producer may signal this recovery timestamp
and its corresponding binding entity, in direct HTTP signalling or via the
NRF.
NOTE 1: Signalling the recovery timestamp of an NF (Service) Set or an NF
(Service) Instance via the NF profile in the NRF does not require the support
of Binding Indication.
NOTE 2: Signalling the recovery timestamp and its corresponding binding entity
in direct HTTP signalling requires the use of a Binding Indication (i.e.
\"3gpp-sbi-binding\" HTTP header, see clause 5.2.3.2.6 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[10]). When multiple binding entities are present in a Binding Indication, the
binding entity with the highest resiliency level is associated with the
recovery timestamp; otherwise (if there is only one binding entity in a
Binding Indication), the recovery timestamp is associated with that binding
entity in the Binding Indication.
A NF may prioritize the contexts to restore based on operator\'s policy.
A NF should control/regulate the load induced on a peer NF or NF service when
performing the restoration procedures.
The restoration procedures initiated when detecting a failure or a restart are
not specified in this release.
## 6.2 NF (NF Service) Failure and Restart Detection using the NRF
### 6.2.1 General
This clause describes optional procedures that may be supported by NFs to
detect the failure or restart of a NF or a NF service using the NRF.
### 6.2.2 NF (NF Service) Failure
Figure 6.2.2-1 describes a NF failure scenario and how other NFs can be
notified of this failure.
Figure 6.2.2-1: NF Failure Detection and Notification
1\. NF A subscribes to the NRF to receive notifications of changes of the NF B
Profile, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.510 [7].
2\. A NF failure occurs at NF B.
3\. The NRF detects that NF B is no longer operative using the NF Heart-Beat
procedure as specified in clause 5.2.2.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.510 [7]. The NRF
changes the NFStatus of NF B to SUSPENDED.
4\. The NRF notifies NFs having subscribed to receive notifications of changes
of the NF B Profile that the NFStatus of NF B is changed to SUSPENDED.
5\. NF A may trigger appropriate restoration or clean-up actions, if it cannot
communicate with NF B.
Figure 6.2.2-2 describes a NF service failure scenario and how other NFs can
be notified of this failure.
Figure 6.2.2-2: NF Service Failure Detection and Notification
1\. NF A subscribes to the NRF to receive notifications of changes of the NF B
Profile.
2\. A NF Service failure occurs at NF B. NF B (other than the failed NF
Service) is still operative.
3\. NF B (or OAM) updates its NF Profile in the NRF, by setting the
NFServiceStatus of the failed NF Service to SUSPENDED.
4\. The NRF notifies NFs having subscribed to receive notifications of changes
of NF B Profile that the NF Service status of the failed NF service of NF B is
changed to SUSPENDED.
5\. NF A triggers appropriate restoration or clean-up actions, if it cannot
communicate with the NF B service.
### 6.2.3 NF (NF Service) Restart
Figure 6.2.3-1 describes a NF restart scenario and how other NFs can be
notified of this restart.
Figure 6.2.3-1: NF Restart Detection and Notification
1\. NF B (or OAM) registers NF B Profile to the NRF. The NF B Profile may
include the recoveryTime attribute, if a restart of NF B results in losing
contexts.\ \ NF B Profile may include the recoveryTime attribute of the NF Set
to which NF B pertains to, when NF B pertains to an NF Set, i.e. when the
resource contexts created in the NF B is bound to the NF Set, i.e. resource
contexts are accessible by all NF Instances within the NF Set.NOTE 1: The
restart of an NF Set indicates that resource contexts bound to the NF Set
(i.e. that are accessible by all NF Instances within the NF Set) have been
lost.2 NF A subscribes to the NRF to receive notifications of changes of the
NF B Profile.
3\. NF B restarts.
4\. If contexts are lost during the restart, NF B (or OAM) updates the
recoveryTime in its NF Profile in the NRF.\ \ NF B Profile shall update the
recoveryTime attribute of the NF Set to which NF B pertains to, if the whole
NF Set has restarted and NF B has registered the recoveryTime for that NF Set.
5\. The NRF notifies NFs having subscribed to receive notifications of changes
of NF B Profile about the updated recoveryTime of the NF B Profile or updated
recoveryTime of NF Set to which the NF B pertains to.
6\. NF A may consider that all the resources created in the NF B before the NF
B recovery time as have been lost. NF A triggers then appropriate restoration
or clean-up actions.
Figure 6.2.3-2 describes a NF service restart scenario and how other NFs can
be notified of this restart.
Figure 6.2.3-2: NF Service Restart Detection and Notification
1\. NF B (or OAM) registers its NF B Profile (and its services) to the NRF.
The NF B Profile may include the recoveryTime attribute for the NF Services it
supports, if a restart of a NF B service results in losing contexts. The NF B
Profile may include the recoveryTime attribute of either the NF Service Set,
NF Instance or NF Set to which the NF Service Instance pertains to, when the
resource context for the NF Service created in NF B is bound to NF Service
Set, or NF Instance, or NF Set respectively, i.e. accessible by all NF Service
Instances within an NF Service Set, NF Instance or NF Set respectively (see
clause 6.3.1.0 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [9]).
NOTE 2: The restart of an NF Service Set indicates that the resource contexts
bound to the NF Service Set (i.e. accessible by all NF Service Instances
within the NF Service Set) have been lost.
2 NF A subscribes to the NRF to receive notifications of changes of the NF B
Profile.
3\. A NF B service restarts.
4\. If contexts are lost during the service restart, NF B (or OAM) updates the
recoveryTime of the corresponding NF Service in the NRF. NF B (or OAM) shall
update the recoveryTime attribute of the NF Service Set, NF Instance or NF Set
to which the NF Service Instance pertains to, when the whole NF Service Set,
NF Instance or NF Set has restarted respectively.
5\. The NRF notifies NFs having subscribed to receive notifications of changes
of the NF B Profile about the updated recoveryTime of the NF B Service or
updated recoveryTime of the NF B Service Set, NF Instance or NF Set.
6\. NF A may consider that all the resources created in the NF B service
before the NF B service recovery time as have been lost. NF A triggers then
appropriate restoration or clean-up actions.
## 6.3 NF Service Producer Restart Detection using direct signalling between
NFs
### 6.3.1 General
This clause describes an optional procedure that may be supported by NFs to
detect the restart of a peer NF service using direct signalling between NFs.
### 6.3.2 NF Service Producer Restart
Figure 6.3.2-1 describes a NF Service restart scenario of an NF Service
Producer and how the NF Service Consumer can detect this restart.
Figure 6.3.2-1: NF Service Producer Restart Detection
1\. NF A (NF Service Consumer) requests to create a resource in the NF B (NF
Service Producer).
2\. If the request is accepted, and if NF B implements the procedure specified
in this clause, NF B shall return its NF B service instance ID in the
response, and NF A shall associate the created resource with the NF B service
instance if no Binding Indication is received from NF B.
In the response message, the NF B that supports this procedure may include the
recovery timestamp in the Binding Indication (i.e. in the \"3gpp-sbi-binding\"
HTTP header). An NF A that supports this procedure shall associate the created
resource with the binding entity and the recovery timestamp as specified in
clause 6.1.
3\. A NF service produced by NF B restarts, e.g. an NF Service Instance in NF
B, an NF Service Set in NF B, NF B or the NF Set to which NF B pertains has
restarted.
4-5. NF B Service Producer may include its last recovery timestamp in
responses it sends to the NF A Service Consumer, if the restart of the NF
service resulted in losing contexts and e.g. if the NF service has restarted
recently.
6\. NF A may consider that all the resource contexts are lost, which were
created in the NF B service instance before the updated recovery timestamp, if
the recovery timestamp was associated to the NF B service instance.\ \ If the
recovery timestamp was associated to an NF Service Set, NF Instance or NF Set,
NF A may consider that all the resource contexts are lost, which were created
in these binding entities before the recovery, as indicated in the received
recovery timestamp.\ \ NF A may trigger then appropriate restoration or clean-
up actions.
NOTE 1: The recovery time signalled in this procedure is equivalent to the
recovery time of the NF service of Figure 6.2.3-2. For an entire NF restart
scenario, this procedure can be applied by each NF service instance of the NF.
NOTE 2: This procedure enables the detection of a restart of a peer NF service
when sending signalling towards that NF Service. It can fasten the detection
of a restart of a peer NF service when frequent signalling occurs towards that
peer NF Service.
NOTE 3: In some use cases, NF A is not aware of the NF B Service Instance ID
when creating the resource, e.g. a V-SMF just receives the H-SMF URI from the
AMF to create a PDU session resource in H-SMF. Besides, for APIs supporting
distributed collections (e.g. SMF), the response can contain a different
Service Instance ID (that need not be registered in the NRF) than the one
selected by NF A for sending the request.
## 6.4 NF Service Consumer Restart Detection using direct signalling between
NFs
### 6.4.1 General
This clause describes an optional procedure that may be supported by NFs to
detect the restart of a peer NF Service Consumer by NF Service Producer using
direct signalling between NFs.
When NF (Service) Set is deployed in the network as specified in clause 5.21.3
and 6.3.1.0 of 3GPP TS 23.501[9], an NF Service Consumer in an NF (Service)
Set may create a session context for callback (corresponding to the resource
context in the NF Service Producer) when invoking a NF Service and the session
context data is shared by all NF (Service) instances pertaining to the same NF
(Service) set, i.e. the context is bound to the NF (Service) Set. So, any NF
(service) instance within the NF (service) set is able to receive
notifications or callback request from the NF Service Producer, unless the
shared contexts are lost (which is further referenced in this specification as
\"the NF (Service) Set has failed or restarted\").
In order to enable peer NF Service Producers to detect the loss of the session
contexts in the NF Service Consumer, i.e. the \"restart of the NF (Service)
Set or NF instance\", and trigger appropriate restoration procedures, the NF
Service Consumer may provide a recovery timestamp associated to the highest
resiliency level it supports for the context, i.e. the binding entitiy with
which the context data is shared (bound). Binding entities are sorted from the
highest to the lowest resilience levels as follows: an NF Set, NF Instance, NF
service set or NF service instance. The NF Service Consumer may signal this
recovery timestamp in direct HTTP signalling, using a Binding Indication.
### 6.4.2 NF Service Consumer Restart
Figure 6.4.2-1 describes a NF Service Consumer restart scenario and how the NF
Service Producer can detect this restart.
Figure 6.4.2-1: NF Service Consumer Restart Detection
1\. NF A (NF Service Consumer) requests to create a resource in the NF B (NF
Service Producer). If NF A implements the procedure specified in this clause,
it shall include a Consumer Id together with the last recovery timestamp in
the request. The Consumer Id shall be identical for all service requests
triggered by the NF service consumer for that service and shall be globally
unique (e.g. using UUID).\ \ If NF A includes Binding Indication(s) (i.e. in
the \"3gpp-sbi-binding\" HTTP header) in the request, NF A may include the
recovery timestamp for the higher level binding entity indicated in the
Binding Indication with the scope set to \"callback\" (see clause 5.2.3.2.6 of
3GPP TS 29.500 [10]).
2\. If resource creation is successful, NF B as service producer shall store
the received Consumer Id and recovery timestamp and associate the created
resource with it.\ \ An NF B that supports this procedure shall associate the
callback resource and the recovery timestamp to the higher level binding
entity indicated in the received Binding Indication (with the scope set to
\"callback\").\ \ If the Service Request contains Binding Indication(s) with
the scope set to \"other service\", the NF B may use the binding information
and associated recovery timestamp to detect whether resources that NF B has
created in NF A have been lost, according to the principles specified in
clause 6.3.2.
3\. The NF service consumer in NF A restarts.
4\. The NF service consumer in NF A shall include its last recovery timestamp
together with the Consumer Id in the request when invoking service provided by
NF B. The same Consumer Id shall be used after restarting.\ \ If NF A includes
Binding Indication(s) in the request, NF A shall include the updated recovery
timestamp for the higher level binding entity to which the callback resource
context is bound in the Binding Indication with the scope set to \"callback\".
5\. NF B as NF service producer may compare the received recovery timestamp
with previous stored and detect the NF service consumer has restarted, if the
received recovery timestamp is newer than the previous one.
The consumer Id for the resource or the Binding Indication with the scope set
to \"callback\" may be updated if another service consumer took over the usage
of the resource. e.g. if a new consumer Id is received during a service
operation of a resource. NF B as NF service producer shall consider the
service consumer handling the resource has changed and associate the resource
with the new consumer Id or according to the new Binding Indication and with
the corresponding recovery timestamp.
6\. NF B may consider that the contexts in NF A corresponding to all the
resources associated with the consumer Id or all resources bound to the entity
(with which the recovery timestamp is associated) and the previous stored
recovery time stamp have been lost. NF B triggers then appropriate restoration
or clean-up actions.
NOTE 1: This procedure is only supported by NF services that support
signalling the recovery timestamp attribute.
NOTE 2: This procedure can be used when the resource is exclusively used by an
NF service consumer.
NOTE 3: This procedure enables the detection of a restart of a peer NF service
consumer when sending signalling towards that NF service producer. It is
helpful if the NF A as a pure service consumer without registration of its
profile in NRF. If NF A does have a profile registered in NRF, it also can
fasten the detection of a restart of a peer NF service consumer when frequent
signalling occurs towards that peer NF Service.
## 6.5 NF Service Producer Instance Reselection
### 6.5.1 General
An NF Instance of an NF Service Producer may expose several service instances
of the same NF Service (e.g., an UDM instance may expose several service
instances of the \"Nudm_SubscriberDataManagement\" service).
An NF Service Consumer may discover, while an SCP shall be able to discover,
via NRF Nnrf_NFDiscovery service, all available NF Service Instances for a
given NF Service and select one of them.
### 6.5.2 NF Service Instance Reselection when a (Routing) Binding Indication
is available
When using the Binding procedures specified in clause 6.12 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[10], Binding Indications and Routing Binding Indications include the Binding
level and one or more Binding entity IDs representing all NF service instances
that are capable to serve service requests targeting the resource, i.e. that
share the same resource contexts.
When a Binding Indication or a Routing Binding Indication is available for a
target resource, NF Service Instance selection and re-selection shall be
supported as specified in clause 6.12 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [10].
### 6.5.3 NF Service Instance Reselection when a (Routing) Binding Indication
is not available
If a formerly selected NF Service Instance becomes unavailable, the NF Service
Consumer may, while the SCP shall be able to select a different instance of a
same NF Service in:
\- the same NF Instance, if the NF Instance indicates in its NF Profile that
it supports the capability to persist their resources in shared storage inside
the NF Instance, and if the new NF Service Instance offers the same major
service version; or
\- the same NF Set or NF Service Set, if the NF (service) instance indicates
in its NF Profile that it belongs to an NF Set or an NF Service Set.
If so, the NF Service Consumer may, while the SCP shall be able to invoke
service operations in the newly selected NF Service Instance by means of
replacing the addressing parameters with those of the new service instance,
and the new NF Service Instance in the NF Service Producer shall produce the
same result as if the service request would have been successfully delivered
to the former NF Service Instance.
NOTE 1: In some scenarios, the newly selected NF Service Producer might not
produce the exact same result as the former NF Service Producer would have
produced for the service request, e.g. when the former NF Service Producer
failed before it could update a change in the resource context to the USDF.
For indirect communication, if the NF service consumer delegates target NF
service instance reselection to the SCP (when the target NF service instance
is not reachable), the NF Service Consumer shall include at least one of the
3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-target-nf-instance-id, 3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-target-nf-set-id,
3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-target-nf-service-set-id, 3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-amf-region-id
and 3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-amf-set-id headers, and it should also include at least
the following information in its request to the SCP:
\- the target NF type, the service name, and the requested S-NSSAI in the
corresponding \"3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-*\" request header(s) (see clause 6.10.3.2
of 3GPP TS 29.500 [10]).
NOTE 2: This is to allow the SCP to discover and reselect a target NF service
instance from the target NF instance or target NF (service) set for the
corresponding service request and supporting the requested S-NSSAI, e.g. when
the NF service producer supports different NF service instances serving
different network slices. Likewise, other \"3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-*\" request
header(s), e.g. target-plmn-list, can also be included for the same purpose.
NOTE 3: The inclusion of the 3gpp-Sbi-Discovery-target-nf-instance-id in an
HTTP request enables the SCP to discover the profile of the target NF instance
and to possibly reselect a different target NF service instance from the same
NF instance or from a different NF instance in the same set.
If so, the SCP shall use the information provided by the NF service consumer
to perform a NF service discovery procedure and reselect a NF (service)
producer instance as specified in the preceding bullets, if possible and if
the target NF Service Instance indicated in the \"3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot\"
header or target URI is not reachable.
NOTE 4: This reselection mechanism is applicable only for the request/response
service semantics, but not for notify/callback requests.
If the NF instance does not indicate in its NF Profile the support of the
capability to persist their resources in shared storage across service
instances of the same NF Service, inside the NF Instance, and if it does not
indicate in its NF Profile that it belongs to an NF Set or an NF Service Set,
the NF Service Consumer or SCP may still reselect any of the exposed service
instances, but it shall not assume that the resources created in the former
service instance are still valid.
## 6.6 NF Service Consumer Instance Reselection
### 6.6.1 General
When NF (Service) Set is deployed in the network as specified in clauses
5.21.3 and 6.3.1.0 of 3GPP TS 23.501[9], an NF Service Consumer in an NF
(Service) Set may create a session context for callback (corresponding to the
resource context in the NF Service Producer) when invoking a NF Service and
the session context data is shared by all NF (Service) instances pertaining to
the same NF (Service) set, i.e. the context is bound to the NF (Service) Set.
An NF Service Producer may, while the SCP shall be able to discover, via NRF
Nnrf_NFDiscovery service, all available NF (Service) Instances within the NF
(service) set that are capable to receive the notifications or callback
requests and select one of them.
NOTE: When an NF service consumer changes, if the new NF service consumer does
not support handling the notification or callback requests as described above,
the new NF service consumer updates NF service producers with new URI as
specified in clause 6.5.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [10].
### 6.6.2 NF Service Consumer Instance Reselection when a (Routing) Binding
Indication is available
When using the Binding procedures specified in clause 6.12 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[10], Binding Indications and Routing Binding Indications include the Binding
level and one or more Binding entity IDs representing all NF service consumer
instances that are capable to receive the notifications or callback requests
targeting the session context for callback (corresponding to the resource
context in the NF Service Producer). See also clause 6.5.3.2 of 3GPP TS 29.500
[10].
When a Binding Indication or a Routing Binding Indication is available for a
target context, NF Service Consumer selection and re-selection shall be
supported as specified in clause 6.12 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [10].
### 6.6.3 NF Service Consumer Instance Reselection when a (Routing) Binding
Indication is not available
When the target NF Service Consumer becomes unavailable, the NF Service
Producer may, while the SCP shall be able to select a different instance of
the Service Consumer which is capable to receive the notifications or callback
requests targeting the session context for callback (corresponding to the
resource context in the NF Service Producer) in:
\- the same consumer NF instance, using an alternate endpoint address
information if any is configured at the NF instance level, or at the NF
service instance level when the name of the NF service to which these
notifications are to be sent is known and the (consumer) NF instance
registered in its NF Profile that it is capable to persist its resources in
shared storage across NF service instances of the same NF Service;
\- the same NF (service) Set or a backup NF Service Consumer if applicable.
NOTE 1: When binding procedures are not supported, the NF Service Consumer can
provide in certain APIs the name of the NF service to which these
notifications are to be sent. This service can be one of the service produced
by the NF (if this NF Service Consumer can also serve as a NF Service
Producer) and registered in the NRF, or a custom service registered in the NRF
for the purpose of receiving these notifications). See clause 6.5.2.2 of 3GPP
TS 29.500 [10].
NOTE 2: When the AMF serves as a NF Service Consumer, it can indicate to the
NF Service Producer its backup AMF. See clause 5.21.2 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [9].
NOTE 3: NF Service Consumer Reselection when a (Routing) Binding Indication is
not available is only supported when the NF Service Producer has the target NF
Service Consumer information available, e.g. for APIs where the NF Service
Consumer can communicate its NF Instance Id to the NF Service Producer in the
service request message.
If so, the NF Service Producer may, while the SCP shall be able to send the
notification or callback request to the newly selected NF Service Consumer
Instance by means of replacing the addressing parameters with those of the
newly selected instance.
For indirect communication, if the NF service producer delegates target NF
consumer instance reselection to the SCP (when the target NF consumer instance
is not reachable), the NF service producer should include the target NF type
(i.e. the type of the NF service consumer) in the corresponding \"3gpp-Sbi-
Discovery-*\" request header, and may also include other 3gpp-Sbi-
Discovery-*\" headers in a notification or callback request, , to enable the
SCP to reselect a different NF service consumer instance as specified in the
preceding bullets, if possible and if the NF service consumer instance
indicated in the \"3gpp-Sbi-Target-apiRoot\" header or target URI is not
reachable.
## 6.7 Restoration of Profiles related to UDR
### 6.7.1 General
This clause describes an optional procedure that may be supported by UDR, UDR
consumers (i.e. UDM, PCF, and NEF), and UDM consumers (e.g. AMF, SMF, SMSF,
AUSF, NEF...) to re-synchronize profiles in UDR to those in UDR consumers and
UDM consumers. When UDR detects corruption, loss, or inconsistency in
temporary data stored in UDR, the UDR indicates it to its consumers. UDR
should also send notifications to its consumers upon restart based on the
deployment policy. If the UDR consumer is UDM, the UDM indicates it to its
consumers. Then, those consumers initiate necessary procedures directly or via
UDM towards UDR, so that related profiles are re-synchronized and adverse
impacts on operator\'s service can be minimized.
NOTE 1: Notification can also be sent on other occasions than data corruption
based on local policy.
Temporary data stored in UDR subject to restoration may be identified within
the notification sent to UDR consumers and UDM consumers either by:
\- Reset-ID (plus PLMN ID of the UDR): Reset-IDs of temporary data associated
to SUPI ranges or GPSI ranges are assigned by UDR in an implementation
specific way; e.g. a Reset-ID may identify a hardware resource and may contain
a reset-counter. The Reset-ID is provided to UDR consumers and UDM consumers
in the response of a request that has created temporary data (i.e. a resource)
in UDR.
\- SUPI or GPSI ranges.
\- DNNs/S-NSSAIs (plus PLMN ID of the UDR).
\- UDR or UDM Group ID (plus PLMN ID of the UDR).
\- PLMN ID of the UDR.
The identifiers used in notifications are optional to be included when sent by
UDR or by UDR consumers, but it is recommended that the notification includes
some type of identifier to narrow down as much as possible the set of affected
profiles. In particular, the notification to UDM consumers in PLMNs different
from the PLMN of the UDM shall contain at least one of the identifiers. For
the receivers of the notifications, all identifiers shall be supported.
If multiple identifiers are included in the notification, the set of affected
profiles shall consider as a logical \"AND\" between all the included
identifiers.
The notification sent to UDR consumers and UDM consumers also includes the
following time values:
\- lastReplicationTime: The last time when UDR replicated the temporary data
identified to be potentially lost or corrupted, i.e. before the situation
causing the potential data inconsistency occurred.
\- recoveryTime: The time when UDR started working properly after the
situation causing the potential data inconsistency occurred.
Resources related to temporary data stored in UDR are associated in the
corresponding user profile stored at UDR consumers or UDM consumers with a
timestamp of the time they were created or last modified; i.e.
lastSynchronizationTime. Temporary data in UDR created or updated between the
lastReplicationTime and the recoveryTime may be inconsistent with profiles in
UDR consumers and UDM consumers. In order to avoid inconsistency of time due
to different timezones, lastReplicationTime, recoveryTime and
lastSynchronizationTime shall be identified using UTC.
UDR consumers and UDM consumers define callbackUri for data restoration in
their NF profile. This is an endpoint to receive notification when potential
UDR data inconsistency occurs. In addition, UDR consumers may inform their
identity to UDR. Additionally, UDM consumers may inform their
dataRestorationCallbackUri to UDM during registration in UDM (e.g. for AMF,
SMF, SMSF); if so, such callback URI shall be the same as the URI registered
by the UDM consumer in its NF Profile in NRF, and it shall be a same URI for
the entire consumer\'s NF Instance (i.e., the UDM consumer shall not indicate
different callback URIs per each UE registration).
When the UDR detects a potential data inconsistency of temporary data, the UDR
notifies the UDR consumers of the potential data inconsistency event using the
callbackUri of the UDR consumer.
The UDM may notify UDM consumers within its PLMN using the callbackUri
included in the NF profile of the UDM consumer in NRF. This is, a UDM that
receives a notification from UDR can discover the callbackURI of e.g. AMFs,
SMFs, SMSFs or AUSFs within its PLMN and forward the notification to all of
them. The UDM may also notify UDM consumers using the callbackUri if provided
by UDM consumers during its registration in UDM based on local configuration.
NOTE 2: The option for UDM consumers to provide its dataRestorationCallbackUri
during registration in UDM, and such UDM using these callbackUris to send
subsequent notifications, is particularly beneficial to support roaming users
connecting via UDM consumers in PLMNs different from the PLMN of the UDM (e.g.
AMF, SMSF, and SMF in Local Break Out scenarios), since it avoids the task for
UDM to perform an inter-PLMN service discovery.
The notification to UDR consumers and UDM consumers includes optionally the
identifier of the temporary data subject to restoration (e.g. Reset-IDs), the
lastReplicationTime and the recoveryTime. The UDR consumer or UDM consumer may
then initiate the restoration of the temporary data identified to be
potentially lost or corrupted when the last synchronization time recorded at
consumer falls between the lastReplicationTime and the recoveryTime as
provided by the producer, i.e. UDR or UDM.
### 6.7.2 Procedure
Figure 6.7.2-1 describes the procedure for restoration of profiles related to
UDR.
Figure 6.7.2-1: Restoration of Profiles related to UDR
0\. UDR consumers and UDM consumers define callbackUri for data restoration in
the NF profile registered in NRF.
1\. UDR consumers store temporary data in UDR. The UDR consumers may set its
identity in the request to UDR, when accessing it for the first time. The UDR
stores the received identity and creates for the UDR consumer a subscription
on notification for the potential UDR data inconsistency. The UDR may provide
to the UDR consumer the Reset-ID if assigned by the UDR for the temporary data
stored in UDR.
The UDM stores temporary data in UDR as requested by its consumers. UDM
consumers may set dataRestorationCallbackUri in the request of their
registration to UDM. In this case, the UDM stores the
dataRestorationCallbackUri locally and creates for the UDM consumer a
subscription on notification for the potential UDR data inconsistency. If
received from UDR, the UDM also provides the Reset-ID assigned by the UDR to
UDM consumers.
When an NF other than UDM creates or updates a resource directly or via UDM in
UDR, the NF sets or stores lastSynchronizationTime in a relevant profile. If
the NF receives a Reset-ID directly or via UDM from UDR, the NF stores it in
the profile.
2\. UDR detects corruption, loss, or inconsistency in temporary data caused
due to certain scenarios (e.g. failure and restart of the UDR, or migration of
the data from an old UDR to a new UDR).
NOTE 1: The UDR can recover consistency by different means, e.g. by reloading
data from its back-up.
3\. UDR queries NRF based on the identity stored in step 1 and discovers
callbackUri for data restoration in UDR consumers\' NF profiles. If no UDR
consumer impacted by the restoration event provided its identity in step 1,
the UDR discovers via NRF the callbackUri of one suitable UDR consumer
instance to send the notification to. The UDR sends Nudr_DR_Notification
request to the callbackUri to notify potential UDR data inconsistency. The
Nudr_DR_Notification request may contain temporary data identifier(s) (e.g.
Reset-IDs) and an impacted period (i.e. lastReplicationTime and recoveryTime).
4\. If UDR consumer is UDM, the UDM forwards the notification to UDM
consumers. The UDM finds callbackUri for data restoration for UDM consumers
within its PLMN in UDM consumers\' NF profiles through querying NRF.
Optionally, the UDM may find callbackUri for data restoration for UDM
consumers (especially UDM consumers outside its PLMN) if provided by the UDM
consumer during UDM consumer registration in UDM and locally stored in UDM in
step1.
5\. When a UDR consumer other than UDM (e.g. PCF, NEF) or a UDM consumer (e.g.
AMF, SMF, SMSF) finds that a stored profile is affected by the potential loss
or corruption of data, and that the last synchronization time of the profile
falls into the impacted period in the notification, then the NF judges that
the profile requires re-synchronization.
> UDR consumers other than UDM (e.g. PCF, NEF) initiates the re-
> synchronization of the impacted resources using Nudr_DataRepository service
> operations.
UDM consumers initiate the re-synchronization for each impacted UE using
different service operations depending on the UDM consumer type. UDM consumers
shall include a flag (\"udrRestartInd\") indicating that the request is due to
a re-synchronization event.
\- UDM consumers that register in UDM start re-synchronization by sending
Nudm_UECM_Registration request for each impacted UE.
In order to prevent storing obsolete registration information for a given user
coming from UDM consumers that trigger resynchronization for the same user,
UDM consumers may include the stored last synchronization time within the re-
synchronization request. The lastSynchronizationTime provided by the UDM
consumer may be used in UDM to compare it with current data stored in UDR and
ensure that the registration from the most recent UDM consumer is kept (see
step 7). However, if the UDM consumer ensures that its resynchronization is
the most recent, accurate and correct (e.g. if the AMF triggers
resynchronization upon detection of UE activity), the UDM consumer shall not
include the lastSynchronizationTime within the resynchronization request and
the UDM stores the UDM consumer registration in the UDR without further
processing.
\- UDM consumers that subscribe to notification of subscription data changes
in UDM start re-synchronization of these subscriptions in UDM by sending
Nudm_SDM_Subscribe request for each impacted UE and subscription.
\- AUSF starts re-synchronization by sending
Nudm_UEAuthentication_ResultConfirmation request containing the stored last
synchronization timestamp of the authentication for each impacted UE.
\- NEF starts re-synchronization of the subscription to exposure events in UDM
by sending Nudm_EE_ModifySubscription request for each impacted UE and
subscribed event.
6\. The UDR consumers and UDM consumers locally adjusts invocation timing of
each of those procedures, in order not to cause congestion in the system. The
NF invokes necessary procedures.
UDM consumers select a UDM instance to send the re-synchronization signalling
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.501 [9]. This is, the UDM consumer may not send the
re-synchronization signalling to the UDM instance from which the UDM consumer
received the notification.
7\. If UDM receives Nudm_UECM_Registration request containing the
\"udrRestartInd\" flag, the UDM overwrites the related profile in the UDR, or
creates it if not available. If the registration request includes a
lastSynchronizationTime, the related profile in UDR is overwritten only if the
lastSynchronization time received from the UDM consumer is not older than the
registration time stored in UDR before resynchronization. In this case, if the
UDM replaces or creates the related profile in UDR, the UDM sets the
registration time to the current time.
If UDM receives Nudm_SDM_Subscribe request containing the \"udrRestartInd\"
flag the UDM sends a corresponding request to UDR, the UDR overwrites the
related profile in the UDR or creates it if not available in UDR.
If UDM receives Nudm_UEAuthentication_ResultConfirmation request containing
the \"udrRestartInd\" flag, the UDM sends a corresponding request to UDR, the
UDR overwrites the related profile in the UDR or creates it if not available
in UDR.
If UDM receives Nudm_EE_ModifySubscription request containing the
\"udrRestartInd\" flag, the UDM sends a corresponding request to UDR, the UDR
overwrites the related profile in the UDR or creates it if not available in
UDR.
## 6.8 Restoration Procedures for Home Routed PDU Sessions or PDU sessions
with an I-SMF
### 6.8.1 General
This clause specifies requirements in the AMF, the V/I-SMF and the (H-)SMF to
restore Home Routed PDU Sessions or PDU sessions with an I-SMF.
During a PDU session establishment and update procedure, the V/I-SMF or the
(H-)SMF shall:
\- set the \"Peer NF SET based Reselection\"(PSETR) feature bit in the
SupportedFeatures attribute if it supports the (re)selection of an alternative
peer SMF using the binding indication of the resource/session contexts or
based on the NF profile of the peer SMF;
\- set the \"Deployed Local SMF Set\" (DLSET) feature bit in the
SupportedFeatures attribute if the PDU session resource is not bound
exclusively to the specific V/I-SMF or (H-)SMF NF service instance, i.e. if
there is at least one alternative SMF service instance (in the same or a
different SMF instance) that can take it over if the current serving SMF
service instance becomes no longer operational (e.g. fails).
NOTE 1: A SMF can set the DLSET flag to \"1\" if it indicates in its NF
Profile that it supports the capability to persist its resources in shared
storage inside the NF Instance, i.e. if another SMF service instance with the
SMF instance can take over the resource context even when NF (service) set is
not deployed locally.
In the service request or response message towards the (new) AMF, the V/I-SMF
shall set the \"DLSET\" feature bit if the PDU session resource can be taken
over by an alternative V-SMF Service Instance. The V/I-SMF shall set the
\"anchorSmfPsetrSupportInd\" attribute to \"true\" in the Update SM Context
Response message towards the new AMF if the (H-)SMF supports the \"PSETR\"
feature.
NOTE 2: The AMF needs to know if the V/I-SMF supports the DLSET feature and if
the (H-)SMF supports the PSETR to take proper restoration actions when there
is a V/I-SMF failure. See clause 6.8.2. The AMF can alternatively learn
whether the (H-)SMF supports the PSETR feature when doing the SMF
discovery/selection during the PDU Session Establishment procedure.
NOTE 3: The V/I-SMF indicates more generally all the features it supports to
the AMF in the service request/response, including also setting the \"PSETR\"
feature bit if it is able to reselect an alternative (H-)SMF when it detects
the peer (H-)SMF has failed, but the AMF is not required to use this
indication.
The requirements specified in subsequent clauses shall also be applied for
N16a reference point by replacing the V-SMF with I-SMF, and H-SMF with SMF.
### 6.8.2 V-SMF failure
When the H-SMF detects the failure of the V-SMF, it shall retrieve all PDU
sessions associated with the failed V-SMF and perform the following procedure
for those PDU sessions:
\- if the H-SMF supports the PSETR feature:
\- if the V-SMF supports the DLSET feature, the H-SMF shall keep the PDU
session and should reselect an alternative V-SMF service instance, e.g. when
it needs to send any request message to the V-SMF;
\- if the V-SMF doesn\'t support the DLSET feature, the H-SMF shall delete the
affected PDU sessions locally.
\- if the H-SMF does not support the PSETR feature:
\- the H-SMF shall delete the affected PDU sessions.
When the AMF detects the failure of the V-SMF, it shall retrieve all PDU
sessions associated with the failed V-SMF and perform the following procedure
for those PDU sessions:
\- if the H-SMF supports the PSETR feature and if the V-SMF supports the DLSET
feature, the AMF shall keep the PDU session and should reselect an alternative
V-SMF service instance, e.g. when it needs to send any request message to the
V-SMF.
\- if the H-SMF doesn\'t support the PSETR feature while the V-SMF supports
the DLSET feature, the AMF shall keep the PDU sessions, and may reselect an
alternative V-SMF service instance to request the selected alternative V-SMF
to delete the PDU session towards the UE and the UPF. The V-SMF may request
the UE to reactivate the PDU session.
\- for any other cases, the AMF may release the affected PDU session(s)
locally and/or notify the UE about the release of the PDU session.
### 6.8.3 H-SMF failure
When the V-SMF detects the failure of the H-SMF, it shall retrieve all PDU
sessions associated with the failed H-SMF and perform the following procedure
for those PDU sessions:
\- if the V-SMF does not support the PSETR feature, the V-SMF may release the
affected PDU sessions towards the AMF and UE, and may request the UE to
reactivate the PDU session;
\- if the V-SMF supports the PSETR feature:
\- if the H-SMF supports the DLSET feature, the V-SMF shall keep the PDU
session and may reselect an alternative H-SMF service instance, e.g. when it
needs to send any request message to the H-SMF;
\- if the H-SMF doesn\'t support the DLSET feature, the V-SMF may release the
PDU session towards the AMF and UE, and the V-SMF may request UE to reactivate
the PDU session.
# 7 Restoration Procedures related to Public Warning System (PWS)
## 7.1 General
This clause specifies the procedures supported in the 5G System to handle
failures affecting Public Warning System (PWS). The stage 2 architecture and
procedures for PWS are specified in 3GPP TS 23.041 [8].
## 7.2 PWS operation failure in NG-RAN
The NG-RAN shall report that on-going PWS operation for one or more cells of
the NG-RAN has failed by sending a PWS Failure Indication as specified in 3GPP
TS 23.041 [8].
## 7.3 PWS operation restart in NG-RAN
After a NG-RAN (i.e. gNB or ng-eNB) has restarted, it shall delete all its
warning message data. If the warning message service is operational in one or
more cell(s) of the NG-RAN, the NG-RAN shall send a PWS Restart Indication
message, which shall include the identity of the NG-RAN, the identity of the
restarted cell(s), and the TAI(s) and Emergency Area Id(s) with which the
restarted cell(s) are configured, to request the CBC to re-load its warning
message data if applicable.
The NG-RAN should send the PWS Restart Indication message via two AMFs of the
AMF Region, if possible, to ensure that the CBC receives the message even if
one AMF cannot propagate it to the CBC (e.g. due to a path failure between the
AMF and the CBC).
If the AMF interfaces with multiple CBCs, the AMF shall forward the PWS
Restart Indication to all CBCs.
Upon receipt of a PWS Restart Indication message, the CBC shall consider that
the warning message service is restarted in the reported cell(s), i.e. the
service is operational and no warning messages are being broadcast in the
cell(s). The CBC shall then re-send the warning message data (with the same
message identifier and serial number) to the NG-RAN for these cells, if any.
When doing so, the CBC:
\- shall provide the identity of the NG-RAN received in the PWS Restart
Indication when sending the Write-Replace-Warning-Request message(s) to the
AMF, to enable the AMF to forward the message(s) only to the NG-RAN involved
in the restart. The identity of the NG-RAN shall be included in:
\- the Write-Replace-Warning-Request message(s) sent to the PWS-IWF over the
SBc interface; or
\- the globalRanNodeList IE of the NonUeN2MessageTransfer request message(s)
sent to the AMF over the N50 interface (see clauses 5.2.2.4.1.3 and 6.1.6.2.9
of 3GPP TS 29.518 [6]) to request the transfer of the Write-Replace-Warning-
Request message(s).
\- should set the warning area list to the identities of the cell(s) to be
reloaded which are relevant to the warning message data being reloaded; and
\- may update the number of broadcasts requested, if necessary.
The CBC shall consider a PWS Restart Indication message received shortly after
a preceding one for the same cell identity as a duplicate restart indication
for that cell which it shall ignore.
NOTE: The broadcast of warning messages can be configured in the network per
individual cell, TAI and/or Emergency Area Id. The CBC can use the list of
cell(s), the TAI(s) and Emergency Area Id(s) received in the PWS Restart
Indication to derive the list of warning messages to be broadcast in the
respective cell(s), TAI(s) and Emergency Area Id(s).
Likewise, in other scenarios where the NG-RAN may need to reload its warning
message data (e.g. when an individual cell is restarted), the NG-RAN shall
send a PWS Restart Indication message (including the identity of the NG-RAN,
the identity of the restarted cell(s), and the TAI(s) and Emergency Area Id(s)
with which the restarted cell(s) are configured) to the CBC to request the CBC
to re-load its warning message data if applicable. The NG-RAN, AMF and CBC
shall then proceed as specified above for a NG-RAN restart.
# 8 Restoration Procedures for MBS
## 8.1 General
This clause specifies the procedures supported in the 5G System to detect and
handle failures affecting any network entity involved in the delivery of
broadcast and/or multicast service.
## 8.1A N4mb Failure and Restart Detection
Across PFCP based interfaces, an MB-SMF and MB-UPF shall utilize the PFCP
Heartbeat Request and Heartbeat Response messages to detect a peer PFCP entity
failure or restart as described in clause 19A of 3GPP TS 23.007 [2].
A PFCP function shall ignore the Recovery Timestamp received in PFCP
Association Setup Request and PFCP Association Setup Response messages (see
clause 6.2.6 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [4]).
## 8.2 Restoration procedures for MB-UPF failure with or without restart
### 8.2.1 General
When an MB-UPF fails, all its PFCP session contexts of the MBS sessions and
all its PFCP associations affected by the failure may be lost.
The MB-SMF and MB-UPF may support the procedures specified in this clause to
restore the multicast and broadcast MBS sessions affected by the failure.
### 8.2.2 Restoration Procedure for MB-UPF Restart
The MB-UPF should ensure that:
\- when multicast transport is used on N3mb and/or N19mb, any N3mb and/or
N19mb Low Layer Source Specific Multicast (LL SSM) addresses used by the MB-
UPF before the MB-UPF restart are not immediately reused after the MB-UPF
restart; and
\- when unicast transport is used on N6mb and/or Nmb9, any N6mb and/or Nmb9
ingress tunnel addresses used by the MB-UPF before the MB-UPF restart are not
immediately reused after the MB-UPF restart.
NOTE 1: This avoids inconsistent addresses allocation throughout the network
and enable the restoration of PFCP sessions of MBS sessions affected by the
failure. How this is ensured is implementation specific.
During or immediately after an MB-UPF Restart, the MB-UPF shall place a local
UPF Recovery Time Stamp value in all Heartbeat Request/Response messages.
Immediately after the re-establishment of a PFCP association between the MB-
SMF and the MB-UPF, the MB-SMF may start restoring the PFCP sessions of the
affected MBS sessions in the MB-UPF, by following PFCP requirements for
establishing a PFCP session over N4mb as specified in clause 5.34.2 of 3GPP TS
29.244 [4], with the following modifications:
\- the MB-SMF shall include the MBS Restoration Indication in the PFCP Session
Establishment Request message to indicate to the MB-UPF that this is a request
to restore the PFCP session of an existing MBS session;
\- If multicast transport is used on N3mb and/or N19mb, the MB-SMF shall
additionally provide, in the Multicast Transport Information for N3mb and/or
N19mb IE in the PFCP Session Establishment Request, the N3mb and/or N19mb LL
SSM address and GTP-U Common TEID (C-TEID) that was previously used for the
MBS session, and the MB-UPF shall allocate the same N3mb and/or N19mb LL SSM
address and C-TEID to the PFCP session if possible. The MB-SMF shall not set
the PLLSSM flag in the MBSN4mbReq-Flags IE in the PFCP Session Establishment
Request.
\- If unicast transport is used on N6mb and/or Nmb9, the MB-SMF shall
additionally provide, in the \"Local Ingress Tunnel\" IE in the Create PDR IE
or Create Tunnel Endpoint IE (for the downlink PDRs) in the PFCP Session
Establishment Request, the N6mb and/or Nmb9 ingress tunnel address that was
previously used for the MBS session, and the MB-UPF shall allocate the same
N6mb and/or Nmb9 ingress tunnel address if possible. The MB-SMF shall not set
the CHOOSE bit to \"1\" in the \"Local Ingress Tunnel\" IE\".
If multicast transport is used on N3mb and/or N19mb and the MB-UPF cannot
accept the requested N3mb and/or N19mb LL SSM address, or if unicast transport
is used on N6mb and/or Nmb9 and the UPF cannot accept the requested N6mb
and/or Nmb9 ingress tunnel address, because the requested address is not
available at the MB-UPF, the MB-UPF shall reject the PFCP Session
Establishment Request with the cause \"PFCP session restoration failure due to
requested resource not available\". The MB-SMF may then proceed as specified
for the restoration procedure for MB-UPF failure without restart, but possibly
using the same or a different MB-UPF.
NOTE 2: The cause \"PFCP session restoration failure due to requested resource
not available\" corresponds to scenarios where the requested address is no
longer available at the MB-UPF, i.e. it cannot be assigned to any PFCP
session, due to e.g. the address having been decommissioned by OAM from the
MB-UPF or e.g. the address being no longer operational due to a partial
hardware failure at the MB-UPF. This cause is not to be used for scenarios
where the requested address would be available at the MB-UPF but would have
been re-assigned to a different PFCP session, which is a scenario that is not
expected to happen based on the requirements specified above.
### 8.2.3 Restoration Procedure for MB-UPF failure without Restart
Upon detecting that an MB-UPF fails without restart, the MB-SMF may restore
the MBS sessions that were served by the failed MB-UPF by selecting an
alternative MB-UPF and by restoring the PFCP sessions of the MBS sessions in
the alternative MB-UPF, following PFCP requirements for establishing an N4mb
PFCP session as specified in clause 5.34.2 of 3GPP TS 29.244 [4] with the
following additions:
\- the MB-SMF shall request the alternative MB-UPF to join the multicast tree
towards the Source Specific Multicast (SSM) address information earlier
provided by AF/AS or MBSTF, if multicast transport is used over N6mb and/or
Nmb9;
\- the MB-SMF shall request the alternative MB-UPF to allocate a new N6mb
and/or Nmb9 ingress tunnel address, if unicast transport is used over N6mb
and/or Nmb9;
\- the MB-SMF shall request the alternative MB-UPF to allocate a new N3mb
and/or N19mb LL SSM address and C-TEID, if multicast transport is used over
N3mb and/or N19mb; and
\- for each N3mb and/or N19mb endpoint expected to receice the MSB session
data, the MB-SMF shall request the alternative MB-UPF to send data towards the
N3mb and/or N19mb endpoint\'s DL F-TEID, if unicast transport is used over
N3mb and/or N19mb.
For each MBS session, during the PFCP session establishment, the alternative
MB-UPF will assign:
\- a new N3mb and/or N19mb LL SSM address and C-TEID, if multicast transport
is used on N3mb and/or N19mb; and/or
\- a new N6mb and/or Nmb9 ingress tunnel address, if unicast transport is used
on N6mb and/or Nmb9.
Then, for each MBS session:
\- if multicast transport is used on N3mb:
\- the MB-SMF shall update the AMFs handling the multicast or broadcast MBS
session, or location dependent component of the MBS session, about the new
N3mb LL SSM address and C-TEID by sending:
\- an Namf_MBSCommunication_N2MessageTransfer request (Multicast Session
Update Request including the new MB-UPF LL SSM address and C-TEID) for a
multicast MBS session; and/or
\- an Namf_MBSBroadcast ContextUpdate Request (Broadcast Session Modification
Request including the new MB-UPF LL SSM address and C-TEID) for a broadcast
MBS session.
\- the AMFs shall forward the above information towards the NG-RAN nodes
handling the MBS session (using the Multicast Session Update and Broadcast
Session Modification procedures respectively);
\- the NG-RAN nodes shall join delivery from the new multicast transport
address to receive MBS session data from the new MB-UPF and leave delivery
from the previous multicast address in use for the MBS session.
\- if multicast transport is used on N19mb, for a multicast MBS session:
\- the MB-SMF shall update the SMF handling the multicast MBS session, or
location dependent component of the MBS session, about the new N19mb LL SSM
address and C-TEID by sending an Nmbsmf_MBSSession_ContextStatusNotify request
including an \" MULT_TRANS_ADD_CHANGE\" event and the new N19mb LL SSM address
and C-TEID used for the MBS data delivery over N19mb;
\- the SMF shall update the UPF terminating the N19mb tunnel about the new LL
SSM address and C-TEID;
\- the UPF shall join delivery from the new multicast transport address to
receive MBS session data from the new MB-UPF and leave delivery from the
previous multicast address in use for the MBS session.
\- if unicast transport is used on N6mb and/or Nmb9:
\- the MB-SMF shall update the AF/NEF/MBSF about the new N6mb/Nmb9 ingress
tunnel address to use for sending MBS data for a given MBS session, or
location dependent component of the MBS session, by sending an
Nmbsmf_MBSSession_StatusNotify request including an \"Ingress Tunnel Address
Change\" event and the new N6mb/Nmb9 ingress tunnel address;
\- the AF/MBSF shall start sending MBS data to the new N6mb/Nmb9 ingress
tunnel address.
Figures 8.2.3-1 and 8.2.3-2 depict the call flows for the case of a broadcast
MBS session and a multicast MBS session respectively.
Figure 8.2.3-1: Broadcast MBS session restoration upon MB-UPF failure without
restart
Figure 8.2.3-2: Multicast MBS session restoration upon MB-UPF failure without
restart
## 8.3 Restoration procedures for NG-RAN failure with or without restart
### 8.3.1 General
When an NG-RAN fails with or without restart, all its MBS session contexts may
be lost, causing the interruption in the delivery of MBS data over the radio
interface.
Restoration procedures for NG-RAN failure with or without restart are optional
to support.
### 8.3.2 Broadcast MBS session restoration Procedure for NG-RAN failure with
restart
#### 8.3.2.1 General
MBS sessions affected by an NG-RAN failure with restart may be restored by the
AMF as specified in clause 8.3.2.2 or by the MB-SMF as specified in clause
8.3.2.3.
#### 8.3.2.2 Broadcast MBS session restoration by AMF
The procedure specified in this clause may be supported to restore a broadcast
MBS session affected by an NG-RAN restart.
The AMF handling a broadcast MBS session is responsible for restoring the MBS
session in a restarted NG-RAN, as shown in Figure 8.3.2.2-1.
NOTE 1: An NG-RAN restart is transparent to the MB-SMF (i.e. the restoration
procedure does not cause any signaling to the MB-SMF) when multicast transport
is used over N3mb.
NOTE 2: This procedure can also be used in other scenarios where an existing
MBS session needs to be started in a new NG-RAN, e.g. an NG-RAN that is
reconfigured by OAM to support a new TA that is part of the MBS service area
of an existing MBS session.
Figure 8.3.2.2-1: Broadcast MBS session restoration by AMF upon NG-RAN restart
1\. The AMF stores the last N2 MBS SM container (i.e. MBS Session Setup or
Modification Request Transfer IE defined in 3GPP TS 38.413 [11]) received from
the MB-SMF during the establishment of the broadcast MBS session or during a
broadcast MBS session update. When unicast transport is used over N3mb, the
MB-SMF stores the RAN-ID together with the DL F-TEID received from each NG-
RAN.
NOTE 3: The N2 MBS SM container contains all the information to establish the
broadcast MBS session (e.g. transport layer address if multicast transport is
used over N3mb, QoS flows).
2\. The NG-RAN restarts, causing the broadcast MBS service interruption.
3\. The AMF detects that the NG-RAN has restarted (e.g. upon receiving NG
Setup Request message) and that it serves at least one TAI or one cell being
part of the MBS service area of an existing MBS session (or one of the MBS
services areas of the MBS session in case of location dependent content).
4\. The AMF re-establishes the broadcast MBS session in the restarted NG-RAN,
by sending an NGAP Broadcast Session Setup Request including the last N2
(NGAP) MBS Session Setup or Modification Request Transfer IE that was stored.
The NG-RAN establishes the broadcast MBS session and returns a response to the
AMF. If unicast transport is used over N3mb, the NG-RAN response includes the
DL F-TEID assigned by the NG-RAN to receive the MBS data from the MB-UPF
within the N2 (NGAP) MBS Session Setup or Modification Response Transfer IE of
the NGAP Broadcast Session Setup Response message. In deployments where
multiple NG-RAN nodes share a common user plane entity and unicast transport
is used over N3mb, the NG-RAN response may include an existing DL F-TEID
signalled by other NG-RAN nodes during shared delivery setup.
The NG-RAN joins the delivery of the broadcast MBS session if multicast
transport is used over N3mb.
5\. If an N2 MBS SM Container (i.e. N2 (NGAP) MBS Session Setup or
Modification Response Transfer IE) was received from the NG-RAN in step 4, the
AMF sends an Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify Request to the MB-SMF
including the N2 MBS SM Container and the RAN-ID of the NG-RAN .
6\. The MB-SMF modifies the PFCP session of the MBS session in the MB-UPF to
start distributing MBS data towards the DL GTP-U F-TEID received from the NG-
RAN, and to stop doing so towards the earlier DL GTP-U F-TEID that was used by
the same NG-RAN before the NG-RAN restart.
This step shall be skipped in deployments where multiple NG-RAN nodes share a
common user plane entity, unicast transport is used over N3mb, and the MB-SMF
that supports handling shared NG-U terminations determines that the DL F-TEID
signalled by restarted NG-RAN node is already associated with other NG-RAN
nodes.
#### 8.3.2.3 Broadcast MBS session restoration by MB-SMF
The procedure specified in this clause may be supported to restore a Broadcast
MBS session affected by an NG-RAN restart.
When the AMF detects an NG-RAN restart, or a (new) NG-RAN is deployed to serve
a TAI that is part of the MBS session service area, e.g. using NG Setup
Request message, as specified in 3GPP TS 38.413 [11], it shall report such
event to the MB-SMF for each of MBS session(s) affected by this event, to
enable the MB-SMF to (re)start the MBS session(s) in the concerning NG-RAN as
further described in the Figure 8.3.2.3-1.
The MB-SMF shall run the following restoration procedure for each of Broadcast
MBS sessions which were established in the restarted NG-RAN or a (new) NG-RAN.
Figure 8.3.2.3-1: Broadcast MBS session restoration by MB-SMF upon NG-RAN
failure with restart
1\. The NG-RAN has failed with restart.
2\. The AMF detects the NG-RAN has failed with restart, e.g., upon receiving
NG Setup Request message.
3\. The AMF sends Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify Request message to the
MB-SMF for each affected MBS session including the MBS Session ID, the NG-RAN
ID and an indication of the event, either NG-RAN restart, or NG-RAN failure
without restart, or a (new) NG-RAN getting into service to serve a TAI that is
part of the MBS session service area.
3a. The MB-SMF receives a PFCP Node Report Request message from the MB-UPF to
report NG-RAN has failed with restart or a PFCP Session Report Request message
from the MB-UPF to report receiving GTP-U Error Indication for each affected
MBS session when unicast transport was used for N3mb interface.
4\. The MB-SMF returns a \"204 No Content\" response.
5\. The MB-SMF modifies the PFCP sessions corresponding to the affected MBS
sessions to remove the NG-RAN DL F-TEID for unicast transport over N3mb.
6\. The MB-SMF sends Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate Request message to the
AMF to (re)start the MBS session in the related NG-RAN including the MBS
Session Setup or Modification Request Transfer IE and the NG-RAN ID received
in the step 3.
If the notification is triggered due to receiving the PFCP Node Report Request
message or the PFCP Session Report Request message from the MB-UPF as
specified in step 3a, and the MB-SMF that supports handling shared NG-U
terminations determines that multiple NG-RAN nodes share the restarted user
plane entity, the Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate Request message may include
multiple corresponding NG-RAN IDs.
7\. The AMF sends the N2 MBS Session Setup Request message to the NG-RAN
node(s) including the MBS Session Setup or Modification Request Transfer IE.
8\. The MBS session is created/restored in the NG-RAN node(s).
9\. The NG-RAN node(s) joins the delivery of the broadcast MBS session if
multicast transport is used over N3mb.
10\. The NG-RAN node(s) responds with the N2 MBS Session Setup Response
message including a MBS Session Setup or Modification Transfer IE if a Shared
NG-U Unicast TNL Information needs to be allocated for unicast transport over
N3mb interface.
11\. The AMF responds with Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate Response message
with a MBS Session Setup or Modification Response Transfer IE if received.
12\. The MB-SMF modifies the PFCP sessions corresponding to the MBS sessions
to provision the new NG-RAN DL F-TEID if received in step 10.
#### 8.3.2.4 Selecting an alternative AMF for a Broadcast MBS Session at AMF
failure
When the AMF selected by the MB-SMF to start a Broadcast MBS Session fails
without restart, to support the restoration procedure to restore an Broadcast
MBS Session in a restarted NG-RAN as specified in 8.3.2.2 and 8.3.2.3, another
AMF in the same AMF set needs to be selected to become the serving AMF for
this broadcast MBS session and to be responsible for restoration. This may be
done by one of the following solutions:
\- another AMF is selected in the same AMF set by an AMF implementation
specific mechanism, and this AMF sends a Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify
Request message to the MB-SMF to notify this optionally containing an updated
binding indication; or
\- when the MB-SMF detects that the AMF which was handling the Broadcast MBS
session has failed without restart and no
Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify Request is received from any AMF of the
AMF set as described in the first bullet, the MB-SMF may reselect an
alternative AMF by sending a Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate Request message
with an indication that the alternative AMF needs not trigger any NGAP message
to deliver the N2 container - MBS Session Setup or Modification Request
Transfer, but just to store it for future potential NG-RAN restoration.
Figure 8.3.2.4-1 Selecting an alternative AMF at AMF failure.
1\. A Broadcast MBS Session has been established in the network.
2\. The AMF1 has failed without restart.
3\. Alternative A: another AMF2 in the same AMF set is selected by an AMF
implementation specific mechanism.
4\. The AMF2 sends Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify to the MB-SMF that
the AMF2 becomes the AMF controlling the Broadcast MBS Session context.
5\. The MB-SMF acknowledges the notification and will send subsequent
signalling message for this Broadcast MBS Session via the AMF2.
6\. Alternative B: the MB-SMF detects that the AMF1 has failed without restart
either via HTTP/2 PING Frame for directly connected, or via notifications from
the NRF for the NF Status Change when it has subscribed such event, and that
no Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify Request is received from any AMF of
the AMF set as described in Alternative A.
7\. The MB-SMF selects an alternative AMF pertaining to the same AMF set using
the Binding Indication provided by the old AMF or using the NF profile of the
old AMF.
8\. The MB-SMF sends a Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate Request including a MBS
Session ID, the corresponding MBS Service Area, a MBS Session Setup or
Modification Request Transfer, and sets the \"noNgapSignallingInd\" to
\"true\" to request the AMF2 to be the AMF for the Broadcast MBS Session to
handle subsequent MBS session signaling and be responsible for triggering
restoration procedures for NG-RAN failure with or without restart. The AMF may
consider to not trigger any NGAP signalling towards NG-RANs covering the MBS
service area.
NOTE 1: Upon receiving any subsequent NGAP Broadcast MBS Session signalling
from an alternative AMF, the NG-RAN will send any later NG-RAN initiated MBS
session signalling towards this alternative AMF.
NOTE 2: If the AMF does not trigger any NGAP signaling towards NG-RANs
covering the MBS service area, before receiving any subsequent NGAP Broadcast
MBS Session signalling from an alternative AMF, a NG-RAN can initiate a NGAP
Broadcast MBS Session signaling procedure (e.g. Broadcast MBS Session Release
Required) to a third AMF, e.g. AMF3, in which case the NG-RAN expects a
response from AMF3. However, this does not affect that the AMF2 is the AMF
responsible for the Broadcast MBS Session, e.g. to handle subsequent
Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate request messages or to restore the Broadcast
MBS session at a NG-RAN restart. How the NGAP initiated Broadcast MBS Session
signaling is handled between AMF3 and AMF2 is implementation specific (e.g. to
update the broadcast MBS session context that the MBS session has been stopped
in the NG-RAN).
9\. The AMF responds the Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextUpdate Request message.
10\. The AMF2 continues with the procedures as specified in clauses 8.3.2.2
and 8.3.2.3.
### 8.3.3 Broadcast MBS session restoration Procedure for NG-RAN failure
without restart
The procedure specified in this clause may be supported to restore a Broadcast
MBS session affected by an NG-RAN failure without restart.
When the AMF detects NG-RAN failure without restart, e.g. using SCTP path
failure detection mechanism, it shall report such event to the MB-SMF for each
of MBS session(s) affected by this failure, to enable the MB-SMF to remove the
DL F-TEID allocated by the failed NG-RAN in the MB-UPF when unicast transport
is used over N3mb interface.
Figure 8.3.3-1: Broadcast MBS session restoration by MB-SMF upon NG-RAN
failure without restart
0\. A Broadcast MBS session is created in a NG-RAN, the NG-RAN ID is inserted
by the AMF in the N2MbsSmInfo attribute included in the
Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextCreate Response message to the MB-SMF and the MB-SMF
stores the NG-RAN ID together with the DL F-TEID allocated by the NG-RAN when
unicast transport is used over N3mb interface.
1\. The NG-RAN has failed without restart.
2\. The AMF detects the NG-RAN has failed without restart e.g. using SCTP path
failure detection mechanism.
3\. The AMF sends Namf_MBSBroadcast_ContextStatusNotify Request message to the
MB-SMF for each affected MBS session including the MBS Session ID, the NG-RAN
ID and an indication of the NG-RAN failure without restart event.
3a. The MB-SMF receives a PFCP Node Report Request message from the MB-UPF to
report NG-RAN has failed without restart for each affected MBS session when
unicast transport was used for N3mb interface.
4\. The MB-SMF returns a \"204 No Content\" response.
5\. The MB-SMF modifies the PFCP sessions corresponding to the affected MBS
sessions to remove the NG-RAN DL F-TEID in case NG-RAN failure without restart
for unicast transport over N3mb.
The MB-SMF executes step 5 upon receiving either the notification from the AMF
or from the MB-UPF.
If the restoration procedure is triggered due to notification from AMF as
specified in step 3, this step may be skipped in deployments where multiple
NG-RAN nodes share a common user plane entity, unicast transport is used over
N3mb, and the MB-SMF that supports handling shared NG-U terminations
determines that the DL F-TEID is associated with other NG-RAN nodes too.
### 8.3.4 Multicast MBS session restoration Procedure for NG-RAN failure with
or without restart
The procedure specified in this clause may be supported to restore a Multicast
MBS session affected by an NG-RAN failure with or without restart.
When a UPF detects the NG-RAN failure with or without restart using Echo
Request and Echo Response message which is sent towards the IP address in the
DL F-TEID allocated by the failed NG-RAN, or upon receiving GTP-U Error
Indication, it shall report such event to the SMF to enable the SMF to derive
UEs who have joined the MBS sessions which are affected by the NG-RAN failure
and initiates the restoration procedure for each of Multicast MBS session
which were activated in the failed NG-RAN as described in Figure 8.3.4-1.
When unicast transport is used over N3mb interface for 5GC Shared MBS traffic
delivery, the MB-UPF detects the NG-RAN failure with or without restart using
Echo Request and Echo Response message which is sent towards the IP address in
the DL F-TEID allocated by the failed NG-RAN, or upon receiving GTP-U Error
Indication, it shall report such event to the MB-SMF, so that the MB-SMF
removes the DL-TEID allocated by the failed NG-RAN.
Figure 8.3.4-1: Multicast MBS session restoration upon NG-RAN failure with or
without restart
1\. The NG-RAN has failed with or without restart.
2\. The UPF receive GTP-U Error Indication when the NG-RAN recovers from its
restart for 5GC Individual MBS traffic delivery.
2a. The MB-UPF receives GTP-U Error Indication when the NG-RAN recovers from
its restart for unicast transport over N3mb for 5GC Shared MBS traffic
delivery.
3\. The UPF sends Echo Request message towards the NG-RAN using the IP address
included in the DL F-TEID, thus the UPF detects the NG-RAN has failed with or
without restart.
3a. The MB-UPF sends Echo Request message towards the NG-RAN using the IP
address included in the DL F-TEID for unicast transport over N3mb, thus the
MB-UPF detects the NG-RAN has failed with or without restart.
4\. The UPF sends PFCP Session Report Request messages to the SMF to report
receiving of GTP-U Error Indication message, or sends a PFCP Node Report
Request message to the SMF to report the GTP-U path failure towards the NG-RAN
or the remote GTP-U entity has restarted.
5\. The SMF sends PFCP Session Modification Request message to request the UPF
to remove DL-FTEID allocated by the failed NG-RAN and buffer the MBS session
data for 5GC Individual MBS traffic delivery, except for an NG-RAN restart if
the UPF has already removed the DL F-TEID on its own as specified in clause
5.5.
6\. The MB-UPF sends PFCP Session Report Request messages to the MB-SMF to
report receiving of GTP-U Error Indication message, or sends a PFCP Node
Report Request message to the MB-SMF to report the GTP-U path failure towards
the NG-RAN or the remote GTP-U entity has restarted, for unicast transport for
N3mb.
7\. The MB-SMF sends PFCP Session Modification Request message to request the
MB-UPF to remove DL-FTEID allocated by the failed NG-RAN, except for an NG-RAN
restart if the MB-UPF has already removed the DL F-TEID on its own as
specified in clause 5.5.
8a. The SMF may wait for UEs who have joined the MBS session(s) which are
affected by the NG-RAN failure to trigger a Service Request procedure to re-
establish the user plane resource and then restore the Multicast MBS session
in NG-RAN.
8b. Alternatively, the SMF may derive UEs who have joined the MBS session(s)
which are affected by the NG-RAN failure (i.e. with a DL F-TEID matching the
IP address of the NG-RAN node\'s to restore the MBS service and perform step
9.
9\. When step 8b applies, the SMF continues with the MBS session activation
procedure as specified in clause 7.2.5.2 of 3GPP TS 23.247 [12] starting from
step 3 to restore the MBS sessions for affected UEs for each MBS session.
#