# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
**The aim of this Technical Report is to study and specify potential**
enhancements to the 5G System to enable IMS FE to integrate with the 5GC
network functions to enable IMS applications to directly leverage the features
and capabilities of 5GC.
The specific capabilities of 5GC included in this study:
\- In regard to 5GC network slicing; what enhancements (if any) are necessary
for UE and 5G core network to efficiently support devices and networks with
multiple slices and different services offered by the IMS network per slice?
\- How to route IMS traffic via a localized UPF.
\- How to place IMS application server in localized environments.
\- How can IMS utilize services provided by 5GC NFs other than PCF and HSS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.700-11: \"Study on enhanced IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) to
5GC integration Phase 2; CT WG3 aspects\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.526: \"User Equipment (UE) policies for 5G System (5GS); Stage
3\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DNN Data Network Name
IMPI IM Private Identity
ISH IMS Subscription Holder
ISIM IM Services Identity Module
MCC Mobile Country Code
MNC Mobile Network Code
NSSAI Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
S-NSSAI Single NSSAI
SNPN Stand-alone Non-Public Network
SUPI Subscription Permanent Identifier
URSP UE Route Selection Policy
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
# 4 Architecture Assumptions
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1: Network Slicing and IMS
In release 16, 5GC developed capabilities to divide the network into slices to
better offer services to users and devices - in many cases the details of
network slicing do not impact IMS, however if the IMS domain offers different
services to different 5GC network slices or one 5GC network slice there may be
some impacts. This key issue investigates the impacts to the IMS domain due to
5GC network slicing, and how a IMS network can ensure a user or device with
multiple 5GC network slices and multiple services offered by IMS from
utilizing the appropriate 5GC network slice for each service on IMS and
prevent inappropriate services been used from the incorrect 5GC network slice.
Examples of the use cases that solutions to this key issue will enable
include:
**Use Case A: Different 5GC slices optimized for different services on IMS**
In this use case each 5GC slice supports a different service offered by IMS
and the 5GC slice is optimized for the media type associated with the service
on IMS. It is possible that either a shared or separate IMS network provides
the services for each slice (scenario 1 or scenario 2 described below).
Figure 5.1.1 shows an example implementation of this use case where 3 5GC
slices are used, one for IMS service #1, one for IMS service #2, and one for
IMS service #3. The diagram shows the association of the services on IMS to
their appropriate slice. The services on IMS can be supported by a shared IMS
network (i.e. Scenario 2), in which case the 5GC slices will connect to a
common IMS network, but this is out of scope of the present document.
An IMS service in this context is identified by an ICSI as defined in TS
24.229 [4].
Figure 5.1.1: Example use case with different 5GC slices optimized for
different services on IMS
**Use Case B: Different 3rd party 5GC slices with support for 3rd party
services on IMS**
In this use case separate 5GC slices are operated by different parties (some
separate from the network operator); each 5GC slice is used to support
services on IMS according to the 5GC slice operator\'s service needs; these
services on IMS may be different or duplicated per slice according to service
requirements. Additionally, some 5GC slices may provide non-IMS services.
While it is possible that a shared IMS network provides the services for each
slice (as per scenario 2 described below), this is an unlikely implementation
and it is assumed each party has their own IMS network (as per scenario 1
described below).
Figure 5.1.2 shows an example implementation of this use case where 3 5GC
slices are provided, one provided by an automobile manufacturer, one provided
by an automotive entertainment service provider, and one provided by a network
operator. A different mix of IMS and connectivity services are provided by
each 5GC slice. The diagram shows the association of the services on IMS to
their appropriate slice, however as each slice is provided by different
parties it is unlikely that the services on IMS share an IMS network (as in
Scenario 2), or different IMS services provided via one 5GC slice (as in
Scenario 3); thus each 5GC slice would be associated with a different IMS
network supporting the services on IMS associated with the 5GC slice.
Figure 5.1.2: Example use case with different 3rd party 5GC slices providing
services on IMS
Three scenarios are possible (and may be mixed when more than 2 slices are
considered):
Scenario 1 - Each 5GC network slice is associated with a separate and distinct
IMS network
Figure 5.1-3 UE connects to two IMS networks through two 5GC network slices
This scenario includes the case where UE access different IMS networks via
SNPNs.
Scenario 2 - Each 5GC slice is associated with a common IMS network
Figure 5.1-4: UE connects to common IMS network through two 5GC network slices
This scenario considers the case where signalling and media use different
slices, for example all signalling use 5GC slice #1 and all media use 5GC
slice#2 in Figure 5.1-4.
Scenario 3 - One common 5GC network slice is associated with multiple IMS
networks.
Figure 5.1-5: Two UEs connect to separate IMS network through one common 5GC
network slice
In this scenario, multiple IMS services are provided by IMS networks belonging
to separate IMS domains. Different UEs accesses to IMS services via the
same/shared 5GC slice to corresponding IMS networks using independent IMS
registrations.
NOTE: The different IMS networks can belong to different operators or hosts.
This scenario includes the case where UEs access different IMS networks via a
SNPN.
Solutions may relate to one, two or all, of these scenarios.
The following is a list of what aspects the solutions to this key issue need
to address:
\- What information the UE needs to be able to select an appropriate slice.
\- Any changes to the P-CSCF discovery procedures due to 5GC slicing.
\- If any additional information is needed for the UE and IMS network to
identify services supported by the IMS network.
\- How the UE access to different IMS network independently via same 5GC
slice.
## 5.2 Key issue 2: Routing of IMS traffic via a localized UPF
### 5.2.1 Description
The 5GC enables traffic to route via localized UPF close to the edge of the
network (in some cases adjacent to the RAN nodes). Some services offered by
the IMS network may be able to benefit from the lower latency and/or lower
backhaul requirements that such deployments can enable, however current IMS
applications and services are not able to leverage these capabilities. This
key issue investigates the interactions required to leverage localized routing
of IMS media and signalling traffic, the changes to enable effective control
and management of such routing, and impacts of mobility and roaming.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
Example Use Case A:
Routing of IMS traffic (e.g. video) between two (or more) users using an
efficient UP path.
Example Use Case B:
A \"best effort video service\" where the IMS video traffic from UE is
offloaded at a UPF closer to the UE to minimize the backhaul resource usage
based on a decision by the IMS.
The following is a partial list of the issues to be addressed:
\- How can the IMS network influence or control how the 5GC selects the UP
path.
\- Which IMS node interacts with the 5GC (i.e. IMS AS, S-CSCF, or other IMS
node).
\- How does an AS request traffic to route using a local UPF.
\- How does IMS request traffic to route using (or prevent routing using) a
local UPF.
\- How is the mobility of the UE considered, and how is service continuity
ensured.
\- If the UE is roaming, how can the localized routing be extended into the
VPLMN (if supported).
\- How does IMS request Data channel media to route using (or prevent using) a
local UPF.
## 5.3 Key issue 3: Placement of IMS application server in localized
environments
### 5.3.1 Description
The 5GC in release 15 defined some functionality to enable \"mobile edge
computing\" (i.e. computing resources located close to the edge of the
network) to enable enhanced services to users. The functionality defined in
release 15 focused on general compute applications, and did not analyse the
special case of IMS applications. This key issue investigates the enhancements
to current capabilities of IMS and 5GC to enable the operation of IMS servers
in the mobile edge space.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
Example Use Case A:
For a given venue (e.g. stadium) IMS videos may be stored and retrieved
locally for playback only on UE\'s that are located on a group of small cells
that serve the venue.
Example Use Case B:
Mission critical services that require optimization of signalling traffic as
well as media may require, placement of P-CSCF and AGW (or other IMS FE) close
to AN.
The following is a partial list of the issues to be addressed:
\- How can IMS leverage 5G support for edge computing.
\- What additions to IMS and 5G support for edge computing capabilities are
required.
\- What restrictions are there (if any) on IMS applications in the edge
network.
\- How are the localized IMS applications identified.
\- How are IMS applications outside the local PLMN impacted (e.g. roaming).
\- What impacts does the solution have on mobility.
\- What impacts does the solution have on service, and application continuity.
\- Is there any further impact on routing of IMS media (including Data channel
media) and IMS signalling.
## 5.4 Key issue #4: IMS utilizing services provided by 5GC NFs other than PCF
and HSS
### 5.4.1 Description
All of the 5GC control plane NFs are specified as service based and any NF can
be consumer of the services provided by other NFs, if supported by the
procedures. In 3GPP Rel-16, it has been already defined how the IMS can
utilize services provided by the PCF and HSS via Npcf and Nhss_ims interfaces,
respectively.
In IMS network, the P-CSCF needs to be notified of some events related to
access network. This information can be used in IMS network e.g., for
emergency services, billing, LI, service trigger, etc.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
An example of such an event related to the access network is the retrieval of
the UE location information. For the purpose of UE location information
retrieval in VoLTE case, the P-CSCF subscribes to notification of such events
over Rx interface. Since 5GC supports SBI, IMS network can use directly the
SBI provided by AMF to subscribe to notification of these events.
This key issue addresses the following aspects:
\- Which services provided by which 5GC NFs other than PCF and HSS are needed
to be utilized by IMS.
\- Whether and how IMS can utilize services provided by 5GC NFs other than PCF
and HSS.
\- For UE location information retrieval, how IMS can determine the UE
location entities with service operations (e.g. determination of the visited
PLMN ID in case of Home-Routed VoLTE roaming).
## 5.x Key issue #X: \
### 5.x.1 Description
### 5.x.2 Requirements
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution 1: 5GC network slice selection for IMS traffic route via
dedicated slice(s)
### 6.1.1 Description
#### 6.1.1.1 General
This solution addresses scenario 2 of key issue#1 (Network Slicing and IMS) to
ensure IMS service uses specific slice(s) in the 5GC.
The solution describes how the UE selects S-NSSAI(s) for IMS service including
SIP signalling and media.
It is proposed that all IMS signalling related information is conveyed to the
IMS network via a dedicated 5GC network slice and that media associated to a
particular IMS session can be routed via different 5G network slice(s) based
on the application\'s requirements.
When establishing a 5GS PDU session for IMS service, the UE selects an S-NSSAI
from list of S-NSSAIs included in Allowed NSSAI based on URSP rules.
A URSP rule can e.g. contain an S-NSSAI for IMS service with associated
registration area. If the current registration area associated to an S-NSSAI
in Allowed NSSAI is available in the registration area associated to the
S-NSSAI for IMS service in URSP rules, then UE selects the S-NSSAI for IMS
service at current registration area. At IMS session setup, URSP rule(s) can
also be used to establish dedicated 5GS PDU session(s) over the same or new
S-NSSAI(s).
#### 6.1.1.2 Procedure
The following flow describes the procedure for the UE selecting an S-NSSAI for
IMS service.
Figure 6.1.1.2: Procedure to select an S-NSSAI for IMS service
The steps required are as follows:
1\. The UE performs registration procedure as described in clause 4.2.2 of
3GPP TS 23.502 [2]. Here, the registration accept message includes for example
S-NSSAI #1.
2\. The AMF and PCF performs UE Policy Association Establishment as described
in clause 4.16.11 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [2].
3\. Along with step 2, the PCF performs UE Configuration Update procedure as
described in clause 4.2.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [2]. The MANAGE UE POLICY
COMMAND message contains a URSP and the URSP contains for example S-NSSAI #1
for IMS service with available registration area and S-NSSAI #2 for other
traffic.
4\. When UE requests to establish a 5GS PDU session for IMS service, if the UE
determines S-NSSAI #1 in Allowed NSSAI is usable in the current registration
area based on the URSP in which S-NSSAI #1 is associated to available
registration area, then the UE selects S-NSSAI #1 for IMS service.
### 6.1.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functions
Editor\'s note: This clause describes impacts to existing entities and
interfaces.
### 6.1.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution does not clarify how the IMS network can provide IMS services to
a UE registered with multiple IP addresses. Therefore, the solution does not
qualify as a basis for the normative work.
## 6.2 Solution 2: P-CSCF discovery support with one slice connecting to
multiple IMS network
### 6.2.1 Description
This solution addresses scenario 3 of Key Issue #1 Network Slicing and IMS to
support P-CSCF discovery for one slice connecting to different IMS network.
In scenario 3 as discussed in clause 5.1, different UEs may be connected to
their home IMS networks via the same single slice instance using the same DNN,
e.g. well-known IMS DNN, which means the P-CSCF discovery mechanism needs the
same SMF to return different P-CSCFs addresses to UEs belonging to different
home IMS network using information other than DNN and S-NSSAI.
To fulfil the requirement above, the IMS network domain information of the UE
home IMS network or IMS service additional to DNN and S-NSSAI is provided to
SMF and is taken into account during P-CSCF discovery. The IMS network domain
information indicates what IMS domain the UE is connecting to. It can be the
IMS home domain name used for IMS registration, e.g. domain name derived from
UICC as specified in 23.003, or other type of IMS network domain information
which is configured in the UE and can be recognized by serving 5GC. If the
domain name is derived from UICC, it is assumed that UEs belongs to different
HPLMNs.
When the UE initiates the PDU session establishment for IMS after the slice
for IMS is selected, the UE includes IMS network domain information in PDU
SESSION ESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message, along with S-NSSAI and DNN. After
receiving network domain information from the UE, the SMF returns P-CSCF
addresses to the UE accordingly, taking into account the information.
NOTE 1: How the SMF discovers P-CSCF addresses based on the information
related to home IMS network is specified in 23.700-12 as solution #6.
The following flow describes the procedure for P-CSCF discovery taking into
account IMS network domain information provided by the UE.
Figure 6.2.1-1: P-CSCF discovery with IMS network domain information provided
by the UE
0\. The UE derives or is configured with IMS network domain information.
1\. The UE initiates PDU session establishment procedure to create a PDU
session for IMS by sending PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT REQUEST, including IMS
network domain information.
2\. The AMF selects SMF.
3\. The AMF invokes Nsmf_PDUSession_CreateSMContext service operation to
create a PDU session for IMS, including IMS network domain information
received from the UE.
4\. The SMF discovers P-CSCF taking IMS network domain information into
account, as specified in solution #6 of TR 23.700-12.
5\. The SMF returns the discovered P-CSCF address to the UE following existing
procedure.
### 6.2.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functions
The UE initiated PDU session establishment procedure in TS 24.501 is impacted
as follows:
\- The UE derives IMS network domain information from UICC or from local
configuration; and
\- The UE includes IMS network domain information in PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT
REQUEST.
The P-CSCF selection functionality in the SMF is impacted. The SMF supports
receiving new parameter of IMS network domain information and taking it into
account when discovering P-CSCF address.
### 6.2.3 Solution Evaluation
Editor\'s note: This clause provides an evaluation of the solution.
## 6.3 Solution 3: Selecting an appropriate slice by IMS subscription
### 6.3.1 Description
This solution addresses Key Issue #1 for scenario 1.
In scenario 1, the IMS traffic of the UE to the separate IMS networks is
routed to different 5GC network slices. For the separate IMS networks, the UE
has information of IMS subscriptions (i.e. public and private user identities,
home network domain name, used for IMS registration) retrieved from ISIM,
derived from USIM, configured in the ME, provided by third party IMS
applications or the 5GC network. This scenario has 3 cases:
Case #1: The third party application uses its own IMS network.
Case #2: The IMS network and services are provided by operator.
Case #3: The third party application uses the IMS network provided by
operator.
In order for each of IMS clients in the UE to access an IMS network via a
desired 5GC network slice, a PDU session associated with the desired 5GC
network slice needs to be established. 3GPP TS 24.526 [6] describes how PDU
session attributes (e.g., S-NSSAI) is determined based on information provided
by an application in the UE (i.e., an IMS client in this case).
According to the encoding of traffic descriptor in URSP, the information which
can be provided by an application in the UE is defined as follows:
\- OS Id + OS App Id type
\- IPv4 remote address type
\- IPv6 remote address/prefix length type
\- Protocol identifier/next header type
\- Single remote port type
\- Remote port range type
\- IP 3 tuple type
\- Security parameter index type
\- Type of service/traffic class type
\- Flow label type
\- Destination MAC address type
\- 802.1Q C-TAG VID type
\- 802.1Q S-TAG VID type
\- 802.1Q C-TAG PCP/DEI type
\- 802.1Q S-TAG PCP/DEI type
\- Ethertype type
\- DNN type
\- Connection capabilities type
\- Destination FQDN
\- Regular expression
\- OS App Id type
\- Destination MAC address range type
In some cases, IMS clients in a UE:
\- cannot provide distinguished information regarding the parameters listed
above; and
\- can provide different IMS home network domain names;
where a new parameter \"IMS home network domain name\" should be introduced in
traffic descriptor.
### 6.3.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functions
The PCF and UE need to be updated to accommodate the newly added parameter in
the traffic descriptor.
### 6.3.3 Solution Evaluation
The solution allows a UE to assign appropriate S-NSSAIs to PDU sessions
providing different IMS networks for IMS clients in the UE if the IMS clients
in the UE provide the same existing traffic descriptor parameters and
different IMS home network domain names.
## 6.4 Solution 4: IMS DNN including information identifying the corresponding
IMS network
### 6.4.1 Description
This solution addresses Scenarios 1 and 3 of Key Issue 1.
According to clause AB.1.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [5], in order for an SNPN to
enable IMS services to be provided via multiple independent ISHs, it is
required that for every SNPN subscriber, the IMS DNN stored in UDM of the SNPN
contains the information, which is used to identify the corresponding ISH,
e.g. ISH domain name is encoded as part of IMS DNN.
The same requirement (IMS DNN includes information identifying the
corresponding IMS network) can be applied in a PLMN if the PLMN allows
multiple IMS networks.
Then, based on the existing mechanisms, using the DNN, the UE can populate PDU
session attributes and the SMF can discover an appropriate P-CSCF.
### 6.4.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functions
The IMS DNN stored in the UDM includes the information identifying the
corresponding IMS network.
### 6.4.3 Solution evaluation
The solution clarifies how a DNN can be used to distinguish different IMS
networks. Using DNNs including information identifying the corresponding IMS
network:
\- in Scenario 1 of Key Issue 1, there is no confusion in distinguishing IMS
clients using DNNs where the IMS clients in the UE are for different IMS
networks and hence the existing mechanisms, e.g. specified in Case #1 of
Solution 3, can be used; and
\- in Scenario 3 of Key Issue 1, there is no confusion in selecting P-CSCFs in
different IMS networks using DNNs.
## 6.x Solution #X: \
### 6.x.1 Description
### 6.x.2 Impacts on existing nodes and functions
### 6.x.3 Solution Evaluation
# 7 Overall Evaluation
For Key Issue #1:
Scenario 1
a) Solution 3 and Solution 4 address how a UE which is allowed to access
multiple IMS networks can decide PDU session attributes (including S-NSSAI) of
a PDU session providing access to each of the IMS networks.
b) Among those solutions, adding a new parameter \"IMS home network domain
name\" in the traffic descriptor cannot be applied to legacy UEs or Rel-17 and
beyond UEs not supporting the enhancement.
c) Solution 4 requires that a different DNN is assigned for each of the IMS
networks which can be accessed by a single 5GC network slice of a PLMN.
d) The only benefit of adding a new parameter \"IMS home network domain name\"
in the traffic descriptor is that it supports the case where the IMS clients
in a UE do not provide any different information (i.e., the same application
identity, the same DNN, and the same P-CSCF address from the IMS clients)
except for the IMS home network domain name.
Scenario 2
\- Only Solution 1 was proposed in this scenario and the solution does not
qualify as a basis for the normative work. See clause 6.1.3.
Scenario 3
\- Solution 2 and Solution 4 address how P-CSCFs in different IMS networks can
be selected by an SMF.
\- Solution 2 requires enhancement in the 5GSM protocol.
The only benefit provided by Solution 2 is that it supports the case where all
parameters available in the SMF (e.g., SUPI, local operator policies, UE IP
address, DNN) do not provide any meaningful differentiation and the IMS
networks have different IMS home network domain names.
NOTE: If UE IP addresses are dynamically assigned to UEs, the SMF cannot use
UE IP addresses to distinguish UEs requiring connectivity to different IMS
networks.
\- Solution 4 does not require change in any protocol but requires that a
different DNN is assigned for each of the IMS networks which can be accessed
by a single 5GC network slice of a PLMN. Due to this requirement, well known
IMS APN/DNN based IMS roaming may not be supported.
For Key Issue #2, there is no solution to evaluate.
For Key Issue #3, there is no solution to evaluate.
For Key Issue #4, there is no solution to evaluate.
# 8 Conclusions
For Key Issue #1 / Scenario 1, providing \"IMS home network domain name\" in
the traffic descriptor and Solution 4 will be the basis for work in the
normative phase. Other existing methods (e.g., URSP with reused traffic
descriptors, UE local configuration) can be used, but they do not require
normative work.
For Key Issue #1 / Scenario 2, no work in the normative phase will happen.
For Key Issue #1 / Scenario 3, no conclusion is made during the study phase.
Editor\'s note: CT1 has sent an LS to SA2 for feedback. Based on feedback from
SA2, CT1 will make a progress with normative work.
For Key Issue #2, no solutions within CT1 responsibility was provided, i.e. no
work in the normative phase will happen.
For Key Issue #3, no solutions within CT1 responsibility was provided, i.e. no
work in the normative phase will happen.
For Key Issue #4, no solutions within CT1 responsibility was provided, i.e. no
work in the normative phase will happen.
#