# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
**The aim of this Technical Report is to study and specify potential**
enhancements to the IMS architecture to enable IMS FE to integrate with the
5GC network functions to enable IMS applications to directly leverage the
features and capabilities of 5GC.
The specific capabilities of 5GC included in this study include the PCC
functionality required to resolve the key issue related to:
\- Network Slicing and IMS
\- Routing of IMS traffic via a localized UPF
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.700-10: \"Study on enhanced IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) to
5GC integration Phase 2; CT WG1 aspects \".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.700-12: \"Study on enhanced IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) to
5GC integration Phase 2; CT WG4 aspects\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
URSP UE Route Selection Policy
# 4 Architecture Assumptions
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key issue #1: Network Slicing and IMS
This key issue refers to the key issue 1 defined in 3GPP TR 23.700-10 [2]. The
present document covers only the scenario 1 of the key issue1 defined in 3GPP
TR 23.700-10 [2].
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Routing of IMS traffic via a localized UPF
This key issue refers to the key issue 1 defined in 3GPP TR 23.700-12 [3].
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Selecting an appropriate slice by IMS subscription
This solution refers to the solution 3 defined in 3GPP TR 23.700-10 [2]. The
impacts and solution evaluations has been identified in 3GPP TR 23.700-10 [2]
and CT3 is fine with that analysis.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Conveying UPF service area to IMS nodes via PCF N5
This solution refers to the solution 4 defined in 3GPP TR 23.700-12 [3]. The
impacts and solution evaluations has been identified in 3GPP TR 23.700-12 [3]
and CT3 is fine with that analysis.
# 7 Overall Evaluation
Regarding the evaluation to solution #1, please refer to section 7 of 3GPP TR
23.700-10 [2].
Regarding the evaluation to solution #2, please refer to section 7.1 of 3GPP
TR 23.700-12 [3].
# 8 Conclusions
Regarding the conclusion to key issue #1, please refer to section 8 of 3GPP TR
23.700-10 [2]. As providing a new parameter \"IMS home network domain name\"
in the traffic descriptor will be the basis for work in the normative phase,
the URSP needs to be extended to enable a UE connects to two IMS networks
through two 5GC network slices.
Regarding the conclusion to key issue #2, please refer to section 8.1 of 3GPP
TR 23.700-12 [3]. This solution proposes to convey the UPF service area for
the IMS PDU session from SMF to PCF and on to P-CSCF during multimedia session
establishment. The PCF either stores the UPF service area as part of the SM
policy or fetches the UPF service area from the SMF when requested by P-CSCF.
PCF may also subscribe to a new event \"UPF service area change\" upon
establishment of the SM policy association.
# * *Annex A (informative): Change history
* * *
**Change history**  
**Date** **Meeting** **TDoc** **CR** **Rev** **Cat** **Subject/Comment** **New
version** 2020-09 CT3#111e C3-204290 - - - Draft Skeleton 0.0.0