# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report which identifies the application
architecture aspects to support UAS, and corresponding architectural
solutions. The study includes identifying architecture requirements that are
necessary to ensure efficient use and deployment of UAS services and
applications over 3GPP systems.
The study takes into consideration the existing stage 1 work within 3GPP
related to UAS in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3], 3GPP TS 22.281 [5] and 3GPP TS 22.282
[6]. The study also takes into consideration the related system architecture
developed by SA2 in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16]. The recommendations from the study
include architecture solutions that may be considered for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.281: \"Mission Critical Video services over LTE\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.282: \"Mission Critical Data services over LTE\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage
2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.273: \"5G System (5GS) Location Services (LCS); Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
(SEAL); Functional architecture and information flows\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.558: \"Architecture for enabling Edge Applications\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\"
[16] 3GPP TR 23.754: \"Study on supporting Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS)
connectivity, Identification and tracking\".
[17] 3GPP TS 26.348: \"Northbound Application Programming Interface (API) for
Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) at the xMB reference point\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.522: \"5G System; Network Exposure Function Northbound APIs;
Stage 3\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.305: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE) positioning
in E-UTRAN\".
[20] 3GPP TS 38.305: \"NG Radio Access Network (NG-RAN); Stage 2 functional
specification of User Equipment (UE) positioning in NG-RAN\".
[21] FAA UTM Concept of Operations v2.0: \"Foundational Principles, Roles and
Responsibilities, Use Cases and Operational Threads\",
https://www.faa.gov/uas/research_development/traffic_management/media/UTM_ConOps_v2.pdf.
[22] FAA website (available on 12^th^ July 2019): \"FAA Remote
Identification\", https://www.faa.gov/uas/research_development/remote_id/.
[23] \"IETF Drone Remote ID Protocol (DRIP) WG\",
https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/drip/about/
[24] ASTM F3411-19: \"ASTM Standard Specification for Remote ID and
Tracking\", https://www.astm.org/Standards/F3411.htm.
[25] \"ATIS Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) report\",
https://www.atis.org/01_strat_init/uav/.
[26] \"ANSI Unmanned Aircraft Systems Standardization Collaborative (UASSC)\",
https://www.ansi.org/news_publications/news_story?menuid=7&articleid=fcf7a65b-23c7-4d87-
a5c7-eb879d316898.
[27] \"ICAO Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems Panel (RPASP)\",
https://www.icao.int/safety/UA/Pages/Remotely-Piloted-Aircraft-Systems-
Panel-(RPASP).aspx.
[28] \"Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA) UAS standards\",
https://www.rtca.org/content/standards-guidance-materials.
[29] \"ISO/TC 20/SC 16 Unmanned aircraft systems\",
https://www.iso.org/committee/5336224.html.
[30] \"EU U-Space\", https://www.sesarju.eu/U-space.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Direct C2 communication** : the UAV controller and UAV establish a direct C2
link to communicate with each other and both are registered to the 5G network
using the radio resource configured and scheduled provided by the 5G network
for direct C2 communication.
**Network-Assisted C2 communication** : the UAV controller and UAV register
and establish respective unicast C2 communication links to the 5G network and
communicate with each other via 5G network. Also, both the UAV controller and
UAV may be registered to the 5G network via different NG-RAN nodes. The 5G
network needs to support mechanism to handle the reliable routing of C2
communication.
**Remote Identification (Remote ID) of UAS:** The ability of a UAS in flight
to provide identification and tracking information that can be received by
other parties, to facilitate advanced operations for the UAS (such as Beyond
Visual Line of Sight operations as well as operations over people), assist
regulatory agencies, air traffic management agencies, law enforcement, and
security agencies when a UAS appears to be flying in an unsafe manner or where
the UAS is not allowed to fly [22].
**Unmanned Aerial System (UAS):** Composed of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)
and related functionality, including command and control (C2) links between
the UAV and the UAV controller, the UAV and the network, and for remote
identification. A UAS is comprised of a UAV and a UAV controller.
**UAS Service Supplier (USS):** An entity that provides services to support
the safe and efficient use of airspace by providing services to the operator /
pilot of a UAS in meeting UTM operational requirements. A USS can provide any
subset of functionality to meet the provider\'s business objectives (e.g.,
UTM, Remote Identification) [21].
**UAS Traffic Management (UTM):** A set of functions and services for managing
a range of autonomous vehicle operations (e.g. authenticating UAV, authorizing
UAS services, managing UAS policies, and controlling UAV traffics in the
airspace) [21].
**UAV:** The Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (also called remotely piloted aircraft or
drone) of a UAS.
**UAV controller** : The UAV controller of a UAS enables a pilot to control a
UAV.
**UTM-Navigated C2 communication** : the UAV has been provided a pre-scheduled
flight plan, e.g. array of 4D polygons, for autonomous flying, however UTM
still maintains a C2 communication link with the UAV in order to regularly
monitor the flight status of the UAV, verify the flight status with up-to-date
dynamic restrictions, provide route updates, and navigate the UAV whenever
necessary.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms given in 3GPP TS
22.125 [3] apply
**Command and Control (C2) Communication**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BVLOS Beyond Visual Line of Sight
C2 Command and Control
Remote ID Remote Identification
UAS Unmanned Aerial System
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UAV-C Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Controller
USS UAS Service Supplier
UTM UAS Traffic Management
# 4 Void
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue#1: Usage of SEAL
SEAL is the service enabler architecture layer common to all vertical industry
applications. It provides the functions like location management, group
management, configuration management, identity management, key management and
network resource management.
The UAS communications involve interactions between UAV controller and UAV and
between UTM and UAS. UAS communications require support for location
information to track the UAVs, secure group communications, etc.
Hence, it is required to further study the applicability of the usage of SEAL
services for UAS services and whether any enhancements are required for SEAL
services (e.g. location management service) and whether SEAL satisfies the
stage 1 requirements for UAS.
## 5.2 Key issue#2: Broadcast communications
The broadcast communications stage 1 requirements are specified in 3GPP TS
22.125 [3] which are required to be supported by the 5GS. The broadcast
communications are to be supported for both on-network and off-network
scenarios.
Hence, it is required to study the following:
\- How to enable broadcast communications amongst the UAVs in off-network
scenario?
\- How to enable broadcast communications amongst the UAVs in on-network
scenario?
\- Whether and how to support the broadcast communications amongst the UAVs in
both on-network and off-network scenarios?
## 5.3 Key issue#3: UAV location information
The location related stage 1 requirements are specified in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3]
which are required to be supported by the 5GS. The UAV can report to USS/UTM
various types of location information including absolute positioning like GPS
coordinates and relative positioning like Cell IDs, nearby UAVs at the
particular time instance, etc. The location information from the UAV cannot be
fully trusted. The 3GPP system can also provide the location of a UE (in this
case the UAV). The accurate positioning of UAV is necessary for UAV field
operations of the USS/UTM.
Hence, it is required to study the following:
\- How to verify the UAV reported location information to the USS/UTM with the
location information from the 3GPP system?
\- How to supplement 3GPP system based location information to the location
reporting towards USS/UTM?
NOTE 1: The additional parameters and values for the additional location
information will be determined during the normative work.
NOTE 2: It is the responsibility of SA3 to address the issues related to
spoofing and forging of location information by UAVs.
## 5.4 Key issue#4: Capability exposure of UAS related information
Capability exposure requirements are specified in clause 6.2 of 3GPP TS 22.125
[3] which are requested to be supported by 3GPP system. 3GPP system is
required to provide means to allow a 3^rd^ party to request and obtain real-
time monitoring the status information (e.g. location of UAV, communication
link status) of a UAV. Based on operator\'s policy, the 3GPP system is
required to provide a 3^rd^ party with the information regarding the service
status for UAVs in a certain geographical area and/or at a certain time.
Hence, it is required to study the following:
\- Whether and how additional service APIs are required to be supported at the
UAS application enabler layer.
\- Whether and how CAPIF can be leveraged for additional service APIs.
## 5.5 Key issue#5: UAV Application Server QoS Provisioning
Both C2 communication and Data collected by a UAV onboard system such as
payload equipment may get transmitted using 3GPP network and certain QoS
parameters need be guaranteed as specified in stage 1 3GPP TS 22.125 [3].
Hence, it is required to study the following:
\- Whether and how the application layer QoS requirements are provided to the
3GPP system?
\- Whether and how QoS differentiation can be supported for UAV operations
(e.g. for C2 communication mode, mission type, C2 communication types)?
\- Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support the QoS
monitoring/provisioning?
\- Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support modifying
QoS requirements as requested by the UAV-controller or the USS/UTM?
NOTE: QoS requirement in SA2 is out of scope.
## 5.6 Key issue#6: Switching and selecting C2 communication modes
The C2 communication mode specified in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] include the Direct
C2 communication, Network‑Assisted C2 communication and UTM-Navigated C2
communication. For reliability and service availability considerations, the
switching of C2 modes may be required to ensure undisrupted C2 operation
between a UAV-C and a UAV while a UAV flight is ongoing. In particular, the
configuration of the C2 mode may need to be adapted for a UAS while flight is
ongoing, due to possible change of radio conditions, traffic situation,
unpredictable events etc.
The following scenarios need to be investigated further, with respect to the
impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
\- Switch between the Network-Assisted C2 communication and Direct C2
communication (e.g. when the direct link becomes feasible/available, or when a
UAV is moving towards BLOS or has poor direct link conditions, etc.).
\- Switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication and UTM-
navigated C2 communication (e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is
approaching a No Drone Zone, and detected potential security threats, etc.).
It is for further study whether and how the UAS application layer need to
assist the dynamic C2 mode switching based on the above scenarios.
The 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] also addressed it is possible to activate more than one
C2 communication with one as a backup link for C2 communication or switch
among the applicable links for C2 communication. It is for further study:
\- Whether and how the UAS application layer need to assit in selecting the
communication mode between: utilizing more than one C2 communication links,
or, switch among applicable C2 communication links.
\- Whether and how the C2 communication modes may be selected as primary one.
NOTE: Usage of ProSe/PC5 is not considered for the present document.
## 5.7 Key issue#7: USS/UTM provisioning via U1 reference point
The USS/UTM information is to be configured on the UAV and/or UAV-C so that
the UAS can contact its assigned USS/UTM before the flight take-off.
Gap:
\- How to support provisioning the USS/UTM information via U1 reference point
is FFS?
## 5.8 Key issue#8: UAS identification usage in application layer architecture
Once a 3GPP network connection has been successfully made, the subsequent
communication between the UAS application layer and USS/UTM may solely rely on
the ID(s) assigned either by the 3GPP network or a USS/UTM or a combination of
both. Based on 3GPP TR 23.754 [16] architecture\'s assumption, components of a
UAS may be changed/updated. Therefore, a UAV ID may also be updated along the
process.
The current SA6 UAS architecture enables direct communication between the UAS
and USS/UTM using SEAL as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. Therefore, SEAL
may need to be able to support the UAV ID(s) update to provide a seamless
service to the UAS application layer.
NOTE 1: The assignment of either CAA-Level ID or 3GPP UAV ID is outside of
SA6\'s scope.
NOTE 2: The privacy aspect related to the usage of UAV ID(s) is out of scope
of SA6.
Hence, it is required to study the following:
\- Whether and how SEAL can support dynamic UAV ID(s) update.
\- Whether and how SEAL can be enhanced to support communication between UAS
and USS/UTM using either ID or a combination of both.
## 5.9 Key issue#9: Media session monitoring and management
In most of the real-time media communications, the session is initialized with
media parameters negotiation. Those parameters include codec types and
profiles, maximum bitrate. This media capability negotiation is carried in an
application control plane prior to the real media data traffic.
In clause 7.1 of 3GPP TS 22.125 [3], following requirement is stated:
_The 5G system shall be able to provide unmanned aerial vehicle with the
service performance requirements reported in Table 7.1-1._
SEAL, defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11], already offers session management for
all verticals. It is then worth investigating the application enabler aspects
allowing the UAS application layer to monitor and manage media sessions, in
line with the KPIs listed in Stage 1 requirement in Table 7.1-1 of 3GPP TS
22.125 [3].
The following scenarios have been identified:
\- The SEAL may be used to facilitate the application layer for media session
control and monitoring.
\- The SEAL may be used to provide network resource modification for media
sessions used by the application layer.
Hence, it is required to study the following:
\- Whether and how existing SEAL mechanisms are sufficient to monitor and
manage the media session between UAV and UAV-C and USS/UTM.
## 5.10 Key issue#10: UAS Application Enabler Layer and Edge Enabler Layer
alignment
Edge deployments are vitally important for applications that require
performance levels that cannot be met by existing cloud deployments.
Applications executing on a UAV or UAV-C may require performance levels that
can only be met when using edge deployed application servers.
3GPP TS 22.125 [3] specifies performance KPIs (e.g. latency) for services
provided to the UAV applications and UAV command and control. Some of these
performance KPIs can be achieved via edge deployment.
It should be studied how application servers deployed in an edge data network
can be utilized by the corresponding application clients in the UAV or UAV-C
by aligning the UAS Application Enabler layer architecture with the Edge
Enabler layer architecture (as specified in 3GPP TS 23.558 [14]).
## 5.11 Key issue#11: Support to reporting of UAV real-time monitoring status
information
As per 3GPP TS 22.125 [3], \"The 3GPP system shall provide means to allow a
3rd party to request and obtain real-time monitoring the status information
(e.g., location of UAV, communication link status) of a UAV \".
Many events related to the UAV may need to be taken into consideration by UTM
to detect any problems related to UAV. According to 3GPP TS 23.288 [10]
(network data analytics services) there are abnormal behaviour related network
data analytics for UE or groups of UEs, which could be mobility related,
communication related or both. Mobility related are unexpected UE location,
ping-ponging across neighbouring cells, unexpected wakeup, unexpected radio
link failures, etc. Communication related are unexpected long-live/large rate
flows, unexpected wakeup, suspicion of DDoS attack, wrong destination address,
too frequent service access. The abnormal behaviour analytics are exposed via
NEF (as specified in 3GPP TS 29.522 [18]). USS/UTM may be able to fetch
multiple events related to the UAV (UE) from the 3GPP core network, using the
current services of NEF/SCEF, or provide expected UE behaviour parameters to
NWDAF.
Taking the above into consideration, this key issue is needed to study:
\- Whether the existing abnormal behavior analytics (NWDAF), event monitoring
and reporting capabilities from the 3GPP exposure points (e.g. NEF APIs, UAE
APIs, SEAL APIs) are sufficient for the UTM.
## 5.12 Key issue#12: Track UAV location deviation
According to the requirements [R-5.1-012] and [R-5.1-013] of 3GPP TS 22.125
[3], one of the key functionalities of the UTM is to track the UAV/UAV-C
location. Also, for \"Automatic flight by UTM\" control mode as mentioned in
3GPP TS 22.125 [3], it is required for UTM to track the UAV\'s location. In
order to achieve this, the USS/UTM needs to obtain UAV\'s current location
information periodically and process it to confirm the UAV\'s location
deviation.
NOTE: This key issue can be seen as an add-on to Key issue#3.
Hence, it is required to the study the following:
\- Whether the existing location reporting capabilities in the UAE/SEAL are
sufficient to enable the USS/UTM to monitor the UAV\'s location deviation.
# 6 Architectural requirements
## 6.1 General requirements
[AR-6.1-a] The UAS application enabler layer shall support one or more UAS
applications.
[AR-6.1-b] The UAE capabilities should be offered as APIs to the UAS
applications.
## 6.2 UAV location information
### 6.2.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for UAV location information.
### 6.2.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2-a] The SEAL\'s Location Management Service shall support supplementary
location information sharing with USS/UTM.
[AR-6.2-b] The USS/UTM shall be able to obtain trusted location information of
a UAV.
## 6.3 Support for communications between UAVs
### 6.3.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for support for communications between
UAVs.
### 6.3.2 Requirements
[AR-6.3-a] The UAS application enabler layer shall provide mechanism to
support communications between UAVs in a geographical area using unicast Uu.
## 6.4 Capability exposure
### 6.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for capability exposure from the UAE
layer to the UAS application specific layer.
### 6.4.2 Requirements
[AR-6.a-a] The UAE server capabilities may be exposed to the UAS application
specific servers (e.g. USS/UTM) in compliance with CAPIF architecture as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [7].
# 7 Application architecture for enabling Unmanned Aerial Systems
## 7.1 General
## 7.2 UAS Reference Model
Figure 7.2-1: UAS model in 3GPP ecosystem
In the UAS reference model:
\- a UAS is composed by one UAV and one UAV controller.
\- UAVs are connected over cellular connectivity.
\- a UAV can be controlled by a UAV controller connected via the 3GPP mobile
network.
\- a UAV can be controlled by a UAV controller not connected via the 3GPP
mobile network, using a C2 interface not in 3GPP scope.
\- a UAV controller connected via the 3GPP mobile network can control one or
more UAV(s).
\- the UAS exchanges application data traffic with a UAS Service Supplier
(USS).
## 7.3 UAS application layer architecture
Figures 7.3-1 and 7.3-2 illustrates the simplified architectural models for
the UAS application layer.
Figure 7.3-1: Simplified architectural model for the UAS application layer
Figure 7.3-2: Simplified architectural model for U2 connectivity between UAS
UE1 and UAS UE2 at the UAS application layer
The UAS UE1 communicates with UAS application server over U1 reference point.
The UAS UE1 and UAS UE2 communicate over U2 reference point.
NOTE 1: The decision whether to support for UE-to-network relay architecture
for UAS communications is the responsibility of SA2.
The UAS UE1 and the UAS UE2 may be a UAV-Controller or a UAV.
NOTE 2: The UAV-Controller can connect to the UAV via a transport independent
of 3GPP. Such UAV-Controller is not a 3GPP UE and is out of scope of the
present document.
NOTE 3: The decision whether to support PC5 at the U2 reference point for 5GS
is the responsibility of SA2.
The reference point U1 supports the UAS application related interactions
between UAS UE and UAS AS. It is expected that this reference point is
supported at least for unicast delivery mode, and may support multicast
delivery mode. The reference point U2 supports the interactions between the
UAS UEs. The UAS AS may be the USS/UTM.
The reference point U1 is based on Uu connectivity and is an instance of UAV4
or UAV9 as specified in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
The reference point U2 is based on Uu connectivity and is an instance of UAV3
or UAV5 as specified in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
NOTE 4: The decision whether to support multicast delivery over Uu for 5GS is
the responsibility of SA2.
Figure 7.3-3 illustrates the detailed UAS application layer functional model.
It enhances the simplified architectural model for the UAS application layer
by specifying the functional entities at the UAS application layer.
Figure 7.3-3: UAS application layer functional model
Figure 7.3-4 illustrates the detailed UAS application layer functional model
where the UAV-C has a network‑assisted connectivity with the UAV.
Figure 7.3-4: UAS application layer functional model with UAV-C having
network-assisted connectivity with UAV
The UAS application layer functional entities for the UAS UE and the UAS
application server are grouped into the UAS application specific layer and the
UAE layer. The UAE layer offers the UAE capabilities to the UAS application
specific layer. The UAS application layer functional model utilizes the SEAL
services as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
The UAE server is located in the UAE layer. The SEAL services/UAS application
specific layer utilized by UAE layer may include location management, group
management, configuration management, identity management, key management and
network resource management. The UAS application specific layer consists of
the UAS application specific functionalities.
NOTE 5: The functionalities of the UAS application specific layer include the
USS/UTM and are out of scope of the present document.
The following connectivity for the UAS are supported:
\- UAV-C to UAV overU2 (Uu connectivity).
The UAS application server consists of the UAE server, the SEAL servers and
the UAS application specific server. The UAE server provides the UAS
application layer support functions to the UAS application specific server
over Us reference point. The SEAL servers provides the SEAL services to the
UAS application specific server/UAE server over SEAL-S reference point.
The UAS UEs consist of the UAE client, the SEAL clients and the UAS
application specific client. The UAE client provides the UAS application layer
support functions to the UAS application specific client over Uc reference
point. The SEAL clients provides the SEAL services to the UAS application
specific client/UAE client over SEAL-C reference point.
NOTE 6: In some deployments, the client and server entities of SEAL can be
part of UAE client and UAE server respectively.
The UAS application specific client/UAE client acts as a VAL client for its
interaction with the SEAL clients as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. The UAS
application specific server/UAE server acts as a VAL server for its
interaction with the SEAL servers as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
In the UAE layer, the UAE client communicates with the UAE server over U1-AE
reference point. In the UAS application specific layer, the UAS application
specific client communicates with UAS application specific server over U1-APP
reference point.
NOTE 7: The U1-APP reference point includes UAV-Controller/UAV to USS/UTM
communication and is out of scope of the present document.
In the UAE layer, the UAE client of UAS UE2 communicates with UAE client of
UAS UE1 over U2-AE reference point. In the UAS application specific layer, the
UAS application specific client of UAS UE2 communicates with UAE client of UAS
UE1 over U2-APP reference point.
NOTE 8: The U2-APP reference point is out of scope of the present document.
The following SEAL services for UAS applications may include:
\- Location management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11];
\- Group management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11];
\- Configuration management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11];
\- Identity management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11];
\- Key management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]; and
\- Network resource management as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
The UAS application specific client/UAE client interacts with SEAL clients
over the SEAL-C reference point specified for each SEAL service. The UAS
application specific server/UAE server interacts with SEAL servers over the
SEAL-S reference point specified for each SEAL service. The interaction
between the SEAL clients is supported by SEAL-PC5 reference point specified
for each SEAL service. The interaction between a SEAL client and the
corresponding SEAL server is supported by SEAL-UU reference point specified
for each SEAL service.
NOTE 9: The SEAL-C, SEAL-S, SEAL-PC5, SEAL-UU reference points for each SEAL
service is specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
To support distributed UAE server deployments, the UAE server interacts with
another UAE server over UAE-E reference point.
A U1-AE message can be sent over at least unicast, and may be sent over
transparent multicast via xMB or transparent multicast via MB2. The non-
transparent multicast via xMB (as specified in 3GPP TS 26.348 [17]) is
triggered by a U1-AE message. Multicast distribution can be supported by both
transparent and non-transparent multicast modes.
The UAE server interacts with the 3GPP network system over U2, MB2, xMB, Rx,
T8 and Nnef reference points.
NOTE 10: The assumption for this release is that a single UAS application
specific server (USS/UTM) controls a UAS for the duration of a flight.
# 8 Solutions
## 8.1 Solution #1: Network assisted positioning for USS/UTM
### 8.1.1 Solution description
#### 8.1.1.1 General
This solution aims to address the gaps identified in Key Issue #3 \"UAV
location information\". The solution proposes to enable network assisted
positioning support for both UAV/UAV-C and USS/UTM. The procedures for network
assisted positioning used by UAV and USS/UTM respectively are covered. This
solution uses existing features for estimating location of a UE by a 3GPP
Location Server and the network sending this as supplementary location
information to the USS/UTM based on request.
In E-UTRAN, the location services are outlined in 3GPP TS 23.271 [8] and 3GPP
TS 36.305 [19]. The methods that can be provided by the UE in the UAV or UAV-C
are:
\- Network-assisted GNSS methods;
\- Downlink positioning;
\- Enhanced cell ID method;
\- Uplink positioning;
\- WLAN method;
\- Bluetooth method;
\- Terrestrial Beacon System method;
\- Sensor based methods:
\- Barometric Pressure Sensor;
\- Motion sensor.
In NG-RAN, the location services are outlined in 3GPP TS 23.273 [9] and 3GPP
TS 38.305 [20]. The methods that can be provided by the UE in the UAV or UAV-C
are:
\- Network-assisted GNSS methods;
\- Observed time difference of arrival (OTDOA) positioning;
\- Enhanced cell ID methods;
\- WLAN positioning;
\- Bluetooth positioning;
\- Terrestrial beacon system (TBS) positioning;
\- Sensor based methods:
\- Barometric Pressure Sensor;
\- Motion sensor.
Both E-UTRAN and NG-RAN support a variety of methods that can be used to
provide location information about the UAV / UAV-C. Besides OTDOA, the methods
in E-UTRAN and NG-RAN are similar.
NOTE 1: The above listed methods for location services are taken from the
current release 16 versions of 3GPP TS 23.271 [8] and 3GPP TS 23.273 [9]. The
list of applicable location services must be verified during the normative
work.
The UCF can be used to receive location information from 5GS and provide a
uniform / standardised set of location information parameters to the USS/UTM.
The UCF can be used to verify or to complement location information provided
directly between the UAS Client and the USS/UTM.
The solution uses a network function called UAV Control Function (UCF) to
process location information from 3GPP Location Services and from the USS/UTM.
The UCF will provide the USS/UTM with positioning information that are further
processed. The UCF interface options are:
a) UCF located in 5GC: with a Location Server directly accessible (via SBA),
with UE connected over the control plane (via AMF), with USS/UTM accessible
via NEF; and
b) UCF located outside 5GC: with a Location Server accessible via NEF, with UE
connected over user plane, with USS/UTM accessible via interface outside of
the 3GPP scope.
NOTE 2: Some or all of UCF functionality can be provided by existing functions
(e.g. AMF, PCF). Architecture aspects such as the use of a UCF needs to be
verified with SA2 once SA2 work has sufficiently progressed.
The requirements on positioning between a UE and the 3GPP network as outlined
in 3GPP TS 22.071 [2] and 3GPP TS 22.261 [4] are provided by the 3GPP-network
and are considered trusted, while positioning provided by a UAV between the
UAV and the USS/UTM are provided by a terminal and are considered not trusted.
All location information sent directly from the UAS-client to the USS/UTM is
not trusted. This solution enables the MNO/network to provide trusted location
information of the UAV (or UAV-C) to the USS/UTM based on network information.
The USS/UTM \"subscribes\" to location information from the network (via
UCF/NEF) for location reports provided by the 3GPP system for a given UAV (or
UAV-C). The UCF sends location reports based on network location information
of the UAV (or UAV-C) to the USS/UTM.
#### 8.1.1.2 Network assisted positioning provided to USS/UTM
The USS/UTM may require to be aware of the UAV\'s position during the entire
duration of the UAV\'s flight due to regulatory requirements. This positioning
information can be obtained by the UAV using the on-board GNSS unit of the
associated UE or other means. The UAV then uses this positioning information
when updating UAV-C and/or USS/UTM with live location information. Network
assisted positioning is provided to USS/UTM to enable more precise or reliable
UAV tracking information. Additionally, the UAV reported live location
information to USS/UTM can be verified by the USS/UTM by means of supplemental
network provided positioning information.
Figure 8.1.1.2-1: Procedure for Network assisted positioning provided to
USS/UTM
NOTE: All parameters related to positioning, like e.g. flight plan, 3D
waypoint, measurement precision, radar and broadcast information are examples
only. Further, information related to positioning also depend on regulatory
requirements.
Pre-conditions:
\- The UAV and UAV-C are both registered with the network (if the UAV-C is a
UE) and USS/UTM, and are authorized for flight operations with mechanisms
outside the scope of this solution.
Steps from the figure are described next:
1a-1b. The NR positioning protocol is established between the UEs (the UE
associated with the UAV and the UE associated with the UAV-C) and the Location
Server in the network. As part of the protocol establishment, the location
measurement and reporting configurations are also established. Such parameters
may include the periodicity and positioning type (e.g., E-CID, A-GNSS, RSTD,
etc.). Location and positioning is specified according to 3GPP TS 23.271 [8]
and 3GPP TS 36.305 [19] for E-UTRAN and 3GPP TS 23.273 [9] and 3GPP TS 38.305
[20] for NG-RAN.
2a-2b. The UAV reports measurements using the positioning protocol to the
Location Server. The reporting quantities, periodicities, and other quantities
are as per the configuration exchanged during the positioning protocol
establishment.
3a-3b. The UAV reports its live location information to the USS/UTM as per
configuration (e.g. based at least on regulatory requirements such as
periodicity, precision, etc.) on the communication interface between the UAV
and the USS/UTM. This reporting configuration can be supplied before or during
flight authorization, or in step 1. These reports can include readings from
the on-board GNSS unit and, perhaps, augmented by an inertial measurement
unit, if available.
4a. The USS/UTM at any time sends a UAS Positioning Assistance Request to the
UCF. This message includes an identifier of the UAV, required positioning or
tracking quality requirements including for different flight stages, etc.).
Positioning requirements information can be known to the network (e.g.
established with USS/UTM during UAS flight authorization). In that case, it is
possible that the USS/UTM directly requests the network to activate the
network assisted positioning reports (i.e., skip 4a/b straight to 4c).
4b. Upon receiving a UAS Positioning Assistance Request message from the
USS/UTM, the UCF responds with a UAS Positioning Assistance Response message.
This message conveys the UCF\'s ability to fulfil the positioning request from
the UAV,
4c. Upon receiving the UAS Positioning Assistance Response message, the
USS/UTM can transmit a UAS Positioning Assistance Confirm message to the UCF
to signal conclusion of the positioning configuration establishment and/or to
activate positioning report transmission by the UCF.
4d. The UCF sends a Positioning Request to the Location Server including the
UAS ID and the positioning configuration established with the USS/UTM.
4e. The Location Server sends the available position information about the
indicated UAV to the UCF. The supplied UAV tracking or positioning information
complies with the requested configuration in terms of the precision,
periodicity, etc.
5-6. The UCF, upon receiving the UAV positioning information from the Location
Server, provides the UAV location information based on network positioning
measurements to the requesting USS/UTM. This network supplied UAV position can
be used by USS/UTM to verify UE supplied location information (step 3).
### 8.1.2 Solution evaluation
The SEAL layer can be enhanced to support the UCF functionality illustrated in
this solution.
NOTE: SEAL is an enabler layer for multiple verticals and this solution can be
applicable for other verticals e.g. V2XAPP.
## 8.2 Solution #2: Broadcast communications
### 8.2.1 Solution description
In Rel.17, there is no support in 5GS for broadcast communications for UAS in
the following scenarios to address Key issue#2:
\- Off-network communications using ProSe/PC5
\- On-network communication using multicast/broadcast Uu (i.e. 5MBS).
### 8.2.2 Solution evaluation
Currently in Rel.17, there is no support from 3GPP 5GS to support broadcast
communications for UAS using ProSe/PC5 and Uu based 5G multicast/broadcast.
## 8.3 Solution #3: Support for supplementary UE location
### 8.3.1 Solution description
The UAV/UAV-C may have a relationship with a USS/UTM for its application layer
operations. In that context UAV/UAV-C can periodically provide certain
location information to the USS/UTM. In order to enhance the location
information at the USS/UTM, the USS/UTM can obtain supplementary UE location
information from the SEAL Location Management Service as specified in 3GPP TS
23.434 [11]. The SEAL LMS provides the supporting enhanced location reporting
service to the upper UAS application layer. This solution addresses key
issue#1 and key issue#3
Figure 8.3.1-1 illustrates the solution for USS/UTM to register to recieve
supplementary UE location information from the SEAL location management
server.
Figure 8.3.1-1: Registration for supplementary UE location information
1\. The USS/UTM sends register supplementary UE location information request
to the SEAL LM server with the UAV and UAV-C information and the requested
supplementary UE location information (e.g. additional location information,
accuracy information, 3GPP location information like cell ID, network
positioning information)
2\. Upon receiving the request, the SEAL LM server checks whether it can
support the supplementary UE location information requested by the USS/UTM. It
further stores the registration information which it can process.
3\. The SEAL LM server sends a response information accepting or rejecting the
registration. If accepted, it indicates the supplementary UE location
information is supported by the SEAL LM server.
Figure 8.3.1-2 illustrates the solution for SEAL LM server to provide the
supplementary UE location information to the USS/UTM.
Pre-conditions:
\- The USS/UTM has registered for the supplementary UE location information
with SEAL LM server for the UAV/UAV-C.
\- The SEAL LM client of the UAV/UAV-C has been provisionined with SEAL LM
server information.
Figure 8.3.1-2: Notification of supplementary UE location information
1\. UAV/UAV-C triggers SEAL LM client to send location report to SEAL LM
server as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
2\. Upon detection of step 1, the SEAL LM server obtains the UE location
corresponding to the UAV/UAV-C from the 3GPP CN due to the need to generate
the notification to the USS/UTM because of the established registration for
supplementary UE location information. The interactions of SEAL LM server and
3GPP CN is specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. In addition, SEAL LM server
interacts with 3GPP CN for location information as specified in 3GPP TS 23.271
[8].
3\. The SEAL LM server adds the supplementary UE location information to the
UE location report and sends the enhanced UE location report to the USS/UTM .
### 8.3.2 Solution evaluation
This is a viable solution to address key issue#3 and key issue#1 where the
SEAL LM server augments in real-time the location reports from the UE
(UAV/UAV-C) to the USS/UTM with 3GPP network position info.
## 8.4 Solution #4: Support for coordinated QoS provisioning for network-
assisted C2 communication
### 8.4.1 Solution description
#### 8.4.1.1 General
This solution addresses Key Issue #5 on UAV Application Server QoS
Provisioning, and in particular provides a mechanism for ensuring the end-to-
end application QoS requirement fulfilment for C2 application, considering
that the QoS of one of the links may downgrade. **It is assumed that the UAV
flight is ongoing, and both the UAV and UAV-C are connected to 3GPP network
(the same or different). C2 communication is assumed to be in-direct /
network-assisted; hence two PDU sessions are established respectively (one for
the UAV and one for the UAV-C).** **An illustration of the scenario is
provided at the Figure below:**
Figure 8.4.1.1-1: Exemplary illustration of network-assisted C2 communication
**Initially, the UAE client at the UAV-C sends a request to the UAE-S to
monitor and manage the end-to-end application QoS for the C2 communication.
This triggers the UAE-S to subscribe to the corresponding PLMNs for receiving
QoS monitoring events for both PDU sessions (one for UAV and one for UAV-C).
When a QoS monitoring event is received by the UAE-S, the UAE-S checks whether
the QoS of the other link can be upgraded and how, in order to meet the end-
to-end C2 requirements. If UAE server evaluates that QoS upgrade can be
triggered to compensate for the QoS downgrade of the other PDU session, the
updated QoS requirements are sent to the underlying PLMN(s) for one or both
sessions.**
#### 8.4.1.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAS is registered and connected to the PLMN (s). UAV flight is ongoing
and C2 communication is in-direct (two PDU sessions are established one for
UAV and one for UAV-C and the relation / pairing between UAV and UAV-C is
known at the UAE-S).
2\. UAE-S and UAE clients (of the UAV, UAV-C) have established application
enabler layer sessions. UAE-S is also capable of using SEAL services.
3\. UAE-S has already registered to receive QoS monitoring event notifications
from 5GC and notifications from UEs (from both UEs)
Figure 8.4.1.2-1: UAE-assisted coordinated QoS provisioning for C2
communication
1a. The UAE-S receives from the UAE client of the UAV-C a request for managing
the QoS for the C2 application session. This request message will provide to
the UAE-S the capability to manage C2 communication and may include necessary
information for the UAS such as UAS identification, PLMN ID(s), C2 control
mode (direct stick, stick to waypoints), use of HD video flag, geographical
area where the requirement applies, time of validity for the requirement.
1b. Following, the UAE-C provides a response indicating a positive/negative
acknowledgement.
2a. The UAE-S receives a trigger event from the 5GC (SMF/NEF), denoting a QoS
downgrade notification for the UAV session. Here there are two cases for the
QNC: one for notification control with Alternative QoS profiles for the QoS
flows (clause 5.7.2.4.1b of 3GPP TS 23.501 [12]) where the 5GS provides the
alternative downgraded QoS to be applied; and one for notification control
without Alternative QoS profiles (clause 5.7.2.4.1b of 3GPP TS 23.501 [12]).
2b. (optionally, as alternative to 2a), A trigger event is sent from the UAE
client of the UAV and/or the UAV-C to the UAE-S, denoting an application QoS
change (experienced or expected) e.g. based on the experienced packet delay or
packet loss for the Uu link (e.g. packet loss > X%)
3a. The UAE-S interacts with 5GC (NEF) and/or SEAL services to acquire
supplementary information for the UAV/UAV-C session or for the network status.
This information may support identifying whether the QoS requirements for
UAV/UAV-C session can or cannot be upgraded. In particular, the 5GC/SEAL
services may be:
\- On-demand location reporting from LM-S (clauses 9.3.4 and 9.4.2 of 3GPP TS
23.434 [11]): UAE-S acts as VAL server and requests/receives reporting on
demand for the UAV-C.
\- **NEF Monitoring Events** (see 3GPP TS 23.502 [13])**: UAE-S acting as AF
subscribes and gets notified on network /QoS monitoring Events via \"**
MonitoringEvent\" and the \"AFSessionWithQoS\" APIs to track mobility and
session related events for a certain UE.
\- QoS sustainability analytics (see 3GPP TS 23.288 [10]): UAE-S acting as AF
subscribes and gets notified on the expected QoS status for the corresponding
UAV-C session by NWDAF (via NEF). This will support the UAE-S to capture
possible QoS fluctuations over a time window.
3b. Optionally, the UAE-S may also receive notifications (based on
subscription, as in Pre-condition 3) from UAV-C or UAV related to the
application QoS fulfillment / status.
4\. The UAE-S checks the fulfilment/non-fulfilment of the E2E QoS based on the
trigger event of step 2a/2b and the additional information from the 5GC/SEAL
and/or the UAV/UAV-C as in steps 3a/3b (about the UAV/UAV-C session which is
not downgraded). This is performed by matching the estimated application QoS
per link to the composed E2E application QoS metrics. Then, the UAE-S,
determines an action, based on the evaluation of the E2E QoS. This action is
the QoS adaptation of both links (QoS profile downgrade for the link receive
QoS notification control, and QoS upgrade for the link which can be upgraded).
NOTE: If Alternative QoS profiles are set in advance by the AF, the UAE-S will
only update the upgraded QoS and will not decide on the QoS requirements
adaptation for the downgraded flow.
5\. The UAE/SEAL server, acting as AF, sends to the 5GC (to SMF via NEF or to
PCF via N5) a request for a change of the QoS profile mapped to the one or
both network sessions (UAV, UAV-C) or the update of the PCC rules to apply the
new traffic policy (both AF triggered actions are supported in 3GPP TS 23.501
[12]/3GPP TS 23.502 [13])
### 8.4.2 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #5 provides the following topics for investigation related to the
UAV Application Server QoS Provisioning:
a. Whether and how the application layer QoS requirements are provided to the
3GPP system?
b. Whether and how QoS differentiation can be supported for UAV operations
(e.g. for C2 communication mode, mission type, C2 communication types)?
c. Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support the QoS
monitoring/provisioning?
d. Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support modifying
QoS requirements as requested by the UAV-controller or the USS/UTM?
This solution covers:
\- bullet a) by enabling UAE server to interact with 3GPP system to provide
the updated QoS requirements for compensating QoS for a C2 application
session;
\- bullet c) since it enhances the UAE layer to support C2 application QoS
provisioning for the updated requirements;
\- bullet d) since it enhances the UAE layer to support modifying QoS
requirements based on UAV-C request (as in Step 1).
This is a viable solution for ensuring C2 end-to-end QoS requirements
fulfilment even if one of the Uu links gets downgraded (e.g. UAV). The
solution is technically feasible, since it uses existing SA2/SA6 defined APIs;
and proposes a new capability at the UAE-S for identifying and coordinating a
joint application session QoS adaptation for the involved Uu links, for
ensuring that the end-to-end C2 requirements are met. This solution only
requires enhancements over U1-AE reference point.
## 8.5 Solution #5: Support for C2 QoS Provisioning
### 8.5.1 Solution description
Both uplink QoS (from the UAV/UAV-C to the network) or the downlink QoS (from
the network to UAV/UAV-C) may be monitored and managed for UAV/UAV-C
application layer operations as specified in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3]. The QoS
includes but is not limited to network bandwidth, latency, jitter, data loss
rate, etc. Currently, three supported C2 communication modes may require
different network resources support from the UAS application layer.
With regarding to C2 communication using 3GPP network, a SEAL GM server as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11] may need to be configured to ensure a match
between a pair of UAV and UAV-C based on certain UAS ID configuration, such as
either a 3GPP UE ID or CAA-level UAV ID. Network QoS provisioning can be
triggered by the SEAL NRM server based on group ID.
Editor\'s note: The design of UAS ID is out of this specification\'s scope.
This solution provides a group-based scheme to address the QoS provisioning
for C2 communication specified in the key issue #5. The procudure involves a
group creation using SEAL GMS followed by a workflow for QoS management using
SEAL NRM server.
Pre-conditions:
\- Both UAV-C and UAV have successfully connected to the UAE server.
\- A CAA-level UAV ID may be assigned during 3GPP network registration
process.
Figure 8.5.1-1 illsutrates a high-level procedure for group creation.
Figure 8.5.1-1: Procedure for group creation for one pair of UAV and UAV-C
1\. The UAE server recognizes a unique pair of UAV and UAV-C either by 3GPP UE
ID or CAA-level UAV ID.
2\. When the UAE server recognizes there is a QoS degradation for either UAV
or UAV-C, the UAE server may send group creation request to SEAL GM server, if
there is no pre-assigned group ID, by using GM-S reference link as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11] using the procedure defined in clause 10.3.
3\. SEAL GM server may create one group ID for one pair of UAV and UAV-C as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
4\. The UAE server may use the returned group ID for UAS for QoS management.
In the absence of group, the SEAL NRM server may use UE IDs of the UAV and
UAV-C to manage QoS for UAV and UAV-C separately.
5\. Once group ID has been created, the UAE server may use such group ID for
the purpose of QoS provisioning by communicating with NRM.
Figure 8.5.1-2 illsutrates a high-level workflow of group-based C2 QoS
provisioning.
Editor\'s note: QoS provisioning when C2 is in dynamically changing mode is
FFS.
Pre-conditions:
\- Both UAV and UAV-C have registered to 3GPP 5G network respectively. C2
communication is established.
\- The SEAL group manager has been configured and a group ID or a separate ID
for a UAV and UAV-C assigned for each of the UAV and UAV-C.
Figure 8.5.1-2: Procedure of group-based approach for C2 QoS provisioning.
1\. The UAE server consistenly monitors the QoS for a UAV and UAV-C.
2\. In cases where the network condition for C2 communication does not satisfy
the pre-defined QoS requirement, the UAE server may choose to send QoS
adaptation request to the SEAL NRM server using the NRM-S reference point as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. The QoS adaptation request may be sent per
group ID for a pair of UAV and UAV-C or a unique ID for each UAV and UAV-C
which depends on how the UAE server handles group creation specified in Figure
8.5.1-1.
3\. The SEAL NRM server performs network resource adaptation as specified in
the 3GPP TS 23.434 [11] clause 14.3.2.1.
4\. The NRM server notifies the QoS update to the UAE server using procedure
defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11] clause 14.3.2.2.
5\. UAS application layer adapts the updated QoS assignment.
### 8.5.2 Solution evaluation
This is a viable solution to 1) provide the UAE S with a group-based approach
for better managing C2 QoS provisioning through SEAL, and 2) propose
technically feasible C2 QoS provisioning procedures between UAE‑S and SEAL-S,
with or without a group-ID which may be assigned from SEAL GMS.
## 8.6 Solution #6: Selection and switching between Network‑Assisted/Direct
and USS/UTM navigated C2 communication
### 8.6.1 Solution description
#### 8.6.1.1 General
This solution aims to address the gaps identified in Key Issue #6 \"Switching
and selecting C2 communication modes\". The solution proposes to enable
support for switching and selecting C2 communication modes as well as
redundant link operations using assistance from UAS application layer. This
solution addresses switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication
and UTM-navigated C2 communication.
An example scenario is a UAV controller operating a UAV using network-assisted
C2 communication mode (e.g., fly BVLOS) and as the UAV enters a no-fly zone,
the USS/UTM takes over the control of UAV and fly it to safety (see 3GPP TS
22.125 [3] clause 4.2).
In this solution, the UAE layer enables provisioning and enforcement of a C2
communication link selection and switching policy from USS/UTM, including
performing C2 communication mode switching upon command from USS/UTM.
#### 8.6.1.2 UAS application assisted selection and switching between
Network‑Assisted/Direct and USS/UTM navigated C2 communication
The procedure below shows how a primary mode of C2 communication is selected
and C2 communication is established between a UAV and UAV-C, and how the C2
communication is switched to a UTM-navigated C2 communication mode when
instructed by USS/UTM. The solution is illustrated with network-assisted C2
communication as the initial C2 communication mode and UTM-navigated assisted
as the final mode. The principle also applies in the reverse direction or from
direct to UTM-navigated or vice-versa. UAE-S is assumed to be authorized to
use SEAL services. The UAE-S forward messages (e.g. Sends link selection and
switching policy, active C2 communication mode, C2 communication switch)
between USS/UTM and UE (UAV/UAV-C).
Figure 8.6.1.2-1: UAS application layer assisted switch between
Direct/Indirect and UTM-navigated C2 communication
1a. The UAV is registered and connected with the USS/UTM and with direct
and/or indirect link available for C2 communication.
1b. The UAV-C is registered and connected with the USS/UTM and with direct
and/or indirect link available for C2 communication.
2a. UAV\'s UAE-C receives a C2 communication link selection and switching
policy from the USS/UTM via UAE-S in a U1-AE message indicating: the allowed
communication modes (e.g., direct, network assisted, UTM-navigated), the
primary C2 communication mode (e.g., network-assisted, direct or UTM-
navigated), policy for redundant C2 connection handling (e.g., backup link not
needed, preferred, or required**)** , and QoS threshold values to trigger the
switch of C2 communication. UAV\'s UAE-C may notify locally the UAS Client via
the Uc reference point about relevant parameters from the policy (e.g.,
allowed C2 communication modes).
NOTE: C2 communication policy transmission can be performed either during or
following the UAV/UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM procedure.
2b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C receives a C2 communication link selection and switching
policy from the USS/UTM via UAE-S in a U1-AE message. UAV-C\'s UAE-C may
notify locally the UAS Client via the Uc reference point about relevant
parameters from the policy (see 2a. for further details).
3a. UAV\'s UAE-C selects a primary mode of communication based on C2 link
selection and switching policy.
3b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C selects a primary mode of communication based on C2 link
selection and switching policy.
4\. UAV\'s UAE-C and UAV-C\'s UAE-C negotiate (e.g., over the primary link
used as U1-AE) whether to use a backup C2 connection based on C2 link
selection and switching communication policy.
5a. UAV\'s UAE-C notifies USS/UTM via UAE-S about the current active C2
communication mode used (direct or network-assisted). UAV\'s UAE-C notifies
locally UAS Client of the same.
5b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C notifies USS/UTM via UAE-S about the current active C2
communication mode used (direct or network-assisted). UAV-C\'s UAE-C notifies
locally UAS Client of the same.
6a. Alternative 1: UAV\'s UAS Client engages in indirect C2 communication with
UAV-C\'s UAS Client via 5GC and a Data Network (DN).
6b. Alternative 2: UAV\'s UAS Client engages in direct C2 communication with
UAV-C\'s UAS Client.
7\. USS/UTM detects a condition to switch to UTM-navigated C2 communication
mode (e.g., entry into a no-fly zone, based on reported UAV location).
8a. USS/UTM instructs UAV\'s UAE-C via UAE-S in a U1-AE message to switch to
UTM-navigated C2 communication mode indicating the target IP address to use
for C2 communication (if different from the one used in step 1/2). UAV\'s
UAE-C indicate to UAV\'s UAS client via the Uc reference point to switch C2
communication mode according to USS/UTM command. USS/UTM informs the UAE-S how
to handle the existing C2 communication connection with UAV-C (e.g., maintain
or release).
8b. UAE-S transmits a message to NRM server to trigger the release of existing
link if required.
8c. USS/UTM may notify UAV-C\'s UAE-C via UAE-S of the switch to UTM-navigated
(e.g., UAS client may alert operator of UTM take over). C2 communication with
UAV and UAV-C is \"paused\" while UTM-navigation C2 communication mode is
taking place and may be resumed following a similar command from USS/UTM as
step 8a/8b to switch back to direct/indirect C2 communication mode (e.g.,
after UAV moved away from a No Drone Zone).
9\. UAV\'s UAS Client switches to UTM-navigated C2 communication with USS/UTM
via 5GC and a Data Network (DN).
### 8.6.2 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #6 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a) Switch between the Network-Assisted C2 communication and Direct C2
communication (e.g. when the direct link becomes feasible/available, or when a
UAV is moving towards BLOS or has poor direct link conditions, etc.).
b) Switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication and UTM-
navigated C2 communication (e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is
approaching a No Drone Zone, and detected potential security threats, etc.).
c) Whether and how the UAS application layer need to assit in selecting the
communication mode between: utilizing more than one C2 communication links,
or, switch among applicable C2 communication links.
d) Whether and how the C2 communication modes may be selected as primary one.
This solution fully addresses the bullet b), bullet c) and bullet d) in Key
Issue #6:
A summary of the UAE layer capabilities are:
1) UAE server and UAE client provide support for application specific layer
message exchanges related to selection and switching policy, notification of
active selection mode and command to switch the C2 communication mode.
2) UAE client selects primary communication mode for C2 as per selection and
switch policy.
3) UAE clients of UAV and UAV-C involve in negotiation of redundant C2
connection handling. The procedure-details will be specified during the
normative phase.
The solution enables the USS/UTM to take or give back control of the UAV
navigation away from/to the UAV-C at any time (e.g., to avoid a safety hazard)
by sending C2 switching commands to the UAV via the UAE layer. The USS/UTM may
decide to not relinquish control of the UAV and instruct the network to
release the existing link used with the UAV-C via the SEAL NRM (e.g., in
presence of potential security threat).
The solution also enables USS/UTM to control the usage of redudant C2
communication links (direct and indirect) and selection of primary C2
communication mode (e.g., UTM-navigated) in the UAV using the same policy
framework as proposed in solution #7. Using a standardized policy handling by
the UAE layer can avoid fragmentation in how UAVs and UAV-C can interoperate
to support C2 communication mode selection and switching.
## 8.7 Solution #7: Selection and switching between Network-Assisted and
Direct C2 communication
### 8.7.1 Solution description
#### 8.7.1.1 General
This solution aims to address the gaps identified in Key Issue #6 \"Switching
and selecting C2 communication modes\". The solution proposes to enable
support for switching and selecting C2 communication modes as well as
redundant link operations using assistance from the UAS application layer.
This solution addresses the switch between Network-Assisted C2 communication
and Direct C2 communication.
An example scenario is a UAV controller operating a UAV in close range using
primarily direct C2 communication (e.g., fly VLOS, benefit from lower latency
communication) and as the UAV gets further from the UAV-C or behind an
obstacle the C2 communication is switched automatically to network-assisted
mode in response to the direct link degraded quality. When the UAV flies back
closer to the UAV-C the C2 communication can be switched back to direct C2
communication (see 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] clause 4.2).
In this solution the UAE layer enables provisioning and enforcement of a C2
communication link selection and switching policy from USS/UTM, including
performing C2 communication mode switching upon detection of link quality
change based on policy parameters as well as notification of USS/UTM of active
C2 communication mode in use.
#### 8.7.1.2 UAS application assisted selection and switching between Network-
Assisted and Direct C2 communication
The procedure below shows how a primary mode of C2 communication is selected
and C2 communication is established between a UAV and a UAV-C, and how the C2
communication is switched to a secondary mode of C2 communication based on
policies provisioned by the USS/UTM. The solution is illustrated with direct
C2 communication as the primary and network assisted as the secondary mode,
but the principle is the same for the reverse scenario. UAE-S is assumed to be
authorized to use SEAL services.
Figure 8.7.1.2-1: UAS application layer assisted switch Direct/Indirect C2
communication
1a. The UAV/UE is registered and connected with USS/UTM and direct and
indirect links are available for C2 communication.
1b. The UAV-C/UE is registered and connected with USS/UTM and direct and
indirect links are available for C2 communication.
2a. UAV\'s UAE-C receives a C2 communication link selection and switching
policy from the USS/UTM via UAE-S in a U1-AE message indicating: the allowed
communication modes (e.g., direct, network assisted, UTM-navigated), the
primary C2 communication mode (e.g., network-assisted, direct) , policy for
redundant C2 connection handling (e.g., backup link not needed, preferred, or
required**)** , and QoS threshold values (e.g., range/distance limit, delay,
signal strength) used to determine whether to trigger the switch of C2
communication. UAV\'s UAE-C may notify locally the UAS Client via the Uc
reference point about relevant parameters from the policy (e.g., allowed C2
communication modes).
NOTE 1: Such C2 communication policy transmission can be performed either
during or following the UAV/UAV authentication and authorization by USS/UTM
procedure.
2b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C receives a C2 communication link selection and switching
policy from the USS/UTM via UAE-S in a U1-AE message. UAV-C\'s UAE-C may
notify locally the UAS Client via the Uc reference point about relevant
parameters from the policy (see 2a. for further details).
3a. UAV\'s UAE-C selects a primary mode of communication based on C2 link
selection and switching communication policy.
3b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C selects a primary mode of communication based on C2 link
selection and switching communication policy.
4\. The UAV\'s UAE-C and UAV-C\'s UAE-C negotiate (e.g., over the primary link
used as U1-AE) whether to use a backup C2 connection based on allowed
communication modes and redundant C2 communication policy (e.g., \"network-
assisted\" allowed, backup required), and QoS thresholds for C2 switching
based on values in the C2 communication policy.
5a. UAV\'s UAE-C notifies USS/UTM via UAE-S about the current active C2
communication mode. UAV\'s UAE-C notifies locally UAS Client of the same.
5b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C notifies USS/UTM via UAE-S about the current active C2
communication mode. UAV-C\'s UAE-C notifies locally UAS Client of the same.
6\. UAV\'s UAS Client and UAV-C\'s UAS Client engage in direct C2
communication while monitoring the current C2 link against the negotiated QoS
thresholds for C2 switching.
NOTE 2: Usage of ProSe/PC5 for direct C2 communication is not considered in
this solution.
7\. UAV\'s UAE-C and/or UAV-C\'s UAE-C detects that C2 switching conditions
are met on current C2 link (e.g., low signal strength) notifies peer and
receive an ack of switch over of C2 communication to the secondary connection.
The switch over may be triggered implicitly by UAV and UAV-C\'s UAS Clients
when exchanging C2 messages over the secondary C2 connection (e.g., if the
switch notification is lost over the primary connection).
8a. UAV\'s UAE-C notifies USS/UTM via UAE-S about the switch to the new active
C2 communication mode. UAV\'s UAE-C notifies locally UAS Client of the same
via the Uc reference point.
8b. UAV-C\'s UAE-C notifies USS/UTM via UAE-S about the switch to the new
active C2 communication mode. UAV-C\'s UAE-C notifies locally UAS Client of
the same via the Uc reference point.
9\. UAV\'s UAS Client and UAV-C\'s UAS Client switches to network-assisted C2
communication mode using the secondary C2 connection via 5GC and a Data
Network (DN). Following a switch in one direction, the UAV/UAV-C may decide to
switch back to the original C2 communication connection if its quality meets
negotiated C2 communication QoS thresholds above.
### 8.7.2 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #6 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a) Switch between the Network-Assisted C2 communication and Direct C2
communication (e.g. when the direct link becomes feasible/available, or when a
UAV is moving towards BLOS or has poor direct link conditions, etc.).
b) Switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication and UTM-
navigated C2 communication (e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is
approaching a No Drone Zone, and detected potential security threats, etc.).
c) Whether and how the UAS application layer need to assit in selecting the
communication mode between: utilizing more than one C2 communication links,
or, switch among applicable C2 communication links.
d) Whether and how the C2 communication modes may be selected as primary one.
This solution fully addresses the bullet a), bullet c) and bullet d) in Key
Issue #6.
A summary of the UAE layer capabilities are:
1) UAE server and UAE client provide support for application specific layer
message exchanges related to selection and switching policy, notification of
active selection mode and command to switch the C2 communication mode.
2) UAE client selects primary communication mode for C2 as per selection and
switch policy.
3) UAE clients of UAV and UAV-C involve in negotiation of redundant C2
connection handling. The procedure-details will be specified during the
normative phase.
This solution enables the UAV to make C2 switching decision based on a USS/UTM
policy provisioned via the UAE layer. The use of a USS/UTM policy provisioned
in the UAV has the advantage of enabling USS/UTM to control the behaviour of
the UAV with regards to C2 mode communication switching, while allowing the
UAV to make timely C2 communication mode switching decisions using QoS
threshold parameters as part of the policy (e.g. in presence of fast changing
link conditions), without incurring any signalling overhead towards the
network or USS/UTM.
The solution also enables USS/UTM to control the usage of redudant C2
communication links (direct and indirect) and selection of primary C2
communication mode in the UAV (UAV-C) using the proposed policy framework.
Using a standardized policy handling by the UAE layer can avoid fragmentation
in how UAVs and UAV-C can interoperate to support C2 communication mode
selection and switching.
The proposed policy framework is also not dependent of the type of radio used
for direct C2 communications and may be adapted to support ProSe/PC5 in the
future.
## 8.8 Solution #8: QoS requirement retrieval during C2 connectivity
establishment
### 8.8.1 Solution description
#### 8.8.1.1 General
This solution aims to address the following gaps identified in Key Issue #5
\"UAV Application Server QoS Provisioning\":
> a) Whether and how the application layer QoS requirements are provided to
> the 3GPP system?
>
> b) Whether and how QoS differentiation can be supported for UAV operations
> (e.g. for C2 communication mode, mission type, C2 communication types)?
>
> c) Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support the QoS
> monitoring/provisioning?
>
> d) Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support modifying
> QoS requirements as requested by the UAV-controller or the USS/UTM?
The prerequisites for this solution are:
\- The UAV has been authenticated and authorized by both 3GPP system and
USS/UTM for UAS services.
\- The UAV has been authorized by the USS/UTM for pairing and C2 communication
with the UAV-C.
NOTE 1: The solution is described from the perspective of UAV, but it also
applies to UAV-C.
NOTE 2: UAV/UAV-C authentication and authorization by USS/UTM, pairing, and C2
communication setup procedures are specified in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
The solution is dependent on enhancements in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16] which assumes
that the QoS requirements for UAS communication are not static and can change
depending on the mission that the UAV is engaged in. Therefore, the solution
proposes that the 3GPP system retrieves the up-to-date QoS requirements from
the USS/UTM during the UP connectivity establishment procedure for C2
communication.
#### 8.8.1.2 Procedure for QoS requirement retrieval during C2 connectivity
establishment
Figure 8.8.1.2-1: Procedure for QoS requirement retrieval during C2
connectivity establishment
1\. The UAV is authenticated by the USS/UTM and authorized for pairing with
the UAV-C and for C2 communication.
2\. The UAV initiates connection establishment procedure for C2 communication.
In the establishment request, the UAV indicates that the connection is used
for C2 communication, and includes a UAS information container which includes
its UAV identifier, UAE Server address, etc. The connection can be for C2
communication with USS/UTM or UAV-C (not shown). Step 2 (and Step 5) is
existing NAS procedures (see 3GPP TS 23.502 [13] clause 4.3.2) with
enhancement for UAS service.
NOTE 1: Signaling enhancements are captured in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
3\. The 5GC (e.g., SMF/PCF) recognizes that the connection establishment
request is for UAV C2 communication If it determines that additional QoS input
is needed from the USS/UTM, it locates the UAE Server and queries the UAE-S
for initial QoS requirements via the NEF using UAV-provided UAV information
container. The UAE-S may retrieve the QoS requirements from the specific UAS
application server. Besides the normal QoS requirement metrics such as DL/UL
data rate requirements, DL/UL latency requirements, the UAE-S may provide
additional filters for differentiating different C2 message types. For
example, various C2 message types (e.g., flight control commands vs. location
reports) may have different QoS requirements and Traffic Classes or DSCP codes
may be assigned to these various message types to help QoS differentiation.
NOTE 2: UAE-S discovery can use the USS/UTM discovery mechanism described in
Solution 5 (Clause 6.5) of 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
NOTE 3: 5GC initiated QoS requirement request can occur during the SMF-USS/UTM
interaction for PDU Session secondary authentication as described in Figure
6.5.3.1-2 (Step 18) of 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
4\. The UAE-S returns the requested QoS requirements, such as UL/DL data rate
requirements, UL/DL latency requirements, additional filters for
differentiating various C2 communication types, etc.
5\. Based on received QoS requirement information from the UAE-S, the 5GC
provides the initial QoS configuration to the UE for the connection for C2
communication.
6\. The UAV or UAV-C monitors the QoS performance (e.g. latency, data loss,
etc.) and sends QoS reports to the UAE-S/UAS Server.
7-8. Based on received QoS report, the UAE-S may modify the resource
requirement via the NRM service as described in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
### 8.8.2 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #5 outlines the following to be studied:
a) Whether and how the application layer QoS requirements are provided to the
3GPP system?
b) Whether and how QoS differentiation can be supported for UAV operations
(e.g. for C2 communication mode, mission type, C2 communication types)?
c) Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support the QoS
monitoring/provisioning?
d) Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support modifying
QoS requirements as requested by the UAV-controller or the USS/UTM?
This solution addresses Key Issue #5. The solution outlines how QoS
requirements for C2 communication are provided between the UAV/UAV-C and the
UAS Server as described by bullet a) and bullet b), with the UAE-S
enhancements to provide QoS requirements and traffic filters to 3GPP system.
Further, how U1-AE supports QoS reporting and how the SEAL layer is updated to
support modification of the QoS reporting as described by bullet d).
For bullet c), existing functionality in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11] seems sufficient,
but this must be confirmed during the normative work.
This solution applies to network-assisted C2 communication link. Only the
network-assisted C2 communication link is currently covered by SA2.
This solution is to be aligned with the normative SA2 work as per the
principles of solution 5 and the conclusions of 3GPP TR 23.754 [16]. The exact
changes in SA2 will be outlined during the normative work.
NOTE: As the details in SA2 will be defined during the normative work, the
corresponding aspects in SA6 are also FFS and will have to be specified in
cooperation with SA2.
## 8.9 Solution #9: Support for dynamic C2 mode switching between direct and
network-assisted
### 8.9.1 Solution description
This solution addresses Key Issue #6, and more specifically on supporting the
switching of C2 communication mode from direct to network-assisted and vice
versa, between the UAV and the UAV controller.
This solution proposes a new capability at the UAE server for supporting such
switching which may be required while the UAV flight is ongoing, due to
possible change of network conditions, expected location/mobility of the UAV,
unpredictable events etc.
Two variants of this solution are presented, one for network-assisted to
direct C2 mode; and one for the direct C2 to network-assisted C2 mode. Based
on the solution variant, different trigger event is expected, i.e. for direct
to network assisted, the trigger event is the location reporting from the UAV;
whereas for network-assisted to direct model, the trigger event may be the
expected QoS downgrade for one of the Uu links.
#### 8.9.1.1 Procedure for network-assisted to direct C2 mode switching
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAV(s) and UAV-C are both connected to 5GS for network-assisted C2
communication, via different PDU sessions.
2\. UAE server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE clients.
3\. UAE server has subscribed for using SEAL/LMS services and has configured
the location event reporting, based on 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. UAE server has
also subscribed **to NEF for receiving monitoring information on possible QoS
downgrade of the one or more involved Uu links (UAV-C to UTM/USS or
Application Server to UTM/USS).**
**4.** The UAS is pre-authorized by the UTM/USS to use and switch between
direct and network-assisted communication for a C2 application session.
NOTE: The configuration of such pre-authorization by the UTM/USS is out of
3GPP scope.
Figure 8.9.1.1-1: UAE assisted network-assisted to direct C2 mode switching
1\. The UAE-S receives a QoS downgrade indication for the Uu link involving
the UAV or UAV-C (as supported in 5GS with QoS notification control (QNC) as
specified in clause 5.7.2.4 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [12].
2\. The UAE server requests from SEAL server to provide location information
for the UAV and the UAV-C and receives a report (UAE-S acts as VAL server as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]). This may be processed/augmented location
with additional information mobility/position information. Here to note that
LMS service is used for receiving UE location reporting, since LMS can provide
augmented/supplementary UE location information (from SEAL/LM clients as well
as from 5GC / LMF). However, location reporting from 5GC/LMF may also be
possible as alternative.
3\. The UAE-S calculates the relative actual or expected UAV-to-UAV-C
location. Then by taking into account the relative location (or the expected
location) as well as other factors like mobility/speed, direction, topography,
weather conditions, it decides to trigger the switching to direct C2 mode.
4\. Optionally, the UAE-S sends a C2 mode switching request message to the
UTM/USS, which includes the UAS identifier as well as the cause for switching
and the switching option (network-assisted to direct).
5\. Conditional on step 4, the UAE-S receives from the UTM a response
indicating a positive or negative result for the requested change.
6\. The UAE-S sends involved UAE clients, a C2 switching mode trigger message
which provides an instruction to the UAV and UAV-C to switch to direct mode.
Following the C2 direct mode is established; however, this procedure is out of
3GPP R17 scope.
#### 8.9.1.2 Procedure for direct to network-assisted C2 mode switching
Pre-conditions:
1\. UAV(s) and UAV-C are both connected to 5GS.
2\. UAE server has established a UAE session with the respective UAE clients.
3\. UAE server has subscribed to LMS to receive location reports for the UAV
and the UAV-C. This subscription may be for receiving UAV/UAV-C coordinates or
processed/augmented location with additional information mobility/position
information.
4\. The UAS is pre-authorized by the UTM/USS to use and switch between direct
and network-assisted communication for a C2 application session.
NOTE: The configuration of such pre-authorization by the UTM/USS is out of
3GPP scope.
Figure 8.9.1.2-1: UAE assisted direct to network-assisted C2 mode switching
1\. The UAE-S receives a location report for the UAV/UAV-C. The report can be
either periodical or event-based (e.g. UAV moving towards an area covered by a
different cell or different operator), based on the type of subscription in
3a. Here to note that LMS service is used for receiving UE location reporting,
since LMS can provide augmented/supplementary UE location information (from
SEAL/LM clients as well as from 5GC / LMF). However, location reporting from
5GC/LMF may also be possible as alternative.
2\. The UAE-S calculates the relative actual or expected UAV-to-UAV-C
location. Then by considering the relative location (or the expected location)
as well as other factors like augmented location, mobility/speed, direction,
topography, weather conditions, it decides to trigger the switching to
network-assisted C2 mode. Factors such as mobility/speed and direction can be
obtained by the UAV/UAV-C or by the UAS server (as part of the UAS
information, which may be provided in advance to the UAE server).
3\. Optionally, the UAE-S sends a C2 mode switching request message to the
UTM/USS, which includes the UAS identifier as well as the cause for switching
and the switching option (direct to network-assisted).
4\. Conditional on Step 3, the UAE-S receives from the UTM a response
indicating a positive or negative result for the requested change.
5\. The UAE-S sends to the involved UAE clients, a C2 switching mode trigger
message which provides an instruction to the UAV and UAV-C to switch to
network-assisted mode. Following the UAV and UAV-C trigger PDU session
establishment or PDU session modification for network-assisted C2
communication.
### 8.9.2 Solution evaluation
Key Issue #6 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a. Switch between the Network-Assisted C2 communication and Direct C2
communication (e.g. when the direct link becomes feasible/available, or when a
UAV is moving towards BLOS or has poor direct link conditions, etc.).
b. Switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication and UTM-
navigated C2 communication (e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is
approaching a No Drone Zone, and detected potential security threats, etc.).
c. Whether and how the UAS application layer need to assist in selecting the
communication mode between: utilizing more than one C2 communication links,
or, switch among applicable C2 communication links.
d. Whether and how the C2 communication modes may be selected as primary one.
This solution fully addresses the bullet a) in Key Issue #6.
This proposed capability is technically feasible, since it doesn\'t require
any SA2 enhancements for direct C2 communication (PC5 is out of scope of SA2
R17 UAS work); and is triggered based on either network QoS monitoring or
location reporting from SEAL services. For supporting this capability,
enhancement is needed mainly over U1-AE, SEAL-S and optionally Us reference
points.
## 8.10 Solution #10: Support for UAS identification usage in application
layer architecture.
### 8.10.1 Solution description
This solution describes a possible solution for the Key Issue #8 defined in
clause 5.8 with preconditions defined below. It focuses on CAA-level ID update
due to UAV replacement and describes the interactions between the UAE server
and SEAL as well as how to use SEAL for group membership update when there is
a UAV replacement.
The pre-conditions for the considered solution space are as follows:
\- The UAV-C, UAV-1 and UAV-2 are all previously successfully subscribed with
3GPP and USS/UTM and received a 3GPP UE ID (e.g. GPSI) and a CAA-level ID.
\- The UAV-1 and UAV-C has previous given a group ID by SEAL GMS.
Figure 8.10.1-1 illustrates the group membership update when UAV-2 is used to
replace UAV-1
Figure 8.10.1-1: **Procedure for group membership update after UAV
replacement**
1\. The UAE server recognizes a new pair of UAV-2 and UAV-C by the new CAA-
level UAV ID.
2\. The UAE server sends a group membership update request to SEAL GM server
using the procedure specified in clause 10.3.2.6 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
3\. The SEAL GM server sends a group membership update response as specificed
in clause 10.3.2.7 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
### 8.10.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a dynamic UAV ID(s) update mechanism when UAS IDs are
managed as a group in SEAL GMS by the UAE server. It enables an update of a
UAV\'s identifier (e.g. as result of UAV replacement) in the group information
using the current mechanisms provided by SEAL GMS.
## 8.11 Solution #11: Capability exposure using CAPIF
### 8.11.1 Solution description
According to the UAS application layer architecture in clause 7.3, the UAE
server is responsible to expose UAE capabilities towards the UAS application
specific server(s) via Us reference point.
The capability exposure is to be compliant with CAPIF specified in 3GPP TS
23.222 [7] as follows:
a. The UAE server acts as a AEF and exposes UAE capabilities towards UAS
application specific servers. UAE server can further publish the service APIs
it exposes to the UAS application specific server to CAPIF core function.
b. The UAS specific application server(s) act as API invoker and utilize the
CAPIF APIs to obtain secure access and discover UAE capabilities exposed via
the UAE server.
c. The Us reference point supports CAPIF-2/2e reference point.
### 8.11.2 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes a viable technical solution for capability exposure of
UAE capabilities by enabling CAPIF compliance for service APIs exposed by UAE
server via Us reference point.
## 8.12 Solution #12: Support on Real-time UAV Connection Monitoring and
Location Reporting
### 8.12.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue#1 and key issue#3.
A 3GPP network-connected UAV may lose communication with the 3GPP network in
any phase of UAV operation. When communication is lost, neither USS/UTM nor
3GPP network can pinpoint the location of the UAV. Therefore, it is important
to be able to know the network condition in near real-time to avoid any
service delays.
This solution provides a real-time UAV connection monitoring and location
reporting mechanism to fulfil the Stage 1 requirement. It will not only enable
the UAE server to actively monitor the 3GPP network connection with UAVs but
also provides other advantages such as accurate location reporting and network
converge monitoring.
This solution may apply to the following use cases:
\- Real-time monitor the 3GPP network connection with UAVs.
\- Report when loss of communication with UAVs.
\- Provide last known location after loss of communication.
Figure 8.12.1-1 illustrates the real-time support for UAV Connection
monitoring and Location Reporting.
Pre-conditions:
\- A UAV has established a connection with the 3GPP network after the
authentication and authorization process.
\- The SEAL network resource management and location services are deployed for
connected UAVs.
{width="6.497222222222222in" height="3.6638888888888888in"}
Figure 8.12.1-1: Real-Time UAV Connection monitoring and Location Reporting
1\. The UAE-S obtains real-time network connection status by periodically
pulling the 3GPP network signal reception quality report from NRM-C to NRM-S.
NOTE: The frequency of actively pulling is implementation-independent. High
frequency means high power consumption but provides near real-time monitoring.
2\. The NRM-S then periodically reports back to UAE-S regarding the current
network connection status.
3\. When the connection status in step 2 is in UP status, the UAE-S may
trigger location update request to LMS as specified in clause 9.3.9 of 3GPP TS
23.434 [11].
4\. The SEAL NRM server interacts with 3GPP CN regarding network connectivity
status such as events regarding \"Loss_of_connectivity_notification\" or other
PDN connectivities, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.522 [18].
4a. The NRM server indicates to the UAE server there is a loss or unstable
connection.
5\. (optional) With the loss of the communication link, the LMS may still
provide the last known location to the UAE server using functions as specified
in clause 9.3.9 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
6\. The NRM-S detects communication resumption by interacting with 3GPP CN as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.522 [18].
6a. The NRM-S indicates to the UAE server that the connection is resumed.
7\. Once the UAE server receives notification about connection resumption, it
may again trigger the location update request to LMS as specified in clause
9.3.9 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
### 8.12.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a viable technical approach to enable UAE-S to 1)
obtain near real-time UAV locations by actively monitoring the network
connection status using services provided by SEAL 2) directly react on 3GPP CN
monitoring events. This solution may also be used as an enhanced steps for
solutions for key issue#3 and key issue#11 with provided real-time network
connectivity status.
However, some procedure support are missing from SEAL:
a. For unicast traffic, currently, SEAL NRM-S does not have procedures to:
\- Allow UAE-S to request network connection status from NRM-S.
\- Report network connection status back to UAE-S.
\- Detect connection loss or status with NRM-C.
b. The LMS location report does not have support to indicate the location
timeliness.
## 8.13 Solution #13: Communications between UAVs within a geographical area
### 8.13.1 Solution description
#### 8.13.1.1 General
This clause describes the procedure for communications between UAVs within a
geographical area corresponding to key issue#2.
The following transport mechanisms can be supported for communications between
UAVs within a geographical area:
a. Using unicast Uu.
b. Using multicast/broadcast Uu.
c. Using ProSe.
#### 8.13.1.2 Communications between UAVs within a geographical area using
unicast Uu.
Figure 8.13.1.2-1 illustrates the procedure for communications between UAVs
within a geographical area using unicast Uu.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAE client of UAV has connected to the UAE server.
2\. The SEAL\'s LM server information is configured at the UAE server.
Figure 8.13.1.2-1: Communications between UAVs within a geographical area
using unicast Uu
1\. The UAE client of UAV sends a UAV application message to the UAE server in
order to communicate the payload information of the UAV application message to
other UAVs in a range of the location corresponding to the UAV.
2\. The UAE server obtains the other UAV(s) information in the location of the
UAV from the LMS as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
3\. Upon receiving the list of other UAV(s), the UAE server sends the payload
in UAV application message to each of the UAV via unicast or multicast
channel.
4\. Upon completing step 3, the UAE server may send an acknowledgement to the
UAE client.
### 8.13.2 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes a viable technical solution in the scope of Rel.17
supporting communications between UAVs within a geographical area using
unicast Uu. The solutions for using multicast/broadcast Uu and ProSe is out of
scope of Rel.17.
## 8.14 Solution #14: Provisioning UAS service information
### 8.14.1 Solution description
This clause describes the procedure for UAE server provisioning the UAS
configuration information to UAV/UAV-C via U1-AE reference point for UAS
communication corresponding to key issue#7.
Figure 8.14.1-1 illustrates the procedure for provisioning UAS configuration
information to the UAV/UAV-C via U1-AE reference point.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The UAE client(s) of UAV/UAV-C has connected to the UAE server.
2\. The UAS configuration information is available with the UAE server.
3\. Unicast and/or multicast bearer exists for the connectivity between UAV
client and UAV server.
Figure 8.14.1-1: Provisioning UAS configuration information
1\. The UAE server is triggered (e.g. after obtaining basic network
connectivity) for providing UAS configuration information to the UAE client
resident on UAV/UAV-C.
2\. The UAE server sends the UAS configuration info announcement to the UAE
client in the UAV/UAV-C with the UAS configuration information. This message
can be sent via unicast or multicast.
3\. Upon receiving the UAS configuration info announcement, the UAE client of
the UAV/UAV-C stores the received UAS configuration information.
4\. Optionally, the UAE client of the UAV/UAV-C provides an acknowledgement to
the UAE server.
### 8.14.2 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes a viable technical solution for provisioning UAS
configuration information at the UAE layer using unicast or multicast. The
usage of 5GS multicast is not supported in Rel.17. Currently, there is no
agreement on the scenario where this is required or provides additional value.
## 8.15 Solution #15: Support for UAS media application session management
### 8.15.1 Solution description
In most real-time media communications, the combination of SIP and SDP is used
for session initialization and media parameter negotiation. Both protocol data
are carried in the control plane before real media traffic goes through the
network. SDP is mostly carried as a SIP payload which includes all media codec
related parameters. The purpose of SDP is to convey information about media
streams and provide sufficient information to enable joining and participating
to a media session in a unicast scenario.
One of the important information carried in an SDP is the potential bandwidth
usage for a particular media stream. For the use case of a UAV media-related
payload, the knowledge of bandwidths that payload intends to use is important
for resource allocation in the 3GPP network.
This solution illustrates the workflow regarding how the UAE server (acts as
VAL server) requests SEAL NRM server to fulfil the session establishment
requests with the following pre-conditions:
\- A UAV tries to establish a SIP session between UAV media payload with UAV-C
or USS/UTM using the 3GPP core network via the UAE server with the indication
of resource requirements for the media session using SIP SDP.
Figure 8.15.1-1 illustrates scenarios in which a SIP session may be terminated
immediately if a SEAL NRM server determines that there is not enough network
bandwidth for a particular SDP description. Otherwise, SIP session may be
established.
{width="6.502083333333333in" height="2.084722222222222in"}
Figure 8.15.1-1: SIP session management based on network resource requirement
1\. The UAE server requests media session initialization using SDP in the SIP
payload. The NRM server evaluates the request as specified in clause 14.3.3.2
of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
2\. The NRM server may choose to deny the SIP session request due to a lack of
available network resources. Or in another case, the NRM server may determine
the session resources can be granted from the SIP core by using clause
14.3.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
### 8.15.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a viable technical workflow to manage media SIP
sessions based on bandwidth indicated in SDP. However,
a) the current UAE-S does not support SDP interpretation; and
b) the NRM Server does not have procedure to determine SIP session request
based on network bandwidth requirement from the SDP passed from UAE-S.
## 8.16 Solution #16: UAE layer alignment with Edge Enabler Layer
### 8.16.1 Solution description
The Edge Enabler Server can act as the CAPIF core function, and the UAE server
acting as the AEF and publish the UAS application enabler server APIs to the
Edge Enabler server. Further, the UAS application enabler server APIs are
discovered by the Edge Application Servers (UAS application specific servers)
acting as the API invoker during the service API discover procedure as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [7].
The Edge Enabler server can act as the API topology hiding entry and re-
exposes UAS application enabler server APIs, to Edge Application server via
EDGE-3 which utilizes the CAPIF-2/2e reference point as specified in 3GPP TS
23.222 [7].
Editor\'s note: A figure to illustrate a general architecture combining UAS
application layer and Edge Enabler Layer is FFS.
### 8.16.2 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes a viable technical solution for UAE layer alignment
with Edge Enabler Layer. The UAS application layer entities (UAS specific
client and UAE client) at the UE (UAV/UAV-C) are able to consume the UAS
application services hosted at the Edge Data Network which are closer to the
UE.
## 8.17 Solution #17: Support for reporting of UAV events to USS/UTM
### 8.17.1 Solution description
#### 8.17.1.1 General
This solution addresses the Key Issue #11. The solution illustrates a
mechanism for reporting of UAV events by the UAE server with assistance of
core network.
There are multiple aspects related to UE (UAV) that can be monitored using the
\"MonitoringEvent\" and \"AnalyticsExposure\" services as specified in 3GPP TS
29.522 [18] and 3GPP TS 23.502 [13], to identify various abnormalities related
to UAV like, Loss of connectivity, Communication Failure, misbehaving UAVs
etc. The UAE server shall subscribe to core network to fetch all the required
events related to multiple UAVs served by the USS/UTM, and report the same to
USS/UTM with event details.
#### 8.17.1.2 Reporting of UAV events
The procedure illustrated below shows how the UAE server assists in reporting
the UAV events upon request from USS/UTM. As shown in figure 8.17.1.2-1,
USS/UTM requests UAE server to report the UAV events. The UAE server monitors
multiple aspects of the UAVs with assistance of core network and based on
event notifications received for a UAV, the UAE server can report the same to
USS/UTM.
Figure 8.17.1.2-1: Reporting of UAV Events
1\. USS/UTM requests UAE server to report UAV events by including the list of
UAV Identifiers (UAV IDs) and the List of events to be monitored in \"UAV
Event Request\" message.
2\. UAE server sends \"Response to UAV Event Request\" message indicating to
accept to report UAV events.
3\. For the list of UAV IDs and the List of events, the UAE server subscribes
for multiple events (like LOSS_OF_CONNECTIVITY, COMMUNICATION_FAILURE etc.)
using \"MonitoringEvent\" service as specified in clause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS
29.522 [18].
4\. UAE server subscribes to Nnef_AnalyticsExposure API
(\"ABNORMAL_BEHAVIOUR\" report) as specified in 3GPP TS 29.522 [18] for the
list of UAV IDs.
5 and 6. The 3GPP system sends Monitoring event notification (as specified in
clause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS 29.522 [18]) and Analytics event notification (as
specified in clause 4.4.14 of 3GPP TS 29.522 [18]).
7\. The UAE server notifies the UAS server about the event related to UAV (UAV
ID) in Notify UAV Event message. If multiple events are to be notified, then
the UAE server may aggregate notifications and send.
UAE server maintains the mapping between subscriptions from USS/UTM and to the
corresponding one or multiple subscriptions on NEF.
The UAV ID either maps to or is an external identifier (3GPP UAV ID as
specified in 3GPP TR 23.754 [16] or external Identifier as specified in 3GPP
TS 23.682 [15] or MSISDN) and used for NEF API invocations. UAE server may
maintain a mapping between UAV ID to the UE external identifier.
In another alternative, the SEAL server (for e.g. Network Resource Manager or
any other SEAL server) may be enhanced to support reporting of the UAV events
to UAE server. In such case, the USS/UTM may directly consume the service from
SEAL. SEAL being an enabler layer for multiple verticals, such enhancement at
SEAL will enable multiple verticals to leverage SEAL to report the vertical
specific events. The events at SEAL layer related to the UAV can be used
additionally to report UAV event.
### 8.17.2 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes a viable technical solution to address key issue #11,
where the existing capabilities of 3GPP core network enable the USS/UTM to
receive UAV event reports. Also, SEAL can be enhanced to support the solution
for UAV event reporting instead of UAE-S.
## 8.18 Solution #18: Monitor UAV location deviation
### 8.18.1 Solution description
#### 8.18.1.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue identified in Key Issue #12: Track UAV
location deviation. Upon receiving location report from the 3GPP network, the
USS/UTM can apply additional corrective mechanisms like re‑confirm location
from UAV, revoke UAV\'s authorization to fly, steer UAV to safe zone, etc.
Such a mechanism reduces the overhead on USS/UTM and 3GPP systems of regular
monitoring of multiple UAV\'s location, at the same time receive timely
notifications of any UAV leaving certain area, from the 3GPP network.
USS/UTM requests the UAE server to monitor the geographic area of the UAV. The
UAE server in turn subscribes for UAV\'s location information from NEF as
specified in clause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS 29.522 [18]. Also, the UAE server obtains
the location information periodically from the Location Management Server as
specified in clause 9.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. UAE server, upon receiving
the UAV\'s periodic location information from NEF and SEAL LMS server,
compares if the current location of UAV received from NEF and SEAL are aligned
and is in the geographic area requested by USS/UTM server. If the current
location information received from NEF and LMS are not in the geographic area,
then the UAE server notifies the USS/UTM that the UAV is not present in the
predetermined geographic area, along with current location information of the
UAV.
SEAL being an enabler layer, the above-mentioned functionality of UAE can be
provided as a SEAL Location Management Server\'s service to USS/UTM.
#### 8.18.1.2 Monitoring of UAV location deviation
This procedure illustrated below shows how the UAE server monitors the
geographic area of the UAV based on request from the USS/UTM server.
Figure 8.18.1.2-1: UAE layer and network assisted UAV location monitoring
1\. USS/UTM server sends UAV Location Request to UAE server including UAV
Identifier, predetermined geographic area information, notification interval
and notification URI where the USS/UTM intends to receive the notifications
from UAE server regarding UAV\'s presence in a given area.
\- UAV identifier is 3GPP UAV ID, as per 3GPP TR 23.754 [16].
\- \"Geographic area\" is the location information, which the USS/UTM wishes
to monitor the UAV\'s location adherence. This parameter can include an area
of interest information and other relevant parameters.
\- \"Notify_Interval\" represents the periodic interval in which the UAE
server needs to notify UAV\'s location information to the USS/UTM. When the
UAV moves away from the \"Geographic area\", then the UAE server ignores
\"Notify_Interval\" and sends the location notification to the USS/UTM
immediately.
2\. UAE server, upon receiving the request from USS/UTM, sends a provisional
response, indicating that the UAE server accepts USS/UTM\'s request and will
monitor the location of the UAV to verify if the UAV is in the geographic
area.
3\. UAE server processes the Geographic area information in the request, and
then subscribes to UE location monitoring (LOCATION_REPORTING) as specified in
clause 4.4.2 of 3GPP TS 29.522 [18] with appropriate parameters.
\- Location Type set to \"CURRENT_LOCATION\"
\- Monitoring Type to \"LOCATION_REPORTING\"
\- Accuracy level is determined by the UAE server, based on the details of the
flight path information requested by USS/UTM.
4\. UAE server shall subscribe for Location information change event using
SS_LocationInfoEvent API, as specified in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11]. Either SEAL
server or UAE server maintains a mapping between VAL UE ID of UAV and the 3GPP
UAV ID as specified in 3GPP TS 23.754 [16], or it is also possible that VAL UE
ID is same as 3GPP UAV ID in the SEAL Location Management Procedures defined
in 3GPP TS 23.434 [11].
> Based on the location information processed by the UAE server, the UAE
> server may determine to additionally include the positioning methods to be
> used in the SS_LocationInfoEvent API invocation to SEAL LMS. If the request
> from UAE server includes positioning methods information (Like non-3GPP
> positioning technologies such as, GNSS, Network-based Assisted GNSS etc),
> then the SEAL Location Management Server and Location Management Client on
> the UAV shall consider the positioning methods in the request for location
> reporting.
5\. and 6. The UAE server receives the UAV location information from the core
network and Location Management Client on the UE, through notifications from
NEF and SEAL servers as specified in 3GPP TS 29.522 [18] and 3GPP TS 23.434
[11] respectively.
7a and 7b. UAE server processes the location information received from
Location Management Server and the core network, and validates the
information. If the location information is matching, then the UAE server
shall check if the UAV\'s current location is within the geographic area
received in step 1. The UAE server will continue with step 8, step 9 and step
10 as applicable.
8\. If the location information received from Location management client and
the core network do not match, then the UAE server may consider the UAV as
outside from its specified geographic area and may notify (\"Notify Mismatch
Location\" message) the USS/UTM of the same, including 3GPP UAV ID and the
location information from LMS and core network in the notification message.
9\. If the UAV\'s current location is not in the geographic area received in
UAV Location Request message, then the UAE server considers the UAV as outside
from its specified geographic area and shall notify the USS/UTM of UAV\'s
current location outside of geographic area and UAV\'s ID in \"Notify UAV
Location Absence\" message. USS/UTM may use this information for any
corrective actions.
10\. When the UAV\'s current location is in geographic area, then the UAE
server shall notify (\"Notify UAV Presence\" message) the USS/UTM
periodically, according to the \"Notify_Interval\" value in \"UAV Location
Request\" message, indicating the USS/UTM that the UAV is within the
geographic area, along with UAV\'s current location information.
In another alternative, the SEAL server can expose the UAV Location service
offering the service described above as new SEAL service. In such a case, UAS
server or USS/UTM directly consumes the UAV Location service from SEAL. SEAL
LMS fetches the UAV\'s current location from the location management client of
the UAV. Adding such a functionality in SEAL, will also enable other verticals
like V2XAPP, to monitor the respective vertical specific UE path.
### 8.18.2 Solution evaluation
This solution proposes a viable technical solution to address key issue #12,
where the existing capabilities of SEAL and 3GPP core network enable the
USS/UTM to monitor the UAV\'s location presence in a geographic area. SEAL can
be enhanced to support the monitoring of UAV location instead of UAE-S.
# 9 Overall evaluation
## 9.1 Key issues to solutions mapping
The following table 9.1-1 shows a quick summary of key issue to solution
mapping:
Table 9.1-1: Mapping of solutions to key issues
* * *
              Key Issues
Solutions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 X  
2 X  
3 X X  
4 X  
5 X  
6 X  
7 X  
8 X  
9 X  
10 X  
11 X  
12 X X  
13 X  
14 X  
15 X  
16 X  
17 X  
18 X
* * *
## 9.2 General
The following clauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions presented
in this technical report, and their applicability to the identified key
issues.
\- Clause 9.3 provides an evaluation of the high-level architecture specified
in clause 7.3; and
\- Clause 9.4 lists the solutions for the key issues including impact on other
working groups that will need consideration.
## 9.3 Architecture evaluation
The architecture solution in clause 7 describes the enhanced functional model
for UAS application layer. A summary of the architecture and key issues
specified in this technical report are listed in table 9.3-1.
Table 9.3-1: Architecture evaluation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Architecture | Applicable key | Dependency on other | | solution | issues | working groups | | | | | | | (clause reference) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UAS application | Supports all key | SA2 | | layer architecture | issues specified in | | | | clause 5 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Clause 7.2 provides a generic UAS reference model. Clause 7.3 provides the
detailed UAS application layer architecture and is a viable technical solution
supporting the key issues and solutions.
## 9.4 Key issue and solution evaluation
### 9.4.1 Introduction
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in table 9.4-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues (clause 5) to the
solutions and corresponding solution evaluations. Also it lists the impact on
other working groups that will need consideration during the Release 17
normative phase.
Table 9.4-1: Key issue and solution evaluation
* * *
Key issues Solution Evaluation (clause reference) Dependency on other working
groups Key issue#1: Usage of SEAL Solution #3: Support for supplementary UE
location 7.3.2  
Solution #12: Support on Real-time UAV Connection Monitoring and Location
Reporting 7.12.2  
Key issue#2: Broadcast communications Solution #2: Broadcast communications
7.2.2  
Solution #13: Communications between UAVs within a geographical area 7.13.2  
Key issue#3: UAV location information Solution #1: Network assisted
positioning for USS/UTM 7.1.2  
Solution #3: Support for supplementary UE location 7.3.2  
Solution #12: Support on Real-time UAV Connection Monitoring and Location
Reporting 7.12.2  
Key issue#4: Capability exposure of UAS related information Solution #11:
Capability exposure using CAPIF 7.11.2  
Key issue#5: UAV Application Server QoS Provisioning Solution #4: Support for
coordinated QoS provisioning for C2 communication 7.4.2  
Solution #5: Support for C2 QoS Provisioning 7.5.2  
Solution #8: QoS requirement retrieval during C2 connectivity establishment
7.8.2 SA2 Key issue#6: Switching and selecting C2 communication modes Solution
#6: Selection and switching between Network‑Assisted/Direct and USS/UTM
navigated C2 communication 7.6.2  
Solution #7: Selection and switching between Network-Assisted and Direct C2
communication 7.7.2  
Solution #9: Support for dynamic C2 mode switching between direct and network-
assisted 7.9.2  
Key issue#7: USS/UTM provisioning via U1 reference point Solution #14:
Provisioning UAS service information 7.14.2  
Key issue#8: UAS identification usage in application layer architecture
Solution #10: Support for UAS identification usage in application layer
architecture 7.10.2  
Key issue#9: Media session monitoring and management Solution #15: Support for
UAS media application session management 7.15.2  
Key issue#10: UAS Application Enabler Layer and Edge Enabler Layer alignment
Solution #16: UAE layer alignment with Edge Enabler Layer 7.16.2  
Key issue#11: Support to reporting of NEF abnormal behaviour analytics for
detection of problematic UAV and UAV-controller Solution #17: Support for
reporting of UAV events to USS/UTM 7.17.2  
Key issue#12: Track UAV location deviation Solution #18: Monitor UAV location
deviation 7.18.2
* * *
### 9.4.2 Overall evaluation of Key issue#1
The following enhancements to SEAL are identified:
\- Solution#3 proposes enhancements to location management service to provide
supplementary UE location.
\- Solution#5 proposes enhancements to network resource management service for
UE connection monitoring.
Solution#3 and solution#5 are considered for normative work, as such
enhancements are useful for other vertical applications as well.
### 9.4.3 Overall evaluation of Key issue#2
Solution#2 proposes that in Rel.17, 5GS communication features for ProSe/PC5
and multicast/broadcast Uu are unavailable for broadcast communications for
UAS.
Solution#13 proposes a mechanism to support communications between UAVs within
a geographical area using unicast Uu.
For Rel.17, it is clear that for UAS communications, 5GS communication
features for ProSe/PC5 and multicast/broadcast Uu are unavailable. UAS
communications can only utilize 5GS unicast Uu.
### 9.4.4 Overall evaluation of Key issue#3
Solution#1 has proposed that UCF provides augmented location information to
USS/UTM upon receiving the network reported location from a location server.
It is also proposed to address the UCF functionality for location augmentation
in SEAL.
Solution#3 proposes SEAL\'s LM server to be able to provide location
information of a UAV including the supplementary location information based on
network location of UAV.
Solution#12 proposes that during different connectivity status (e.g.
disconnected, reconnected), the SEAL\'s location management service supports
the feature to obtain the last known location of the UAV. Though the details
of such feature is not specified in the solution.
The related UCF functionalities can be included in SEAL\'s LMS enhancement to
support one solution for providing supplementary location information to
USS/UTM. The SEAL LMS is to be enhanced to support for obtaining the last
known location of the UE.
Both solution#1 and solution#3 propose the usage of UAS enabler layer\'s UAV
location reporting to USS/UTM which enables USS/UTM to further trust or
additionally verify the UAV reported location.
The solution#1 and solution#3 are further considered for normative work to
support a mechanism for providing the supplementary location. The solution#12
is considered for normative work and details for enhancements to SEAL LMS
supporting the solution#12 will be handled in normative phase.
### 9.4.5 Overall evaluation of Key issue#4
Solution#11 has proposed that UAE server should support the related CAPIF
functionalities when service APIs exposed via Us reference point are to be
consumed by the UAS application specific servers (e.g. USS/UTM).
The ke issue#4 can be addressed by existing functionality in CAPIF. No
additional impact to CAPIF has been identified.
### 9.4.6 Overall evaluation of Key Issue#5
Key Issue#5 provides the following topics for investigation related to the UAV
Application Server QoS Provisioning:
a. Whether and how the application layer QoS requirements are provided to the
3GPP system?
b. Whether and how QoS differentiation can be supported for UAV operations
(e.g. for C2 communication mode, mission type, C2 communication types)?
c. Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support the QoS
monitoring/provisioning?
d. Whether and how UAE/SEAL layer needs to be enhanced to support modifying
QoS requirements as requested by the UAV-controller or the USS/UTM?
In Solution#4 the UAE layer performs the C2 QoS management. The UAE Server
translates the application requirements and interacts with SEAL\'s NRM server
for network resource adaptation. This solution focuses on bullet a) by
enabling the UAE Server to interact with the 3GPP system to provide the
updated QoS requirements for compensating QoS for a C2 application session, on
bullet c) since it enhances the UAE layer to support C2 application QoS
provisioning for the updated requirements and on bullet d) since it enhances
the UAE layer to support modifying QoS requirements based on the UAV-Clients
request. Solution#4 focuses on the QoS monitoring and adaptation aspects. The
solution introduces UAE layer enhancement for UAE Client to report QoS
monitoring feedback, and uses existing mechanisms to collect 3GPP network QoS
report. The QoS adaptation method is also based on the existing procedures.
Solution#5 proposes UAE layer to use SEAL\'s group management service to
represent the UAS (UAV and UAV-C pair) as a group and have a group ID assigned
to it. Further the UAE server utilizes the SEAL\'s NRM server to perform group
level QoS coordination. This solution uses SEAL services (GM server and NRM
server) to cover mainly bullet c) and bullet d) for supporting QoS
monitoring/provisioning as well as QoS adaptation. The solution focuses on how
to group the UAV and UAV-C and apply the existing resource adaptation
mechanisms to the group. It partially addresses QoS monitoring and adaptation
aspects but does not address the QoS requirements provisioning aspects.
Solution#5 doesn\'t envision any enhancement to the UAE layer and SEAL.
Solution#8 proposes that 5GC utilize the UAE layer for QoS requirement
coordination during PDU session establishment. The solution outlines how QoS
requirements for C2 communication are provided between the UAV and UAV-C and
the UAS Server as described by bullet a) and bullet b), with the UAE Server
enhancements to provide QoS requirements and traffic filters to 3GPP system.
Further, the solution outlines how U1-AE supports QoS reporting and how the
SEAL layer is updated to support modification of the QoS reporting as
described by bullet d). Solution#8 addresses the QoS requirement provisioning
aspects for network-assisted C2 communication, but the procedure depends on
the normative development in SA2. Solution#4 provides application layer QoS
compensation to ensure C2 end-to-end QoS requirements fulfilment even if one
of the Uu links gets downgraded (e.g. UAV).
Solution#5 does not seem to provide any enhancements on UASAPP, since it
mainly uses SEAL services to support the QoS monitoring/provisioning and
modification. Solution#5 could be complementary to solution #4 when SEAL is
used for interacting with 5GC for QoS modification.
Solution#8 has dependencies to SA2 and requires enhancements on 5GC for
exposing a QoS query to UAE server to provision QoS parameters for C2. If
aligned with SA2, Solution#8 does not seem alternative to solution#4, since
this query is used by the 5GC for the connection establishment procedure. For
supporting QoS modification, solution#8 is aligned with solution#5 on the use
of SEAL/NRM server. For supporting QoS monitoring, solution#8 is aligned with
solution#4 on receiving QoS reporting from the UAE clients.
Solution#4 and solution#5 address QoS management after the application layer
session is established between UAV and UAV-Controller (mostly in-flight
scenarios). Solution#8 addresses QoS management during the PDU session
establishment by the UAV or UAV-Controller.
Solution#4 could be also introduced in SEAL at normative phase to meet
different verticals requirements on QoS monitoring, adaptation, feedback,
management between 2 UEs.
Solution#8 is dependent on 5GC capability for PDU session establishment by
using AF functionality for fetching the Application QoS requirement, and such
5GC procedure is the responsibility of SA2. The normative work for solution#8
cannot be completed unless SA2 specify the related 5GC capability.
Further work will be performed during the normative phase to address the all
the aspects of the key issue by utilizing the mechanisms proposed by the
solution#4, solution#5 and solution#8.
### 9.4.7 Overall evaluation of Key Issue#6
Key Issue#6 outlines the following to be investigated further with respect to
the impact on the application layer functional model for UAS:
a) Switch between the Network-Assisted C2 communication and Direct C2
communication (e.g. when the direct link becomes feasible/available, or when a
UAV is moving towards BLOS or has poor direct link conditions, etc.).
b) Switch between the Network-Assisted/Direct C2 communication and UTM-
navigated C2 communication (e.g. for air traffic control, the UAV is
approaching a No Drone Zone, and detected potential security threats, etc.).
c) Whether and how the UAS application layer need to assist in selecting the
communication mode between: utilizing more than one C2 communication links,
or, switch among applicable C2 communication links.
d) Whether and how the C2 communication modes may be selected as primary one.
Solution#6 focuses on bullet b) while addressing the requirements for handling
of C2 communication link selection and usage of multiple C2 communication
links in bullet c) and bullet d). Solution#6 proposes enhancements at UAE
layer to execute a USS/UTM policy at UAEClient for C2 communication link
selection and USS/UTM commands for C2 switching.
Solution#7 focuses on bullet a) while addressing the requirements for handling
of C2 communication link selection and usage of multiple C2 communication
links in bullet c and bullet d). Solution#7 proposes enhancements at UAE layer
to execute a USS/UTM policy at UAEClient for C2 communication link selection
and switching.
Solution#6 and solution#7 complements each other to address both bullet a) and
bullet b) using a common policy framework.
Solution#9 focuses on bullet a). The solution does not address the
requirements for handling of C2 communication link selection and usage of
multiple C2 communication links in bullet c and bullet d). Solution#9 proposes
enhancements at UAE layer where the UAE Server sends C2 switching command to
UAEClient based on location and/or QoS information obtained via SEAL services.
A policy-based approach with the execution via the UAE Client in solution#6
and solution#7 and a UAE Server centric approach in solution#9 are compatible
with each other and can be combined into a \"UAE Client assisted/UAE Server
controlled\" based solution covering all possible scenarios and requirements
of key issue#6.
Solution#6, solution#7 and solution#9 are selected as the basis for normative
work, based on the following combined UAE Client assisted/UAE Server
controlled principles:
1) The UAE Client executes the policy for handling of C2 communication link
selection and usage of multiple C2 communication links and notifies the UAE
Server about the applicable and active C2 communication links.
2) The UAE Server uses information about applicable C2 communication links
from UAE Client and location, QoS information from the 3GPP network when
making a decision about C2 switching.
3) The UAE Client notifies the UAE Server when detecting a C2 switching
condition based on policy. The UAE Server confirms the C2 switching based on
the reported C2 switching condition and informs the UAE Client to apply the C2
switch. The UAE Client may also trigger an immediate/autonomous C2 switch in
case of emergency situations.
4) The UAE Server sends command for C2 switching based on relative location of
UAV and UAV Controller and QoS information if available and/or in response to
a command from USS/UTM (for switch to USS/UTM navigated).
5) For cases where UAE Server cannot fully determine C2 switching conditions
(e.g. unknown location for UAV Controller not connected via a PLMN, or direct
link QoS) the UAE Server relies on UAE Client assistance as above.
### 9.4.8 Overall evaluation of Key issue#7
Solution#14 will not be considered for normative work until a scenario has
been identified that justifies this solution.
### 9.4.9 Overall evaluation of Key issue#8
Solution#10 considers that UAS is managed as a group in SEAL GMS. The solution
has proposed a mechanism to update the UAV ID of the group managed at GMS by
UAE layer when a UAV is replaced in a UAS.
Solution#10 does not specify how the UAE server obtains the pairing
information of a UAS and will be considered in the normative work.
Solution#10 does not identify any impact to SEAL\'s GMS.
### 9.4.10 Overall evaluation of Key issue#9
Solution#15 has proposed that UAE layer utilizes the mechanisms of SEAL\'s NRM
service and SIP core to support establishment of media session for the UAS
application layer.
The UAS application layer architecture requires further investigation in the
normative stage to verify solution#15 and the identified impact to SEAL\'s NRM
server functionality.
### 9.4.11 Overall evaluation of Key issue#10
Solution#16 has proposed an alignment between UAE layer and Edge Enabler Layer
using CAPIF.
UAE server is required to support the related CAPIF functionality for this
alignment.
No additional impact is identified on the Edge Enabler Layer architecture.
### 9.4.12 Overall evaluation of Key issue#11
Solution#17 has proposed a mechanism at the UAE server to detect and notify
UAV events (e.g. abnormal behavior) to the USS/UTM. Also an alternative
mechanism is proposed to specify this mechanism in a SEAL (NRM service or new
service) to generally include vertical specific events.
A suitable way forward will be discussed during normative phase.
### 9.4.13 Overall evaluation of Key issue#12
Solution#18 has proposed a mechanism at the UAE server to validate the
location of a UAV for any deviation and notify the same to the USS/UTM. Also
an alternative mechanism is proposed to specify this mechanism in a SEAL\'s
location management service.
A suitable way forward will be discussed during normative phase.
# 10 Conclusions
This technical report fulfills the objectives of the study on application
layer support for UAS enabled on 3GPP systems (EPS, 5GS), including the
following:
1) Identification of key issues (clause 5) and corresponding architecture
requirements (clause 6) for UAS application enabler capabilities.
2) Analysis of UAS service requirements (Annex A), existing UAS standards
(Annex B) and existing UAS regulations (Annex C).
3) Individual solutions (clause 8) addressing the key issues including the
UASAPP functional model (clause 7)
4) Overall evaluation (clause 8) of all the solutions
The results from the study will be considered for follow-up normative work in
Release 17 as follows:
1) The architecture requirements (in clause 6) will be considered as the basis
for technical specification with necessary enhancements and additions;
2) The UASAPP functional model (clause 7) will be used as the baseline
functional model with necessary enhancements as appropriate;
3) The key issues (clause 5) and individual solutions (clause 8) are
considered to be the candidate solutions with necessary enhancements as
appropriate, according to the overall evaluation (clause 9).
There are dependencies on 3GPP groups identified in the overall evaluation
(clause 9) which are required for fulfilling the solutions (clause 8).
###### ### Annex A: 3GPP UAS service requirements
## A.1 Description
The 3GPP UAS service requirements are specified in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3].
An Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) is the combination of an Unmanned Aerial
Vehicle (UAV), sometimes called a drone, and a UAV controller. A UAV is an
aircraft without a human pilot onboard -- instead, in some cases, the UAV can
be controlled from an operator via a UAV controller and will have a range of
autonomous flight capabilities. The communication system between the UAV and
UAV controller is within the scope of this specification and in some
scenarios, provided by the 3GPP system. The UAS model includes also a scenario
where the UAV controller communicates with the UAV via mechanisms outside the
scope of 3GPP.
Unmanned Aerial System Traffic Management (UTM) is used to provide a number of
services to support UAS and their operations including but not limited to UAS
identification and tracking, authorisation, enforcement, regulation of UAS
operations, and also to store the data required for UAS(s) to operate. It also
allows authorised users (e.g., air traffic control, public safety agencies) to
query the identity and metadata of a UAV and its UAV controller.
The UAS service requirements specify the use of 3GPP system to provide control
plane and user plane communication services for UAS and UTM. It specifies the
requirements for remote identification of UAS, centralized UAV traffic
management, decentralized UAV traffic management and security.
## A.2 Analysis
Table A.2-1 lists the 3GPP specifed UAS service requirements which may have
impact on UAS application layer. The requirements are grouped by functional
areas.
Table A.2-1: 3GPP UAS service requirements which may have impact on UAS
application layer
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sl. | Reference | UAS service | | | | requirement | | | | description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | General requirements | | | | for UAS | | | | identification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.1 | Clause 5.1 of | [R-5.1-001] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system should | | | | enable UTM to | | | | associate the UAV | | | | and UAV controller, | | | | identify them as a | | | | UAS. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-002] The | | | | 3GPP system shall be | | | | able to provide UTM | | | | with the | | | | identity/identities | | | | of a UAS. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-005] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UAS to send | | | | different UAS data | | | | to UTM based on the | | | | different | | | | authentication and | | | | authorizations level | | | | which are applied to | | | | the UAS (NOTE 1). | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-010] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable UTM to inform | | | | an MNO of the | | | | outcome of an | | | | authorisation to | | | | operate. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-011] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable an MNO to | | | | allow a UAS | | | | authorisation | | | | request only if | | | | appropriate | | | | subscription | | | | information is | | | | present. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | Location | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2.1 | Clause 5.1 of | [R-5.1-009] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system should | | | | enable an MNO to | | | | augment the data | | | | sent to a UTM with | | | | the following: | | | | network-based | | | | positioning | | | | information of UAV | | | | and UAV controller | | | | (NOTE 2, NOTE 3). | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-012] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UAS to | | | | update a UTM with | | | | the live location | | | | information of a UAV | | | | and its UAV | | | | controller. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-013] The | | | | 3GPP network should | | | | be able to provide | | | | supplement location | | | | information of UAV | | | | and its controller | | | | to a UTM (NOTE 4). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | UE capabilities | | | | identification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3.1 | Clause 5.1 of | [R-5.1-015] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system shall | | | | provide the | | | | capability for | | | | network to obtain | | | | the UAS information | | | | regarding its | | | | support of 3GPP | | | | communication | | | | capabilities | | | | designed for UAS | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-016] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | support the UAS | | | | identification and | | | | subscription data | | | | which can | | | | differentiate the | | | | UAS with UAS-capable | | | | UE and the UAS with | | | | non-UAS-capable UE | | | | (NOTE 5). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4 | Communication | | | | between UAS and UTM | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.1 | Clause 5.1 of | [R-5.1-003] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UAS to send | | | | UTM the UAV data | | | | which can contain: | | | | unique identity | | | | (this may be a 3GPP | | | | identity), UE | | | | capability of the | | | | UAV, make & model, | | | | serial number, | | | | take-off weight, | | | | position, owner | | | | identity, owner | | | | address, owner | | | | contact details, | | | | owner certification, | | | | take-off location, | | | | mission type, route | | | | data, operating | | | | status. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-004] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UAS to send | | | | UTM the UAV | | | | controller data | | | | which can contain: | | | | unique identity | | | | (this may be a 3GPP | | | | identity), UE | | | | capability of the | | | | UAV controller, | | | | position, owner | | | | identity, owner | | | | address, owner | | | | contact details, | | | | owner certification, | | | | UAV operator | | | | identity, UAV | | | | operator license, | | | | UAV operator | | | | certification, UAV | | | | pilot identity, UAV | | | | pilot license, UAV | | | | pilot certification | | | | and flight plan. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-006] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | support capability | | | | to extend UAS data | | | | being sent to UTM | | | | with the evolution | | | | of UTM and its | | | | support applications | | | | in future. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-007] Based | | | | on regulations and | | | | security protection, | | | | the 3GPP system | | | | shall enable a UAS | | | | to send UTM the | | | | identifiers which | | | | can be: IMEI, | | | | MSISDN, or IMSI, or | | | | IP address. | | | | | | | | [R-5.1-008] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UE in a UAS | | | | to send the | | | | following | | | | identifiers to a | | | | UTM: IMEI, MSISDN, | | | | or IMSI, or IP | | | | address. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4.2 | Clause 5.2.1 of | [R-5.2.1-001] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system shall | | | | provide a mechanism | | | | for a UTM to provide | | | | route data, along | | | | with flight | | | | clearance, to a UAV. | | | | | | | | [R-5.2.1-004] | | | | Based on MNO | | | | policies and/or | | | | regulatory | | | | requirements, the | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable the UTM to | | | | take over the | | | | communication used | | | | to control the UAV. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | Discovery of rogue | | | | UAVs | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.1 | Clause 5.1 of | [R-5.1-017] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system shall | | | | support detection, | | | | identification and | | | | reporting of | | | | problematic UAV(s) | | | | and the UAV | | | | controller to a UTM. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6 | Off network | | | | communications | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.1 | Clause 5.2.2 of | [R-5.2.2-001] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UAV to | | | | broadcast the | | | | following data for | | | | identifying UAV(s) | | | | in a short-range | | | | area for collision | | | | avoidance: e.g. UAV | | | | identities if needed | | | | based on different | | | | regulation | | | | requirements, UAV | | | | type, current | | | | location and time, | | | | flight route | | | | information, current | | | | speed, operating | | | | status. | | | | | | | | [R-5.2.2-002] The | | | | 3GPP system shall be | | | | able to support a | | | | UAV to transmit a | | | | message via network | | | | connection for | | | | identifying itself | | | | as an UAV to another | | | | UAV(s). | | | | | | | | [R-5.2.2-003] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable UAV to | | | | preserve the privacy | | | | of the owner of the | | | | UAV, UAV pilot, and | | | | the UAV operator in | | | | its broadcast of | | | | identity | | | | information. | | | | | | | | [R-5.2.2-004] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | enable a UAV to | | | | receive local | | | | broadcast | | | | communication | | | | transport service | | | | from other UAV in | | | | short range. | | | | | | | | [R-5.2.2-006] A | | | | UAV shall be able to | | | | use a direct UAV to | | | | UAV local broadcast | | | | communication | | | | transport service | | | | when the sending and | | | | receiving UAVs are | | | | served by the same | | | | or different PLMNs. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 | Security | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7.1 | Clause 5.4 of | [R-5.4-001] The | | | 3GPP TS 22.125 [3] | 3GPP system shall | | | | protect the | | | | transport of data | | | | between the UAS and | | | | UTM. | | | | | | | | [R-5.4-004] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | support the | | | | capability to | | | | provide different | | | | levels of integrity | | | | and privacy | | | | protection for the | | | | different | | | | connections between | | | | UAS and UTM as well | | | | as the data being | | | | transferred via | | | | those connections. | | | | | | | | [R-5.4-005] The | | | | 3GPP system shall | | | | support | | | | confidentiality | | | | protection of | | | | identities related | | | | to the UAS and | | | | personally | | | | identifiable | | | | information. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Subject to | | | | the regional | | | | regulation, the | | | | different | | | | authentication and | | | | authorization levels | | | | can be: the initial | | | | network access | | | | authentication and | | | | authorization, UAS | | | | identity | | | | authentication, UAV | | | | flight plan | | | | authorization, | | | | additional UTM | | | | service | | | | authentications, | | | | such as flight | | | | monitoring, | | | | collision avoidance | | | | services, etc. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This | | | | augmentation may be | | | | trust-based (i.e. | | | | the MNO informs the | | | | UTM that the UAV | | | | position information | | | | is trusted) or it | | | | may be additional | | | | location information | | | | based on network | | | | information, such as | | | | OTDOA, cell | | | | coordinates, | | | | synchronization | | | | source, etc. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This | | | | requirement will not | | | | be applied to the | | | | case which the UAS | | | | and UTM has direct | | | | control | | | | communication | | | | connection without | | | | going through MNO, | | | | such as OTDOA, cell | | | | coordinates, | | | | synchronization | | | | source, etc. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: This | | | | supplement may be | | | | trust-based (i.e. | | | | the MNO informs the | | | | UTM that the UAV | | | | position information | | | | is trusted) or it | | | | may be additional | | | | location information | | | | based on network | | | | information. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: This value | | | | indicates that the | | | | terminal will not | | | | IMS register without | | | | user permission. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ### Annex B (informative): Existing UAS standards
The following Table B-1 provides a near comprehensive list of existing UAS
standards in various SDOs with the focus on the UAS application layer and
gives short description about their standard scope.
Table B-1: Existing UAS standards
+-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | SDOs | Abstract about current | Focus on | | | status | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | 3GPP | - SA2: TR 23.754 Study | UAS support in radio | | | on supporting Unmanned | network and provide | | | Aerial Systems (UAS) | system level | | | connectivity, | architectural design. | | | Identification and | | | | tracking (Rel-17). | | | | | | | | -- a mechanism for | | | | Unmanned Aerial Vehicles | | | | (UAV) controller and | | | | UAV(s) identification | | | | and tracking in the 3GPP | | | | system. | | | | | | | | -- a mechanism to | | | | support UAV controller | | | | and UAV(s) authorization | | | | and authentication by | | | | UTM. | | | | | | | | - RAN. | | | | | | | | -- TS 36.213, E-UTRA | | | | Physical layer | | | | procedures (Rel-15). | | | | | | | | --- RP-181277 - | | | | \"Introduction of Aerial | | | | for LTE in TS 36.213\". | | | | | | | | -- TS 36.331, E-UTRA; | | | | Radio Resource Control | | | | (RRC); Protocol | | | | Specification (Rel-15). | | | | | | | | --- RP-182005 - | | | | \"Introduction of | | | | Release-15 Aerial | | | | functionality: added | | | | features includes not | | | | limited to UL power | | | | control enhancements, | | | | measurement triggering, | | | | etc.\". | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | IETF [23] | - DRIP working group is | Applying IETF protocol | | | trying to make Rmote ID | to provide UAS remote ID | | | trustworthy using | support. | | | Excising IETF protocols, | | | | foucs on UAV | | | | registration | | | | verification, Establish | | | | secure communication | | | | between UAV and the | | | | pilot, etc. | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | ASTM [24] | - Published F3411 | Provide UAS Remote ID | | | remote ID standards, | standardzation. | | | emphasis on Broadcast | | | | and network remtoted ID | | | | message format. | | | | | | | | - It covers the | | | | performance requirements | | | | for remote | | | | identification of a UAS. | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | ATIS [25] | - Identify and enabler | Identify enablers and | | | and solutions for | solutions for UAS | | | cellular-as-a-drone | communication in | | | communication. | cellular network. | | | | | | | - Provide field-testing | | | | data to characterizing | | | | the ability of existing | | | | cellular networks to | | | | offer communications | | | | services to UAV and | | | | published important | | | | white papers regarding | | | | how UAS can utitlize | | | | Celluar network. | | | | | | | | -- Report | | | | ATIS-I-0000060 Unmanned | | | | Aerial Vehicle | | | | Utilization of Cellular | | | | Services. | | | | | | | | -- Report | | | | ATIS-I-0000069 Support | | | | for UAV Communications | | | | in 3GPP Cellular | | | | Standards. | | | | | | | | -- Report | | | | ATIS-I-0000071 Use of | | | | UAVs for Restoring | | | | Communications in | | | | Emergency Situations. | | | | | | | | -- Report | | | | ATIS-I-0000074 Use of | | | | Cellular Communications | | | | to Support Unmanned | | | | Aerial Vehicle (UAV) | | | | Flight Operations | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | ANSI [26] | - UASSC (ANSI UAS | Identify exsiting UAS | | | Standardization | standards as well as | | | Collaborative) Version 2 | related conformance | | | Released for Comment | activities, defining | | | (2020). | technical gaps and | | | | provide recommendations. | | | - Developed a | | | | standardization roadmap | | | | which identifies | | | | existing standards and | | | | standards in development | | | | and recommends | | | | additional work that is | | | | needed. | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | ICAO [27] | - Published Standards | Provide recommentations | | | and Recommended | for UAS airworthiness, | | | Practices (SARPs) for | operations, C2 | | | aviation. | communications and | | | | traffic management. | | | - The current focus of | | | | the RPASP is on | | | | airworthiness, | | | | operations, operator | | | | certification, air | | | | traffic management, C2 | | | | Link, detect and avoid | | | | (DAA), safety management | | | | and security. | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | RTCA [28] | - Based in US, | Provide UAS | | | volunteer organiation, | communication and | | | sponsored by FAA. | opertaion guidelines. | | | | | | | - Provide UAS operation | | | | guidelines, no | | | | requirement. | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | ISO [29] | - Standardization in | Provide UAS | | | the field of unmanned | communication and | | | aircraft systems (UAS) | operation standards. | | | including, but not | | | | limited to: | | | | Classification, Design, | | | | Manufacture, Operation | | | | (including maintenance) | | | | & Safety Management of | | | | UAS operations. | | +-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
###### ### Annex C (informative): UAS Regional Regulations
## C.1 Introduction
The description in this annex is derived from regional UAS regulations which
are external to 3GPP, as indicated in the references.
NOTE: The content of this clause will not be updated to reflect the latest
status of the references.
## C.2 FAA [22]
The following is a brief summary of FAA\'s UAS rulemaking:
\- Proceed by three concurrent steps:
\- Requirement for UAS operators and performance-based design and production
standards for producers of UAS.
\- USS collect ID and location from based on the LAANC program.
\- Collection of technical requirements from other SDOs to meet the
performance-based design and production requirement (e.g. ASTM).
\- Define two types of UAS remote ID:
\- Standard RID: [broadcast]{.underline} identification and location
information directly from UAS and support communication with USS through an
[internet]{.underline} connection.
\- Limited RID: transmit information through the [internet only,]{.underline}
with no broadcast required.
\- Define requirements for message sent by both standard and limited UAS RID.
\- Define minimum performance requiremnt for both standard and limit UAS RID.
\- FAA LAANC:
\- Provide automated UAS authorization platform through USS.
Compared with the previous FAA Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM), some
important updates of the FAA final rule are as follows:
\- Only Broadcast ID is needed, networked RID is not mandated but is not
prohibited.
\- On-board Broadcast ID may be a build-in or a portable broadcast ID module.
\- Broadcast ID is defined for radio technologies using unlicensed radio
frequency.
\- The following data may be associated with a Broadcast ID equipped UAV:
\-- Aeronautical data includes but not limited to the ones specified in Annex
D.2 and Annex D.3 in this specification.
\-- FAA-Recognized identification areas (FRIAs) are the only locations which
allow UAV operations in FRIAs without any ID. It has a similar concept listed
in Annex D.4.
Another important observation is that only the FAA is removing the Network-
based approach. No other regulatory agency is taking the same steps as the
FAA. There is no sign of USS/UTM will go away. The current final rule should
be treated as an incremental approach for the FAA to establish a vital UAV
operation in the near short term.
ASTM put much effort into the networked-based remote-id design and it will not
go away either.
## C.3 Europe UAS Regulations [30]
The following is a brief summary of Europe\'s UAS rulemaking:
\- U-Space Concept of Operation for European UTM systems is published by
European union and Eurocontrol.
\- U-space summary:
\- Provide services and specific operation procedures to support safe,
efficient and secure access to airspace for UAS.
\- Provide a framework to support routine drone operations.
\- Provide safe operating environments for UAS fly below 500ft.
\- Four Phases:
\- Phase-1: Provide support for UAS e-registration, e-identification and
geofencing.
\- Phase-2: Provide basic support for UAS management such as flight planning,
approval, tracking, and procedural interfaces with air traffic control (ATC).
\- Phase-3: Provide advanced UAS support in dense areas and may support drone
conflict detection, automated \'detect and avoid\' (DAA) functionalities and
etc.
\- Phase-4: Provide full UAS services in terms of high level of automation,
connectivity and communication between UAS and traffic management system.
###### ## Annex D (informative): UAV Aeronautical data communication with
USS/UTM
## D.1 Introduction
The description in this annex is derived from material external to 3GPP, such
as the FAA, LAANC and ASTM International.
NOTE: Given that the content of the external references will change over time,
the content of this clause will not be maintained to match the current status
of the references.
Various types of aeronautical charts are available in different countries and
for different purposes (low/high altitude, visual/instrument flight rules,
planning, etc.). For the operation of small UAVs, of particular relevance are
the US sectional charts, as well as the \"Low Altitude Authorization and
Notification Capability (LAANC)\" information, which is displayed in the form
of a chart on a web browser. Charts are updated on a comparatively long-term
cycle (for example; VFR (Virtual Flight rules) sectional charts are updated
every six months). For manned aircrafts, use of charts that are currently \"in
force\" is required.
More recently, airspace authorities including the FAA have implemented modern
query interfaces that allow automated download of information pertinent to a
specific location with a granularity much finer than a state. These interfaces
can be based on RESTful operations. REST, also known as Representational State
Transfer, is a technique in which a client can query a server identified by a
base Unified Resource Indicator (URI) through standard HTTP methods including,
for example, GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, or DELETE and in a defined format. One
such defined standardized format is known as Java Object Notation or JSON.
This annex provides additional data information related to drone operations
which were specified in 3GPP TS 22.125 [3].
## D.2 Essential Airport information for UAV operation
UAV location information is an important component transferred between UAV and
UTM. 3GPP can provide or supplement location information of UAV and its
controller to UTM. The 3GPP system provides data transport channel between UAV
and UTM for transferring of UAV take-off location, route information, fly
path.
As pointed out by ASTM F3411 standardization [24], aeronautical information
such as airport coverage, floor/ceiling (MSL), runway number and radio contact
frequency (if it is a towered airport) are important to keep UE (in this case
is a UAV) away from the active airport. The FAA\'s LAANC program supports REST
API based operation for a UAV to retrieve data from USS/UTM. Since there is no
visual boundary in the sky, there is no easy way for a UE (UAV) to know its
current airspace location. The following table D.2-1 lists some important
aeronautical properties mentioned in ASTM International and the FAA.
Table D.2-1: Essential Airport information for UAV operation
+-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Aeronautical Property | Brief Description | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Location | Airport center\'s GPS location in terms of | | | Latitude and Longitude | | | | | | E.g. KLVK: (37°41.60\'N, 121°49.22\'W) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Radius | The radius of the airport | | | | | | It contains multiple radius value due to | | | various 3D airspace division | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Ceiling | The ceiling of an airport in MSL/AGL | | | | | | E.g. KLVK 2900-meter AGL | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Floor | The floor of an airport in MSL (mean sea | | | Level) | | | | | | E.g. KVLK 400-meter MSL | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Airport Class | The airport category | | | | | | E.g. A, B, C, D, E, G | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Runway | Airport runways\' number/direction in | | | magnetic direction | | | | | | E.g. runway 10 (100 degree) | +-----------------------+---------------------------------------------+
The following is a summary for each Aeronautical Property listed in table
D.2-1:
\- Location: The airport GPS location is mandatory, which is the key parameter
for UAV to identify an airport.
\- Radius: The radius of the airport.
\- Ceiling/floor: The ceiling/floor of an airport in MSL/AGL.
\- Airport Class: The classification of various airport types includes
controlled and uncontrolled airspaces.
\- Runway: Runway direction of the airport. It could be multiple if there are
multiple runways.
## D.3 Essential UAV flight restriction parameters
Flight restriction parameters can be communicated between UAV and UTM through
3GPP network (UTM-navigated C2 communication). 3GPP system provides data
transport channel for current UAV\'s location, fly path which can include the
current altitude, ceiling, floor of the current path and time of airborne. If
a UAV was pre-approved to an active restricted area such as an active airport,
military operation area and etc.
Airspace restrictions are published in charts that are updated every few
months. However, so-called Temporary Flight Restrictions (TFRs) or airport
closures through Notice to Airmen (NOTAMs) could issue at any time and often
become effective immediately. Even a professional operator of a manned
aircraft can find himself violating such TFRs on occasion---a situation that
can often be sorted out by direct communication of the operator with ATC.
However, a typical drone operator is not in direct communication in ATC and
could not know that his/her operation violates airspace restrictions including
TFRs.
The drone could have a datalink using, for example, a 5G network link, to a
server maintained by an aviation regulatory authority, a private entity
entrusted by regulatory authorities to publish charts or TFRs, private
operators without such mandate but offering it commercially or as a free
service, and so forth. Over the datalink, the drone could request information
whether it is legal to fly in the airspace. The definition of that airspace
could be an area in 3D space which the drone can access in a given time
interval considering its performance (speed, climb rate, endurance, and so
on). Advantageously, to minimize the amount of information the server could
need to transmit, the drone could include its current position, which it could
have obtained by means such as its onboard GPS, 2D triangulation from 5G radio
towers, and so on. The drone could query such information at certain times,
such as power-on, pre-flight check, take-off, in given time-intervals, at
given distances from its controller, and so forth.
Table D.3-1 lists the referenced NOTAM/TFR data from FAA\'s LAANC, TFR program
and ASTM F3411-19.
Table D.3-1: Essential UAV flight restriction parameters
+----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | NOTAM/TFR Parameters | Description | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Location | NOTAM /TFR\'s GPS location in terms of | | | Latitude and Longitude | | | | | | E.g. KLVK: (37°41.60\'N, 121°49.22\'W) | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Radius | The radius of the NOTAM/TFRs | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Ceiling | The ceiling of a NOTAM/TFRs\' | | | | | | E.g. From the surface up to and including | | | 3000 feet AGL | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Datetime | The effective date of a NOTAM/TFRs\' | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Floor | The floor of a NOTAM/TFR in MSL (mean sea | | | Level) | | | | | | E.g. 400 feet MSL | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Exempt | The exemption of operation in a NOTAM/TFR. | +----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
The following is a summary for each Aeronautical Property listed in table
D.3-1:
\- Location: NOTAM /TFR\'s GPS location in terms of Latitude and Longitude.
\- Ceiling/floor: The ceiling/floor of a TFR in MSL/AGL.
\- Datatime: UAV Fly restriction timestamp.
\- Exempt: an indicator of a special fly privilege such as fire rescue
situation.
## D.4 UAS Facility Map
Currently in the North American, the mostly used UAS fly map is provided by
the FAA. It contains UAV fly route data information such as fly vectors in the
form of a JSON format to represent a geometry map coverage. The 3GPP system
provides a data transport channel to transfer map data. This clause provides a
general UAS flight map categories provided from FAA.
The published FAA Aeronautical information includes but not limited to VFR
(virtual flight rules) sectional, Terminal Area chart, IFR Enroute, area and
planning charts. If a UAS/drone operates under specific national airspace such
as in controlled airspace Class A, B, C, D, E, and uncontrolled airspace class
G, it is important to obtain ATC authorization and airport NOTAM and be aware
of current TFR in the vicinity.
FAA also provides a designated database for UAS operations under national
security consideration. There is currently four UAS flight restriction data
source: national security UAS flight restriction, part-time national security
UAS flight restrictions, Recreational Flyer fixed sites, FAA UAS facility Map.
Table D.4-1 shows a brief description of each data source.
Table D.4-1 **FAA** UAS facility map property summary
* * *
Source Description National security UAS flight restriction The FAA, pursuant
to Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) § 99.7, Special security
instructions (SSI), has prohibited all UAS flight operations within the
airspace defined under NOTAM FDC 7/7282. Part-time national security UAS
flight restrictions Part-time UAS operation zone Recreational Flyer fixed
sites This dataset represents active recreational flyer fixed sites (commonly
referred to as flying fields) that are established by an agreement with the
FAA. The fixed sites depicted here are located in controlled airspace two or
more miles from an airport. At these sites, recreational UAS operations are
authorized up to the unmanned aircraft system (UAS) facility map (UASFM)
altitudes FAA UAS facility Map The UAS Facility Maps are designed to identify
permissible altitudes (above ground level) at which UAS, operating under the
Small UAS Rule (14 CFR 107), can be authorized to fly within the surface areas
of controlled airspace.
* * *
A UAS can retrieve UAS flight map from nearby USS/UTM. Table D.4-2 summarize
some important flight map properties from FAA UAS facility map data source.
Table D.4-2: **FAA** UAS facility map property summary
#