# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report which identifies the enhancements
to the application architecture to support V2X services specified in 3GPP TS
23.286 [7].
The study takes into consideration the existing stage 1 and stage 2 work
within 3GPP related to V2X enhancements in 3GPP TS 22.185 [2], 3GPP TS 22.186
[3], 3GPP TS 23.285 [6] and 3GPP TS 23.287 [8], as well as V2X application
requirements defined outside 3GPP.
This document will provide recommendations for normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios; Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.886: \"Study on enhancement of 3GPP Support for 5G V2X
Services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs; Stage 2\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.286: \"Application layer support for Vehicle-to-Everything
(V2X) services; Functional architecture and information flows\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
network data analytics services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.434: \"Service Enabler Architecture Layer for Verticals
(SEAL); Functional architecture and information flows\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TR 23.786: \"Study on architecture enhancements for the Evolved
Packet System (EPS) and the 5G System (5GS) to support advanced V2X
services\".
[14] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[15] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
The following definitions from 3GPP TS 23.286 [7]:
**V2X group**
**V2X dynamic group**
**V2X service**
## 3.2 Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GS 5G System
5QI 5G QoS Identifier
eV2X enhanced V2X
CAPIF Common API Framework for northbound APIs
HD High Definition
NEF Network Exposure Function
PCF Policy Control Function
PQI PC5 5QI
ToD Tele-operated Driving
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 Analysis of V2X standards
## 4.1 3GPP 5GS architecture for V2X communications
### 4.1.1 Description
The V2X architecture, functional entities to facilitate vehicular
communications for Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services, which includes
Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V), Vehicle-to-Pedestrian (V2P), Vehicle-to-
Infrastructure (V2I), and Vehicle-to-Network (V2N) are specified based on 5GS
in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8].
### 4.1.2 Analysis
The following reference points described in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] have V2X
application layer impact:
1\. V1: The reference point between V2X application in the UE and the V2X
application server. This reference point is considered out of scope of 3GPP TS
23.287 [8].
2\. V5: The reference point between the V2X applications in the UEs. This
reference point is considered out of scope of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8].
The following high level functions specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] have V2X
application layer impact:
1\. Authorization and provisioning for V2X communications over PC5 and Uu
reference points
2\. V2X message transmission/reception over PC5 or Uu reference points
3\. V2X Application Server discovery
4\. QoS handling for V2X communication over PC5 and Uu reference points
5\. Interworking between EPS V2X and 5GS V2X
The V2X configuration parameters provisioned to the UE by the PCF as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.503 [12] has application layer impact.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1 -- eV2X application QoS requirements for V2X communication
over PC5
The V2X services described in 3GPP TS 22.186 [3], require ultra-reliable and
low latency characteristics, and may require high data rates due to the very
high expected payloads. The Categories of Requirements (CoR) and Level of
Automation (LoA) is defined, which reflects the functional aspects of the
technology and affects the system performance requirements.are defined to
support such V2X scenarios.
The following CoRs are defined:
\- General Aspects;
\- Vehicle Platooning;
\- Advanced Driving;
\- Extended Sensors; and
\- Remote Driving.
The following LoAs are defined:
\- No Automation (0);
\- Driver Assistance (1);
\- Partial Automation (2);
\- Conditional Automation (3);
\- High Automation (4); and
\- Full Automation (5).
For the combination of each CoR scenario and each degree of LoA, requirements
are specified in terms of Payload (Bytes), Transmission rate (Message/Sec),
Maximum end-to-end latency (ms), Reliability (%), Data rate (Mbps), Minimum
required communication range (meters).
V2X scenarios are delay and reliability critical while the rate (and thus the
resource) requirement may vary for each CoR and LoA, since they may support
different payloads (from 300 B to 12000 B) under the strict delay requirement.
Also, different CoR and LoA combination may require different QoS parameters
(even for the same V2X application, e.g. platooning). This poses additional
challenges regarding the accommodation of QoS and resource requests by 3GPP
systems from numerous and resource demanding services.
To this end, SA2 (TS 23.287) has provided enhancements to the QoS model by re-
using the Uu QoS model for PC5 communications; so as to allow per flow QoS
handling and better integration with Uu interface. In addition, a new QoS
attribute has been included for PC5 groupcast/broadcast communications
(Range); and new PQI values have been specified for different V2X services and
CoR/LoA combinations.
From SA6 perspective, some application layer impacts need to be further
discussed based on the latest SA2 agreements (see 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]):
\- 5QI model for PC5 is a new 5GS feature and the QoS configuration is
provided by the application layer. The role of application layer is key, since
:
\-- Multiple PQI values have been defined for eV2X; and more than one PQI can
be applicable to a V2X service. This allows for negotiating QoS requirement at
the application layer.
\-- One new optional QoS attribute is introduced (Range) and this comes from
the application side.
\- Enhanced monitoring capabilities may need to be defined at the application
layer (e.g. including PC5 QoS monitoring) for dynamic QoS
provisioning/adaptation based on the new PC5 QoS model.
## 5.2 Key issue 2 -- eV2X application QoS requirements for V2X communication
over Uu
### 5.2.1 General
The V2X services described in 3GPP TS 22.186 [3], require ultra-reliable and
low latency characteristics, and may require high data rates due to the very
high expected payloads. The Categories of Requirements (CoR) and Level of
Automation (LoA) is defined, which reflects the functional aspects of the
technology and affects the system performance requirements.are defined to
support such V2X scenarios.
The following CoRs are defined:
\- General Aspects;
\- Vehicle Platooning;
\- Advanced Driving;
\- Extended Sensors; and
\- Remote Driving.
The following LoAs are defined:
\- No Automation (0);
\- Driver Assistance (1);
\- Partial Automation (2);
\- Conditional Automation (3);
\- High Automation (4); and
\- Full Automation (5).
For the combination of each CoR scenario and each degree of LoA, requirements
are specified in terms of Payload (Bytes), Transmission rate (Message/Sec),
Maximum end-to-end latency (ms), Reliability (%), Data rate (Mbps), Minimum
required communication range (meters).
V2X scenarios are delay and reliability critical while the rate (and thus the
resource) requirement may vary for each CoR and LoA, since they may support
different payloads (from 300 B to 12000 B) under the strict delay requirement.
Also, different CoR and LoA combination may require different QoS parameters
(even for the same V2X application, e.g. platooning). This poses additional
challenges regarding the accommodation of QoS and resource requests by 3GPP
systems from numerous and resource demanding services.
In this regard, SA2 (see 3GPP TR 23.786 [13] and 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]) has
provided enhancements to the QoS model to allow more flexible interactions
between 5GS and the application layer; as well as the possibility of exposing
to the 3^rd^ party potential QoS adaptation to enable the application to pro-
actively adapt the service offering (e.g. change of Level of Automation, group
formations).
**Given the aforementioned considerations** and the increased complexity of
scenarios and the wider variety of requirements as imposed by the latest SA2
agreements (see 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]), it is required to further study the below
sub-key issues.
### 5.2.2 Key issue 2a - Monitoring QoS situation by eV2X Application
The exposure of QoS information / analytics by 5GS (e.g. NWDAF) to Application
Function (AF) is possible in 5GS, as part of the Potential QoS change
procedure (see 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]).
In this regard, enhanced monitoring capabilities can be available at
application layer (comparing to the V2X application functional model,
specified in 3GPP TS 23.286 [7]), which can enable the application layer to
dynamically provide/adapt the service operation and related QoS requirements
for single or groups of UEs. The monitoring information which may be required
at the application layer for adjusting the eV2X application requirement, need
to be investigated further.
### 5.2.3 Key issue 2b - Communicating eV2X application requirements with 5GS
The application based on the enhanced monitoring capabilities, upon receiving
notifications about possible QoS changes (e.g. possible QoS downgrade), it may
be required to handle the application adjustment; and subsequently the QoS
requirement adjustment for single or groups of UEs which may be affected by
this change.
This study needs to investigate:
1\. what is the impact at the application layer functional model for enabling
the application layer to adapt V2X application requirements, based on the
enhanced QoS monitoring, and
2\. what new mechanisms may be required from application perspective to
communicate this adaptation with the 5GS and involved application entities.
## 5.3 Key issue 3 -- V2X application support for network slicing
Network slicing is a set of technologies to support network service
differentiation and meet the diversified requirements from tenants like
vertical industries as specified in clause 5.15 of 3GPP TS 23.501 [11].
Network slice is a logical network that provides specific network capabilities
and network characteristics. The application support for slices is a
standardized feature in 3GPP 5GS and mainly involves the interaction between
the 5GS (e.g. slice management system) and the 3rd party (tenants) for the
pre-commissioning, operation and management of the slice end-to-end as
specified in 3GPP TS 28.530 [14].
In V2X use cases as defined in 3GPP TS 22.186 [3], both safety and non-safety
communications need to be supported with diverse and conflicting KPIs
(latency, reliability, throughput). A V2X service provider may use one or more
network slices for V2X to bundle one or more V2X services to support multiple
KPI and QoS requirements.
Further study is required to determine how to abstract the required network
slice information to the V2X application to:
\- efficiently support multi-PLMN and cross-slice coordination for roaming and
non-roaming use cases.
\- enable the application layer to provide/adjust the V2X application
requirements based on slice conditions and availability.
\- enable application layer to provide efficient utilization of network
resources across V2X services and slices.
## 5.4 Key issue 4 -- Support for tele-operated driving
Tele-operated driving allows a remote driver to interact with one or more
vehicles, the remote driver acting as a V2X application server and the
vehicles as V2X UEs. The communication is typically one-to-one where a V2X
application server establishes a tele-operated driving session with one or
more V2X UEs. The remote driver may utilize a V2X application server or a V2X
UE to communicate tele-operated command and control messages to one or more
vehicles to drive autonomously and coordinate driving manoeuvres.
It requires further study:
\- Supporting functions are required at the VAE layer to enable tele-operated
driving of the vehicle(s) on a sustained basis between the V2X application
server and one or more V2X UEs.
## 5.5 Key issue 5 -- V2X control and message distribution over Uu
3GPP TS 23.287 [8] clause 4.2.1 defines the eV2X architecture. In several
clauses of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] (e.g. clause 5.4.5, QoS handling for V2X
communication over Uu reference point), the V2X application server acts as an
AF and communicates with the NEF over Nnef (service-based interface). The
communication between the V2X application server and NEF is for instance
considered for subscribing to notifications from the NEF. The procedure for
notification on potential QoS change to the V2X application server is
described in in clause 6.4.1 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]. These represent, from a 5G
system point of view, examples of control-plane procedures for negotiation
and/or subscription to specific services.
In addition, from clause 4.4.3 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8], the V2X application
server also supports capabilities of receiving uplink data from the UE over
unicast and sending downlink data to the UE over unicast. These represent,
from a 5G system point of view, examples of user-plane procedures.
Therefore, when considering the design of V2X application enabler (VAE), there
is a mixture of control- and user-plane functionalities to be taken into
consideration and potentially aligned with the paradigm of control-/user-plane
separation of 5G systems. 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] functional model has considered
the VAE server as one entity with no separation of control and user-plane
management functionalities.
It requires further study:
\- If separation of control- and user-plane management functions of the V2X
application enabler (VAE) when interacting with the 3GPP system and with the
V2X application-specific server is needed.
\- If there are any impacts on V2X message distribution.
\- If additional northbound APIs from the VAE server are required.
## 5.6 Key issue 6 -- Multi-PLMN support by application enabler layer
The V2X communication may be multi operator environment since it is not
possible to ensure that only one operator will offer the V2X service. Basic
safety critical services or advanced driving assistance applications as
platooning are some examples of V2X services that may be in multiple PLMN
environments.
According to 3GPP TS 23.501 [11], the involvement of AF in multi-PLMN
interactions can be possible via N33 and T8. In this regard, AF may support
efficient interworking of multiple PLMNs in non-roaming scenarios by
communicating with multiple NEFs and NEF+SCEF via N33 and T8.
The VAE server, acting as AF, may be capable of receiving network & QoS
parameters from one or multiple PLMNs, as well as receiving application
requirements from one or multiple application servers. Hence, VAE server could
support some multi-PLMN interactions in the above scenarios (e.g. by
configuring QoS / network parameters on behalf of underlying PLMNs).
This study needs to investigate whether and how the application layer
functional model and VAE layer capabilities can be enhanced to support multi-
PLMN interactions.
## 5.7 Key issue 7 -- Capability exposure to V2X application specific server
using CAPIF
VAE server provides service APIs to its typical consumer V2X application
specific server as specified in 3GPP TS 23.286 [7], the V2X application
specific server can invoke the VAE server service APIs directly by local
configuration which has the API end point.
The CAPIF as specified 3GPP TS 23.222 [5] provides a common API framework for
3GPP northbound APIs. Since VAE server can be deployed in the operator\'s PLMN
domain, the VAE server can be treated as an entity providing 3GPP northbound
API as well.
Therefore, this study will need to address how to support the V2X application
specific server to access the VAE server service API by using CAPIF, and
whether there is a need to enhance functionalities of CAPIF due to the need
from V2X application enabler layer.
## 5.8 Key issue 8 -- Application layer support for unicast, broadcast and
groupcast mode of V2X communication
Groupcast mode of communication is only supported over NR based PC5 reference
point. 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] introduces the groupcast mode V2X communication for
which an accurate and up-to-date information of the group size and the member
ID is expected from V2X application layer to the V2X/AS layer for the QoS
handling for the groupcast mode of V2X communication.
The up-to date group size is the actual count of members of the group who are
currently engaged in V2X communications, which is different from the total
group size of the group. The up-to date group size will vary as and when the
group members join or leave the group V2X communications.
Currently, there is no standard mechanism to provide the up-to date group size
and member ID from the V2X application layer to the V2X/AS layer and no
standardized factors for whether and how to select groupcast versus unicast
communications.
The following requires further study:
\- How to determine and provide the up to date size of the group participants
of the V2X group in a group communication to the V2X/AS layer from the V2X
application layer?
\- How the member ID is generated and what is the format required for the
member ID?
Additionally, the application layer should consider many factors when deciding
whether and how to use the groupcast mode for V2X communications:
\- What mechansisms are necessary to enable the Application Layer to optimally
choose between broadcast, groupcast, and unicast communications?
\- What mechansisms are necessary to enable the Application Layer to optimally
choose between connectionless and managed groupcast communications?
\- Is a group using groupcast mode pre-configured as an Application Layer
connection-less group or an Application Layer managed group (per 3GPP TS
23.287 [8])?
\- Is the concept of a \"Group Leader\" required or does each group member
decide for itself whether to use groupcast mode?
\- What policies/criteria (e.g. region, number of targets) need to be defined
to govern the decision process to use groupcast or unicast comunication mode?
\- How are those policies/criteria configured?
\- What entity is responsible for deciding (based on those policies/criteria)
whether to use groupcast mode?
\- Is the VAE Layer responsible for that decision?
\- What information may be necessary to report between members of a group when
the potential use of groupcast mode is being evaluated?
\- How is the use of groupcast affected when the participating V2X UEs do not
belong to the same PLMN?
## 5.9 Key issue 9 -- UE-to-UE application layer relay
UE-to-UE application layer relay may be used to enhance the V2V communication
coverage. The V2X relay UEs applies to both LTE-V2X and NR-V2X. To enhance the
V2V communication coverage one or more V2X relay UEs may be involved.
In the scenario where V2X relay UEs are used to re-transmit the V2X messages
to a wider coverage area, it is possible that a V2X UE may receive multiple
copies of the same message that are repeatedly re-transmitted by several V2X
relay UEs causing a V2X message broadcast flood as shown in figure 5.9-1.
For example, V2X UE1 transmits a V2X message over PC5 which needs to be
delivered to a coverage area which includes V2X UE4. The V2X message is
received by V2X relay UE2 and V2X relay UE3 at the same time or with some time
difference. Due to the relay nature, the V2X relay UE2 and V2X relay UE3 re-
transmit the V2X messages over PC5 to the coverage area of V2X UE4. V2X UE4
receives multiple copies of the same V2X message transmitted by V2X UE1 and
further V2X relay UE2 and V2X relay UE3 also receive the same V2X message
again. It is possible that the V2X relay UEs re-transmit the newly received
V2X messages from the other V2X relay UEs thus causing a V2X message broadcast
flood.
Thus, how to reduce the V2X message broadcast flood when using V2X relay UEs
for V2V communications is for further study.
Solutions for application layer support of UE-to-UE relay functionality will
need to be studied.
Figure 5.9-1: V2X message flood scenario
NOTE: Reuse of 5GS UE-to-UE relay solutions defined by SA2 is FFS.
## 5.10 Key issue 10 -- Support for switching modes for V2V communications
The 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] addresses that the V2X UE determines switching of the
mode of operation between LTE Uu and PC5 for V2V sessions based on several
factors including the received network monitoring information and the PC5
communication quality information.
The 5G use case depicted in 3GPP TR 22.886 [4] addresses V2V messages needed
to support platooning application are exchanged between the UEs in the target
cell using device to device communication in 5G New RAT (NR). Thus switching
modes between NR Uu and PC5 for V2V communications needs to be considered.
The following aspects need to be studied:
\- How can the application layer utilize the 3GPP system provided switching
modes between NR Uu and PC5 (NR sidelink)?
\- Determine whether and how the solution in 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] for switching
between LTE Uu and PC5 needs to be modified when considering NR Uu.
\- Evaluate the additional factors (e.g. network monitoring information, PC5
communication quality information) that may impact the decision for switching
modes for 5GS based V2X applications.
Editor\'s note: The RAN dependency of switching modes needs to be further
addressed as the RAN specifications update.
## 5.11 Key issue 11 -- V2X UE measurement reporting to VAE server
The capabilities of application adaptation supported by network information
depend on the level of information contained within such network information.
The provisioning of detailed information, and in particular of information
that take into consideration the previous or current status of a V2X service,
plays thus a key role to empower the capabilities of application adaptation.
To this aim, the exploitation of V2X UE measurements provided from V2X
application layer could help to generate more rich network information, better
tailored for the V2X service under consideration. V2X UE measurements could be
intended as information that are not already available to 5GS through other
mechanisms. V2X UE measurements could be intended as measurements directly
performed by the V2X application layer, as well as measurements collected from
the application layer, from other layers of the protocol stack, from entities
such as operating system, etc. Furthermore, these V2X UE measurements could be
intended also as measurements enriched with additional information, e.g.,
position and timestamp information. In this scenario, the VAE layer can have a
role for gathering the UE measurements from application layer, as well as for
utilizing such UE measurements when processing network information delivery to
application layer. This study needs to investigate:
\- Which UE measurements, if any, are useful to be collected by V2X UE and
reported to VAE layer.
NOTE: The UE measurements collected by the V2X UE and the granularity level of
the measurements that are reported to the VAE server shall consider SA1
related requirements in 3GPP TS 22.186 [3].
If any UE measurements are identified, then study:
\- The associated reporting conditions and reporting frequency.
\- VAE capabilities to support measurement reporting from the V2X UE to the
V2X application server.
\- How VAE layer can utilize the V2X UE measurements.
Editor\'s note: Authorization (including user consent) and encryption of V2X
UE measurements are FFS and in the purview of SA3.
## 5.12 Key issue 12 -- Supporting multiple V2X service providers
In the V2X business practice, each city may have its own V2X service provider
who operates one or more V2X application specific servers in the boundaries of
a city. When a vehicle consuming services in city A moves to another city B,
the local V2X application specific server which is required to serve the
vehicle in city B is determined based on UE location. The local V2X
application specific sever may be operated by a different V2X service
provider.
In 3GPP TS 23.286 [7], the scenario of obtaining V2X services involving
multiple V2X service providers is not specified. By investigating the involved
business relationship in clause 5, functional model in clause 6, distributed
deployment models in clause 7.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [7], it is evident that
relationship between multiple V2X service provider and interactions for
supporting V2X services in such a scenario is not specified.
Especially, the V2X service discovery procedure in clause 9.9 of 3GPP TS
23.286 [7] and the dynamic local service information procedure in clause
9.10.4 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] does not address the multiple V2X service
provider scenario. In multiple V2X service provider scenario, the GEO ID and
the local V2X application specific server topology information may not be
shared between the V2X service providers and may be governed by business
relationship between the V2X service providers.
It requires further study on :
\- How to support the UE belonging to one V2X service provider to obtain local
V2X service information from another V2X service provider(s) and operating in
different geographical areas?
## 5.13 Key issue 13 -- Usage and management of the range QoS parameter
A new QoS parameter has been defined for groupcast communication over the PC5
reference point in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]. This parameter is called \"Range\" and
refers to the maximum distance in meters between the receiving UE and the
transmitting UE where the PC5 QoS parameters would be guaranteed. The
\"Range\" value is managed per V2X service.
From an SA6 perspective, application layer usage and management of the range
parameter needs to be studied:
\- Whether and how the V2X Application requests configuration of the Range
parameter to the VAE Layer
\- Whether and how the VAE Layer translates the value provided by the V2X
Application to a value provided to the lower layer
\- Whether and how the V2X Application is informed if a requested Range value
can be supported
\- Whether and how the specific handling of the Range will affect the other
QoS aspects
\- Identify the relationship, if any, between the Range as specified by SA2
and the Minimum Communication Range as specified by SA1
\- If a relationship is identified, determine whether and how translation
between those values would need to be supported in the VAE layer
The ability for a V2X Application to set or get notifications about the Range
parameter is defined by SA2. Requirements based on this key issue should be
identified by SA6 and provided to SA2.
## 5.14 Key issue 14 -- Support for Local MBMS
The Local MBMS was introduced in 3GPP TS 23.285 [6] for the purpose of MBMS
latency improvements. To support Local MBMS the V2X Application Server can
provide the transport network level informaiton and MB2-U/xMB-U interface
information to the BM-SC (see subclause 5.4.2.2 of 3GPP TS 23.285[6]). In the
current V2X application layer functional model, the NRM server provides
control plane interface (MB2-C/xMB-C) and the VAE server provides user plane
interface (MB2-U/xMB-U) towards the BM-SC.
The following aspects need to be studied:
\- In Local MBMS deployment scenarios which entity (VAE server or NRM server)
makes the decision to use Local MBMS and which entity provides the relevant
configurations (e.g. MB2-U address) to the BM-SC?
\- Whether and how the configurations and the usage of Local MBMS functions
and the normal MBMS functions need to coordinate at the V2X application layer?
## 5.15 Key issue 15 -- Supporting dynamic information for HD maps
High Definition maps (or HD maps) are utilized by V2X UE to support automated
driving cases for different V2X applications (e.g. Tele-operated Driving). The
V2X application(s) supporting such automated driving cases take decisions like
maneouvering, braking, etc based on the HD maps information. HD maps contain
static information (e.g. geographical map layout) and dynamic information
(e.g. V2X UEs\' locations) in, around and beyond the vicinity of the V2X UE
operating in the automated driving mode. HD maps information are communicated
to the V2X UE by V2X application servers.
Figure 5.15-1 illustrates a typical scenario of a vehicle\'s HD map.
Figure 5.15-1: Vehicle\'s HD map
As per 3GPP TS 22.186 [3], support for V2X scenarios for automated driving
case is required (e.g. advanced driving, remote driving, platooning). The
dynamic information (e.g. other V2X UEs\' info) for HD maps is essential for
V2X application decisions operating in different automated driving cases.
Hence, it is required to study the following aspects related to HD maps:
\- What type of dynamic information related to HD maps can be supported by the
VAE layer?
\- How VAE layer can provide dynamic information towards the V2X application
specific layer?
## 5.16 Key issue 16 -- Enhancements to V2X group management and group
communication
Some of the V2X scenarios require group-based communication (e.g. platooning).
3GPP TS 23.286 [7] specifies that the VAE functional entities (VAE client and
VAE server) utilize the group management service procedures (e.g. creation,
join, leave) of SEAL based on the group configuration information (e.g. group
join policy, group leader) provided by the V2X application specific layer.
3GPP TS 23.286 [7] also specifies procedure for V2X dynamic group management.
However, the 5G use cases depicted in 3GPP TR 22.886 [4] establishes following
requirements:
\- Vehicles need to exchange intent such as an interest to form a group or an
intention to be a group leader;
\- Each vehicle (within a group) needs to have a unique label for
identification when interacting with other vehicles in the group;
\- The group leader (i.e. lead vehicle in the platoon) can request any vehicle
to be the leader. This kind of communication can be done between the two
vehicles without involvement of other vehicles of the group.
\- Each vehicle shares its detected objects not only vehicles in the same
platoon group but also vehicles in different platoon group in proximity
Further study is needed for enabling layer to support application layer V2X
dynamic groups management and communication, on the following aspects:
\- Whether and how to support discovery of other V2X groups in proximity and
enable inter-group communications with the detected groups?
\- Whether and how dynamic group information can be updated and notified based
on the requests from the application layer (either from application specific
client or application specific server)?
\- Whether and how user\'s consent, provided by the V2X application specific
layer is taken into account for dynamic group information update?
\- Whether V2X UE ID can be used as a unique label for addressing the group
members to enable interaction between them?
\- Whether and how to enable a V2X UE to join or leave an existing V2X dynamic
group?
# 6 Architectural requirements
## 6.1 General requirements
Editor\'s Note: This subclause will describe general architectural
requirements.
## 6.2 V2X message distribution
### 6.2.1 Description
This subclause specifies the V2X (e.g. ETSI ITS, SAE) message distribution
requirements.
### 6.2.2 Requirements
[AR-6.2.2-a] The VAE layer shall enable the delivery of V2X messages based on
pre-established sessions (e.g. tele-operated driving).
## 6.3 eV2X QoS monitoring & control by application layer
### 6.3.1 Description
This subclause describes the requirement for the application enabler
functionality on eV2X QoS monitoring and control.
### 6.3.2 Requirements
[AR-6.3.2-a] The V2X application enabler layer shall provide mechanisms to
ensure that application QoS requirements are supported by the underlying 3GPP
network for all the involved V2X UEs within one V2X service or in a given
geographical area.
## 6.4 Coordination based on EPS and 5GS connectivity
### 6.4.1 Description
This clause specifies the requirements for coordination based on EPS and 5GS
connectivity.
### 6.4.2 Requirements
[AR-6.4.2-a] The VAE layer shall enable provisioning the V2X policy and
parameters based on the V2X UE connectivity to EPS or 5GS.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Solution #1: Session-oriented service establishment support
### 7.1.1 Solution description
#### 7.1.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to key issue #4. The VAE layer provides support at
the application layer for session-oriented services as tele-operated driving
by establishing, updating and terminating sessions.
#### 7.1.1.2 Process of triggering session-oriented service establishment
Pre-conditions:
\- The V2X application-specific server has decided to trigger the session-
oriented service.
NOTE: The reasons that the V2X application-specific server decides to trigger
the tele-operated driving session are out of scope of the present document.
Figure 7.1.1.2-1: Procedure for triggering the VAE server to establish a
session-oriented service with the VAE client
1\. The V2X application-specific server triggers the VAE server to initiate a
session-oriented service to the VAE client. This request can include
information such as the identity of the VAE client, the identity of the V2X
application specific server, the identity of the service session, the V2X
service ID and the \"type\" or \"QoS requirements\" of the session.
2\. The VAE server provides a session-oriented service trigger response to the
V2X application-specific server indicating the ability or inability of VAE
server to initiate a session-oriented service with the VAE client.
NOTE: The VAE server performs the procedure specified in clause 7.1.1.3 to
establish session oriented service with VAE client (e.g. remote vehicle).
#### 7.1.1.3 Session-oriented service establishment
Pre-conditions:
\- The V2X UE has been authenticated for using session-oriented services and
has connected to the V2X application server.
\- The VAE server has agreed to establish a session upon the request from the
V2X application specific server as described in clause 7.1.1.2 or from the VAE
client as described in clause 7.6.1.2.
\- The V2X application specific client for the terminating V2X UE has been
informed about the already negotiated session oriented service to VAE client.
Figure 7.1.1.3-1: Procedure for establishing a session-oriented service
between the VAE server and the VAE client
1\. The VAE server sends a request to one or more VAE clients to establish a
session-oriented service including identity of the VAE client, identity of the
session, V2X service ID and reporting configuration.
2\. The VAE client sends a session-oriented service response to the VAE server
indicating approval of session establishment request by the VAE server.
3\. If V2X application specific server has triggered then, the VAE server
sends a session-oriented service establish notification to the V2X
application-specific server.
4\. The VAE client sends a session-oriented service establish notification to
the V2X application-specific client.
#### 7.1.1.4 Triggering of session-oriented service update
Pre-conditions:
\- The VAE server has established a session-oriented service with the VAE
client as described in clause 7.1.1.3.
\- The V2X application-specific server needs to update parameters of the
session.
Figure 7.1.1.4-1: Procedure for providing session-oriented service update from
the V2X application-specific server to the VAE server.
1\. The V2X application-specific server provides the VAE server with the
identity of the session and the update of session parameters, e.g. change of
QoS requirements of the session.
2\. The VAE server provides a session-oriented service update response to the
V2X application specific server including the ability or inability to continue
the session-oriented service with the VAE client with the updated conditions.
NOTE: The VAE server performs the procedure specified in clause 7.1.1.5 to
change session oriented service with VAE client (e.g. remote vehicle).
#### 7.1.1.5 Session-oriented service update
Pre-condition:
\- The VAE server has established a session-oriented service with the VAE
client.
\- The VAE server has received a session-oriented service update from the V2X
application-specific server as described in clause 7.1.1.4 or from the VAE as
described in clause 7.6.1.3 or a change in QoS and network conditions from
3GPP network system.
\- The VAE server has agreed to continue the session-oriented service with the
VAE client with the updated conditions upon the request from the V2X
application specific server as described in clause 7.1.1.4 or from the VAE
client as described in clause 7.6.1.3.
Figure 7.1.1.5-1: Procedure for updating a session-oriented service between
the VAE server and the VAE client
1\. The VAE server sends a change request to one or more VAE clients including
the identity of the session, updates requirements (e.g. change of network/QoS
requirements), or server information (e.g. change of VAE server).
2\. The VAE client sends a change response to the VAE server indicating
acceptance of the change request by the VAE server.
3\. If V2X application specific server has triggered then, the VAE server
sends a session-oriented service change notification to the V2X application-
specific server.
4\. The VAE client sends a session-oriented service change notification to the
V2X application-specific client.
#### 7.1.1.6 Triggering of session-oriented service termination
Pre-conditions:
\- The VAE server has established a session-oriented service with the VAE
client as described in clause 7.1.1.3.
\- The V2X application specific server has decided to terminate the session-
oriented service.
Figure 7.1.1.6-1: Procedure for providing session-oriented service termination
request from the V2X application-specific server to the VAE server.
1\. The V2X application-specific server provides the VAE server with a request
to terminate the session-oriented service with the VAE client. It may include
the identity of the service session.
2\. The VAE server provides a session-oriented service termination response to
the V2X application-specific server that the session can be terminated.
NOTE: The VAE server performs the procedure specified in clause 7.1.1.7 to
terminate session oriented service with VAE client (e.g. remote vehicle).
#### 7.1.1.7 Session-oriented service termination
Pre-condition:
\- The VAE server has established a session-oriented service with the VAE
client.
\- The VAE server has received a session-oriented service termination request
from the V2X application-specific server or from the VAE as described in
clause 7.6.1.4 or a change in QoS or network conditions from 3GPP network
system that prevents the VAE server from continuing the session-oriented
service.
\- The VAE server has indicated to terminate the session-oriented service with
the VAE client upon the request from the V2X application specific server as
described in clause 7.1.1.6 or from the VAE client as described in clause
7.6.1.4.
Figure 7.1.1.7-1: Procedure for terminating a session-oriented service between
the VAE server and the VAE client
1\. The VAE server sends a session-oriented termination request to the VAE
client to terminate the session (e.g. end of session with VAE server or
requirements for session-oriented service not satisfied) including the
identity of the session.
2\. The VAE client sends a session-oriented termination response to the VAE
server indicating acceptance of the termination request by the VAE server.
3\. If V2X application specific server has triggered then, the VAE server
sends a session-oriented service termination notification to the V2X
application-specific server.
4\. The VAE client sends a session-oriented service termination notification
to the V2X application-specific client.
### 7.1.2 Solution evaluation
The solution provides a viable mechanism for a V2X application server to
establish, maintain and terminate a session-oriented service as tele-operated
driving with the V2X UE.
## 7.2 Solution #2: Monitoring and control of QoS for eV2X communications
### 7.2.1 Solution description
#### 7.2.1.1 General
This solution addresses the key issue #2
#### 7.2.1.2 Procedure
The solution is described in the high-level procedure illustrated in figure
7.2.1.2-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAE server includes an Application Function (AF) functionality, as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]
2\. The VAE server initially subscribes to the V2X Application specific server
and the SEAL servers to receive V2X service-related information (e.g. UE IDs,
location, group, configuration info, etc.).
Figure 7.2.1.2-1: Monitoring and control of QoS for eV2X communications
1\. The VAE server, who acts as an AF, subscribes to QoS monitoring service
from 5GS (e.g. PCF/NWDAF). This subscription may be active for a certain
period of time or a given geographical area. The monitoring may either include
the request for QoS sustainability events as specified in 3GPP TS 23.288 [9],
or can include a QoS change notification requests as provided by SMF and
specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]. The reporting may be configured by the
application enabler layer for a given area, time, periodicity etc taking into
account the service requirement and other parameters (e.g. expected congestion
in certain area, time of the day, road conditions). Based on the subscription,
as specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8], 5GS provides the extended QoS monitoring
report, over N33 interface. This report may come either from NWDAF or SMF via
PCF/NEF.
2 The VAE server, based on the monitoring events for one or multiple V2X-UEs
within one service or across multiple services, may trigger a service
requirement adaptation based on the actual or expected QoS change for one or
more V2X services.
3\. The VAE server sends a service requirement adaptation request to V2X
application specific server to identify the action which is needed, based on
the actual or expected QoS change. This could be the adaptation of the Level
of Automation (LoA) for one or more V2X-UEs or V2X services.
4-5. The V2X application specific server decides whether to adapt the service
requirement based on step 3, and sends a response to VAE server with a
positive or negative acknowledgment. Optionally, this may include the list of
a sub-set of V2X-UEs within a service for which the requirement change should
be applied
6\. If no QoS adaptation is required, V2X application layer may adapt based on
the adapted service requirements; and steps 7-10 are optional.
7\. If a QoS adaptation is required, the VAE server, triggers the adaptation
of QoS for the affected V2X-UE(s) within the service or across multiple
services in close vicinity.
8\. The VAE server performs network resource adaptation by interacting with
the NRM server as specified in the 3GPP TS 23.434 [10].
9\. VAE server also notifies about the QoS adaptation the V2X application
specific server.
10\. V2X application layer adapts based on the adapted service and QoS
requirements.
### 7.2.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a viable solution for key issue#2 for monitoring and
control of QoS for eV2X communications by utilizing the extended QoS
monitoring information from 5GS.
## 7.3 Solution #3: NR-PC5 QoS monitoring and control
### 7.3.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the key issue #1. Some V2X applications may require
that the UEs in certain range maintains the communications with the same QoS.
The QoS monitoring and control for the group of UEs are decided by the V2X
application layer. The solution is described in the high-level procedure
illustrated in figure 7.3.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAE client has been configured by the VAE server to be capable of
receiving PC5 QoS measurements from the Access Stratum (AS) layer
Figure 7.3.1-1: NR-PC5 QoS monitoring and control
1\. V2X application specific server sends V2X Application Requirements for one
or more V2X service, e.g. priority requirement, reliability requirement, delay
requirement, range requirement, together with the V2X Service ID (e.g. PSID or
ITS-AID) to VAE client.
2\. The VAE client may monitor PC5 QoS measurements from the V2X layer / AS
layer (e.g. abstraction of L2 measurements) for the all (or subset) of the
links involved in the PC5 session (one or more links).
3\. The VAE client based on the PC5 QoS monitoring may send a Group QoS
triggering event report to notify the application for possible QoS change
(e.g. expected QoS downgrade) or QoS parameter change (e.g. expected change of
communications range in broadcast) for one or multiple V2V links within the
service
4\. The application-specific client after interaction with the application
specific server (not shown here), requests the adaptation of the service
requirements. This can be different level of automation (LoA) or different
group formation, inter-vehicle distance, etc.) and sends to VAE client the
adapted requirements.
5\. The VAE client performs the re-mapping of the new service requirement to
different application QoS requirement for the affected V2V sessions within a
group (e.g. change of reliability requirement, video codec)
6\. VAE client notifies (or requests) the adaptation of QoS to one or more
involved UEs, which can be a new QoS mapping for the affected V2X sessions(s).
7\. The V2X AS layer of the affected UEs after the successful adaptation, may
send a Late Notification message to their respective applications about the
service-to-application QoS re-mapping
### 7.3.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses key issue#1 for monitoring and control of QoS for eV2X
communications by utilizing the PC5 QoS measurements from the AS layer of the
V2X UE. Currently, there is no support for group QoS adaptation at the AS
layer specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] as shown in steps 6 and 7. Enhancement
to this procedure using VAE layer interactions to communicate group QoS
adaptation is required.
## 7.4 Solution #4: V2X application enabler layer adaptation to CAPIF
### 7.4.1 Solution description
The VAE server and V2X application specific server may support CAPIF. When
CAPIF is supported:
\- The VAE server shall support the CAPIF API provider domain functions (i.e.
CAPIF-2/2e (Vs interface), CAPIF-3/3e, CAPIF-4/4e and CAPIF-5/5e as specified
in 3GPP TS 23.222 [5]);
\- The V2X application specific server shall act as API invoker and support
the API invoker functions (i.e. CAPIF-1/1e and CAPIF-2/2e (Vs interface) as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.222 [5]); and
\- The VAE server shall act as API invoker and support the API invoker
functions (i.e. CAPIF-1/1e and CAPIF-2/2e (VAE-e interface) as specified in
3GPP TS 23.222 [5]).
Figure 7.4.1-1: VAE adaptation to the CAPIF architecture
### 7.4.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a viable solution for key issue#7 for VAE server\'s
capability exposure to V2X application specific server using CAPIF. No
additional changes are required in CAPIF for this solution.
## 7.5 Solution #5: V2XAPP functional model update
### 7.5.1 Solution description
In 3GPP TS 23.286 [7], the V2XAPP functional model was based on EPS. For
consideration of 5GS, the following updates to the V2XAPP functional model in
3GPP TS 23.286 [7] is required as shown in figure 7.5.1-1:
\- N33 and N5 reference points are added between the VAE server and the 3GPP
network system.
\- N5 reference point is added between the SEAL servers and 3GPP network
system.
NOTE: N5 is required for allowing interactions (e.g. service provisioning)
between VAE server (AF) and V2X-CF/PCF, when VAE-S is deployed in PLMN domain.
Figure 7.5.1-1: V2X application layer functional model including 5GS
The 3GPP network system refers to both EPS and 5GS. The V2X application
specific client can consume the SEAL services from SEAL clients in the V2X UE
using SEAL-C reference point. The V2X application specific server can consume
the SEAL services from SEAL servers using SEAL-S reference point.
Additional external reference point descriptions are as follows:
\- N33: The reference point N33 supports the interactions between the V2X AS
and the NEF and is specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [11].
\- N5: The reference point N5 supports the interactions between the V2X AS and
the PCF and is specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [11].
### 7.5.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a viable enhanced V2X application layer architecture
supporting all the solutions and the key issues.
## 7.6 Solution #6: UE initiated session-oriented service establishment
support
### 7.6.1 Solution description
#### 7.6.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to key issue #4. The VAE layer provides support at
the application layer for UE initiated session-oriented services as tele-
operated driving by establishing, updating and terminating sessions.
#### 7.6.1.2 UE initiated session-oriented service establishement
Pre-conditions:
\- The V2X UE (acting as remote controller) has been authenticated for using
session-oriented services and has connected to the VAE server.
\- The V2X application-specific client has triggered the VAE client to
establish a session with the remote V2X UE (vehicle).
Figure 7.6.1.2-1: Procedure for establishing a UE initiated session-oriented
service between the VAE client (remote controller) and the VAE client (remote
vehicle)
1\. The VAE client (acting as remote controller) sends a trigger request to
the VAE server to establish a session-oriented service with one or more V2X
UEs (remote vehicle). It may include the identity of the VAE client, the
identity of the service session, the V2X service ID, the \"type\" or \"QoS
requirements\" of the session, service information (e.g. geo-referenced
information for tele-operated driving service in the form of geographical area
where the service is expected to be delivered or in the form of
expected/planned vehicle trajectory, or time interval during which the service
is expected) and requirements (e.g. reporting configuration).
2\. The VAE server checks whether the VAE client is authorized to establish
session-oriented service with one or more V2X UEs (remote vehicles). The VAE
server provides a session-oriented service trigger response to the VAE client
indicating the ability or inability of VAE server to initiate a session-
oriented service with the VAE client.
NOTE 1: The VAE server performs the procedure specified in clause 7.1.1.3 to
establish session oriented service with VAE client (e.g. remote vehicle).
NOTE 2: The resulting application session occurs over IP connectivity (Uu
based) between the remote controller and the remote vehicle.
#### 7.6.1.3 UE initiated session-oriented service update
Pre-condition:
\- The VAE client (remote controller) has established a session-oriented
service with a VAE client (remote vehicle) via the VAE server.
Figure 7.6.1.3-1: Procedure for updating an UE initiated session-oriented
service between the VAE client (remote controller) and the VAE client (remote
vehicle)
1\. The VAE client (acting as remote controller) sends a change trigger
request to the VAE server to update the session-oriented service to one or
more VAE clients (remote vehicle) including the identity of the service
session, updates to service information (e.g. activated services, updates to
vehicle trajectory), requirements (e.g. change of network/QoS requirements),
or server information (e.g. change of VAE server).
2\. The VAE server provides a session-oriented change trigger response to the
VAE client indicating the ability or inability of VAE server to continue the
session-oriented service with the VAE client with the updated conditions.
NOTE: The VAE server performs the procedure specified in clause 7.1.1.5 to
change session oriented service with VAE client (e.g. remote vehicle).
#### 7.6.1.4 UE initiated session-oriented service termination
Pre-condition:
\- The VAE client (remote controller) has established a session-oriented
service with the VAE client (remote vehicle).
Figure 7.6.1.4-1: Procedure for terminating an UE initiated session-oriented
service between the VAE client (remote controller) and the VAE client (remote
vehicle)
1\. The VAE client (acting as remote controller) sends a session-oriented
termination trigger request to the VAE server to terminate the session (e.g.
end of session with VAE server or requirements for session-oriented service
not satisfied) with one or more V2X UEs (remote vehicles) including the
identity of the service session.
2\. The VAE server sends a session-oriented termination trigger response to
the VAE client indicating the result of the session-oriented service
termination with one or more V2X UEs (remote vehicles).
NOTE: The VAE server performs the session-oriented service termination
procedure as specified in the clause 7.1.1.7 to terminate session oriented
service with VAE client (e.g. remote vehicle).
### 7.6.2 Solution evaluation
The solution provides a viable mechanism for a V2X UE (acting as a remote
controller) to establish and maintain a session-oriented service as tele-
operated driving with one or more V2X UEs (acting as remote vehicles).
Editor\'s note: Session-oriented service termination by the remote vehicle or
the V2X service specific server (acting as remote controller) is FFS.
## 7.7 Solution #7: PC5 Provisioning in multi-operator V2X scenarios
### 7.7.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the key issue #6. The VAE layer provides support at
the application layer for coordinating the PC5 provisioning in multi-operator
network-assisted V2V services (where the multi-operator service consists of
V2X-UEs communicating via PC5, and that may belong to different PLMNs),
assuming that operator-managed sidelink radio resources are used for the V2V
communications. The coordination is needed at the VAE layer for ensuring that
common policies / parameters are used across all V2X-UEs within a multi-
operator V2X service. Examples of such coordination by the VAE server include:
\- joint selection of the PC5 QoS context information for the communication,
from a set of QoS parameters provided by different PLMNs. One example is the
derivation of the list of PQIs and their indicated application priority, based
on the available PQIs and default priorities, which are initially configured
per PLMN.
\- joint selection of common radio parameters for out of coverage scenarios as
defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8].
Pre-conditions:
\- The V2X UEs have connected to the V2X application server.
\- The V2X UEs are authorized to use PC5 communication (in the example below,
the V2X-UE 1 is authorized by PLMN1 and V2X UE2 is authorized by PLMN2).
Figure 7.7.1-1: NR-PC5 Provisioning in multi-operator V2X scenarios
1\. The V2X application specific server provides an application requirement
request to the VAE client of a V2X UE (this requirement may be sent to
multiple V2X-UE). This message provides a request to VAE server for performing
coordinated provisioning for one or more multi-operator V2X services,
including also some initial V2X service provisioning parameters/policies.
2\. The VAE Server sends a PC5 policy/parameter status request message to the
VAE Clients of the affected V2X UEs, to have updated information on the per
PLMN provisioning policies/ parameters.
3\. The VAE Client sends a PC5 policy/parameter status report message to VAE
server which indicates the up-to-date policies /parameters per PLMN (e.g.
application QoS - to - PQI mapping, range, application priority, radio
parameters) and optionally PC5 related events (PC5 expected link downgrade).
4\. The VAE Server, considering the application requirement request in Step 1
and the report in Step 3, determines the updated V2X provisioning parameters
to be jointly used across the V2X-UEs within the multi-operator V2X. The
coordination by the VAE server may result to overriding the per PLMN
policies/parameters and may include the selection of common QoS parameters
(list of PQIs and application priorities, range values) or radio parameters or
AS layer configurations. The coordinated policies/parameters may be a sub-set
or augmentation of parameters/policies which are initially set per PLMN.
5\. The VAE Server sends a coordinated PC5 provisioning request message to the
VAE clients of the affected V2X UEs. This message includes updated policies /
radio parameters for the QoS/resource coordination across the multi-operator
V2X service, based on the coordination provided in Step 4.
6\. One or more of the VAE clients which received the PC5 Provisioning
request, may send a response message to the VAE Server to notify on the result
(positive or negative acknowledgement) based on the fulfilment of Step 5.
7\. A V2X policy provisioning update procedure is performed via the following
options:
\- Option 1: The VAE Client of the V2X-UE interacts with the 3GPP UE, to
initiate a UE triggered V2X policy provisioning update procedure (UE triggered
V2X policy provisioning as specified in TS23.287, clause 6.2.4). In this
option, a V2X-UE may also transmit the updated provisioning parameters to
other V2X-UEs not in coverage (however this is not captured as part of the
solution)
\- Option 2: The VAE server, acting as AF, provides the updated provisioning
policies/parameters to the PCF of the PLMNs as specified in TS 23.287 (4.2.2
AF-based service parameter provisioning for V2X communications). PCF then
provides the new provisioning parameters to the V2X-UE via NAS signaling.
Editor\'s note: If Option 1 further involves the relaying of provisioning
parameters from one V2X UE to other V2X-UEs, implications related to security
aspects are needed to be captured in SA3.
Editor\'s note: How the V2X policy provisioning update procedure (for both
Options 1 and 2) is affected by the SA2-defined V2X relay service is FFS.
8\. VAE Server sends an application requirement response to the V2X
application specific server to inform on the fulfilment of the coordinated
provisioning configuration.
### 7.7.2 Solution evaluation
The procedure provides a viable solution for providing the necessary
provisioning policies/parameters by the VAE layer in multi-operator V2X
services, by coordinating/selecting some common policies/parameters to be used
by all V2X-UEs in a multi-operator service.
## 7.8 Solution #8: UE-to-UE broadcast configuration and delivery by VAE layer
### 7.8.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the key issue #9. VAE client configures policies for
the UE-to-UE broadcast delivery, to reduce V2X broadcast flooding, while
ensuring meeting the KPIs for one or more V2X services in a VAE service area.
This include two procedures 1) the UE-to-UE broadcast configuration by VAE
client and 2) the UE-to-UE delivery which is handled by VAE clients over
V5-AE, instead of application specific clients.
#### 7.8.1.1 UE-to-UE broadcast configuration by VAE layer
This procedure provides the UE-to-UE broadcast configuration by the VAE
client.
Pre-conditions:
\- The V2X UEs have connected to the V2X application server.
Figure 7.8.1.1-1: UE-to-UE broadcast configuration by VAE layer
1\. The V2X application specific server (VASS) provides an application
requirement to the VAE server to manage the UE-to-UE broadcast communication.
This requirement may include the V2X service (or a group of V2X-UEs within
this service) for which this request needs to be applied, the V2X-UEs acting
as candidate relays per application; and optionally the geographical area for
which this request applies.
2\. The VAE server provides a UE-to-UE broadcast configuration requirement to
one or more VAE clients (e.g. of the V2X UE which acts as ego / leading
vehicle for the V2X service, or of a V2X UE which is selected based his
relative location to other V2X-UEs in the group). This requirement message
provides a request to the VAE client to control the delivery of UE-to-UE
broadcast messages for a given application; and includes the list of V2X-UEs
acting as candidate application relays. This request may also include pre-
defined rules on how to configure the UE-to-UE broadcast policies at the
V2X-UEs (e.g. channel load thresholds for indicating a broadcast flood, what
is the trigger event for exchanging the configurations among V2X-UEs,
periodicity/time validity of configuration)
Editor\'s note: How the V2X-UE 1 (or more V2X-UEs) is selected in step 2 is up
to implementation.
3\. The VAE client selects and stores a configuration policy per application
for the UE-to-UE broadcast communications. This selection may consider
criteria, such as: the pre-defined rules of Step 2, V2X service requirements /
KPIs, provisioning policies for PC5 and real-time radio parameters from lower
layers. The configuration policy may be one of the following:
a. Select whether to activate or to temporarily de-activate the relaying
capability for one or more applications. This is selected to meet the
following two conditions: 1) ensure sufficient coverage to all affected V2X
UEs and 2) minimize broadcast flood; and is selected based on: the range
requirements of the V2X message, PC5 channel conditions (based on CBR, CSI
measurements), location of the surrounding UEs, location of the candidate
relays and UEs around the relay, the radio capabilities of the candidate
relays.
b. Trigger the adaptation of the QoS parameters of the PC5 session, e.g.
reduce the communication range, if relays are used, to avoid flooding.
c. Trigger the adaptation of the frequency and number of re-transmissions of
the application messages. Here, a minimum lower number of transmissions may be
provided by VASS in Step 1, which may be needed by application server, to
guarantee V2X application requirement.
d. Activate the bundling of V2X messages to containers. This will enable one-
time delivery to the target V2X-UEs in high load scenarios.
4\. The VAE client sends a message to one or more involved V2X-UEs with the
requested configuration policy for the UE-to-UE broadcast communications. This
can be a groupcast / broadcast message between VAE clients. Whether it is
groupcast or broadcast depends on the V2X application and whether the V2X
message needs to be transmitted to all surrounding UEs or to a specific group
(e.g. platoon)_._ The transmission of the message in step 3 may be periodic or
based on a trigger event (e.g. channel load >X%) as set in Step 2.
5\. The VAE client receives a response, which includes either a positive or a
negative acknowledgement of the message.
6\. If the policy triggers the adaptation of QoS parameters for the group-
based PC5 communication, a group-based QoS adaptation is performed as provided
in TR 23.764 (clause 7.3.1, steps 5-7).
7\. The VAE client sends a notification message to the VX application to
inform that the configuration policies are set. This message may also identify
that delivery will be handled over VAE layer (for some configuration policies
like V2X message bundling).
#### 7.8.2.1 UE-to-UE broadcast delivery by VAE layer
This procedure provides the UE-to-UE broadcast delivery by the VAE client,
based on the configuration policies (see procedure in 7.8.1.1.).
Pre-conditions:
\- The V2X UEs have connected to the V2X application server.
\- The VAE clients of the V2X-UEs have received and stored the UE-to-UE
broadcast configurations per V2X application.
Figure 7.8.2.1-1: UE-to-UE broadcast configuration by VAE layer
1\. The application client of the V2X UE sends to the VAE client, the V2X
message to be broadcasted. This message may be for example a PCM, CPM, MCM,
DENM.
2\. The VAE client performs the mapping between the V2X message and the
configuration policy per application as provided in 7.8.1.1. VAE client
determines based on the configuration policies, what should be the
customization of the message before sending to other UEs. This customization
may be the message format, number of message retransmissions, whether the V2X
message should be bundled to a container or not.
3\. Optionally, a VAE session is established between VAE clients for the V2X
message delivery via V5-AE. For the case, when a V2X-UE serves as application
relay, the VAE session establishment message indicates the destination VAE
client and parameters for supporting the relaying to the destination V2X-UE.
4\. The customized V2X message(s) are sent from the transmitting V2X-UE to the
receiving V2X-UEs over V5-AE. For the case when one or more V2X-UEs act as
application relays, the message is relayed to the destination VAE client.
5\. V2X message is sent from the VAE client at the receiving V2X-UE to the
corresponding V2X application specific client. In case of message bundling,
the receiving VAE client first un-bundles the V2X message and then sends to
the V2X application specific client.
### 7.8.2 Solution evaluation
The two procedures 1) for configuring UE-to-UE broadcast policies, and 2)
enabling V2X message delivery via VAE layer, provide a potential solution for
enhancing the experience in safety and efficiency V2X applications, by
reducing a V2X message broadcast flood while ensuring meeting the application
QoS requirements. An alternative variant of this solution would be to assume
that VAE server is providing the configurations to the VAE clients in
procedure in 7.8.1.1; however, this will result to a semi-static
configuration, without considering the real-time radio conditions which are
available at the V2X-UE side.
## 7.9 Solution #9: Obtain V2X application server information from different
V2X service providers
### 7.9.1 Solution description
#### 7.9.1.1 Procedure for V2X service discovery in multiple V2X service
provider scenario
The procedure for V2X UE (having V2X application subscription with V2X service
provider A) obtaining the V2X UE service discovery information (offered by V2X
service provider B) while in the service area of V2X service provider B is
illustrated in figure 7.9.1.1‑1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The V2X UE has connected to the VAE server 1 of V2X service provider A
with whom the V2X UE has an V2X application subscription with.
2\. The V2X UE is in the service area of the VAE server 2 operated by V2X
service provider B.
3\. The service area and VAE server 2 mapping information of V2X service
provider B is available at VAE server 1 of V2X service provider A.
Figure 7.9.1.1-1: V2X service discovery in multiple V2X service provider
scenario
1\. The VAE client sends a get V2X UE service discovery request to the VAE
server 1 for obtaining V2X UE service discovery information with V2X UE ID and
current V2X UE location.
2\. The VAE server 1 determines, based on the V2X UE location that the V2X UE
is in the service area operated by the VAE server 2 of the V2X service
provider B. The VAE server 1 sends the get V2X UE service discovery request to
the VAE server 2 to get the V2X application server information for the V2X UE.
The V2X UE location is included in the request.
3\. The VAE server 2 determines the local V2X application server information
based on UE location, and sends get V2X UE service discovery response to the
VAE client. This message carries the local V2X application server information.
4\. The VAE server 1 forwards the get V2X UE service discovery response to the
VAE client. The VAE server 1 may further subscribe the information or event of
the V2X UE from the local V2X application server which will serve the V2X UE.
#### 7.9.1.2 Procedure for dynamic local service information in multiple V2X
service provider scenario
The procedure for V2X UE (having V2X application subscription with V2X service
provider A) obtaining the dynamic local service information (offered by V2X
service provider B) while in the service area of V2X service provider B is
illustrated in figure 7.9.1.2‑1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The V2X UE has connected to the VAE server of V2X service provider A with
whom the V2X UE has V2X application subscription with.
2\. The V2X UE is in the service area of the VAE server 2 operated by V2X
service provider B.
3\. The service area and VAE server 2 information of V2X service provider B
mapping is available at VAE server 1 of V2X service provider A.
Figure 7.9.1.2-1: Dynamic local service information in multiple V2X service
provider scenario
1\. The VAE client sends a local service information request to the VAE server
1 (responsible for geographic location A) with V2X UE ID and current V2X UE
location.
2\. The VAE server 1 determines the V2X UE is in the service area of VAE
server 2 of V2X service provider B, and the local service information
corresponding to the service area of VAE server 2 is not available at VAE
server 1.
3\. The VAE server 1 sends the local service information request to the VAE
server 2 to get the local service information information for the V2X UE. The
V2X UE location is included in the request.
4\. The VAE server 2 determines the local service information (e.g. V2X server
USD(s), V2X USD) with the corresponding geographic locations information based
on UE location, and sends local service information response to the VAE server
1. This message carries the local service information.
5\. The VAE server 1 provides the local service information to the VAE client.
Upon receiving the local service information, the VAE client stores the
received information.
### 7.9.2 Solution evaluation
This is a viable solution to support V2X service discovery and dynamic local
service information where multiple V2X service providers are involved.
## 7.10 Solution #10: Application-triggered slice re-mapping for V2X
applications
### 7.10.1 Solution description
V2X applications may enclose both safety and non-safety related services,
which need to be supported with diverse and conflicting KPIs (latency,
reliability, throughput). A V2X service provider may use one or more network
slices for V2X to bundle one or more V2X services to support multiple KPI and
QoS requirements. In 3GPP TS 23.501 [11], four standardized slice types (SSTs)
have been introduced for V2X, eMBB, MIoT, URLLC. According to 3GPP TS 23.501
[11], a V2X services may be handled by a V2X SST, but also this could be
handled by any other standardized slice types, due to the diverse performance
requirements for different safety and efficiency related applications, and the
availability of the slices in a certain geographical area.
This solution provides a mechanism for enabling the VAE-S to translate the
adaptation of the service requirements / profile, as triggered by the VASS or
VASC, to a network slice re-mapping.
#### 7.10.1.1 General
This solution provides a mechanism to allow the VAE server to perform slice
re-mapping for a V2X application and the involved UEs, as triggered by a
change of the application requirements. This mechanism assumes that the GST
parameters and the per UE slice subscriptions (running the V2X application)
are known at the VAE-S by OAM (according to 3GPP TS 28.533 [15] slice
management information can be exposed to 3^rd^ party via EGMF).
The trigger for the mapping is the application request to VAE-S for a new
service profile for the V2X application. This may be due to a request of a
different LoA level, UEs moving to an area where current service requirements
need to change, adaptation of QoE requirements, different V2X application to
service mapping etc. The, VAE-S determines a V2X application to slice mapping,
based on the requested service profile, the slice capabilities, the UE
subscriptions and the GST parameters (these are assumed to be available at the
by OAM). The VAE-S sends to all the VAE-Cs running the application, about the
(re-)mapping required to a different slice.
#### 7.10.1.2 Procedure
Pre-conditions:
1\. Slice#1 and Slice#2 have already been established. UEs of App#A have
registered with the network and connected to Slice#1 (based on the URSP rules
which are configured to the UE by the PCF (3GPP TS 23.501 [11], 3GPP TS 23.503
[12])).
2\. Slice information, such as GST parameters and slice subscriptions are
received at the VAE server by the OAM (by consuming Management APIs via EGMF,
as in 3GPP TS 28.533 [15]).
3\. VASS has requested VAE-S to manage the App#A to slice mapping. Following,
a VAE layer session is established between VAE-S and VAE-Cs (of UEs within
App#A) as in clause 7.1.1.3.
Figure 7.10.1.2-1: V2X application to slice mapping by VAE layer
1\. A trigger event is captured at the application layer. Two options are
possible:
\- 1a. Option 1: The VASC of the V2X UE needs to adapt the app#A to service
profile mapping, based on monitoring the application QoS /QoE attributes, or
based on checking the location/mobility of the UE (e.g. UE moving towards a
target area where current service profile is not supported). Then, VASC sends
an updated App#A requirement to the VAE-C; and VAE-C sends an updated service
profile trigger event report for requesting the adaptation of the App#A to
service requirements to VAE-S.
\- 1b. Option 2: VAE-S receives from the VASS a request to adapt the
application requirements. This request can comprise the change of LoA, or more
generally change of service profile/requirements mapped to app#A.
2\. VAE-S determines the re-mapping of app#A to slice #2. This mapping is
based on the updated application requirements (as of step 1a/1b), the per UE
slice subscriptions (for all UEs running app#A), slice capabilities (which may
include the list of supported 5QIs per slice), the slice availability and the
GST parameters.
3\. VAE-S sends the updated app to slice mapping to all the VAE-Cs of the UEs
running app#A. This message indicates the requirement for mapping the
application traffic from slice #1 to slice #2.
4\. The VAE-C updates the slice preference (Slice #2 is preferred over Slice
#1) and informs the VASC of the change in connection capabilities. The update
of the connection capabilities (as specified in Table 6.6.2.1-2 of TS 23.503)
triggers at the NAS layer the re-mapping of application traffic to new PDU
session based on the updated URSP rules (based on UE re-evaluation as in
23.503).
Editor\'s note: Whether the VAE-C informs the VAS-C before the change in
connection capabilities or after the change in connection capabilities, or
both is FFS.
Editor\'s note: Potential overlaps with SA2 (e.g. capability of VAE-C to
change slice priority, effects on existing PDU session on V2X slice and other
slice, switch between Local configuration and URSP at UE and rule to determine
slice for an application) for this solution are FFS.
### 7.10.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides an application to slice re-mapping via the VAE layer,
to deal with scenarios when the application-to-service requirements change.
With this solution the VASS/VASC are still un-aware of the slicing aspects and
the impact on the network is kept minimum, since the re-mapping is sent via
the VAE layer. Alternative solutions would require that VAE layer interacts
with PCF / UDM to request the update of URSP rules, which is something not
supported by SA2 (and will require more signaling and complexity at the
network side).
Furthermore, since this solution may apply also to other verticals (e.g.
FFAPP), an alternative consideration FFS would be that SEAL may be enhanced to
support that application to slice re-mapping instead of the VAE layer.
## 7.11 Solution #11: UE to UE tele-operated driving over PC5
### 7.11.1 Solution description
#### 7.11.1.1 General
This solution corresponds to key issue #4. The VAE layer provides support at
the application enablement layer for UE to UE tele-operated driving (ToD) by
establishing, updating and terminating sessions over PC5.
UE to UE ToD can be over PC5 when the involved UEs are in proximity to support
ProSe direct communication operation. When possible, PC5 communications for UE
to UE ToD sessions can be preferable even when in good network coverage (i.e.
linked Uu sessions are possible).
NOTE: The decision to use PC5 or linked Uu sessions is implementation specific
and outside the scope of this solution.
Editor\'s Note: The transition of a ToD session from PC5 to linked Uu sessions
as defined in clause 7.6 and vice-versa is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: Whether this solution is supported over PC5 or restricted to
NR-PC5 is FFS.
#### 7.11.1.2 UE to UE ToD session-oriented service establishment over PC5
Pre-conditions:
1\. The V2X application-specific client in the V2X UE 1 (acting as remote
controller) has triggered the VAE client to establish a session with the V2X
UE 2 (remote vehicle).
2\. The V2X UE 1 has detected that the V2X UE 2 is reachable over PC5.
3\. The V2X UE 1 has been authorized to use session-oriented services over
PC5.
4\. V2X UE 1 and V2X UE 2 have been authorized for ToD operation over PC5.
Editor\'s Note: How the V2X UEs are authorized for ToD operation over PC5 is
FFS.
Figure 7.11.1.2-1: Procedure for establishing a tele-operated session between
the VAE client 1 (remote controller) and the VAE client 2 (remote vehicle)
over PC5
1\. The VAE client 1 (acting as a remote controller) sends a session-oriented
service request over the PC5 reference point (unicast or broadcast depending
on whether UE 1 already knows the UE 2 Layer 2 Id) to the VAE client 2 (acting
as a remote vehicle) to establish a tele-operated session. It may include the
identity of the service session, the V2X service ID, service information and
requirements of the application.
2\. The VAE client 2 sends a session-oriented service response to the VAE
client 1 over the PC5 reference point indicating the result of the session-
oriented service request. The Layer 2 link over PC5, as defined in 3GPP TS
23.287 [8] clause 6.3.3.1, for the ToD session is established.
NOTE: Step 1 and 2 correspond to the \"Layer-2 link establishment over PC5
reference point\" procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] clause 6.3.3.1.
There may be more signaling exchanges than the two messages shown in the
figure.
3\. The ToD session is established to enable V2X application specific
interaction.
#### 7.11.1.3 UE to UE ToD session-oriented service update over PC5
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAE client 1 (remote controller) has established a tele-operated
driving session with the VAE client 2 (remote vehicle) via PC5.
2\. The V2X application-specific client in the V2X UE 1 (acting as remote
controller) has triggered the VAE client to update a session with the V2X UE 2
(remote vehicle).
Figure 7.11.1.3-1: Procedure for updating a tele-operated session between the
VAE client 1 (remote controller) and the VAE client 2 (remote vehicle) over
PC5
1\. The VAE client 1 (acting as a remote controller) sends a session-oriented
service update request over the PC5 reference point to the VAE client 2
(acting as a remote vehicle) to update a tele-operated session. It may include
the identity of the service session and service information and requirements
of the application.
2\. The VAE client 2 sends a session-oriented service update response to the
VAE client 1 over the PC5 reference point indicating the result of the
session-oriented service update request. The Layer 2 link over PC5, as defined
in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] clause 6.3.3.4, for the ToD session may be updated.
NOTE: Step 1 and 2 correspond to the \"Layer-2 link modification for a unicast
link\" procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] clause 6.3.3.4. This allows
the update of the QoS levels supported over the Layer 2 link over PC5
reference points and the services running over the link.
3\. The ToD session is updated to continue to enable V2X application specific
interaction.
#### 7.11.1.4 UE to UE ToD session-oriented service termination over PC5
Pre-conditions:
1\. The VAE client 1 (remote controller) has established a tele-operated
driving session with the VAE client 2 (remote vehicle) via PC5.
2\. The V2X application-specific client in the V2X UE 1 (acting as remote
controller or remote vehicle) has triggered the VAE client to terminate a
session with the V2X UE 2 (acting as remote controller or remote vehicle).
NOTE 1: The application specific signaling to release the ToD session is out
of scope.
Figure 7.11.1.4-1: Procedure for terminating a tele-operated session between
the VAE client 1 and the VAE client 2 over PC5
1\. The VAE client 1 (acting as remote controller or remote vehicle) sends a
session-oriented service termination request to the VAE client 2 (acting as
remote controller or remote vehicle) to terminate a tele-operated session. It
may include the identity of the service session.
2\. The VAE client 2 sends a session-oriented service termination response to
the VAE client 1 indicating the result of the of the session-oriented service
termination request.
NOTE 2: Step 1 and 2 correspond to the \"Layer-2 link release over PC5
reference point\" procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] clause 6.3.3.3.
### 7.11.2 Solution evaluation
The solution provides a viable mechanism for V2X UE to V2X UE tele-operated
driving over PC5. This solution does not address how the decision is reached
whether to use a PC5 session versus linked Uu sessions as that is
implementation specific.
## 7.12 Solution #12: VAE usage of unicast, groupcast and broadcast
communications over PC5
### 7.12.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the key issue #8. The VAE client may use information
from multiple sources to select the use of unicast, groupcast or broadcast
services for communications over PC5. This information can be provided via
configuration (e.g. the Configuration Management Server if deployed in a SEAL
environment defined by 3GPP TS 23.434 [10]), the V2X application specific
server, the PC5 ProSe layer (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]) or the
corresponding VAE clients in other V2X UEs.
Regardless of the mechanism used to choose between unicast, groupcast or
broadcast communications over PC5, the mechanisms defined in 3GPP TS 23.287
[8] will be used by the VAE layer for each of the communication methods. The
reuse of those communications methods over PC5 are described in this clause.
NOTE: How the VAE layer selects between unicast, groupcast and broadcast is
out of the scope of the present document.
#### 7.12.1.1 UE to UE unicast communications over PC5
If unicast communications over PC5 is selected for VAE communications, the VAE
client (potentially interacting with the VAS client) shall reuse the
mechanisms defined in clause 6.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] with the VAE client
representing the V2X application layer.
Application information associated with the unicast communications may be
specified by the VAE client as defined in clause 6.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8].
Editor\'s Note: The mechanism to enable the VAE client to provide the
application information to the V2X layer (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]) is
FFS.
#### 7.12.1.2 UE to UE groupcast communications over PC5
If groupcast communications over PC5 is selected for VAE communications, the
VAE client (potentially interacting with the VAS client) shall reuse the
mechanisms defined in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] with the VAE client
representing the V2X application layer.
Application information associated with the groupcast communications may be
specified by the VAE client as defined in clause 6.3.2 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8].
Editor\'s Note: The mechanism to enable the VAE client to provide the
application information to the V2X layer (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]) is
FFS.
Editor\'s Note: How to support the VAE client NOT providing the group
information to the V2X layer is FFS.
#### 7.12.1.3 UE to UE broadcast communications over PC5
If broadcast communications over PC5 is selected for VAE communications, the
VAE client (potentially interacting with the VAS client) shall reuse the
mechanisms defined in clause 6.3.1 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8] representing the V2X
application layer.
Application information associated with the broadcast communications may be
specified by the VAE client as defined in clause 6.3.1 of 3GPP TS 23.287 [8].
Editor\'s Note: The mechanism to enable the VAE client to provide the
application information to the V2X layer (as defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]) is
FFS.
### 7.12.2 Solution evaluation
The methods for unicast, groupcast and broadcast communications over PC5 are
defined in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]. This solution specifies the reuse of those
mechanisms with the VAE client acting in the role of the application thus
enabling the VAE client to support all communication methods to other V2X
clients over PC5.
## 7.13 Solution #13: Support for Local MBMS delivery
### 7.13.1 Solution description
This solution resolves the key issue 14 -- support for Local MBMS.
The Local MBMS parameters are added (shown in **_bold italics_** text) in the
information flow for the MBMS bearers request from VAL server (VAE Server) to
NRM server defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [10] clause 14.3.2.10.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 14.3.2.10 MBMS bearers request | | | | Table 14.3.2.10-1 describes the information flow for the MBMS | | bearers request from VAL server to NRM server. | | | | Table 14.3.2.10-1: MBMS bearers request | | | | I | | nformation element | | Status Description | | ------------------------ | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | ----------------------- --------- ---------------------------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | Requester Identity | | | | M The identity of the VAL server performing the request. | | VAL group ID | | M | | The identity of the group that the MBMS bearer is requested for. | | Service announcement mode | | M Indi | | cates whether the request is sent by NRM server or by the VAL server | | QoS | | | | M Indicates the requested QoS for the bearer | | Broadcast area | | | | O Indicate the area where the MBMS bearer is requested for | | Endpoint information | | | | M Information of the endpoint of t | | he VAL server to which the user plane notifications have to be sent. | | **_Local MBMS information (NOTE)_** | | **_O_** | | **_> MB2-U information_** | | | | **_O_** **_IP address, UDP port number of the MB2-U interface_** | | **_> xMB-U information_** | | | | **_O_** **_IP address, UDP port number of the xMB-U interface_** | | **_> M1 interface information_** | | | | **_O_** **_M1 interface information for local MBMS_** | | ** | | _Local MBMS activation indication (NOTE)_**| |**_O_****_Indicates | | whether to request the NRM server to use Local MBMS information._**| |**_NOTE: The VAL server may provide either the Local MBMS | | information or the Local MBMS activation indication._ ** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The enhanced MBMS bearers request supports the pre-established and dynamic
MBMS bearers in local MBMS operation.
The differences to the existing procedure defined in 3GPP TS 23.434 [10]
clause 14.3.4.2.2 and 14.3.4.3.2 (are shown in **_bold italics_** text):
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 14.3.4.2.2 Procedure | | | | The procedure figure 14.3.4.2.2-1 shows only one of the receiving | | VAL clients using an MBMS bearer. There might also be VAL clients in | | the same VAL service group communication session that receive the | | communication on unicast bearers. | | | | Figure 14.3.4.2.2-1: Use of pre-established MBMS bearers | | | | 1. The VAL server sends a MBMS bearers request to the NRM server | | including service description(s) for which the MBMS bearers are | | requested. | | | | 2a. The NRM server determines to activate MBMS bearer. The | | activation of the MBMS bearer in EPS is done on the MB2-C reference | | point and according to 3GPP TS 23.468 [16]. This bearer will be | | used for the VAL service communication. **_If local MBMS is | | requested in step 1, the NRM server uses the local MBMS information | | provided by VAL server in step 1 or the local MBMS information | | configured locally in the NRM server to activate the MBMS bearers. | | The NRM server performs local MBMS procedures in line with the | | procedure of L.MBMS based MBMS data delivery defined in 3GPP TS | | 23.285 [6]._** | | | | 2b. Optionally, the NRM server may also activate an MBMS bearer | | dedicated for application level control signalling. The activation | | of the MBMS bearer is done on MB2-C reference point and according to | | 3GPP TS 23.468 [16]. **_If local MBMS is requested in step 1, the | | NRM server uses the local MBMS information provided by VAL server in | | step 1 or the local MBMS information configured locally in the NRM | | server to activate the MBMS bearers. The NRM server performs local | | MBMS procedures in line with the procedure of L.MBMS based MBMS data | | delivery defined in 3GPP TS 23.285 [6]._ [ ]{.underline}** | | | | NOTE 1: The procedure to determine the activation of MBMS bearers is | | implementation specific. | | | | 3a. The NRM server passes the MBMS bearer info for the service | | description associated with the pre-established MBMS bearer to the | | NRM client. The NRM client obtains the TMGI, identifying the MBMS | | bearer, from the service description. | | | | 3b. The NRM server may pass the MBMS bearer info for the service | | description associated with the application control MBMS bearer to | | the NRM client. The NRM client obtains the TMGI, identifying the | | MBMS bearer, from the service description. | | | | NOTE 2: Step 3a and Step 3b can be done in one MBMS bearer | | announcement message. | | | | 4. The NRM client stores the information associated with the | | TMGI(s). The NRM service client uses the TMGI and other MBMS bearer | | related information to activate the monitoring of the MBMS bearer by | | the VAL UE. The NRM client shares the MBMS bearer related | | information with the VAL client. | | | | 5. The NRM client that enters or is in the service area of at least | | one announced TMGI indicates to the NRM server that the VAL UE is | | able to receive VAL service communication over MBMS, whereby the NRM | | server may decide to use the MBMS bearer instead of unicast bearer | | for VAL service communication sessions. | | | | NOTE 3: Step 5 is optional for the VAL UE on subsequent MBMS bearer | | announcements. | | | | 6. The NRM server provides a MBMS bearers response to the VAL | | server. | | | | 7. A VAL service group communication session is established. | | | | 8. As the VAL server transmits the VAL service communication over | | the MBMS bearer, the VAL service communication packets are detected | | and delivered to the VAL client. | | | | 14.3.4.3.2 Procedure | | | | Figure 14.3.4.3.2-1 illustrates the use of dynamic MBMS bearer | | establishment. | | | | Figure 14.3.4.3.2-1: Use of dynamic MBMS bearer establishment | | | | 1. A VAL service group communication session is established. | | | | 2. The downlink data is sent by unicast delivery. | | | | 3. The VAL server sends MBMS bearers request to the NRM server. | | | | 4. The NRM server establishes the MBMS bearer(s) for the VAL | | service group communication session according to the procedures | | defined in 3GPP TS 23.468 [16]. Service description associated | | with the MBMS bearer(s) is returned from the BM-SC. **_If local MBMS | | is requested in step 3, the NRM server uses the local MBMS | | information provided by VAL server in step 3 or the local MBMS | | information configured locally in the NRM server to activate the | | MBMS bearers. The NRM server performs local MBMS procedures in line | | with the procedure of L.MBMS based MBMS data delivery defined in | | 3GPP TS 23.285 [6]._** | | | | 5. The NRM server provides service description information | | associated with the MBMS bearer to the UE. The VAL UE obtains the | | TMGI from the announcement message. This message may be sent on an | | application level control signalling bearer. | | | | 6. The VAL UE starts monitoring data over MBMS associated with the | | TMGI, while in the service area associated with the TMGI. | | | | 7. The VAL UE detects that it is able to receive data over MBMS | | associated with the TMGI. | | | | 8. The NRM client notifies the NRM server the MBMS listening status | | associated to the monitored TMGI, (e.g. that it is successfully | | receiving the TMGI). The NRM client may also notify the MBMS | | reception quality level of the TMGI. | | | | 9. The NRM server provides an MBMS bearer response to the VAL | | server with the dynamic MBMS bearer(s) information. The VAL server | | stops sending VAL service communication data over unicast way to the | | VAL client. | | | | NOTE: The MBMS reception quality level may be used by the NRM server | | to make an efficient decision to switch again to a unicast | | transmission or to take measures to prepare such a switch (e.g. when | | the quality level indicates that the reception quality of the MBMS | | bearer is decreasing or reaching an insufficient quality level for | | the reception of VAL services). | | | | 10. A VAL service group communication session via dynamic MBMS | | bearer(s) is established. | | | | 11. The VAL server sends the downlink VAL service communication for | | the VAL service group communication session over the MBMS. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 7.13.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue #14.
The solution provides local MBMS support on existing procedures of SEAL. The
solution has two options:
\- Use of local MBMS informaiton sent from VAL server. It is assumed that the
VAL server is pre-configured with the local MBMS information which can be sent
to the NRM server. The VAL server needs to support including the pre-
configured user plane interface (MB2-U or xMB-U) information and the M1
interface information in the MBMS bearers request to the NRM server.
\- Use of local MBMS information configured in NRM server. It is assumed that
the NRM server has possibly configured the local MBMS information. The NRM
server may not use the local MBMS information from VAL server.
In this solution the NRM server needs to support including the Local MBMS
information in the Activate MBMS Bearer Request to the BM-SC (as defined in TS
23.285 [6]). The BM-SC and the MBMS-GW need to support the Local MBMS
operations as defined in TS 23.285 [6].
## 7.14 Solution #14: Support for enhancements to V2X group management and
group communication
### 7.14.1 Solution description
This solution addresses key issue #16 and provides procedures to update group
information of an on-network or off-network V2X dynamic group. The procedure
for on network dynamic group creation and off network dynamic group creation
are specified in 3GPP TS 23.286 [7].
Editor\'s note: Whether the group information update procedure should be moved
to SEAL is FFS.
#### 7.14.1.1 VAE client initiated on network group information update
procedure
The procedure for on-network group information (e.g. group leader) update is
illustrated in figure 7.14.1.1-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The on network dynamic group has already been defined and V2X UE A and V2X
UE B are members of the group;
2\. V2X UE A is the current group leader; and
3\. The V2X application specific client in V2X UE A has determined to update
the group information (e.g., update group leader ID from identity of V2X UE A
to identity of V2X UE B) and informed the updates and other relevant
information about the update (e.g if the update is temporary, like time bound,
or permanent) to VAE client A to update the group information.
Figure 7.14.1.1-1: VAE client initiated on network group information update
procedure
1\. The VAE client A sends a group information update request to the VAE
server. The request includes the group-ID of the group for which group
information update request is sent. The request also includes the updated
group information (e.g. identity of V2X UE B as group leader ID) and other
relevant information about the update (e.g. if the update to the group
information are temporary and time bound or permanent).
2\. Upon receiving the group information update request from VAE client A, the
VAE server checks for the V2X user authorization to update the group
information. If required, the VAE server also checks validity of the updated
group information (e.g. if the request is to update the group leader ID to V2X
UE B, the VAE server checks with V2X application specific server about the
capabilities of the proposed group leader V2X UE B to ensure it is capable of
sufficient fuel, sensors and applications to communicate and coordinate with
other group members to act as group leader). If required, then the VAE server
consults with V2X application specific server to ratify the updated group
information or seek changes to the requested update (e.g. a different V2X UE
as group leader). If the authorization fails or if the updated group
information is not valid, then steps 3 to 6 are skipped.
3\. If the request from the VAE client is authorized and the updated group
information is valid, the VAE server acknowledges the VAE client A.
4\. If the update in group information requires consent from other group
member(s) (e.g. consent from the proposed new group leader, V2X UE B, to
accept the role of group leader), then the VAE server sends a group
information update consent request to VAE client B. The request includes the
group-ID of the group for which the request is sent. The request also includes
other relevant information about the update (e.g. if the update to the group
information are temporary and time bound or permanent).
5\. The VAE client B notifies the V2X application specific client B about
group information update consent request. The V2X application specific client
or the V2X user decides to accept or reject the request.
6\. The VAE client B sends group information update consent response to the
VAE server. The response includes the decision whether the request is accepted
or rejected.
7\. The VAE server sends the group information update change response to VAE
client A indicating success or failure. If:
\- the request was authorized but the updated group information was not valid,
as determined in step 2; or
\- a reject response to the group information update consent request was
received from VAE client B;
then, the VAE server may include suggestions for the updated group information
(e.g. identity of the V2X UE C as potential group leader). These suggestions
are based on consultation with the V2X application specific server.
8\. If the group information update request was successful, the VAE server
updates the group document.
9\. Upon successful update of the group document, the VAE server triggers a
group information update notification to other group members and to the V2X
application specific server.
#### 7.14.1.2 VAE server initiated on network group information update
procedure
The procedure for on-network group information (e.g. group leader) update is
illustrated in figure 7.14.1.2-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The on network dynamic group has already been defined and V2X UE A and V2X
UE B are members of the group;
2\. V2X UE A is the current group leader; and
3\. The V2X application specific server has determined to update the group
information (e.g., update group leader ID from identity of V2X UE A to
identity of V2X UE B) and informed the updates and other relevant information
about the update (e.g if the update is temporary, like time bound, or
permanent) to the VAE server to update the group information.
Figure 7.14.1.2-1: VAE server initiated on network group information update
procedure
1\. If the update in group information requires consent from the group
member(s) (e.g. consent from the proposed new group leader, V2X UE B, to
accept the role of group leader), then the VAE server sends a group
information update consent request to VAE client B. The request includes the
updated group information along with the group-ID of the group. The request
also includes other relevant information about the update (e.g. if the update
to the group information are temporary and time bound or permanent).
2\. If required (e.g. when group leader ID is being changed from V2X UE A to
V2X UE B), the VAE server sends group information update indication to the VAE
client A about the possible update to group information.
NOTE: Step 1 and step 2 can happen in parallel.
3\. Upon receiving the indication from the VAE server, the VAE client A
notifies the V2X application specific client A about the possible update to
group information.
4\. The VAE client B notifies the V2X application specific client B about
group information update consent request. The V2X application specific client
or the V2X user decides to accept or reject the request.
5\. The VAE client B sends group information update consent response to the
VAE server. The response includes the decision whether the request is accepted
or rejected.
6\. If group leader information update request is successful, the VAE server
updates the group document.
7\. Upon successful update of the group document, the VAE server triggers a
group information update notification to other group members and to the V2X
application specific server.
#### 7.14.1.3 Off network group information update procedure
The procedure for off-network group information update procedure is
illustrated in figure 7.14.1.3-1.
Pre-conditions:
1\. The off network dynamic group has already been defined and V2X UE A and
V2X UE B are members of the group;
2\. V2X UE A is the current group leader;
3\. The V2X application specific client in V2X UE A has determined to update
the group information (e.g., update group leader ID from identity of V2X UE A
to identity of V2X UE B) and informed the updates and other relevant
information about the update (e.g if the update is temporary, like time bound,
or permanent) to the VAE client in V2X UE A to update the group information.
Figure 7.14.1.3-1: Off network group information update procedure
1\. If the update in group information requires consent from other group
member(s) (e.g. consent from the proposed new group leader, V2X UE B, to
accept the role of group leader), then the VAE client sends a group
information update consent request to VAE client B. The request includes the
updated group information along with the group-ID of the group. The request
also includes other relevant information about the update (e.g. if the update
to the group information are temporary and time bound or permanent).
2\. The VAE client B notifies the V2X application specific client B about
group information update consent request and the V2X application specific
client or the V2X user decides to accept or reject the request.
3\. The VAE client B sends group information update response to the VAE client
A. The response includes the decision whether the request is accepted or
rejected.
4\. If the group information update consent request is successful, then the
VAE client A sends notification to other group members.
### 7.14.2 Solution evaluation
This is a viable solution for key issue#16. Further analysis is required
whether this solution is to be handled by SEAL\'s Group Management Server.
## 7.15 Solution #15: V2V communication configuration
### 7.15.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the key issue #10 - Support for switching modes for
V2V communications.
In this solution the application layer provides the configurations for V2V
communication to the V2X UE. The configuration contains V2V communication
modes (i.e. Uu based and PC5 based V2V communication) with the corresponding
conditions for the network and the UE. The V2X UE may further evaluate the V2V
mode selection using this configuration.
Figure 7.15.1-1 illustrates the procedure for V2V communication configuration.
Figure 7.15.1-1: V2V communication configuration
1\. The VAE server has acquired the application requirement from the V2X
application specific server. The application requirement includes the
conditions corresponding to the V2V communication modes (e.g. network status,
UE\'s location and service quality, V2X service type, other influential
parameters for communication mode).
2\. The VAE server may have acquired the network status (by means of network
monitoring procedure) and UE status (e.g. UE\'s location, application service
quality) with respect to certain V2X services.
3\. The VAE server sends the V2V configuration request to the VAE client, the
configuration includes either:
\- The recommended V2V communication modes with the corresponding V2X service
IDs; or
\- The application requirement with the corresponding V2X service IDs.
4\. The VAE client sends the V2V communication configuration response to the
VAE server to acknowledge if the recommended configurations are accepted.
### 7.15.2 Solution evaluation
The solution addresses the key issue #10.
This solution allows the VAE server and VASS server to influence UE's decision
for V2V communication mode switch by sending recommendation or requirements
directly to the VAE client. This solution can be alternative to the existing
solution which utilizing the network monitoring information notification.
## 7.16 Solution #16: Enhancements to network monitoring procedure
### 7.16.1 Solution description
This solution addresses the key issue #10.
The solution enhances the procedure specified in clause 9.7 of 3GPP TS 23.286
[7] for the V2X UE to receive the network monitoring information (e.g.
downgrade event notifications) with 5GC events. This information can be used
for switching modes and application behaviour adaptation.
The changes to clause 9.7.4 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] are highlighted in **_bold
italics_** as follows:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 9.7.4 Notifications for network monitoring information | | | | 9.7.4.1 General | | | | This subclause describes the procedure for notification of network | | monitoring information from the VAE server. | | | | 9.7.4.2 Procedure | | | | Figure 9.7.4.2-1 illustrates the procedure where the VAE server | | sends notification of the network monitoring information to the V2X | | UEs. | | | | Pre-conditions: | | | | 1. The VAE server acting as a SCS/AS is configured with the SCEF | | information and is authorized to exchange information with the SCEF | | as specified in subclause 4.9 in 3GPP TS 23.682 [8]**_. The VAE | | server has subscribed to QoS notification service from 5GS (e.g. | | PCF/NWDAF). The notification may either include the request for QoS | | sustainability events as specified in 3GPP TS 23.288 [9] or can | | include a QoS change notification requests as provided by SMF and | | specified in 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]_** ; | | | | 2. The V2X UE1 and V2X UE2 have subscribed for the network | | monitoring information at the VAE server. | | | | Figure 9.7.4.2-1: Notifications for network monitoring information | | | | 1. The VAE server communicates with the SCEF to receive network | | monitoring information as per the procedure in subclause 4.9 of | | 3GPP TS .23.682 [8]. **_The VAE server subscription to QoS | | monitoring service from 5GS (e.g. PCF/NWDAF) may be active for a | | certain period of time or a given geographical area. The monitoring | | may either include the request for QoS sustainability events as | | specified in 3GPP TS 23.288 [9], or can include a QoS change | | notification requests as provided by SMF and specified in | | 3GPP TS 23.287 [8]. The reporting may be configured by the | | application enabler layer for a given area, time, periodicity etc | | taking into account the service requirement and other parameters | | (e.g. expected congestion in certain area, time of the day, road | | conditions). Based on the subscription, as specified in | | 3GPP TS 23.287 [8], 5GS provides the extended QoS monitoring | | report, over N33 interface. This report may come either from NWDAF | | or SMF via PCF/NEF._** | | | | 2. The **_network_** monitoring information (e.g. uplink or | | downlink link degradations, congestions, overload) available at the | | VAE server about the on-going V2V session(s) is based on the | | original network monitoring information provided by the SCEF** _, and | | QoS monitoring report from 5GS as specified_** in step 1. **_The VAE | | server determines the network monitoring information to send to the | | UE._** | | | | 3, The monitoring information is sent to the subscribed V2X UEs via | | network monitoring information notification. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
The changes to clause 9.7.2.3 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] are highlighted in **_bold
italics_** as follows:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 9.7.2.3 Network monitoring information notification | | | | Table 9.7.2.3-1 describes the information flow network monitoring | | information notification from the VAE server to the VAE client. | | | | Table 9.7.2.3-1: Network monitoring information notification | | | | +--------------------------+--------+--------------------------+ | | | Information element | Status | Description | | | +--------------------------+--------+--------------------------+ | | | V2X UE ID | M | Identity of the | | | | | | subscribed V2X UE | | | +--------------------------+--------+--------------------------+ | | | Network monitoring | M | This includes | | | | information | | information on network | | | | | | status for the | | | | | | triggering criteria, and | | | | | | may include the | | | | | | following parameters: | | | | | | | | | | | | - Uplink quality level | | | | | | | | | | | | - Congestion | | | | | | information (NOTE) | | | | | | | | | | | | - Geographical Area | | | | | | (cell area or TA for | | | | | | which the monitoring | | | | | | applies) | | | | | | | | | | | | - Time Validity (the | | | | | | period for which the | | | | | | monitoring applies) | | | | | | | | | | | | - Coverage level and | | | | | | bearer level events | | | | | | (optionally, for MBMS) | | | | | | | | | | | | **_\- QoS | | | | | | Sustainability_** | | | +--------------------------+--------+--------------------------+ | | | NOTE : The congestion | | | | | | information may be exact | | | | | | values for congestion | | | | | | status reported by NWDAF | | | | | | to NEF or abstracted | | | | | | values e.g. (High, | | | | | | Medium, Low) which can | | | | | | be reported by the NEF | | | | | | to the AF. | | | | | +--------------------------+--------+--------------------------+ | | | | Editor\'s note: It's FFS if the slice load level can be supported in | | Rel-17. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 7.16.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides an enhancement to existing mechanism specified in
clause 9.7.4 of 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] which includes providing additional network
monitoring events to the V2X UE. This information can be used by the VAE-C or
VASC to determine how to account for the change to or potential change in
network conditions.
## 7.17 Solution #17: Support for Local MBMS delivery for V2X file
distribution
### 7.17.1 Solution description
This solution resolves the key issue 14 -- support for Local MBMS.
The Local MBMS related parameters are added in use of MBMS file session type
procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] clause 9.5.2.
The changes to clause 9.5.2 are highlighted in **_bold italics_**.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | 9.5.2 Use of MBMS \"files\" session type | | | | The VAE server acts as a content provider and the VAE client acts as | | an MBMS client in the xMB reference model (subclause 4.1 in | | 3GPP TS 26.348 [11]). | | | | The VAE server makes use of the xMB procedures from 3GPP TS | | 26.348 [11] to create MBMS sessions whose type is set to \"files\" | | and to request the delivery of files over these sessions. Before | | provisioning files to the BM‑SC, the VAE server prepares the file | | for distribution, which may include partition of large files into | | smaller files or encryption. | | | | The VAE server is responsible for translating the parameters related | | to the V2X application triggering the file delivery into | | corresponding xMB parameters. Table 9.5.2-1 describes the mapping | | between the V2X parameters and the xMB API properties specified in | | 3GPP TS 26.348 [11]. | | | | Table 9.5.2-1: Mapping between V2X parameters and xMB APIs | | | | --------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | ----------------------------------- -------------------------------- | | V2X parameter | | | | | | | | Corresponding xMB API property | | Fi | | le transfer session indicator | | | | | | Session Type: Files | | List of files to be sent by the VAE server and their locatio | | ns | | | | File List | | | | Target geographical area for the V2X Ues | | | | | | Geographical Area | | Information about the V2X application (e.g., software update, HD | | map download) | | | | Service Class | | Maximum bitrate for the V2X application | | | | | | Max Bitrate | | Maximum delay for the V2X application | | | | | | Max Delay | | QoE metrics the VAE server is interested in receiving about the | | V2X application | | | | QoE Reporting | | **_Local MB | | MS information or local MBMS activation indication (NOTE)_** | | | | | | **_Local MBMS information_** | | **_NOTE: V2X application specific layer may provide | | VAE server either the local MBMS information or an indication of us | | ing local MBMS information configured in the VAE server. The local M | | BMS information includes M1 information and xMB-U information._** | | --------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | | ----------------------------------- -------------------------------- | | | | NOTE: The list of V2X parameters needed for file delivery is not | | exhaustive and can be updated based on the specific V2X application | | requirements. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Consequently, the VAE_FileDistribution API will be impacted with the
additional information related to local MBMS.
### 7.17.2 Solution evaluation
This solution addresses the key issue #14. It enables the use of local MBMS in
the file distribution service provided by the VAE server. The impacted service
API is VAE_FileDistribution in 3GPP TS 23.286 [7].
## 7.18 Solution #18: Support for HD map dynamic information
### 7.18.1 Solution description
#### 7.18.1.1 General
The V2X application specific server can be responsible for managing HD maps
and providing the HD map information to the V2X application specific client on
V2X UE (e.g host vehicle for advanced/remote driving). As per a proximity
range set by the application layer, the VAE layer support providing the
dynamic information (i.e. location information) required for HD maps
management to the V2X application specific server. The solution consists of
the following mechanisms:
\- V2X application specific server subscription for HD map dynamic information
with VAE server.
\- VAE server tracking UE location with support from SEAL\'s location
management server.
\- VAE server management of dynamic UE location based group.
\- VAE server obtaining dynamic information from the UEs in proximity range.
\- VAE server notification of HD map dynamic information to V2X application
specific server.
NOTE: The details of the usage (e.g. distribution to V2X UE) of HD maps by V2X
application specific server is out of scope of this specification.
#### 7.18.1.2 Subscription for HD map dynamic information
Figure 7.18.1.2-1 describes the procedure for subscription for HD map dynamic
information.
Pre-condition:
\- V2X application specific server has registered with VAE server 1 which is
responsible for the host vehicle.
Figure 7.18.1.2-1: Subscription for HD map dynamic information
1\. The V2X application specific server sends a subscribe HD map dynamic
information request to the VAE server 1. The request includes the V2X UE ID of
the host vehicle, application defined proximity range information.
2\. The VAE server 1 stores the subscription information.
3\. The VAE server 1 sends subscription response to the V2X application
specific server.
4\. The VAE server 1 obtains and initiates tracking the host vehicle location
from the location management server 1.
#### 7.18.1.3 Tracking UE location
##### 7.18.1.3.1 Tracking UE location subscription
Figure 7.18.1.3.1-1 describes the procedure for tracking UE location
subscription.
Pre-condition:
\- VAE server 1 has received subscription for HD map dynamic information as
per procedure in clause 7.18.1.2-1.
Figure 7.18.1.3.1-1: Tracking UE location subscription
1\. The VAE server 1 sends track UE location request to the LMS 1. The request
contains the V2X UE ID of the host vehicle.
2\. The LMS 1 initiates location reporting configuration as specified in 3GPP
TS 23.434 [10] with the LMC of the host vehicle.
3\. The LMS 1 may optionally subscribe for UE location information from 3GPP
core network for the host vehicle.
4\. The LMS 1 determines the UE location information of the host vehicle as
received in steps 3 and 4.
5\. The LMS 1 sends track UE location response to the VAE server 1 with the UE
location information of the host vehicle.
##### 7.18.1.3.2 Tracking UE location notification
Figure 7.18.1.3.2-1 describes the procedure for tracking UE location
notification.
Pre-condition:
\- VAE server 1 has received subscription for HD map dynamic information as
per procedure in clause 7.18.1.2-1.
Figure 7.18.1.3.2-1: Tracking UE location notification
1\. The LMS 1 receives UE location information of host vehicle as specified in
3GPP TS 23.434 [10] as per subscription specified in clause 7.18.1.3.1 step 2.
2\. The LMS 1 may optionally receive the UE location information of host
vehicle from 3GPP core network as per subscription specified in clause
7.18.1.3.1 step 3.
3\. The LMS 1 determines the UE location information of host vehicle as
received in steps 2 and 3.
4\. The LMS 1 sends UE location notification to the VAE server 1 with the
dynamic UE location information of the host vehicle.
#### 7.18.1.4 Management of dynamic UE location based group
Figure 7.18.1.4-1 describes the procedure for management of dynamic UE
location based group.
Pre-condition:
\- VAE server 1 has received tracking information of the host vehicle as per
procedure in clause 7.18.1.3.2.
Figure 7.18.1.4-1: Management of dynamic UE location group
1\. Dynamic UE location based group creation is triggered (e.g. notified of
the UE location of host vehicle) via the procedures in clause 7.18.1.2 and
clause 7.18.1.3 for the V2X UE ID of the host vehicle.
2-3. VAE server 1 uses its associated LMS 1 to obtain the dynamic UE list and
the corresponding location information in the application defined proximity
range by providing the UE location of the host vehicle.
4\. VAE server 1 determines the list of other VAE servers 2..N operating in
the same location as per 3GPP TS 23.286 [7] clause 9.10.2.1.
5\. For each VAE server determined in step 4, VAE server 1 requests the
dynamic UE list and its corresponding location information for the application
defined proximity range by providing the UE location of the host vehicle.
6-7. The VAE server(s) 2..N obtain UE information corresponding to the UE
location and application defined proximity range from its corresponding LMS
2..N.
8\. As per the agreement between the V2X SPs, if the V2X UE IDs are not
shareable, then VAE server(s) 2..N may replace the V2X UE IDs with temporary
V2X UE IDs.
9\. The VAE server(s) 2..N sends get response with UE list in the UE location
and application defined proximity range to VAE server 1.
10\. If VAE server 1 has no dynamic UE location group for the V2X UE ID, the
VAE server 1 creates a dynamic UE location based group with the UE list
received from its LMS and other VAE server(s) 2..N. Further VAE server 1
stores the dynamic UE location based group. Otherwise, the VAE server 1
updates the dynamic UE location group with the latest UE information.
Editor\'s note: Further clarification on whether the determination of which
V2X UEs have left the dynamic-UE location group and further removal of all
reporting for those UEs is FFS.
#### 7.18.1.5 Obtaining dynamic information of the UEs in proximity range
##### 7.18.1.5.1 Subscription procedures
Figure 7.18.1.5.1-1 describes the subscription procedure within V2X SP to
obtain dynamic information from the UEs in application defined proximity
range.
Pre-condition:
\- VAE server 1 is tracking the host vehicle and has created the dynamic UE
location based group as per procedure in clause .7.18.1.4.
Figure 7.18.1.5.1-1: Subscription procedure within V2X SP
1\. The VAE server 1 managing the dynamic UE location group sends subscribe
dynamic information request to the VAE clients who are part of the dynamic UE
location group. These VAE clients (V2X UEs) belong to the same V2X SP as the
host vehicle. The request consists of reporting configuration (e.g. frequency
of reporting, event based).
2\. The VAE client(s) store the subscription information.
3\. The VAE client(s) send a subscription response to the VAE server 1.
Figure 7.18.1.5.1-2 describes the subscription procedure across V2X SPs to
obtain dynamic information from the UEs in application defined proximity
range.
Pre-condition:
\- VAE server 1 has created the dynamic UE location based group as per
procedure in clause .7.18.1.4.
Figure 7.18.1.5.1-2: Subscription procedure across V2X SPs
1\. The VAE server 1 managing the dynamic UE location group sends subscribe
dynamic information request to the VAE server(s) who\'s V2X UEs are part of
the dynamic UE location group. The request consists of temporary V2X UE IDs,
reporting configuration (e.g. frequency of reporting, event based).
2\. As per the agreement between V2X SPs, if V2X UE IDs are not shareable,
then VAE server 2 determines the V2X UE IDs corresponding to the temporary V2X
UE IDs provided in step 1.
3\. The VAE server 2 sends subscribe dynamic information request to the VAE
client(s).
4\. The VAE client(s) store the subscription information.
5\. The VAE client(s) send a subscription response to the VAE server 2.
6\. The VAE server 2 sends a subscription response to the VAE server 1.
NOTE: VAE server 1 initiates steps 1 to 6 with other VAE servers operating in
the area.
##### 7.18.1.5.2 Notification procedure
Figure 7.18.1.5.2-1 describes the notification procedure of dynamic
information from the UEs in application defined proximity range.
Pre-condition:
\- VAE server 2 has received the notification of dynamic information from its
subscribed VAE client(s).
Figure 7.18.1.5.2-1: Notification procedure
1\. As per subscription procedure in clause 7.18.1.5.1, the VAE client(s) and
VAE server 2 (of another V2X SP) send notification of dynamic information to
the VAE server 1. The notification includes the nearby UE information (e.g.
vehicles, pedestrians), distance with nearby UEs, UEs location information. As
per agreement between V2X SPs, if V2X UE IDs are not shareable, then VAE
server 2 includes the temporary V2X UE IDs in the notification.
2\. The VAE server 1 prepares the HD map dynamic information including the
aggregate information from different VAE clients.
#### 7.18.1.6 Notification of HD map dynamic information
Pre-conditions:
\- V2X application specific server has performed subscription as per procedure
in clause 7.18.1.2 with VAE server 1.
\- VAE server 1 has prepared the HD map dynamic information as per procedure
in clause 7.18.1.5.2.
Figure 7.18.1.6: Notification for HD map dynamic information
1\. The VAE server 1 sends notification of HD map dynamic information to the
V2X application specific server. The notification includes the aggregated
information of all the UEs in the application defined proximity range of the
host vehicle.
2\. The V2X application specific server updates the HD map information with
the HD map dynamic information received in step 1.
### 7.18.2 Solution evaluation
This solution provides a viable mechanism to support HD map dynamic
information. This solution requires enhancement to LMS to support tracking of
UE location and providing the list of UEs and the corresponding location in a
application defined proximity range. Further analysis is required on whether
the mechanisms provided by VAE server for HD map dynamic information can be
supported by an existing SEAL server (e.g. GMS) or new SEAL server is
required. This solution is feasible for scenarios where host vehicle is in
advanced/remote driving mode with slow to moderate speed and deployed in areas
like campus (e.g. autonomous shuttle vehicles), factories or ports (e.g.
autonomous/remotely controlled guided vehicles). Further investigation is
required if this solution is feasible for scenarios where the host vehicle is
in advanced/remote driving mode with high speeds and other performance
considerations.
# 8 Overall evaluation
## 8.1 General
The following subclauses contain an overall evaluation of the solutions
presented in this technical report, and their applicability to the identified
key issues.
\- Clause 8.2 provides an evaluation of the high level architecture specified
in clause 7.5; and
\- Clause 8.3 lists the solutions for the key issues including impact on other
working groups that will need consideration.
## 8.2 Architecture evaluation
The architecture solution in clause 7.5 describes the enhanced functional
model for V2X application layer. A summary of the architecture and key issues
specified in this technical report are listed in table 8.2-1.
Table 8.2-1: Architecture evaluation
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Architecture | Applicable key | Evaluation | Dependency on | | solution | issues | | other working | | | | (subclause | groups | | | (subclause | reference) | | | | reference) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Solution #5: | Supports all | 7.5.2 | SA2 | | V2XAPP | key issues | | | | functional | specified in | | | | model update | clause 5 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 8.3 Key issue and solution evaluation
All the key issues and solutions specified in this technical report are listed
in table 8.3-1. It includes the mapping of the key issues (clause 5) to the
solutions and corresponding solution evaluations. Also it lists the impact on
other working groups that will need consideration during the Release 17
normative phase.
Table 8.3-1: Key issue and solution evaluation
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issues | Solution | Evaluation | Dependency on | | | | | other working | | | | (subclause | groups | | | | reference) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 1 -- | Solution #3: | 7.3.2 | SA2 | | eV2X | NR-PC5 QoS | | | | application | monitoring and | | | | QoS | control | | | | requirements | | | | | for V2X | | | | | communication | | | | | over PC5 | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 2 -- | Solution #2: | 7.2.2 | SA2 | | eV2X | Monitoring and | | | | application | control of QoS | | | | QoS | for eV2X | | | | requirements | communications | | | | for V2X | | | | | communication | | | | | over Uu | | | | | | | | | | Key issue 2a - | | | | | Monitoring QoS | | | | | situation by | | | | | eV2X | | | | | Application | | | | | | | | | | Key issue 2b - | | | | | Communicating | | | | | eV2X | | | | | application | | | | | requirements | | | | | with 5GS | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 3 -- | Solution #10: | 7.10.2 | - | | V2X | Applica | | | | application | tion-triggered | | | | support for | slice | | | | network | re-mapping for | | | | slicing | V2X | | | | | applications | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 4 -- | Solution #1: | 7.1.2 | - | | Support for | Se | | | | tele-operated | ssion-oriented | | | | driving | service | | | | | establishment | | | | | support | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #6: | 7.6.2 | - | | | UE initiated | | | | | se | | | | | ssion-oriented | | | | | service | | | | | establishment | | | | | support | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #11: | 7.11.2 | - | | | UE to UE | | | | | tele-operated | | | | | driving over | | | | | PC5 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 5 -- | No solution | | | | V2X control | | | | | and message | | | | | distribution | | | | | over Uu | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 6 -- | Solution #7: | 7.7.2 | - | | Multi-PLMN | PC5 | | | | support by | Provisioning | | | | application | in | | | | enabler layer | multi-operator | | | | | V2X scenarios | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 7 -- | Solution #4: | 7.4.2 | - | | Capability | V2X | | | | exposure to | application | | | | V2X | enabler layer | | | | application | adaptation to | | | | specific | CAPIF | | | | server using | | | | | CAPIF | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 8 -- | Solution #12: | 7.12.2 | - | | Application | VAE usage of | | | | layer support | unicast, | | | | for groupcast | groupcast and | | | | mode of V2X | broadcast | | | | communication | communications | | | | | over PC5 | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 9 -- | Solution #8: | 7.8.2 | - | | UE-to-UE | UE-to-UE | | | | application | broadcast | | | | layer relay | configuration | | | | | and delivery | | | | | by VAE layer | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 10 | Solution #16: | 7.16.2 | - | | -- Support for | Enhancements | | | | switching | to network | | | | modes for V2V | monitoring | | | | communications | procedure | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #15: | 7.15.2 | - | | | V2V | | | | | communication | | | | | configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 11 | No solution | | | | -- V2X UE | | | | | measurement | | | | | reporting to | | | | | VAE server | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 12 | Solution #9: | 7.9.2 | - | | -- Supporting | Obtain V2X | | | | multiple V2X | application | | | | service | server | | | | providers | information | | | | | from different | | | | | V2X service | | | | | providers | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 13 | No solution | | | | -- Usage and | | | | | management of | | | | | the range QoS | | | | | parameter | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 14 | Solution #13: | 7.13.2 | - | | -- Support for | Support for | | | | Local MBMS | Local MBMS | | | | | delivery | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Solution #17: | 7.17.2 | - | | | Support for | | | | | Local MBMS | | | | | delivery for | | | | | V2X file | | | | | distribution | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 15 | Solution #18: | 7.18.2 | - | | -- Supporting | Support for HD | | | | dynamic | map dynamic | | | | information | information | | | | for HD maps | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Key issue 16 | Solution #14: | 7.14.2 | - | | -- | Support for | | | | Enhancements | enhancements | | | | to V2X group | to V2X group | | | | management and | management and | | | | group | group | | | | communication | communication | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
The key issues and solutions shall be considered for the normative phase as
per the evaluations and with any necessary enhancements.
# 9 Conclusions
This technical report fulfills the objectives of the study on enhancements to
application layer support for V2X services enabled on 3GPP systems (EPS, 5GS),
including the following:
1) Identification of key issues (clause 5) and corresponding architecture
requirements (clause 6) for enhanced V2X application enabler capabilities.
2) Analysis of existing V2X standardization activities (clause 4) related to
3GPP 5GS architecture for V2X communications.
3) Individual solutions (clause 7) addressing the key issues including the
solution for V2XAPP functional model update (clause 7.5)
4) Overall evaluation (clause 8) of all the solutions
The results from the study will be considered for follow-up normative work in
Release 17 as follows:
1) The architecture requirements (in clause 6) will be considered as the basis
for technical specification with necessary enhancements and additions;
2) The solution for V2XAPP functional model update (clause 7.5) will be used
as the baseline functional model with necessary enhancements as appropriate;
3) The key issues (clause 5) and individual solutions (clause 7) are
considered to be the candidate solutions with necessary enhancements as
appropriate, according to the overall evaluation (clause 8) and the enhanced
functional model (subclause 7.5).
There are dependencies on 3GPP groups identified in the overall evaluation
(clause 8) which are required for fulfilling the solutions (clause 7).
#