# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a study of potential new/enhanced capabilities for
mission critical communication services utilizing MBMS, to be provided in 5G,
and points out key issues, identifies use cases, evaluates potential
solutions, proposes enhancements and optimizations and identify requirements
applicable to the work in SA6 and/or in other groups.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.868: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Study on group communication for E-UTRA\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Void
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key issue 1 -- Enabling of informed response to events and conditions
(e.g. optimal unicast-multicast switching)
### 5.1.1 Description
The main driver for this key issue is to achieve optimal outcomes when certain
events and conditions (e.g. congestion, pre-emption) occur (e.g. maximize the
number of group call participants).
This key issue covers:
a) The mission critical application identifying the events and conditions of
interest (e.g. large number of packets associated with certain calls being
dropped before having been transmitted).
b) The mission critical application obtaining information once those events
and conditions of interest have occurred or are about to occur.
c) Means for the mission critical application to remedy, resolve, correct,
prevent and/or mitigate the conditions (e.g. changing QoS characteristics of a
bearer, a UE switching to a specific multicast bearer, restoring a pre-empted
bearer to a UE).
NOTE 1: Some of this functionality may be independent of the mission critical
application and may be executed by subsystems other than those specific to
mission critical services.
NOTE 2: The decisions to request (and stop requesting) information about
specific events/conditions and on how to act on such information is at the
discretion of the mission critical application servers.
## 5.2 Key issue 2 -- Resource efficient group call mode
### 5.2.1 Description
The main driver for this key issue is to increase capacity usage efficiency on
the radio link without negatively impacting the QoS.
This key issue studies the possibility of optimizing resource consumption by
aligning it with the traffic model for group calls. In the case of group call
the downlink can be shared, while the uplink is used typically only one (or a
small number of) transmitters at a time, based on floor or media control.
A particular type of group call is broadcast group, in which there are many
simultaneous listeners but typically only the initiator gets to transmit. If a
multicast bearer is used in the downlink, allocating unicast bearers other
than in the uplink for the initiator, may be wasteful and unnecessary.
The study of this key issue includes:
a) identify the traffic model for group call from the point of view of
resources needed and consumed at various points in time during the group call;
b) whether or not the current state of the specifications sufficiently
supports an efficient way of handling the downlink, compatible with the
traffic model (e.g. the rapid starting of the group call directly using a
multicast bearer in the downlink, without wasting unicast resources in the
downlink); and if not, identify what is missing or needs to be changed;
c) whether or not the current state of the specifications sufficiently
supports an efficient way of handling the uplink, compatible with the traffic
model (e.g. rapidly obtaining the uplink voice path upon having the floor
granted, without having to hold resources after finishing talking in
anticipation of a new floor request); and if not, identify what is missing or
needs to be changed.
## 5.3 Key issue 3 -- Large number of UEs
### 5.3.1 Description
The main driver for this key issue is to enable service for a large number of
UEs in a cell.
In general, UEs can be refused admission to a cell based on several limiting
factors that include a maximum number of connected UEs and the amount of
traffic in the cell. Based on the public safety group call model, the amount
of traffic in the cell can be relatively low in comparison to other types of
traffic, because public safety UEs engaged in group calls have the capability
to use (share) only one bearer (multicast) for downlink and it is usual to
have only one UE transmitting at a time.
a) The study of this issue includes: identify the traffic model for group call
from the point of view of how resources needed and consumed at various points
in time during the group call may impact the pre-emption and admission of
bearers and UE;
b) since there is a distinct possibility that the large number of UEs may
exceed the limit that can be serviced in a cell, study potential procedures
for UEs to receive and participate in service in those situations;
c) since there is a distinct possibility that some number of UEs may end up
with no or limited service due to being too numerous within a cell, study ways
of providing information to various involved subsystems indicating which UEs
to be selected for service exclusion / degradation and recovery.
# 6 Architectural requirements
## 6.1 General requirements
Based on generally accepted knowledge about mission critical systems, gained
experience, history, results of plugtests, etc., the following are design
goals that RAN and Core Networks should meet in order to enable optimal
mission critical functionality in broadcast and multicast over 5MBS:
a) The amount of time required for the setup, modification and tearing down of
unicast and broadcast / multicast sessions / bearers used for mission critical
applications shall be compatible with meeting public safety KPIs (see 3GPP TS
22.179 [2] section 6.15) for call events (e.g. call setup).
b) When transmission of same media via different sessions / bearers (whether
unicast or broadcast / multicast, in the same cell or in neighbouring cells)
is used for mission critical applications, the system shall support delivery
of that media synchronized within the limits of human ability to detect
relative delay, as the media arriving via different sessions/bearers is played
out by the receiving UEs.
c) Seamless handover, without human perceivable packet loss, for sessions /
bearers (unicast and/or broadcast / multicast) used for mission critical
applications and carrying the same media stream at the same time, shall be
possible whether the sessions / bearers are in the same cell or in
neighbouring cells.
# 7 Solutions
## 7.1 Solution #1: Monitoring-based solution for handling events and
conditions
### 7.1.1 Solution description
This solution proposes that events and/or conditions occurring outside the MC
AS (e.g. in RAN) can be handled either in the entity where they occurred or
can be informed by the Core Network to the MC AS, for application-aware
handling. Configuration variables can be used on an event type by event type
basis to control behaviour.
The solution assumes that the MC AS can communicates directly with the Core
Network and the Core Network can communicate directly with the RAN.
Examples of events impacting the functionality of mission critical
applications include:
\- pre-emption of radio bearers
\- pre-emption of UEs
\- congestion
\- traffic shaping resulting in dropping of packets by the core network or RAN
\- mobility events
\- reports of bad RF from certain UEs, etc.
The MC AS identifies the events/conditions that is interested in and provides
this information to the Core Network, which may forward it to the RAN. The MC
AS may want to have remediation or mitigation of the reported condition. For
example, the MC AS may effect some of the UEs in the cells reported to have
high congestion to transition to receive data in idle mode in order to avoid
the chance of the UEs being pre-empted.
These capabilities are offered as \"tools in a toolbox\" available to the MC
AS, and their actual use is essentially optional.
This solution is predicated on the RAN/Core Network identifying and reporting
the relevant conditions and events.
### 7.1.2 Solution evaluation
The solution uses a well-known and tried method for notification, which, in
various forms, is already in wide use in several instances in 3GPP, both
within the mission critical application space and outside. For example, for
5G, TS 23.501 [3] subclause 5.3.4.4 already defines capability of entities
(e.g. SMF, PCF) to be notified of \"UE mobility event\" from the AMF.
Therefore, this solution will essentially be built upon reuse and extension,
rather than the introduction of a new mechanism.
The use of configuration variables to control which events are to be handled
by which entities, adds flexibility and allows systems in the field to be
adaptive to actually deployed capabilities in RAN and Core Network and to be
gradually migrated and evolved as those capabilities change in time.
Impact:
\- The impact on the MC servers consists of having to support the signalling,
functionality, and procedures associated with registering/de-registering
interest for specific events and of receiving and processing notifications.
\- The impact on the RAN depends on exactly what and how RAN decides to
support the functionality; in principle that would include detecting and
reporting the specified events to the Core Network.
\- The impact on the Core Network depends on what and how SA2 decides to
support the functionality; in principle that would include having to transport
requests, results and responses via interfaces that comprise the signalling
path between the RAN and the MC AS.
## 7.2 Solution #2: Resource optimized group call mode
### 7.2.1 Solution description
#### 7.2.1.1 General
This solution treats the downlink and uplink cases separately and then
proposes that optimizations identified for both cases are applied together.
#### 7.2.1.2 Downlink
The proposed solution is to not have the individual downlink unicast bearers
established when the session is established, or to have them released
immediately. Then (or possibly, ahead of time) all the UEs affiliated to a
specific mission critical group are directed to monitor an announced multicast
bearer. When the group call starts in earnest (e.g. while the initial floor
request is processed), the MC AS will start the multicast bearer in the
announced service area (if not started already), send the MapGroupToBearer
message on the general signalling subchannel of the announced multicast bearer
and then send the media and floor control to the destination UEs.
It may also be possible to temporarily suspend or modify the multicast bearer
during periods of silence between consecutive talkspurts of the call, if such
an action results in resource savings. Regarding sending floor control
messages, options include using signalling unicast bearers, e.g. the default
bearer, or the bearer used for IMS and http signalling, or a dedicated bearer
only for floor control. Alternatively, floor control messages that are
normally addressed to individual destinations via unicast channels can be
enhanced with a destination identifier and sent on the multicast channel.
#### 7.2.1.2 Uplink
Currently, once the uplink (side of the) unicast radio bearer (typically GBR)
is established for a group call, it stays allocated to the UE for the entire
duration of the group call, whether the user ever talks or not. However, the
traffic model for group call shows that the radio bearer may be actually used
relatively rarely, namely only when the user has the floor. In the case of
mission critical broadcast group none of the user except for one talker can
have the floor.
The proposed solution is for UEs to have an uplink GBR bearer only while they
hold the floor. That assumes an ability to quickly assign and release the
radio bearer (or most of the bandwidth associated with it), such that the KPIs
associated with the group call of that type can still be met when the user
activates the PTT key.
NOTE: The text in this note covers RAN behaviour and it is mostly out of scope
for this document. It is provided here for information only and to facilitate
understanding: According to 3GPP TR 36.868 [4], Table 5.1.1.1-1, the time for
(unicast, GBR) radio bearer setup in LTE is 115 ms, including estimated (10 ms
radio link delay, 5 ms network interface delay and 5 ms processing delay).
Noting that the UE is already in connected mode rather than the idle mode, so
that transition time is saved, it may be possible to run part of the radio
bearer setup while the floor control request is being processed, with the net
result that it should be possible to both allocate (or expand the uplink
bandwidth of) the radio bearer on demand and meet the KPI 1 requirement, per
3GPP TS 22.179 [2].
Stage 2 work consists of defining signalling for effecting quick and temporary
changes of the bandwidth associated with the uplink bearer, normally triggered
by floor control signalling. The uplink floor control (which is typically a
small (S)RTCP packet) messages can be sent via the reduced-bandwidth uplink
bearer or via separate (usually non-GBR) radio bearer.
### 7.2.2 Solution evaluation
The solution proposes and optimized mode of operations that minimizes the
amount of resources used. The underlying mechanisms used are bearer sharing
and temporary bearer suspension or reduction of bandwidth during periods of no
activity. For maximum effect, this mode should be applied both for downlink
and for uplink.
Many building blocks of the proposed solution are already in place which shows
that the solution can be built by enhancing and extending existing
capabilities.
The solution is proposed as an operating mode additional to the current
approaches, thus adding flexibility and allowing application aware decisions.
Impacts:
\- The impact on the MC servers consists of supporting the signalling,
functionality, and procedures related to the control of the amount of
resources being allocated, in particular resource allocations at setup,
mobility events and floor control events. There could be some Stage 2 and/or
Stage 3 impacts on IMS signalling and interaction via Rx / N5 interface with
the PCRF / PCF, to make sure that unicast resources that are not necessary
will not be or stay allocated. It may also be convenient to define
configuration variables that would control the sending in the downlink of
floor control messages other than Floor Idle and Floor Taken, in the absence
of downlink unicast bearers for media.
\- To the extent that the ability of quickly allocating and releasing
resources and modifying the reserved bandwidth of bearers essentially already
exists and is applicable to 5G systems, the impact on the RAN may be limited.
Timings expected from RAN are documented in the NOTE in the solution
description above.
\- The impact on the Core Network consists of ensuring that the signalling and
procedures that effect bearer and session modifications and resource
allocations and releases, are supported.
## 7.3 Solution #3: **Handling large number of UEs in a cell**
### 7.3.1 Solution description
This solution proposes a way for providing service within a cell to more UEs
than the RAN can normally admit for service, when those UEs are engaged in
mission critical group calls.
It may be possible that RAN could raise the admission control threshold for
the normal maximum number of UEs admissible in the cell to enable this
functionality while also being able to meet the public safety KPIs. However,
this solution assumes that this will not happen, and proposes, as an example,
an alternative solution of continuing service based on using UEs in IDLE
state, thus not subject to the RAN admission control limits.
The solution proposes:
NOTE: The text below combines SA6 procedural elements with RAN procedural
elements for information and to facilitate understanding
\- When the number of MC UEs reaches a certain level in a cell, the MC AS
switches the UEs to multicast mode (i.e. they start monitoring and receiving
traffic on a shared MBMS radio bearer) and configures (prepares) them to
receive data in idle mode (which would map to RRC IDLE).
\- As the number of UEs in the cell increases, the MC AS orders some of the
UEs to receive data in idle mode, or the UEs transition autonomously when
their assigned radio bearers are pre-empted by RAN.
\- Transitioned UEs continue to monitor, listen to and receive traffic on the
same shared multicast bearers as before.
\- When it comes to transmission, the UEs receiving data in idle mode will
have a potentially degraded service, as their access time to obtain uplink
radio bearers will be longer than in the case of UEs in a \"normal\" mode of
operation.
\- Based on the way they were configured, the UEs may attempt to access the
cell shortly, when directed by user, upon mobility events, or when they need
to update some parameters.
### 7.3.2 Solution evaluation
The proposed solution offers an example of how one may resolve the issue of
very large number of UEs without attempting to modify the admission control
procedures of the RAN, which in general are proprietary and different from
vendor to vendor. The solution is based on the observation that the limits
apply only to UEs in connected states, which makes operating in the idle state
a logical choice.
The basic functional elements of the solution (sharing a multicast radio
bearer for group call, connection, reconnection and disconnection of UEs,
rapid allocation of radio bearers, receive data in idle mode, UE functioning
in RRC IDLE) have been in place since prior releases. The solution proposes to
combine and execute these functions as it was described above, thus it
essentially extends functionality.
Impact:
\- The impact on the MC servers consists primarily of having to support the
functionality and procedures described in the previous subclause. The
functionality of the MC application client will have to be extended to support
receive only mode and quick temporary reconnection.
\- The impact on the Core Network consists of enabling quick
suspension/resumption of the UE connection to the network.
\- The impact on the RAN depends on what and how it provides the
functionality: in principle it has to be able to provide the quick temporary
suspension/resumption of the UE connection to the RAN. The solution explicitly
avoids any changes to admission control. The UE needs to be able to continue
receiving multicast traffic once it transitions to idle state and to satisfy
the requests from the MC application client for monitoring, listening and
reconnecting.
NOTE: This example procedure is exploratory in nature and is not intended to
be used as a recommendation to RAN.
# 8 Overall evaluation
The solutions presented in this TR address three key issues that were
identified as requirements of 5GS, to be supported in RAN and Core Network
starting with Rel-17 in order to provide enhanced and optimized operations by
public safety systems using MBS/5G:
\- enabling informed response by the application to events occurring in RAN;
\- alignment of resource allocation/ releasing/reusing with the traffic model
for group calls; and
\- handling of large number of UEs within single cells, in order to support
handling of large but localized incidents.
For each of these key issues, a solution has been proposed, described and
evaluated within the TR, including attempting to determine the impacts on the
components of the system. Those evaluations are covered within clause 7.
All the proposed solutions rely, as a starting point, on already existing
functionality and allow or recommend use of configuration variables to control
where (at which entities) the processing of events occur; whether to start
group calls directly in MBS mode or go through unicast transitions; whether to
hold onto bearers or release / re- allocate them in coordination with the
floor control events; and autonomous transitions (involving dis-connections
and re-connections) to receive data in idle mode. The use of configuration
variables allows for maximal behavioural flexibility in the offered
functionality.
# 9 Conclusions
A summary of the six architectural requirements and design goals for mission
critical 5G over MBMS in this TR is presented in Table 9-1, using text from
liaison statements sent to SA and RAN and pointing to service requirements
provided in TS 22.261 [5] subclause 6.13.2.
Table 9-1. Requirements and Design Goals for 5G MBS for Public Safety
+----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | **Item** | **Capability** | **SA1 Service |** SA6 | | | | Requirements**| Architecture | | | | | Requirements / | | | | | Design Goals** | +==========+==================+==================+==================+ | 1 | Fast setup time | The 5G system | The amount of | | | [ \~ 115 ms, | shall be able to | time required | | | see | setup or modify | for the setup, | | | T | a broadcast/ | modification and | | | R 36.868 [4],T | multicast | tearing down of | | | able 5.1.1.1-1] | service area | unicast and | | | | within [1s]. | broadcast / | | | | | multicast | | | | | sessions / | | | | | bearers used for | | | | | mission critical | | | | | applications | | | | | shall be | | | | | compatible with | | | | | meeting public | | | | | safety KPIs (see | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | TS 22.179 [3] | | | | | section 6.15) | | | | | for call events | | | | | (e.g. call | | | | | setup). | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 2 | Loose (non-SFN) | The 5G system | **When | | | Synchronization | shall support | transmission of | | | | downlink | same media via | | | | parallel | different | | | | transfer of the | sessions / | | | | same content, | bearers (whether | | | | via | unicast or | | | | bro | broadcast / | | | | adcast/multicast | multicast, in | | | | and/or unicast, | the same cell or | | | | such that all | in neighbouring | | | | receiver group | cells) is used | | | | members in a | for mission | | | | given area | critical | | | | receive the | applications, | | | | media at the | the system shall | | | | same time | support delivery | | | | according to | of that media | | | | user perception. | synchronized | | | | | within the | | | | NOTE 3: In this | limits of human | | | | context user | ability to | | | | perception | detect relative | | | | refers to a | delay, as the | | | | difference in | media arriving | | | | delay of | via different | | | | typically less | sessions/bearers | | | | than 20 ms. | is played out by | | | | | the receiving | | | | | UEs.** | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 3 | Service | | Seamless | | | continuity and | | handover, | | | handover | | without human | | | | | perceivable | | | | | packet loss, for | | | | | sessions / | | | | | bearers (unicast | | | | | and/or broadcast | | | | | / multicast) | | | | | used for mission | | | | | critical | | | | | applications and | | | | | carrying the | | | | | same media | | | | | stream at the | | | | | same time, shall | | | | | be possible | | | | | whether the | | | | | sessions / | | | | | bearers are in | | | | | the same cell or | | | | | in neighbouring | | | | | cells. | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 4 | Notifications of | The 5G system | To allow | | | relevant events | shall support a | a | | | | mechanism to | pplication-aware | | | | inform a media | mitigations and | | | | source of | optimizations, | | | | relevant changes | the 5G system | | | | in conditions in | would provide a | | | | the system (e.g. | capability for | | | | capacity, | application | | | | failures). | servers to be | | | | | notified by the | | | | | Core Network of | | | | | certain events | | | | | and conditions | | | | | detected by RAN | | | | | or Core Network. | | | | | Examples of such | | | | | events may | | | | | include | | | | | pre-emption of | | | | | bearers/sessions | | | | | and/or UEs, | | | | | significant | | | | | changes in | | | | | congestion | | | | | levels, dropping | | | | | of packets due | | | | | to lack of | | | | | transmission | | | | | bandwidth, | | | | | mobility events, | | | | | significant RF | | | | | impairments. | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 5 | Rapid and | | **The 5G system | | | resource | | would provide an | | | efficient | | operating mode | | | operation | | enabling the | | | | | start of group | | | | | calls directly | | | | | on multicast | | | | | bearers/sessions | | | | | in the downlink | | | | | and keeping | | | | | uplink resources | | | | | allocated only | | | | | to UEs currently | | | | | holding the | | | | | floor for | | | | | transmission. | | | | | This ability | | | | | would rely on | | | | | RAN and Core | | | | | Network quickly | | | | | allocating, | | | | | releasing and | | | | | reusing | | | | | resources during | | | | | a call, | | | | | consistent with | | | | | meeting the | | | | | public safety | | | | | KPIs for group | | | | | calls.** | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+ | 6 | Large number of | The 5G system | The 5G system | | | UEs per cell | shall be able to | would support | | | | support | multicast | | | | broadcast/ | service to a | | | | multicast of | large number of | | | | voice, data and | UEs in a cell, | | | | video group | which may exceed | | | | communication, | the normal | | | | allowing at | admission | | | | least 800 | control limits | | | | concurrently | for the cell. An | | | | operating groups | example of | | | | per geographic | approach under | | | | area. | SA6\'s | | | | | consideration is | | | | | using intra-cell | | | | | service | | | | | continuity on | | | | | multicast | | | | | bearers from | | | | | connected mode | | | | | to other mode(s) | | | | | of operation | | | | | (e.g. idle). The | | | | | UE, RAN and Core | | | | | Network would be | | | | | capable of | | | | | quickly and | | | | | temporarily | | | | | reconnecting the | | | | | UE, triggered by | | | | | user request or | | | | | inter-cell | | | | | mobility. | +----------+------------------+------------------+------------------+
Items 1-3, represent architectural requirements that are present in existing
LTE based systems and should be applied to 5G systems using multicast for
public safety. Items 4-6, define design goals which, if supported, will enable
addressing existing shortcomings and providing enhancements and optimizations
for mission critical systems using multicast.
Recommendation: upon availability of RAN and SA2 5G MBS specifications, SA6
should determine how the capabilities defined in those specifications can be
used for SA6-defined Mission Critical services.
#