# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this Technical Report is to investigate 5G System
enhancements based on what has been specified in Rel-16, for enhanced support
of V2X operation for pedestrian UEs (i.e. UEs for Vulnerable Road Users), e.g.
V2X communication with power efficiency, according to vehicular services
requirements defined in TS 22.185 [2] and TS 22.186 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios; Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] ETSI TS 103 300‑3 V0.4.0: \"Intelligent Transport System (ITS); Vulnerable
Road Users (VRU) awareness; Part 3: Specification of VRU awareness basic
service; Release 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
# 3 Definitions of terms and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1]
apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DRX Discontinuous Reception
P-UE Pedestrian UE
VRU Vulnerable Road User
# 4 Architectural Assumptions and Requirements
## 4.1 Architectural Assumptions
\- Architecture reference models defined in TS 23.287 [5] are used as
reference architecture for enhanced support of V2X operation for pedestrian
UEs in 5GS.
\- NR based PC5 is considered.
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
\- The system shall enable V2X communication with power efficiency for
pedestrian UEs, according to vehicular services requirements defined in TS
22.185 [2] and TS 22.186 [3].
# 5 Key Issues
Editor\'s note: This clause will describe the key issues for FS_eV2XARC_Ph2.
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power efficiency for
pedestrian UEs
### 5.1.1 General description
A pedestrian UE might have a lower battery capacity and limited radio
capability, and therefore may have to work in a low power consumption mode,
e.g. not being able to send/receive V2X messages with the same periodicity as
a Vehicular UE. Continuous sending/receiving V2X messages by the pedestrian UE
would affect UE power efficiency.
Discontinuous Reception (DRX) as defined in clause 5.4.5 of TS 23.501 [4] has
been identified by RAN WGs as one of the mechanisms for power saving and to be
supported in the 5GS for power efficient sidelink communications. Rel-17 RAN
work item on NR Sidelink enhancement (NRSL_enh) includes the following
objective to support power saving required for pedestrian UEs in V2X use cases
and for UEs in public safety and commercial use cases:
\- Sidelink DRX for broadcast, groupcast, and unicast.
Various service scenarios for V2X need to be investigated regarding whether
DRX mechanism can be applied or is suitable for V2X services. For example,
periodic broadcast of road safety messages by UEs that is one of the main V2X
services should be considered, including broadcast of V2X message by vehicular
UEs every 100 msec, broadcast of V2X message by pedestrian UEs every 1 second,
etc. This is because the pedestrian UEs have to send the V2X message
periodically and/or receive the V2X message periodically, and as such the
broadcast periodicity affects DRX cycle.
NR PC5 DRX has an on- and off-durations, and pedestrian UEs with limited power
capacities would only turn on its radio interface and perform PC5
transmission/reception during the on-duration.
When the pedestrian UE has multiple PC5 communication sessions, especially
with different peer UEs or in different groups, the use of DRX mechanism may
result in some traffic missing the on-duration and thus incur longer than
usual delays. In other cases, when it is not well coordinated, some
transmissions may not be properly received by the UEs, and thus reduce the
reliability of the V2X applications. Additionally, different V2X services have
different QoS requirements, e.g. in terms of latency, and traffic pattern. If
not coordinated properly, there may be conflicts from these V2X applications,
and would render the DRX mechanism not usable.
A pedestrian UE can activate the NR PC5 DRX to reduce power consumption.
However, the pedestrian UE can deactivate the NR PC5 DRX to avoid missing V2X
messages.
To support NR PC5 power efficiency for pedestrian UEs, the following issues
need to be studied:
\- Whether and how NR PC5 DRX or other mechanisms can be applied to V2X
operation for pedestrian UEs in the 5GS, e.g. study any impact on V2X layer,
5GC by considering:
\- whether and how 5GC can authorize the usage of the DRX mechanism and
provision the required information to enable the DRX for the pedestrian UE.
\- whether and how the pedestrian UE can make use of the DRX mechanism without
degrading QoS of the PC5 communication.
\- whether and how to coordinate the requirements from different V2X services
so that the QoS and power efficiency can be maintained.
\- whether and how the UE activates or de-activates the DRX mode over PC5.
Editor\'s note: This aspect has RAN dependency and needs coordination with RAN
WGs.
Editor\'s note: Whether there is 5GC impact by other PC5 power efficiency
solution than DRX is FFS.
# 6 Solutions
Editor\'s note: This clause is intended to document the agreed solutions. Each
solution should clearly describe which of the key issue(s) it covers and how.
## 6.0 Mapping Solutions to Key Issues
Table 6.0-1: Mapping of Solutions to Key Issues
+-----------+-----------------------------------+ | | Key Issues | +===========+===================================+ | Solutions | 1 | | | | | | QoS aware NR PC5 power efficiency | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 1 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 2 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 3 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 4 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 5 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 6 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+ | 7 | V | +-----------+-----------------------------------+
## 6.1 Solution #1: QoS aware power efficient PC5 communication for Pedestrian
UEs
### 6.1.1 Functional Description
As explained in \"Key Issue #1: Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power efficiency
for pedestrian UEs\" defined in clause 5.1, a Pedestrian UE may have multiple
V2X services, which place different service level requirements on the QoS.
Additionally, the Pedestrian UE may have multiple PC5 communication sessions,
e.g. participate in different groupcasts, or have multiple unicast L2 links
with other UEs. In order to make the DRX based PC5 communication effective,
these different communication requirements need to be consolidated.
Additionally, the Pedestrian UE is most likely a mobile phone form of device
and would have Uu connection as well. It is therefore necessary to coordinate
its Uu DRX operation with the PC5 DRX operation.
The V2X layer may consolidate all the service requirements from different V2X
Applications and determines the necessary timeline for the PC5 communications
to maximize the DRX off-duration. Such consolidated communication
requirements, e.g. UE level DRX schedule, can be requested to the AS layer,
and AS layer will make the final decision on the applicability of the
requested DRX schedule.
Together with the V2X service requirements, the traffic pattern information
which contains message periodicity/interval and message size/burst information
can optionally be indicated to V2X layer to assist the calculation of PC5 DRX
cycle and on/off duration.
NOTE: Traffic pattern information in this TR is different from SL-
TrafficPatternInfo defined in TS 38.331 [9] and the latter contains more RAN
related parameters in addition to message periodicity and message size.
Editor\'s note: The input from V2X layer to AS layer depends on the RAN WG DRX
design.
Optionally, if the Pedestrian UE also has active Uu connection (in
RRC_CONNECTED state), the V2X layer may also trigger the Uu RRC signalling
towards the NG-RAN to inform about the PC5 DRX if necessary, so that there
will be no conflict between the PC5 operation and Uu operations.
In case new V2X Applications are initiated, the V2X layer may optionally
notify the application of transmission schedule information based on the UE
level DRX schedule so that the application can determine the traffic
generation schedule to minimize the end to end latency of the application
layer traffic, e.g. reducing the time packets need to be buffered when UE is
in DRX off-duration.
### 6.1.2 Procedures
Figure 6.1.2-1 illustrates an example operation of the solution for QoS aware
power efficient PC5 communication for Pedestrian UEs.
Figure 6.1.2-1: QoS aware power efficient PC5 communication procedure for
Pedestrian UEs
1\. On UE-1, the V2X Application 1 provides the V2X Application Requirements,
including delay requirements, etc., for the PC5 communication, as specified in
TS 23.287 [5], clause 5.4.1.1. For example, this Application 1 may be
requesting a groupcast communication.
2\. Similarly, V2X Application 2 provides the V2X Application Requirements
including delay requirements, traffic pattern information if available, for
the PC5 communication. In this example, the Application 2 may be requesting a
unicast communication.
3\. UE-1\'s V2X layer consolidates requirements from Application 1 and
Application 2, and generates a UE level DRX schedule, so that the UE-1 would
be able to maximize the DRX off-duration. The determination of the DRX
schedule can be determined by the UE based on the configuration on the UE, for
example as part of the V2X policies associated with the V2X service types.
4\. UE-1\'s V2X layer requests the UE level AS layer DRX schedule to AS layer.
5\. UE-1\'s AS layer applies the DRX schedule for the corresponding V2X
communication. This may require some adjustment according to the AS layer
configurations, e.g. the resources pool settings.
6\. UE-1\'s AS layer provides a response to the V2X layer on the results of
the DRX schedule enforcement at AS layer.
7\. UE-1\'s V2X layer may further request an AS layer DRX schedule corresponds
to Application 2\'s unicast communication and provides it to AS layer.
Editor\'s note: The interactions between the V2X layer and AS layer regarding
the DRX schedule requests need coordination with RAN WGs.
8\. UE-1 initiates PC5-S and/or PC5-RRC signalling towards UE-2 that is
relevant for the Application 2\'s unicast communication, and then negotiates
and confirms the DRX schedule. If there is no existing L2 link with the UE-2,
this step also comprises the establishment of the L2 link.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS if PC5-S or PC5-RRC signalling should be used for
the DRX negotiation between UE-1 and UE-2 for the unicast DRX configuration.
9\. The negotiation results of the DRX schedule for the L2 Link is provided to
the V2X layer.
10\. UE-1\'s V2X layer may expose transmission schedule information to
Application 3, based on the UE level DRX schedule. Application 3 will
determine its traffic generation schedule accordingly.
Application 3 may also send QoS requirements and traffic pattern information
if available for the PC5 communication to V2X layer to generate new DRX
schedule if the old one cannot satisfy the Application 3 requirements.
11\. [Optional] UE-1 determines if the PC5 DRX and Uu DRX need alignment.
If the alignment is necessary and UE-1 has active connection to NG-RAN over Uu
(in RRC_CONNECTED state), V2X layer triggers RRC signalling towards NG-RAN, so
step 10 is performed.
If the alignment is necessary between the PC5 DRX and Uu DRX (i.e. Paging DRX)
and UE-1 is in RRC_IDLE state or RRC_INACTIVE state, UE-1 waits until Uu
connection is established before initiating any alignment.
12\. [Optional] UE-1 sends RRC signalling over Uu interface towards NG-RAN
informing the PC5 DRX setting.
Editor\'s note: The Uu RRC singling for this DRX alignment is up to RAN WG to
decide.
Editor\'s note: Whether and how to align the PC5 DRX and the Uu DRX needs
coordination with RAN WGs.
### 6.1.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impact to the existing entities:
\- Pedestrian UE:
\- the V2X Layer of the UE needs to be able to consolidate Application Layer
QoS requirements and generate a PC5 DRX schedule for AS layer;
\- the V2X layer also needs to be able to expose the PC5 DRX schedule to the
Application layer for traffic generation management;
\- the AS layer makes the final decision on the applicability of the PC5 DRX
schedule requested by the V2X layer, e.g. by adjusting the PC5 DRX schedule
according to the AS layer configurations, e.g. the resources pool settings;
\- the AS layer provides the results of the enforced PC5 DRX schedule to the
V2X layer; and
\- optionally, the UE can signal to the NG-RAN to inform about the PC5 DRX
setting.
Editor\'s note: If this can be already supported by existing signalling
depends on RAN WG design.
\- NG-RAN:
\- optionally, NG-RAN supports the signalling from UE to update the DRX
configurations.
Editor\'s note: If this can be already supported by NG-RAN depends on RAN WG
design.
## 6.2 Solution #2: PC5 DRX configuration for QoS-aware and power-efficient
communication of Pedestrian UEs
### 6.2.1 Functional Description
This solution is for \"Key Issue #1: Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power
efficiency for pedestrian UEs\".
In road safety as well as public safety use cases, Pedestrian UEs are often
involved in PC5 groupcast or broadcast communication in connectionless manner.
One pedestrian UE may need to listen to various PC5 Tx UEs in proximity
without knowing about Tx UEs in advance. Thus, possible DRX operation for PC5
Rx UE needs to cope with various and random Tx UEs present in proximity. PC5
Tx UE, on the other hand, may not know or care about presence of any
particular Rx UE in proximity. This makes PC5 DRX operation specific to each
pair of PC5 Tx UE and Rx UE rather impractical, especially for PC5 groupcast
and broadcast.
In connection-oriented PC5 unicast case, DRX operation specific to a pair of
Tx UE and Rx UE over PC5 may be agreed beforehand between Rx UE and Tx UE.
However, if the PC5 unicast Tx UE or Rx UE has other PC5
unicast/groupcast/broadcast communication services with the same or different
peer UEs in addition to the PC5 unicast in question, uncoordinated PC5 DRX
configuration for each PC5 unicast communication may lead to mis-aligned PC5
DRX patterns. This makes PC5 DRX overall less effective in terms of power
saving.
To coordinate PC5 DRX configurations not only between the peered PC5 Tx UE and
Rx UEs for one SL application/service but also among a number of PC5 UEs
involved in multiple PC5 communications in proximity, this solution is based
on having a common set of PC5 DRX patterns configured in PC5 UEs by the
serving network for in-coverage operation or pre-configured for out-of-
coverage operation. A PC5 DRX pattern includes information about the ON/OFF
periods that shall be used in the (AS-layer) PC5 DRX schedule and each PC5 DRX
pattern may be associated with one or more V2X service types. Note that there
may be PC5 DRX patterns that would rather fit combinations of service types.
Thus, the (pre-)configured set of PC5 DRX patterns may be corresponding to
supported combinations of different use cases, service profiles, status or
classes of PC5 UEs. The (pre-)configured set of PC5 DRX patterns can be also
in line with resource pool configurations, because the patterns can be known
to the AS layer when the resource pools are configured (or the other way
round), so that the V2X layer does not need to deal with or understand
resource pool configurations. However, the resource pool configuration does
not need to be performed in a way that guarantees dedicated radio resources
for specific V2X service types.
The contents of the PC5 DRX pattern set (e.g. length and period of ON/OFF
cycles) may take into account QoS requirements of the V2X service type(s),
e.g. the default PC5 QoS parameters that are configured in the UEs for each
V2X service type, as described in TS 23.287 [5] clause 5.4.2.5. The fact that
the QoS for a certain V2X service may be different on different UEs can be
compensated by the PC5 DRX schedule selection and enforcement procedure that
takes place on the UE (see clause 6.2.2).
In this way, the extensive coordination between relevant PC5 UEs in proximity
to determine and agree on the PC5 DRX patterns can be avoided. The relevant
PC5 UEs only needs to select one or more PC5 DRX pattern(s) from the limited
set of configured PC5 DRX patterns and adapt SL transmissions and receptions
to the selected pattern(s) of their own and other PC5 UEs in proximity.
The PC5 DRX mode shall be activated only if a PC5 DRX pattern that fits the
V2X services running on the UE is found. Further, the V2X layer may enable the
application layer to request the deactivation of the PC5 DRX mode. When and
why a V2X application may request the deactivation of the PC5 DRX mode is up
to the implementation of the V2X application and out of scope for the V2X
layer.
NOTE: The solution applies to the management of a single AS-layer DRX schedule
on a UE, which is applied for all communication modes and all V2X services. In
case a UE can have multiple different DRX schedules active at the same time
(e.g. for broadcast and unicast), then the entire procedure is applicable
separately and independently for each DRX schedule, i.e. there are different
pattern sets for each schedule etc. Since the DRX mode is targeted to
receiving P-UEs, the transmission schedules of transmitting UEs may need to be
aligned with the DRX schedules of receiving UEs.
Editor\'s note: The question of having a single or two separate DRX schedules
for Uu and PC5, as well as any alignment between them (if needed), is still
open also in RAN WG.
### 6.2.2 Procedures
Figure 6.2.2-1 illustrates an example operation of the solution for power
efficient PC5 communication for Pedestrian UEs based on pre-defined PC5 DRX
patterns.
Figure 6.2.2-1: PC5 DRX configuration procedure for QoS-aware and power-
efficient communication of Pedestrian UEs
1a. UEs are (pre-)configured with the PC5 DRX related parameters including a
set of applicable PC5 DRX patterns from which UEs can select. The PC5 DRX
configuration may be either provided by the PCF (or by the AF via NEF/PCF)
using the procedure specified in TS 23.287 [5] clause 6.2, or pre-configured
as specified in TS 23.287 [5] clause 5.1.1.
1b. If the UE is \"served by NR\" (as defined in TS 23.287 [5]), the PC5 DRX
configuration may be alternatively provided by the NG-RAN, potentially
together with information about Uu configurations, either via broadcasting or
with dedicated RRC signalling. In this option, the AS layer may indicate the
relevant configured PC5 DRX parameters to the V2X layer or apply PC5 DRX
configuration on the AS layer (see also the description of step 5).
Editor\'s note: Whether and how the NG-RAN provides the PC5 DRX configuration
to the UE is up to RAN WGs to decide.
2\. The V2X application layer provides the Application Requirements to the V2X
layer which can be mapped to QoS parameters as defined in TS 23.287 [5] clause
5.4.1.1. V2X applications layer may also provide application traffic pattern
information, which contains message periodicity/interval and message
size/burst information if available.
NOTE 1: The mentioned application traffic pattern information may also be
provided by the V2X applications (via the V2X layer) to the AS layer, where
they can be used as input when computing the AS-layer SL-TrafficPatternInfo
(defined in TS 38.331 [9]), which could in turn have an impact on AS layer\'s
final decision about the PC5 DRX configuration that is to be applied. The AS
layer SL-TrafficPatternInfo contains more RAN related parameters in addition
to message periodicity and message size.
Editor\'s note: Whether and when it is useful to provide the application
traffic pattern information from the V2X layer to the AS layer need
coordination with RAN WGs.
3\. The V2X layer of UE1 may select one or more PC5 DRX pattern from the
configured PC5 DRX pattern set. If more than one PC5 DRX patterns are
selected, this means that the V2X layer can accept the application of any of
them. The selection takes into account the following i) the requirements and
application traffic pattern information of all active V2X service types that
the UE1 currently has, ii) the Uu DRX configurations received by the NG-RAN
(if any), and iii) the selected PC5 DRX patterns that other relevant UEs have
applied and indicated.
NOTE 2: The triggering of the selection of the PC5 DRX pattern(s) at the V2X
Layer, e.g. upon expiration of a timer, upon changes of the V2X Application
Requirements as defined in TS 23.287 [5] or the DRX-related information about
other UEs, or similar, is up to implementation. Potential PC5 DRX negotiations
performed in the context of a single unicast connection are not considered by
the V2X layer in this step, but rather during the AS-layer decision to accept
a V2X layer-requested PC5 DRX pattern (step 5) or during the V2X-layer-
independent decision of the AS-layer to modify an applied PC5 DRX schedule or
apply a new one (see step 6).
4\. The V2X layer of UE1 requests applying (one of) the selected PC5 DRX
pattern(s) to the AS layer for control of PC5 transmission and reception
according to the selected PC5 DRX pattern.
5\. The AS layer of UE1 decides to apply or not the requested PC5 DRX pattern
(or one of the requested PC5 DRX patterns), i.e. it configures the (AS-layer)
PC5 DRX schedule based on the ON/OFF periods indicated in the PC5 DRX pattern.
NOTE 3: The selection and request of PC5 DRX patterns at the V2X layer is
optional and the PC5 DRX schedule (and further related configuration) might be
decided on the AS layer only, though ideally based on knowledge about V2X
Application Requirements as defined in TS 23.287 [5] and traffic patterns. RAN
WG will have a final confirmation on the criteria used in this case. In this
case the AS layer may know the set of applicable PC5 DRX patterns (as well as
all further inputs that it requires) and send indications about the applied
PC5 DRX schedule to other UEs using mechanisms specified by the RAN WG.
Further, again depending on RAN WG decisions, the AS layer of UE1 could
potentially also decide to extend the ON durations of a selected (and applied)
PC5 DRX schedule based on AS layer information (e.g. full buffers,
misalignment with resource pools or AS-layer signalling, monitored QoS, etc.).
6\. The AS layer informs the V2X layer about the success or failure of the
application of the requested PC5 DRX pattern(s), indicating which pattern was
applied if multiple were provided in the request. In case the AS layer decides
to apply a PC5 DRX schedule that does not correspond to any of the provided
patterns, then the applied PC5 DRX schedule is also indicated to the V2X
layer. This indication can be provided not only as a response to a PC5 DRX
pattern request (step 4) but also later (asynchronously) in case the AS layer
modifies the PC5 DRX schedule (or applies a new one) based on its own logic.
7\. The V2X layer of UE1 indicates (using broadcast or groupcast communication
over the PC5 interface) the applied PC5 DRX pattern to other relevant UE(s)
(e.g. UE2) to allow UE2 to select its PC5 DRX pattern in a coordinated manner.
8\. The V2X applications of UE2 may retrieve from the V2X layer information
about the PC5 DRX patterns applied by one or more related UEs and adjust their
communication schedule.
9\. The V2X layer of UE2 may provide the V2X layer information about the PC5
DRX patterns applied by one or more related UEs to the AS layer and the AS
layer adapts the PC5 transmission schedule accordingly.
### 6.2.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impacts to the existing entities:
\- AF:
\- Needs to perform the provisioning of PC5 DRX related configuration
including the set of applicable PC5 DRX patterns (if V2X layer procedure is
applied for PC5 DRX parameter configuration).
\- NEF:
\- Needs to expose an API that can receive the AF-provided configurations
mentioned above (if V2X layer procedure is applied for PC5 DRX parameter
configuration).
\- PCF:
\- Needs to support, handle, and V2X Policies that include the set of
applicable PC5 DRX patterns (if V2X layer procedure is applied for PC5 DRX
parameter configuration).
\- NG-RAN:
\- If AS layer procedure for PC5 DRX parameter configuration is to be
supported, then the NG-RAN needs to support the signalling for PC5 (and Uu)
DRX related configuration including the set of PC5 DRX patterns.
Editor\'s note: Whether AS layer procedure for PC5 DRX parameter configuration
shall be supported is up to RAN WGs to decide.
\- UE:
\- the V2X layer of UE needs to be able to select a PC5 DRX pattern from a
(pre-)configured set based on inputs included in V2X Policies.
\- the AS layer of UE needs to adapt its PC5 transmissions and receptions
according to the selected PC5 DRX pattern.
\- being able to transmit and receive an applied PC5 DRX configuration to/from
other UEs using unicast, broadcast or groupcast.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Solution for KI#1 to negotiate a PC5 DRX for Unicast
communication
### 6.3.1 Functional Description
This solution is for Key Issue #1, \"Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power
efficiency for pedestrian UEs\".
A Pedestrian UE may have multiple V2X services with different service
requirements, i.e. these different V2X services have with different QoS
requirements (e.g. PDB) and service pattern. PC5 DRX should be set to fulfil
the requirements and can further be adjusted to coordinate with service
pattern. Current PC5 QoS model is QoS Flow-based, so PC5 DRX will be
negotiated during PC5 QoS Flow establishment. If only one PC5 DRX is used, the
improper setting of PC5 DRX will lead to malperformance of some V2X services.
To make the PC5 DRX more flexible and enable V2X services workable at most,
multiple PC5 DRX for a P-UE seems reasonable.
However, a P-UE may establish multiple Unicast links with the same/different
peer UEs at the same time, therefore, different PC5 DRXs set for different
unicast links could be possible. Maintaining too many PC5 DRXs would be very
complicated, therefore, the PC5 DRXs should be coordinated for different
Unicast links in the UE.
In addition, the PC5 DRX is more like an AS layer parameter and shall be
negotiated in the AS layer (as V2X layer cannot know Tx/Rx resource pool for
PC5 and Uu maintained in the AS layer).
To summarize, the introduced solution mainly proposes to negotiate the Unicast
specific PC5 DRX based on the related PC5 QoS parameter of PC5 QoS Flows by AS
layer, and the following solution principles are highlighted:
\- The PC5 DRX relates to the PDB and service pattern, and the PC5 DRX
negotiation should be triggered by the QoS Flow establishment.
\- To make the PC5 DRX more flexible and enable V2X services workable at most,
PC5 DRX configuration can be negotiated for a P-UE.
NOTE: This solution doesn\'t restrict the number of PC5 DRX in the
configuration. It is up to RAN WGs to decide.
\- To reduce the complexities, the PC5 DRXs should be coordinated for
different Unicast links.
\- The PC5 DRX is an AS layer parameter and shall be negotiated in the AS
layer
\- The Unicast PC5 DRXs are negotiated between two engaged UEs. Each UE
determines its own individual Unicast PC5 DRX and use it only for data
reception.
\- The individual Unicast PC5 DRX is determined based on all the ongoing
traffic of the UE\'s Unicast Links, other than just the traffic of this
current Unicast Link. Consequently, the individual Unicast PC5 DRX of each UE,
which engages in the Unicast Link communication, can be different.
\- The individual Unicast PC5 DRXs of two UEs are negotiated in one procedure,
which is initiated by the UE that triggers the PC5 signalling procedure.
\- When the Unicast PC5 DRX of one UE need to be updated, e.g. the UE has
establish other unicast link with another UE or new V2X services occurs, the
Rx UE initiates the update procedure toward the other UE.
Editor\'s note: Whether and how the AS layer of UE negotiates the PC5 DRX for
unicast link is up to RAN WGs to decide.
### 6.3.2 Procedures
Figure 6.3.2-1 illustrates the PC5 DRX negotiation for Unicast communication.
Figure 6.3.2-1: PC5 DRX negotiation for Unicast communication
1\. The P-UE1\'s V2X Application provides the V2X service type, V2X
Application Requirements to the V2X layer as defined in clause 5.4.1.1.2 of TS
23.287 [5].
2\. The P-UE1\'s V2X layer triggers the PC5 QoS Flow establishment for the
Unicast link by using the Layer-2 link establishment procedure or Layer-2 link
modification procedure as defined in TS 23.287 [5].
3\. The V2X layer provides the QoS Flow parameters to the AS layer for PC5 DRX
determination.
4\. The AS layer determines the individual PC5 DRX parameter for the UE based
on e.g. the QoS Flow parameters of V2X service message. The UE1 uses the
individual PC5 DRX parameter1 for data reception from UE2.
5-6. The AS layer performs the PC5 DRX negotiation with peer UE of the unicast
link by PC5 RRC signalling and with RAN1 by Uu RRC signalling. UE2 determines
the individual PC5 DRX parameter2 for data reception from UE1and returns it to
UE1. The PC5 DRX parameter2 may be same or different with the PC5 DRX
parameter1, e.g. if UE2 only has one Unicast Link that is the current Unicast
Link with UE1, then UE2 may generate an individual PC5 DRX parameter2 that is
same with DRX parameter1; if UE2 has other Unicast Links with other UEs, then
UE2 may generate an individual PC5 DRX parameter2 that is different with DRX
parameter1.
Editor\'s note: Whether and how the AS layer of UE and NG-RAN negotiate the
PC5 DRX is up to RAN WGs to decide.
7-8. [Optional] The AS layer may provide the PC5 DRX parameter1 and DRX
parameter2 to the Application layer for adaption via the V2X layer.
9\. For subsequent V2X services of each UE, if the existing PC5 DRX cannot be
reused, the UE should initiate the update procedure toward the other UE(s) to
negotiate a new individual PC5 DRX parameter for its data reception (see Step
5-Step 8).
### 6.3.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impact to the existing entities:
\- Pedestrian UE:
\- the AS layer negotiate the PC5 DRX between UEs based on the QoS Flow
parameters and service pattern for unicast link.
\- NG-RAN:
\- adjusts the PC5 DRX and Uu DRX.
Editor\'s note: Whether and how the NG-RAN adjusts the PC5 DRX and Uu DRX is
up to RAN WGs to decide.
## 6.4 Solution #4: V2X Layer assisted DRX over PC5
### 6.4.1 Functional Description
This solution is for Key Issue #1 \"Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power
efficiency for pedestrian UEs\".
This solution specifies how the V2X layer activates or deactivates the
discontinuous reception over PC5 for pedestrian UE. Power saving reception can
be effective to achieve power efficiency for a pedestrian UE, and two
reception modes are introduced as below:
1) Continuous Reception Mode: the UE in this mode receives V2X service data
over PC5 continuously, e.g. the radio interface of PC5 is on all the time for
a pedestrian UE, which is extremely power consuming; and
2) Discontinuous Reception Mode: the UE in this mode receives V2X service data
over PC5 periodically, by setting a reception window length and a
discontinuous reception cycle, to receive V2X service data during the
reception window per discontinuous reception cycle.
NOTE 1: The value of reception window and the discontinuous reception cycle is
defined in stage 3. It is expected that the Pedestrian UE is able to receive
message sent by other UEs when it is in Discontinuous Reception Mode, e.g.
receive some of the safety messages that were transmitted periodically every
100ms.
V2X application layer of a pedestrian UE determine whether the Discontinuous
Reception Mode can be applied, based on collected information (e.g. location,
speed, predicted path, curvature etc.) from the received V2X service data. The
upper layer indicates to the V2X layer of the pedestrian UE to change its
reception mode when possible. One example is that the pedestrian is walking in
a low safety risk area, e.g. in a park near the road, or along the sidewalk
with road side fence. Another example is that the pedestrian UE is in a suburb
area or a rural area, where pedestrian occasionally encounters a vehicle
passing by.
In order to achieve the mechanism introduced above, following PC5 signalling
message is introduced:
\- Discontinuous Reception Announcement: a PC5 signalling message to indicate
the pedestrian UE is in Discontinuous Reception Mode. The pedestrian UE in
Discontinuous Reception Mode includes its Discontinuous Reception Information
and user info in the Discontinuous Reception Announcement message. The
Discontinuous Reception Information includes the starting point time value(s),
the reception window length and discontinuous reception cycle.
The Discontinuous Reception Announcement message is broadcasted periodically,
e.g. once every second. The vehicle UE\'s V2X layer may store the information
included in the message when receiving such messages.
NOTE 2: It is up to the UE implementation in the V-UE to maintain the
information of the P-UEs.
### 6.4.2 Procedures
#### 6.4.2.1 Activation of Discontinuous Reception Mode
Figure 6.4.2.1-1: Discontinuous Reception Mode activation procedure
0\. The UE(s) (i.e. pedestrian UE and vehicle UE) determines the destination
Layer-2 ID for broadcast as specified in TS 23.287 [5] clause 5.6.1.2, the
UE(s) performs broadcast mode V2X communication (transmit only, receive only
or both) as required by V2X application layer. If required by V2X application
layer to receive V2X service data, the pedestrian UE starts to receive data in
Continuous Reception Mode.
1\. If the V2X application layer of pedestrian UE determine the Discontinuous
Reception Mode can be activated, the V2X application layer indicates to the
V2X layer to change into Discontinuous Reception Mode, by providing the user
info (i.e. pedestrian UE\'s application layer ID), the reception window length
and discontinuous reception cycle (e.g. 200ms for every 1s or 200ms for every
500ms).
2\. Based on the input from the V2X application layer, the V2X layer indicates
the AS layer to change into Discontinuous Reception Mode, by providing DRX
assistance information to the AS layer. The AS layer determines RAN DRX
configuration taking into account of the input from V2X layer, then monitors
and receives V2X service data periodically. The AS layer provides the
Discontinuous Reception Information to V2X layer.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS what is the content of DRX assistant information or
it is up to UE implementation.
3\. After the Discontinuous Reception Mode is activated, the pedestrian UE
sends the Discontinuous Reception Announcement message periodically to
broadcast the Discontinuous Reception Information and user info (as specified
in clause 6.4.1), using the self-assigned source Layer-2 ID and the default
destination Layer-2 ID (this default destination Layer-2 ID will only be used
for this purpose).
#### 6.4.2.2 Deactivation of Discontinuous Reception Mode
Figure 6.4.2.2-1: Discontinuous reception mode deactivation procedure
1\. Same to clause 6.4.2.1 step 3.
2\. The Vehicle UE and Pedestrian broadcast V2X service data. The pedestrian
UE in Discontinues Reception Mode receives the V2X service data periodically
(i.e. following the Discontinuous Reception Information).
3\. The V2X application of Pedestrian UE determines indicates to the V2X layer
of the Continuous Reception Mode. This is triggered either by Vehicle UE (e.g.
receive a dedicated warning message) or Pedestrian UE (e.g. monitoring the
periodical broadcast messages).
3a. (Pedestrian UE triggered) If the pedestrian UE\'s V2X application layer
detects safety risk based on the received V2X service data (e.g. monitoring
the periodical broadcast messages), the V2X application layer indicates to the
V2X layer to change into Continuous Reception Mode.
3b. (Vehicle UE triggered) If the V2X application layer of Vehicle UE decides
to send a V2X service data (e.g. warning for potential collision) to a
specific pedestrian UE, the V2X application layer provides the user info of
the specific pedestrian UE to the V2X layer along with the V2X service data.
The user info is included as part of the V2X application Requirements.
\- If the user info is provided by the V2X application layer and the
corresponding Discontinues Reception Information exists in the V2X layer, the
V2X layer passes the V2X service data along with the Discontinues Reception
Information and the Layer-2 ID of the P-UE to the AS layer.
NOTE 1: If the V2X application layer of Vehicle UE intends to send V2X
messages to multiple Pedestrian UEs, the V2X application layer of the Vehicle
UE can provide multiple user info to the V2X layer. The V2X layer passes the
V2X service data along with the Discontinuous Reception Information and the
Layer-2 ID of each P-UE to the AS layer. The AS layer sends V2X service data
to each P-UE by taking the Discontinuous Reception Information of each P-UE
into account.
NOTE 2: For step 3b, the Vehicle UE may send the additional warning message
outside of its normal transmission cycle, e.g. for basic safety messages.
\- If the user info is not provided by the V2X application layer, the V2X
layer passes the V2X Service date and the default Layer-2 ID corresponding to
the V2X service type to the AS layer, without any Discontinuous Reception
Information.
The AS layer of vehicle UE sends the V2X service data using the Layer-2 ID of
the pedestrian UE (in case the user info is provided), or the default Layer-2
ID corresponding to the V2X service type (in case the user info is not
provided) as the destination layer-2 ID.
4\. The V2X layer of pedestrian UE indicates the AS layer to change into
Continuous Reception Mode. The UE returns to Continuous Reception Mode.
### 6.4.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
The solution has the following impact to the existing entities:
\- Pedestrian UE:
\- V2X Application layer provides reception mode requirements or parameters;
\- V2X layer broadcasts a Discontinuous Reception Announcement message
periodically when the P-UE is in Discontinuous Reception Mode;
\- supports V2X service data reception in Discontinuous Reception Mode; and
\- switches between Continuous Reception Mode and Discontinuous Reception
Mode.
\- Vehicle UE:
\- receives the Discontinuous Reception Announcement message from P-UE(s);
\- the vehicle UE may store the Discontinuous Reception Information and user
info of surrounding pedestrian UEs;
\- V2X Application layer provides the user info along with the V2X message to
the V2X layer to send a V2X message;
\- the V2X layer passes the V2X service data along with the Discontinuous
Reception Information to the AS layer; and
\- sends the V2X service data (e.g. warning messages) to the surrounding
pedestrian UEs.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Solution for applying PC5 DRX configuration for pedestrian
UEs
### 6.5.1 Functional Description
This solution is for \"Key Issue #1: Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power
efficiency for pedestrian UEs\".
The UEs receive PC5 DRX configuration for transmitting/receiving V2X messages
over PC5 from the network. The network configures the Pedestrian UEs with a
PC5 DRX configuration over PC5 taking into account the V2X service types
supported by the network and the V2X applications QoS requirements.
Two options are provided for the Pedestrian UE to receive V2X configuration
information:
\- Option 1: Default PC5 DRX configuration is provided by the AMF during the
registration procedure
\- Option 2: The AF/PCF provides mapping of PQI(s) to PC5 DRX configuration
The PC5 DRX configuration information for PQI includes the following:
\- A \"ran2_offset\" that defines at what point in the SFN cycle is the DRX
configuration is applied
\- DRX cycle configuration
Editor\'s note: Whether the AS layer requires PC5 DRX configuration to
determine PC5 DRX requires confirmation from RAN.
In Option 1, the AMF can provide a default PC5 DRX configuration to the UE
during the registration procedure. The default PC5 DRX configuration provided
to the UE applies for all cast types and all V2X service types. When the UE is
authorized to use V2X communication over PC5 reference point as Pedestrian UE
as defined in clause 6.5.2 of TS 23.287 [5], the AMF determines the PC5 DRX
configuration is required for the UE based on the UE subscription and if
required provides the PC5 DRX Configuration to the UE. The AMF ensures that
all UEs registered on the same areas receive the same PC5 DRX configuration.
The default PC5 DRX configuration that is provided to the UE is based on pre-
configuration at the AMF. The network operator configures the default PC5 DRX
taking into account the QoS requirements of V2X applications providing
pedestrian services. Whether the same default PC5 DRX configuration is used in
all AMFs of a PLMN or a different PC5 DRX configuration is used at each AMF is
up to network operator deployment.
In the inter-PLMN scenario, the default PC5 DRX configuration needs to be
coordinated amongst all PLMNs serving a specific region.
In Option 2, the AF/PCF includes PC5 DRX configuration within V2X
configuration information during UE Policy delivery procedure defined in
clause 6.2 of TS 23.287 [5]. The configuration information includes mapping of
PQI(s) to a specific PC5 DRX Configuration.
Editor\'s note: Coordination with RAN is required to confirm if AS layer or
V2X layer derives the DRX for PC5.
The UE applies the received PC5 DRX configuration as follows and shown in
Figure 6.5.1-1.
\- The UE configures an \"Active Time\" and an \"Inactive Time\" for V2X
Communication over PC5 based on the received PC5 DRX configuration.
\- When the UE is in \"Inactive Time\" the UE enters in a \"sleep\" state and
does not transmit or listen for V2X messages over PC5
\- When the UE is in \"Active Time\" the UE can transmit V2X messages provided
by the V2X application layer or listen for V2X messages over PC5. If the V2X
application provides the data during the UE\'s inactive state the UE buffers
the data and transmits them during the Active Time Period.
Editor\'s note: The exact procedure for the UE to apply the received DRX
configuration requires coordination with RAN.
Figure 6.5.1-1: Transmitting/Receiving V2X messages over PC5 based on PC5 DRX
configuration
In certain scenarios, some V2X applications may provide the V2X layer with the
specific V2X Application Requirements as described in TS 23.287 [5], to send
V2X messages over PC5 for a V2X service type as defined in clause 5.4.1.1.2 of
TS 23.287 [5]. In such cases the PC5 DRX configuration provided by the network
may not be adequate to sustain such V2X application QoS requirements. The UE
may add an offset in the configured PC5 DRX extending the \"Active Time\" for
transmitting the data to support the QoS requirements of the application. This
is shown in Figure 6.5.1-2.
Editor\'s note: How the UE determines the offset if default PC5 DRX
configuration is provided will be defined in RAN
Figure 6.5.1-2: Extending PC5 DRX to support required QoS
If the UE has received PC5 DRX configuration for PQI as part of V2X
configuration information, the V2X layer in the UE provides to the AS layer
the PC5 DRX configuration by following PC5 QoS Flow derivation as described in
TS 23.287 [5] as follows:
\- Based on the V2X application provided QoS requirements or the mapping of
the V2X service type to PC5 QoS parameters, the V2X layer determines PC5 QoS
Parameters.
\- Based on the PQI, the V2X layer determines PC5 DRX configuration
information from V2X configuration information.
\- The V2X layer determines the PC5 QoS Flow (creates new or modifies an
existing one) and passes to the AS layer the PC5 QoS requirements and PC5 DRX
configuration for the PC5 QoS Flow.
\- The AS layer applies the PC5 DRX configuration and determines Active Time
and Offset.
For a receiving UE, the UE determines the PC5 DRX as follows:
\- The UE applies the default PC5 DRX if provided by the AMF or
\- The UE determines the destination layer-2 IDs for broadcast/groupcast
reception based on the mapping of V2X service types to Destination Layer-2
ID(s) for broadcast/groupcast as specified in clause 5.6.1.2 of TS 23.287 [5].
The receiving UE then determines the PC5 QoS parameters based on the mapping
of V2X service types to PC5 QoS parameters as specified in clause 5.1.2.1 of
TS 23.287 [5] or based on QoS requirements provided by the application. The
receiving UE then applies the PC5 DRX according to the mapping of PQI(s) to
PC5 DRX configuration.
In case, a Pedestrian UE has multiple active PC5 QoS Flows with different PC5
QoS parameters each having a different PC5 DRX configuration, it is proposed
the AS layer to configure a DRX cycle that combines all PC5 DRX
configurations. This ensures that the UE will be able to monitor and send V2X
messages from all \"active\" V2X applications. In addition, the AS layer can
determine to switch the UE in \"always-on\" mode if there is no power
efficiency by combining all DRX configuration.
In case the UE has received both default PC5 DRX configuration information
from the AMF and the PC5 DRX configuration information for PQI from the
AF/PCF, therefore the V2X layer provides both to the AS layer, the AS layer
can also combine the PC5 DRX configuration.
Editor\'s note: How the AS layer combines the PC5 DRX configuration needs to
be defined/confirmed in RAN groups
Once the UE determines the offset the UE applies the offset for all V2X
communications over unicast, groupcast or broadcast.
### 6.5.2 Procedures
Figure 6.5.2-1 provides the procedure for applying the PC5 DRX configuration.
Figure 6.5.2-1: UE applying received PC5 DRX configuration
1\. Pedestrian UEs register to the 5G network using standard procedures.
2\. The Pedestrian UE receives PC5 DRX configuration from the network (either
based on Option 1 and/or Option 2 described in clause 6.5.1).
3\. Based on the received PC5 DRX configuration the AS layer in the UE
determines an Active Time and an Inactive Time. The UE transmits and/or listen
for V2X messages over PC5 only during the DRX Active Time.
4\. An application in the UE requests to send a V2X message over PC5 with
specific QoS requirements by providing V2X Application Requirements to the V2X
layer as described in TS 23.287 [5]. The V2X layer determines the PC5 QoS
parameters based on the V2X Application Requirements and provide them to the
AS layer as defined in clause 5.4.1.1.3 of TS 23.287 [5]. If the UE has
received PC5 DRX configuration within V2X configuration information from the
AF/PCF, the V2X layer also includes PC5 DRX configuration for each applicable
PC5 QoS Flow.
5\. If the V2X layer provided the default PC5 DRX configuration, the AS layer
in the UE determines that the configured PC5 DRX cannot support the QoS
requirements and determines an additional offset in the configured PC5 DRX to
support the required QoS.
If the V2X layer provided the PC5 DRX configuration for the PC5 QoS Flow, the
AS layer determines the PC5 DRX taking into account the PC5 DRX configuration
for all PC5 QoS Flows (default PC5 DRX configuration and/or PC5 DRX
configuration for each PC5 QoS Flow).
6\. The AS layer applies the PC5 DRX for all sidelink communications over PC5
for any V2X service.
7\. When a pedestrian UE establishes a unicast link with a UE for V2X
communication, the UEs may negotiate a new PC5 DRX according to the QoS
requirements of the application requiring to send V2X messages via this
unicast link.
### 6.5.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
UE:
AS layer:
\- Applies PC5 DRX configuration over PC5 for both V2X transmission and
reception.
\- Determines DRX offset to support specific QoS requirements if default PC5
DRX configuration cannot sustain the QoS requirements.
\- Determines DRX offset based on PC5 DRX configuration provided by V2X layer.
V2X layer:
\- Determines PC5 DRX configuration based on V2X configuration information
containing a mapping of PC5 DRX to PQI provided by the AF/PCF.
AMF:
\- Determines and provides PC5 DRX configuration for pedestrian UEs.
AF/PCF
\- Provides mapping of PQI(s) to PC5 DRX Configuration.
## 6.6 Solution #6: V2P parameter provisioning
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution is for Key Issue #1, \"Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power
efficiency for pedestrian UEs\".
### 6.6.2 High-level Description
DRX mechanism is to put the UE in Idle mode properly for power saving. If each
of V2X service has its own DRX cycle, it may lead the UE to be awake on most
occasions, which is not desirable in terms of power saving. Therefore, this
solution proposes to define one PC5 DRX cycle per NR PC5 RAT (not per V2X
service type). NG-RAN takes PC5 QoS parameters (which are provided from the
AMF during registration procedure as described in clause 6.5.2 of TS 23.287
[5]) into account when the NG-RAN determines and configures the UE with the UE
specific PC5 DRX cycle for NR PC5 RAT.
Editor\'s note: Whether and how the NG-RAN provides the UE specific PC5 DRX
cycle to the UE is up to RAN WGs to decide.
In addition to the information specified in clause 5.1.2.1 of TS 23.287 [5],
the following sets of information for V2X communications over PC5 reference
point is provisioned to the UE:
\- Default PC5 DRX cycle for NR PC5 RAT. The UE uses the default DRX cycle
when the UE is \"not served by E-UTRA\" and \"not served by NR\".
The UE uses default PC5 DRX cycle for NR PC5 RAT when the UE is \"not served
by E-UTRA\" and \"not served by NR\".
### 6.6.3 Procedures
No new procedure is needed.
### 6.6.4 Impacts on existing services and interfaces
PCF:
\- Provides provisioning parameters for Default PC5 DRX cycle for NR PC5 RAT
to the UE.
UE:
\- Handles Default PC5 DRX cycle parameters.
NG-RAN:
\- Provides the UE specific PC5 DRX cycle to the UE.
## 6.7 Solution #7: QoS support for V2X messages sent by pedestrian UEs
### 6.7.1 Functional Description
This solution is for Key Issue #1 \"Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power
efficiency for pedestrian UEs\" and focuses on the following QoS aspects to
support V2X messages sent by pedestrian UEs.
1) How to derive PC5 QoS parameters specified in clause 5.4.1.1.2 of TS 23.287
[5]
2) Standardized PQIs and their QoS characteristics specified in clause 5.4.4
of TS 23.287 [5]
Pedestrian UEs can continuously broadcast V2X messages including status and
attribute information of the UE such as time, position, motion state, VRU
type, etc., e.g. every 1 second. TS 22.185 [2] defines the service requirement
related to V2X messages sent by the P-UEs.
It is observed that the existing QoS mechanisms regarding 1) and 2) can
support V2X messages transmitted by the P-UEs well when NR PC5 is used for
basic safety. This is because the appropriate PC5 QoS parameters will be
derived based on the V2X Application Requirements or the V2X service type as
specified in clause 5.4.1.1.2 of TS 23.287 [5]. If PQI=58 is derived, it is
considered that this PQI value can support the V2X messages sent by the P-UEs
appropriately by fulfilling the latency requirement as defined in TS 22.185
[2].
Table 6.7.1-1: Excerpt from Table 5.4.4-1 of TS 23.287 [5]
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | PQI | Res | De | P | P | De | De | Ex | | | ource | fault | acket | acket | fault | fault | ample | | Value | Type | Pri | Delay | Error | Ma | | Ser | | | | ority | B | | ximum | Aver | vices | | | | Level | udget | Rate | Data | aging | | | | | | | | Burst | W | | | | | | | | V | indow | | | | | | | | olume | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | 58 | No | 4 | 100 | 1 | N/A | N/A | S | | | n-GBR | | ms | 0^-2^ | | | ensor | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | sh | | | | | | | | | aring | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | egree | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | ation | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
NOTE 1: The following solution is not within the scope of this study, instead
it provides example use of specification defined outside of 3GPP. In addition
to the general V2X messages from the P-UEs described in TS 23.287 [5] and
above, the V2X messages regarding VRU clustering can be also considered by UE
implementation. The VRU clustering is defined in ETSI TS 103 300‑3 [8] to
reduce the resource usage (e.g. spectrum resources from V2X system perspective
as well as battery resource and processing resource from P-UE perspective) and
operates as below:
\- A group of P-UEs with a homogeneous behaviour can be combined into a
cluster of VRUs. That is, a P-UE can decide to form a cluster based on the
received V2X messages from other P-UEs and send a V2X message indicating that
it will lead the cluster. Other P-UEs can send a V2X message indicating that
they are joining the cluster. P-UEs belonging to a cluster are represented by
the cluster head and only the cluster head sends out a V2X message including
the required cluster information. The P-UE that is not the cluster head does
not send its V2X message after joining the cluster.
\- The V2X messages sent out by the cluster head representing all cluster
member P-UEs may need careful handling (e.g. with appropriate priority)
because these V2X messages are for safety of all P-UEs belonging to the
cluster. It is observed that the existing QoS mechanisms regarding 1) and 2)
can also support the V2X messages sent out by the cluster head. For example,
PQI=58 can also work for the V2X messages sent out by the cluster head with
the assumption that the priority level for this PQI (i.e. 4) is reasonable.
Consequently, regarding 1) and 2), no new QoS mechanism on top of those
already defined in TS 23.287 [5] is needed to support V2X messages sent by
P-UEs including the general V2X messages from the P-UEs as well as the V2X
messages from the cluster head representing all cluster member P-UEs, where
applicable.
NOTE 2: In this solution, the aspect regarding the VRU clustering is
applicable to regions and devices that implement the related ETSI
specifications.
### 6.7.2 Procedures
No new procedure is required.
### 6.7.3 Impacts on services, entities and interfaces
No impact.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Considerations for PC5 DRX operations
### 7.1.1 Evaluation for the level of Provisioned PC5 DRX schedules
Provisioned default PC5 DRX schedules (or cycles, as they are termed by some
solutions) can be associated with the PC5 RAT type (i.e. one default cycle for
all NR PC5 communications, as suggested by Solution#6) or they can be more
fine-granular, e.g. associated with either V2X service types (as suggested by
Solution#2) or PQIs (as suggested by Solution#5). If V2X services apply their
own, independent, and uncoordinated PC5 DRX cycles, this could indeed lead to
increased ON durations of the UEs that run many services.
NOTE: SA WG2 does not plan to continue with any further evaluation of the
solutions.
## 7.2 Conclusions for PC5 DRX operations
For Key Issue #1 (Support of QoS aware NR PC5 power efficiency for pedestrian
UEs), regarding NR PC5 DRX operations the following principles are taken as
the conclusion:
\- The Access Stratum (AS) layer determines the PC5 DRX parameter values for
V2X communication over PC5 reference point to enable pedestrian UE power
saving.
\- The existing PC5 QoS parameters provided by the V2X layer can be used by
the AS layer to determine the PC5 DRX parameter values.
\- For groupcast and broadcast, the AS layer of Rx UE needs PC5 QoS parameters
to determine the PC5 DRX parameter values for V2X communication over PC5
reference point. Therefore, the V2X layer of Rx UE determines the interested
V2X service types, and derives the corresponding PC5 QoS parameters based on
either the mapping of V2X service types to PC5 QoS parameters, or the V2X
Application Requirements for the V2X service type (e.g. priority requirement,
reliability requirement, delay requirement, range requirement) provided by the
application layer. The V2X layer of Rx UE passes the PC5 QoS parameters
together with the corresponding destination layer-2 ID(s) for reception to the
AS layer.
\- The AS layer provides the applied PC5 DRX information to the V2X layer.
NOTE 1: For what purpose the PC5 DRX information is used by the V2X layer,
e.g. whether the V2X layer exposes transmission schedule information to the
V2X application layer (including why the PC5 DRX information needs to be
exposed to the V2X application layer, given that Uu DRX information is not
provided to the application layer from NAS layer, and what is the content for
the transmission schedule information) will be determined in the normative
phase based on the applied PC5 DRX information provided by the AS layer to the
V2X layer to be defined in RAN2.
\- For unicast, two UEs may negotiate the PC5 DRX configuration in AS layer,
and the PC5 DRX can be configured per a pair of source/destination UE
addresses in AS layer.
\- For broadcast and groupcast, and for out-of-coverage case (i.e. when the UE
is \"not served by E-UTRA\" and \"not served by NR\"), the AS layer of UE uses
the provisioned PC5 DRX configuration for PC5 DRX operation.
NOTE 2: The granularity/level of provisioned PC5 DRX configuration used for
broadcast and groupcast (e.g. mapping information for PC5 DRX parameters), and
for out-of-coverage case will be determined in the normative phase based on
RAN WG2 decision or via coordination with RAN WG2.
NOTE 3: The provisioned PC5 DRX configuration can be from different sources
(e.g. by PCF or by V2X Application Server via V1 reference point). The
provisioned PC5 DRX configuration is expected to be consistent.
NOTE 4: For unicast, for out-of-coverage case, whether to use the provisioned
PC5 DRX configuration will be determined in the normative phase based on RAN
WG2 decision.
#