# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the protocol details for the multi-device and
multi-identity aspects in the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem
based on the requirements from 3GPP TS 22.173 [2].
The present document is applicable to user equipment (UE) and application
servers (AS) which are intended to support multi-device and multi-identity
aspects in the IMS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.607: \"Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) and
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[5] IETF RFC 3323: \"A Privacy Mechanism for the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\".
[6] IETF RFC 3325: \"Private Extensions to the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) for Network Asserted Identity within Trusted Networks\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
Services\".
[8] IETF RFC 8946: \"Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) Extension for
Diverted Calls\".
[9] OMA-TS-CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API-V1_0-20181025-D: \"CPM
Message Store using RESTFul API, Draft Version 1.0 -- 25 Oct 2018\",\
[http://member.openmobilealliance.org/ftp/Public_documents/COM/COM-
CPM/Permanent_documents/OMA-TS-
Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API-V1_0-20181025-D.zip]{.underline}.
> [10] OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_NMS-V1_0-20190528-C: \"RESTful Network API for
> Network Message Storage, Candidate Version 1.0 -- 28 May 2019\",\
> [http://member.openmobilealliance.org/ftp/Public_documents/ARCH/Permanent_documents/OMA-
> TS-REST_NetAPI_NMS-V1_0-20190528-C.zip]{.underline}.
[11] 3GPP TS 24.629: \"Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.175: \"Management Object (MO) for Multi-Device and Multi-
Identity in IMS; Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[15] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[16] IETF RFC 4235: \"An INVITE-Initiated Dialog Event Package for the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.628: \"Common Basic Communication procedures using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[18] RFC 4122 (July 2005): \"A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN
Namespace\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.173: \"IMS Multimedia telephony communication service and
supplementary services; Stage 3\".
[20] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[21] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP multimedia services identity
module (ISIM) application\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**native identity** : an identity of form tel URI or SIP URI, used by the UE
and which is associated with the IMSI which is currently used by the UE for
IMS registration. The native identity is IMS registered by the UE.
**alternative identity** : an identity of form tel URI or SIP URI, used by the
UE and which is not associated with the IMSI which is currently used by the UE
for IMS registration and is associated with a different IMSI for the same IMS
subscription owned by the same IMS network. The alternative identity can be
IMS registered by the UE or can be configured in the service data of the UE\'s
IMS subscription.
**call pull** : procedure in which a UE takes over an ongoing session from
another UE in the set of federated UEs.
**call push** : procedure in which a UE pushes an ongoing session to another
UE in the set of federated UEs.
**external alternative identity** : an identity of form tel URI or SIP URI,
used by the UE and which is not associated with the IMSI which is currently
used by the UE for IMS registration but is associated with a different IMSI
for another IMS subscription owned by the same or a different IMS network. The
external alternative identity is not IMS registered by the UE but is
configured in the service data of the UE\'s IMS subscription.
**virtual identity** : an identity of form tel URI or SIP URI, used by the UE
and which is not associated as native identity with any IMSI that is
associated with ISIM or USIM in the UE. The virtual identity can be IMS
registered by the UE or can be configured in the service data of the UE\'s IMS
subscription.The virtual identity can be used by a single user only or by
several users having IMS subscriptions in the same or different IMS networks.
**non-native identity** : an identity which is not the native identity. The
non-native identity may be an alternative identity, external alternative
identity or a virtual identity.
**federated UEs** : a group of UEs which are configured to use **the same
public user identity**.
**user A:** user A is the originating user, in the present document user A
calls user B, where A can be using the identity C.
**user B:** user B is the terminating user, in the present document user A
calls user B, where B can be reached under the identity D.
**identity C:** identity C is a non-native identity that can be used by user A
and is not registered by user A.
**identity D:** identity D is a non-native identity that can be used by user B
and is not registered by user B.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
3pcc Third party call control
AS Application Server
MiD **Multi-iDentity**
MuD Multi-Device
# 4 Multi-device and multi-identity
## 4.1 Introduction
**The Multi-Device (MuD) service** is an operator specific service which
enables a user to use **different UEs that are registered under the same
public user identity. The UEs can be of different types (e.g. phone, tablet,**
wearable device, **PC) and can support a** communication **log.**
**The Multi-Identity (MiD) service** is an operator specific service which
**enables a user to use different identities. A served user can use a single
UE to receive calls addressed to any of its identities and to make calls using
any of its identities.**
The **MuD and MiD services can be used at the same time.**
The UE can indicate to the network which identities are active at the UE. If
the identity is not active at the UE, the user cannot use given identity in a
communication at the UE.
## 4.2 Description
### 4.2.1 MuD service description
**The MuD service enables a served user to use, in a** communication, **any of
the UEs that are configured to use the same public user identity, i.e. any of
the federated UEs.**
**The MuD service enables a** synchronization of communication logs between
the **federated UEs** **which support** communication **log**. **The**
communication **log** provides lists of incoming and outgoing, missed,
accepted and rejected calls. If the served user accepts or rejects call from
one of the **federated** UEs or when a missed call notification has been read
on one of the **federated** UEs, the communication **logs of the** other
**federated** UEs are updated so the served user will see the same information
on different **federated** UEs.
An outgoing call can be made from any of the **federated** UEs. A federated UE
can indicate to the network which public user identities are (de)activated at
the federated UE.
An incoming call towards the served user is sent to all **federated** UEs
where that public user identity is active at the federated UE. The call can be
accepted on any of the **federated** UEs which are alerting the served user of
an incoming call. The federated UEs can synchronize the call logs by using the
call log functionality in OMA-TS-CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9] and
OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_NMS [10].
A federated UE can if authorized by the AS push a call to any other of the
federated UEs. A federated UE can if authorized pull a call from any of the
other federated UEs.
**The number of UEs using the same public user identity is implementation
specific.**
NOTE: In case federated UEs use common implicit registration set, all
federated UEs will subscribe to the registration-state event package and will
receive notifications related to all public user identities in this implicit
registration set.
If the user of the **MuD service** also subscribes to the **MiD service then
the user can use non-native identities in addition to native identities on
federated UEs**. A federated UE can indicate to the network which of these
non-native identities are (de)activated at the federated UE.
### 4.2.2 MiD service description
**The MiD service enables a served user to use any of its identities i.e.
native and non-native identities for communication using a single UE. A native
identity is always registered by the UE. An alternative identity and a virtual
identity can be either registered by the UE, or the UE can be authorized to
use these identities based on configuration in the user\'s service data. An
external alternative identity cannot be registered by the UE, but the UE can
be authorized to use this identity based on configuration in the user\'s
service data.**
NOTE: The identity registered by the UE is received in the P-Associated-URI
header field within 200 (OK) response during registration. The identity not
registered but **authorized to be used** by the UE **is configured in the
user\'s service data.**
**When making a call the served user selects one of its identities that will
be used by the UE** as an originating identity (calling party number) **in an
outgoing call. Upon reception of an incoming call the UE provides to the
served user an indication on which of its identities the served user is**
contacted (called party number).
The UE can indicate to the network which identities are active at the UE. A
native identity is always active at the UE.
Several users of the MiD service can share the same non-native identity for
communication.
**The number of non-native identities used by a user using a single UE is
implementation specific.**
If the user of the MiD service also subscribes to the MuD service then the
user can use non-native identities on federated UEs. In such case, the UE can
indicate to the network which of these non-native identities are active at
each federated UE separately.
## 4.3 Operational requirements
### 4.3.1 Provision/withdrawal
The MiD service and the MuD service are provided after prior arrangement with
the service provider.
The MiD service and the MuD service are withdrawn at the served user\'s
request or for administrative purposes.
### 4.3.2 Requirements on the originating network side
For the MiD service, the originating network shall support the Additional-
Identity header field.
For the MuD service the originating network shall support using a token to
identify the registration as specified in TS 24.229 [3].
### 4.3.3 Requirements in the network
For the MiD service, a network serving an external alternative identity shall
support adding the Additional-Identity header field.
For the MuD service no specific requirements are needed in the network.
### 4.3.4 Requirements on the terminating network side
For the MiD service, the terminating network shall support the Additional-
Identity header field.
For the MuD service the terminating network shall support using a token to
identify the registration as specified in TS 24.229 [3].
## 4.4 Coding requirements
No specific coding requirements are defined in the present document.
## 4.5 Signalling requirements
### 4.5.1 General
Configuration of the MiD services by the user should take place over the Ut
interface using XCAP as enabling protocol as described in TS 24.623 [7].
NOTE: Other possibilities for user configuration, such as web-based
provisioning or pre-provisioning by the operator are outside the scope of the
present document, but are not precluded.
The enhancements to the XML schema for use over the Ut interface is described
in clause 4.8.
### 4.5.2 Activation/deactivation of MuD/MiD services
#### 4.5.2.1 General
The services and individual identities can be activated or deactivated
following procedures in the following clauses.
#### 4.5.2.2 Activation of MuD and MiD services
The MuD and MiD services are activated at provisioning and deactivated at
withdrawal or at the user\'s request.
If the MuD, MiD or both services are activated, the user controls whether
identities can be used for incoming and outgoing calls by
activation/deactivation of identities.
#### 4.5.2.3 Activation/deactivation of identities
Via activation/deactivation of identities in case of MiD service, the user
controls if the identity is active on its device. Via activation/deactivation
of identities in case of MuD service, the user controls if the identity is
active on each device in federation separately. If the user of MuD service is
also using MiD service, the user controls if each identity is active on each
device separately. There is a separate \ element for each of the
device, distinguishable by the \"identity\" attribute. The \"identity\"
attribute takes the form of a pvalue as derfined in IETF RFC 3261 [15] and can
be set by the operator to a value linked with the IMS private user identity.
The \"alias\" attribute is modifiable by the user and is filled with a user-
friendly identifier making the UE instance easier distinguishable among all
the devices in federation.
The user of MuD, MiD or both services decides which of the identities that it
is allowed to use and can be registered are active and can be used for
incoming and outgoing calls by changing the \"Activated\" attribute in the
\ elements in the service configuration data.
The user of MiD service decides which of the identities that have been allowed
to be used for the user but cannot be registered are active and can be used
for incoming and outgoing calls by changing the \"Activated\" attribute in the
\ elements in the service configuration data.
The user decides if it permits another user to use its native identity. The
user decides which users among those who have been allowed to use its
identity, can use this identity for incoming and outgoing calls by changing
the \"Activated\" attribute in the \ elements in the service
configuration data.
### 4.5.3 Invocation and operation
#### 4.5.3.1 Actions at the UE of user A
##### 4.5.3.1.1 General
If user A wishes to use a native identity, the UE shall include in the
outgoing INVITE or MESSAGE request the From header field and may include the
P-Preferred-Identity header field(s) as specified in TS 24.229 [3]. The From
header field and the P-Preferred-Identity header field (if included) shall
contain the native identity.
If user A wishes to use an alternative identity or a virtual identity that the
UE has registered, the UE shall include in the outgoing INVITE or MESSAGE
request the From header field and the P-Preferred-Identity header field. The
P-Preferred-Identity header field and the From header field shall contain the
alternative identity or the virtual identity.
If user A wishes to use the identity C, the UE shall include in any outgoing
INVITE or MESSAGE requests, an Additional-Identity header field, defined in TS
24.229 [3], set to the selected identity and shall include the native identity
in the From header field. The UE can learn the identity C by device
configuration as specified in TS 24.175 [13] or by using the service
configuration in clause 4.8.
The UE may support being configured with the identities to be used using one
or more of the following methods:
a) the \"MultiIdentity\" interior node of the EF~MuDMiDConfigData~ file
described in TS 31.102 [xx];
b) the \"MultiIdentity\" interior node of the EF~MuDMiDConfigData~ file
described in TS 31.103 [yy]; and
c) the \"MultiIdentity\" interior node of TS 24.175 [13].
If the UE is configured with both the \"MultiIdentity\" interior node of TS
24.175 [13] and the \"MultiIdentity\" interior node of the
EF~MuDMiDConfigData~ file described in TS 31.102 [xx] or TS 31.103 [yy], then
the Media_type_restriction_policy node of the EF~MuDMiDConfigData~ file shall
take precedence.
NOTE: Precedence for files configured on both the USIM and ISIM is defined in
TS 31.103 [yy].
When establishing an emergency session and performing the emergency related
procedures defined in TS 24.229 [3], the UE shall only use the native
identity.
A UE supporting the MuD service may synchronize the local call log with the
network stored call log as specified in OMA-TS-
CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9] and OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_NMS [10]. If
the served user in the \"From\" header field is an identity not registered by
the UE, the UE shall deduce that the call was originated using the Additional-
Identity header field.
##### 4.5.3.1.2 Call pull handling
The UE may pull a session from another federated UE by performing the
following steps:
NOTE: In this Release of the present document no procedure is specified to
receive consent from the UE the call is pulled from.
a) the UE learns about the session to pull by subscribing to the dialog event
package, specified in RFC 4235 [16];
b) the UE sends an INVITE request towards the far end populated as follows:
1) the Request-URI is set to the uri in the \ element of the \
element;
2) a Replaces header field containing the dialog identifiers contained as
attributes in the \ element of the \ element; and
3) any other header field or body as determined by the service logic; and
c) when the UE receives a response to the INVITE request above the UE follows
general procedures in TS 24.229 [3].
##### 4.5.3.1.3 Call push handling
The UE may push a session to another federated UE by performing the following
steps:
a) the UE learns the status and identities of the other federated UEs using
the dialog event package, specified in RFC 4235 [16] and extended as specified
in clause 7.X.2 in TS 24.229 [3]; and
b the UE sends a REFER request towards the target UE populated as follows:
NOTE 1: In this Release of the present document only one UE is targeted in the
transfer.
1) the Request-URI is set to the own public user identity and includes a
\"gr\" SIP URI parameter set to the value of the \"identity\" attribute for
the target UE received in the \ element in the \
element in the dialog event notification; and
NOTE 2: The value in the \"identity\" attribute has the same format as a GRUU,
but is not a GRUU assigned by the S-CSCF. It only has local significance.
2) a Refer-to header field set to the SIP URI of the remote end and including
in the headers portion of the SIP URI the headers and bodies determined by the
service logic.
#### 4.5.3.2 Actions at the AS serving user A
##### 4.5.3.2.1 General
Upon receiving an incoming initial INVITE, REFER or MESSAGE request containing
an Additional-Identity header field, the AS shall determine the served user as
specified in TS 24.229 [3] clause 5.7.1.3A.2 and shall check if any of the
served user\'s registered identities is also included in the Additional-
Identity header field. If the Additional-Identity header field contains a
served user\'s registered identity the AS shall remove the Additional-Identity
header field from the request and shall forward the request in accordance with
procedures defined in TS 24.229 [3]. Otherwise, if the received Additional-
Identity header field does not contain any of the served user\'s registered
identities the AS shall:
a) verify that the user is authorized to use the identity received in the
Additional-Identity header field as specified in clause 4.5.3.2.2; and
b) if the user is not authorized to use the identity included in the
Additional-Identity header field, then the AS shall reject the incoming
request. The originating request may be rejected by operator policy with a 403
(Forbidden) response including a warning header field 399 \"Identity not
allowed\".
If the user is authorized to use the identity in the Additional-Identity
header field then the AS shall generate a new SIP request based on the
received SIP request in accordance with the procedures in TS 24.229 [3] clause
5.7.3 with the following clarifications:
a) remove any P-Served-User header field and insert a P-Served-User header
field with the identity taken from the Additional-Identity header field in the
received request;
b) remove any existing Route header field and insert a Route header field
pointing to an I-CSCF or to the S-CSCF hosting the identity in the Additional-
Identity header field in the received request;
c) in the Route header field above, append the \"orig\" parameter to the URI;
and
d) insert the Additional-Identity header field with the same value as in the
received SIP request.
The AS shall send the generated SIP request and may refrain from the
invocation of other MMTel services serving the native identity.
NOTE: No specific procedures are needed regarding the Identity header field.
The originating network can attest the identity of user A following normal
procedures specified in TS 24.229 [3].
If the AS updates the Call Log as specified in OMA-TS-
CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9] the AS shall populate the \"From\"
attribute of the call log object with the value in the Additional-Identity
header field, provided the user is authorized to use this identity.
##### 4.5.3.2.2 Authorization of the Additional-Identity header field
The AS serving user A shall authorize the usage of the identity contained in
the Additional-Identity header field as the originating identity by checking:
\- if the identity contained in the Additional-Identity header field is
included in the user\'s service data associated to the native identity of the
originating user; and
\- if the \"Activated\" attribute of the \ element of the
\ element in the service configuration data is set to
\"true\".
Otherwise, user A is not authorized to use the identity contained in the
Additional-Identity header field as the originating identity.
##### 4.5.3.2.3 Call pull handling
An AS supporting call pull handling, when receiving an INVITE request as
specified in clause 4.5.3.1.2 shall verify that the calling user is allowed to
pull a call. If the call pull is allowed, the AS forwards the received INVITE
request in accordance with TS 24.229 [3], otherwise the AS rejects the request
with an appropriate response code.
##### 4.5.3.2.4 Call push handling
An AS supporting call push handling, when receiving a REFER request as
specified in clause 4.5.3.1.3 shall
a) verify that the user is allowed to push a call; and
b) if the call push is allowed, based on local policy, either
1) forward the REFER request towards the REFER target; or
2) start 3pcc procedures as specified in TS 24.628 [17] to:
A) transfer the originating leg from the originator of the REFER reqeust to
the REFER target; and
B) if necessary, update the terminating leg.
The AS shall use the \"gr\" SIP URI parameter in the Request-URI to identify
the REFER target UE. If the AS knows that the content of the \"gr\" SIP URI
parameter is not a GRUU assigned by the S-CSCF the AS shall remove the \"gr\"
SIP URI parameter from the Request-URI before forwarding the request.
#### 4.5.3.3 Actions at the AS serving identity C
Upon receiving an incoming INVITE or MESSAGE request containing an Additional-
Identity header field, the AS shall:
a) determine the served user as defined in TS 24.229 [3];
b) if the user identified in the P-Asserted-Identity is not allowed to use the
identity in the Additional-Identity header field, reject the request using a
403 (Forbidden) response including a warning header field 399 \"Identity not
allowed\" and skip the rest of the steps;
c) replace the identity in the From header field with the identity in the
Additional-Identity header field;
d) depending on local configuration, related to the operator policy and
regulatory requirements, allowing to determine whether an originating external
alternative identity or an originating virtual identity is to be used as an
originating identity (calling party number)**:**
1) if the P-Asserted-Identity header can be modified, replace the identity in
the P-Asserted-Identity header field with the identity in the Additional-
Identity header field; or
2) if the P-Asserted-Identity header cannot be modified, set the Privacy
header field \"id\" to keep the native identity private in the P-Asserted-
Identity header field as defined in IETF RFC 3325 [6];
e) if the identity of the originating user can be verified, based on local
policy initiate addition of an Identity header field attesting the identity C;
f) remove the Additional-Identity header field received in the request; and
g) perform any other originating services as performed by the service logic,
before forwarding the request downstream.
#### 4.5.3.4 Actions at the AS serving identity D
For a terminating user, upon receiving an incoming INVITE or MESSAGE request,
the AS shall perform any terminating services as performed by the service
logic before forwarding the request downstream.
If the AS service determines based on configuration that the AS shall forward
the request to any of the identities that can use the identity received in the
Request-URI, the AS shall for each forwarded request modify the request as
follows:
a) the Request-URI is set to the identity configured in the AS; and
b) an Additional-Identity header field, defined in TS 24.229 [3], is added and
set to the identity received in the Request-URI.
If the AS supports calling number verification using signature verification
and attestation information as specified in TS 24.229 [3], the AS treats the
forwarding to the identities above as diversions, i.e. uses the \"div\"
PASSporT as specified in IETF RFC 8946.
If the AS identifies the INVITE request as a PSAP callback, the MiD service
shall not be triggered.
#### 4.5.3.5 Actions at the AS serving user B
Upon receiving an INVITE or MESSAGE request not containing an Additional-
Identity header field and if the terminating user is subscribed to the MuD
service, the AS shall when sending the request to the UEs verify whether the
identity in the Request-URI is activated by the MiD service and on the target
UE. The AS shall only send the request to a target UE if the identity is
active both in the MiD service and on the target UE. If the user does not
subscribe to the MiD service, but the user has the received identity
configured in the implicit registration set, the AS considers the identity to
be activated by the MiD service.
Upon receiving an INVITE or MESSAGE request containing an Additional-Identity
header field and if the terminating user is subscribed to the MuD and the MiD
service, the AS shall when sending the request to the UEs verify whether the
identity in the Additional-Identity header field is activated by the MiD
service and on the target UE. The AS shall only send the request to a target
UE if the identity is active both in the MiD service and on the target UE. The
AS may refrain from the invocation of other MMTel services configured for the
user of the native identity.
If the AS updates the Call Log as specified in OMA-TS-
CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9] the AS shall populate the \"To\"
attribute of the call log object with the value in the Additional-Identity
header field, provided the user is authorized to use this identity.
An AS supporting call pull and call push handling, uses the procedures
specified in clauses 4.5.3.2.3 and 4.5.3.2.4.
#### 4.5.3.6 Actions at the UE of user B
A UE supporting the MiD service shall support the receipt of the Additional-
Identity header field, defined in TS 24.229 [3], in SIP requests initiating a
dialog or standalone transaction.
NOTE: The UE finds a targeted external alternative identity in the Additional-
Identity header field.
A UE supporting the MuD service may synchronize the local call log with the
network stored call log as specified in OMA-TS-
CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9] and OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_NMS [10]. If
the served user in the \"To\" header field is an identity not registered by
the UE, the UE shall deduce that the call was originated using the Additional-
Identity header field.
A UE supporting call pull and call push handling uses the procedures specified
in 4.5.3.1.2 and 4.5.3.1.3.
## 4.6 Service interactions
### 4.6.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
No impact.
### 4.6.3 Terminating Identification Presentation / Terminating Identification
Restriction (TIP/TIR)
#### 4.6.3.1 MuD
No impact.
#### 4.6.3.2 MiD
For TIP, the AS serving identity D shall in SIP responses remove the
P-Asserted-Identity header field received from UE-B and insert a P-Asserted-
Identity identifying the served user.
For TIR, the AS serving identity D shall pass any Privacy header field
unchanged towards the originating user.
### 4.6.4 Advice of Charge
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.5 Communication Waiting (CW)
For MuD, if there are ongoing communications, it is a service option whether
to send an incoming initial INVITE to all federated UEs or only those UEs with
ongoing communications.
For MiD, no impact.
### 4.6.6 Communication Hold
No impact. Neither service shall affect the operation of the other service.
### 4.6.7 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
#### 4.6.7.1 Interactions for MuD service
No impact; i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
#### 4.6.7.2 Interactions for MiD service
##### 4.6.7.2.1 Actions at the UE acting as transferor
When the UE initiates a communication transfer, the UE shall use the same
identity in the Referred-By header field as was indicated for the established
session. If the UE uses identity C or identity D for the established session,
the UE shall add the Addditional-Identity header field containing this
identity.
##### 4.6.7.2.2 Actions at the AS serving the transferor
##### 4.6.7.2.2.1 Identifying a request for communication transfer
{#identifying-a-request-for-communication-transfer .H6}
See TS 24.629 [11] on the criteria to determine that a REFER request is to be
treated as a request for transfer of an existing communication.
##### 4.6.7.2.2.2 Handling of transfer requests {#handling-of-transfer-
requests .H6}
When a REFER request identified as a request for transfer is received from the
served user and the Additional-Identity header field is included in the REFER
request the AS shall authorize the use of the Additional-Identity header field
as specified in clause 4.5.3.2.2. If the user is authorized to use the
Additional-Identity header field the AS shall forward the REFER request as
follows:
a) if the REFER request was received inside the dialog, the AS forwards the
request in the existing dialog towards the transferee; or
b) if the REFER request was received outside the existing dialog, as specified
in TS 24.629 [11], the AS forwards the REFER request towards the transferee
with the same considerations as specified for an initial INVITE request in
clause 4.5.3.2.1.
##### 4.6.7.2.2.3 Actions at the AS serving the identity C or identity D
{#actions-at-the-as-serving-the-identity-c-or-identity-d .H6}
When a REFER request identified as a request for transfer that contains an
Additional-Identity header field containing a URI of the served user is
received the AS shall in addition to the procedures in clause 4.5.3.3 verify
that the Referred-By header field is consistent with the Additional-Identity
header field, and if necessary replace the Referred-By header field value with
the identity in the received Additional-Identity header field. The AS then
forwards the REFER request following normal procedures.
### 4.6.8 Conference calling (CONF)
#### 4.6.8.1 Interactions for MuD service
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
#### 4.6.8.2 Interactions for MiD service
##### 4.6.8.2.1 UE procedures for MiD service
To be able to later use the CONF service, when the UE sends an INVITE request
to a second user, the UE shall use the same identity as the UE used when
setting up the first communication.
When creating the conference with an INVITE request the UE shall use the same
identity as the UE used in the communications now on HOLD. If the UE uses
identity C or identity D for the established sessions, the UE shall add the
Addditional-Identity header field containing this identity. The UE sets the
Request-URI to the same conference factory URI as the UE uses for the native
identities.
When the UE adds a conference participant using the procedures in clause
5.3.1.5.3 in TS 24.147 [12], the UE shall set the Referred-By header field in
the REFER request to the same identity as the one used when creating the
original session(s). If this identity is a non-registered identity (identity C
or identity D) the UE adds the Additional-Identity header field containing
this identity.
##### 4.6.8.2.2 Actions at the AS serving the conference call initiator
If the AS receives an INVITE request with a Request-URI to a conference
factory used in the serving network and an Additional-Identity header field,
the AS in addition to the procedures in clause 4.5.3.2.1 replaces the Request-
URI with a default conference factory URI for MMTel (as specified in TS 23.003
[14]) valid in the home network of the identity in the Additional-Identity
header field.
##### 4.6.8.2.3 Actions at the AS serving the identity C or identity D
If the AS receives an INVITE request, addressed to a default conference
conference factory URI for MMTel as specified in TS 23.003 [14], including an
Additional-Identity header field the AS may in additon to the procedures in
clause 4.5.3.3 modify the Request-URI to include any conference factory URI of
the serving network.
If the AS receives a REFER request containing an Additional-Identity header
field, the AS shall in additon to the procedures in clause 4.5.3.3 verify that
the identity in the Referred-By header field is consistent with the
Additional-Identity header field, and if necessary replace the Referred-By
header field value with the identity in the received Additional-Identity
header field. The AS then forwards the REFER request following normal
procedures.
### 4.6.9 Closed User Group (CUG)
For MuD no impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the
other service.
For MiD, CUG imposes restrictions on both incoming and outgoing calls. The MiD
shall not use any identity C or identity D that are restricted by the CUG
service.
### 4.6.10 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
### 4.6.11 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
At the AS serving the user holding the terminating external alternative or
virtual identity, the CFU (communication forwarding unconditional) take
precedence over execution of MiD and MuD services.
At the terminating side, it is implementation specific to select CDIV service
when different CDIV services apply to different federated UEs.
### 4.6.12 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
NOTE: When the originating user has a MiD service invoked and if the operator
policy and regulatory requirements state that for the originating request the
P-Asserted-Identity header cannot be modified, identities from the P-Asserted-
Identity header field and From header field stored by MCID service represent
different users.
### 4.6.13 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) and Communication Barring
(CB)
The Incoming Communications Barring (ICB), Outgoing Communications Barring
(OCB) and Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR) of the non-native identity take
precedence over MuD and MiD services.
### 4.6.14 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
In case of the MuD service, there is no impact on the operation of the other
service.
The MWI is not supported for the identities, which are shared.
### 4.6.15 Flexible Alerting (FA)
MuD service can be combined with FA with no impacts.
Terminating MiD service is competing with FA.
### 4.6.16 Enhanced Calling Name (eCNAM)
In case of the MuD service, if the terminating user with MuD service has eCNAM
activated, incoming calls to an identity shall apply eCNAM to all federated
UEs.
### 4.6.17 Multi-Device (MuD)
When a user has the MiD service, any external alternative or virtual identity
that is authorized to be used and activated by the MiD service can be
activated on any of the Federated UEs as part of the user\'s MuD service.
### 4.6.18 Multi-Identity (MiD)
No impact. The activation of an identity by the MiD service is a condition for
that identity to be active on a federated UE by the MuD service.
### 4.6.19 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
No impact.
### 4.6.20 Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
No impact.
## 4.7 Parameter values and timers
No parameters and timers are defined in the present document.
## 4.8 Service configuration for multi-device and multi-identity
### 4.8.1 General
The multi-device and multi-identity documents are subtrees of the _simservs_
document specified in TS 24.623 [7]. As such, multi-device and multi-identity
documents use the XCAP application usage in TS 24.623 [7].
**XML schema:** Implementations in compliance with the present document shall
implement the XML schema that minimally includes the XML schema defined in
clause 4.8.2 and the _simservs_ XML schema specified in TS 24.623 [7].
**Data semantics:** The semantics of the multi-device and multi-identity XML
configuration document is specified in clause 4.8.3.
The UE can only read the MuD and MiD configuration document and modify the
\"Activated\" attribute of the \,\ and
\ elements.
### 4.8.2 XML schema
\
\
\
\
\
\Element describing the multi-device specific features for a
given UE instance\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\Element describing the multi-identity specific
features\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
### 4.8.3 Semantics
#### 4.8.3.1 General
This clause contains the description of the data elements in the XML schema.
#### 4.8.3.2 multi-device element
This is a root element for elements related to MuD service. This element
contains one or more occurrences of \ element.
The \ element represents the instance of the UE. If the user of
the UE is subscribed to the MuD service, there is a dedicated element per each
of the devices within MuD. This element has following attributes:
\- \"identity\" -- a unique identity allowing to distinguish the UEs within
the user\'s federated UEs. The \"identity\" value shall take the form of a
pvalue as defined in IETF RFC 3261 [15] and is derived from the IMS private
user identity using the name-based UUID algorithm specified in RFC 4122 [18].
The hash algorithm shall be SHA-1.;
\- \"alias\" -- a user friendly identifier of given UE instance.
NOTE: A single \ element exists even if the user did not
subscribe to MuD service, but is using MiD service on a single UE.
Each \ element contains one or more \
element, containing the identity, which can be registered by a given UE
instance. The identity has an attribute associated, which indicates if the
identity can be used for incoming and outgoing communication.
Each \ element contains zero or more occurrences of \ element, containing the shared identity for a given UE instance. The
identity has an attribute associated, which indicates if the identity can be
used for incoming and outgoing communication.
#### 4.8.3.3 multi-identity element
This is a root element for elements related to MiD service. This element
contains zero or more occurrences of \ element.
The \ element contains the delegated identity that is allowed
to use the native identity. The identity has an attribute associated, which
indicates if the user of delegated identity can use the native identity for
incoming and outgoing communication.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Call Flows
# A.1 Introduction
## A.1.1 Call flow overview
This annex contains originating and terminating call flow examples for the
following use cases:
\- Originating flow when user A uses a non-native identity A1 registered by
the UE.
\- Originating flow when user A uses an identity C.
\- Terminating flow when user B is reached by an identity D.
\- Terminating flow when user B is reached by a native identity on multiple
devices.
\- MuD call flow: subscription to notifications of network call log changes.
\- MuD call flow: synchronization of list of outgoing calls.
\- MuD call flow: synchronization of missed call notifications.
## A.1.2 Identity conventions used in this annex
A native identity is designated A-or B-in the flows for originating and
terminating users, respectively. In the coding examples tel:+11111111 is used
for originating native identities and tel:+11112222 is used for terminating
native identities. For originating user A, a non-native identity registerd by
the UE is designated A1 in the flows. In the coding examples, for simplicity
reason, tel:+11111111 is also used in case of originating non-native
registered identity.
Identity C and D are used in the flows for originating and terminating users,
respectively. In the coding examples tel:+22221111 is used for originating
non-registered identities and tel:+22222222 is used for terminating non-
registered identities.
# A.2 Originating call flows
## A.2.1 UE-A indicates a non-native identity A1 registered by the UE
This call flow illustrates the handling of the identity A1 registered by the
UE for originating call.
It applies to the cases when alternative identity registered by the UE or
virtual identity registered by the UE is used.
In this case, only the AS of user A is involved on the originating side.
NOTE: A deployment option where the UE-A indicates an identity not registered
by the UE and only the AS serving user A is involved is out of the scope of
this specification.
Figure A.2.1-1: UE-A indicates a non-native identity A1 registered by the UE
**1\. UE-A sends an INVITE message to P/S-CSCF-A, for an example see table
A.2.1-1**
The UE-A includes in the initial INVITE request the From header field and the
P-Preferred-Identity header field set to the identity A1 registered by the UE
and sends the initial INVITE request to the P/S-CSCF-A according to TS 24.229
[3].
Table A.2.1-1: INVITE request (UE-A to P/S-CSCF-A)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Preferred-Identity: \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**2\. P/S-CSCF-A forwards the INVITE message to AS-A, for an example see table
A.2.1-2**
The P-CSCF-A populates the P-Asserted-Identity header field with the identity
A1 registered by the UE following procedures defined in TS 24.229 [3].
The S-CSCF-A forwards the request to the AS-A using initial filter criteria.
Table A.2.1-2: INVITE request (P/S-CSCF-A to AS-A)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**3\. AS-A forwards the INVITE message to the S-CSCF-A, for an example see
table A.2.1-3**
AS-A performs originating services as needed and forwards the request to the
S-CSCF-A according to TS 24.229 [3].
Table A.2.1-3: INVITE request (AS-A to P/S-CSCF-A)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**4\. S-CSCF-A forwards the INVITE message towards the PLMN-B**
## A.2.2 UE-A indicates an identity C
This alternative is applicable to the cases when the UE-A indicates an
identity which has not been registered by UE-A (i.e., it applies to the cases
when UE-A indicates an alternative identity not registered by the UE or a
virtual identity not registered by the UE) or an external alternative
identity.
Figure A.2.2-1: UE-A indicates an identity C
**1\. UE-A sends an INVITE message to P/S-CSCF-A, for an example see table
A.2.2-1**
User A at UE-A initiates a call on behalf of the identity C. The UE-A includes
the Additional-Identity header field in the initial INVITE request to indicate
that the user of UE-A wishes to use the identity C for this call, the From and
the P-Preferred-Identity header fields set to the native identity and sends
the initial INVITE request to the P/S-CSCF-A according to TS 24.229 [3].
NOTE 1: According to procedures defined in TS 24.229 [3] the P-Preferred-
Identity header field can be omitted.
Table A.2.2-1: INVITE request (UE-A to P/S-CSCF-A)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
Additional-Identity: \
P-Preferred-Identity: \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**2\. S-CSCF-A forwards the INVITE message to AS-A, for an example see table
A.2.2-2**
The P-CSCF-A populates the P-Asserted-Identity header field with the native
identity following procedures defined in TS 24.229 [3].
The S-CSCF-A forwards the request to the AS-A using initial filter criteria.
Table A.2.2-2: INVITE request (P/S-CSCF-A to AS-A)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Additional-Identity: \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**3\. AS-A forwards the INVITE message to the S-CSCF-C, for an example see
table A.2.2-3**
AS-A verifies that the user is authorized to use the identity received in the
Additional-Identity header field and if so, it does not modify the P-Asserted-
Identity header field, it creates a P-Served-User header field with the
identity copied from the received Additional-Identity header field and it
insert a Route header field pointing to an I-CSCF or to the S-CSCF hosting the
identity in the Additional-Identity header field and append the \"orig\"
parameter to it. AS-A performs the originating services as needed and forwards
the request to the S-CSCF-C.
Table A.2.2-3: INVITE request (AS-A to S-CSCF-C)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Additional-Identity: \
P-Served-User: \
Route: \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**4\. S-CSCF-C forwards the INVITE message to AS-C, for an example see table
A.2.2-4**
The S-CSCF-C removes the Route header field pointing to it and forwards the
request to the AS-C using initial filter criteria.
Table A.2.2-4: INVITE request (S-CSCF-C to AS-C)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Additional-Identity: \
P-Served-User: \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**5\. AS-C forwards the INVITE message to the S-CSCF-C, for an example see
table A.2.2-5**
AS-C verifies that the identity C received in the Additional-Identity header
field has been authorized to be used by user A. If it is the case, it creates
the P-Asserted-Identity header field with the identity copied from the
received Additional-Identity header field and performs originating services as
needed. AS-C replaces the identity in the From header field with the identity
copied from the received Additional-Identity header field, removes from the
INVITE request the received P-Asserted-Identity, P-Served-User and Additional-
Identity header fields and forwards the request to the S-CSCF-C according to
TS 24.229 [3].
NOTE 2: Depending on local configuration, related to the operator policy and
regulatory requirements, AS-C replaces the identity in the P-Asserted-Identity
header field with the identity in the Additional-Identity header field, or if
the P-Asserted-Identity header cannot be modified, AS-C sets the Privacy
header field to value \"id\", as specified in clause 4.5.3.3.
Table A.2.2-5: INVITE request (AS-C to S-CSCF-C)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**6\. S-CSCF-C forwards the INVITE message towards the PLMN-B**
# A.3 Terminating flows
## A.3.1 UE-B reached by identity D
This call flow illustrates the handling of an identity for terminating calls
not registered by UE-A. For simplicity the CSCF nodes have been omitted.
Figure A.3.1-1: UE-B reached by an identity D
**1\. AS-D receives an INVITE message from PLMN-A, for an example see table
A.3.1-1**
The Request-URI identifies the target user as D. Based on that, AS-D
determines the identities to which it shall forward the request.
The AS-D determines that this request needs to go to UE-B for which the
identity in Request-URI is not a native identity and it applies required
forwarding behavior, as part of the MiD service.
The AS-D also sends this message to UE(s) of the user owning identity D
following procedures defined in TS 24.229 [3].
The AS-D sets the Request-URI to identity B and adds an Additional-Identity
header field set to identity D.
Table A.3.1-1: INVITE request (PLMN-A to AS-D)
INVITE tel:+22222222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**2\. AS-D forwards the INVITE message towards S-CSCF-B, for an example see
table A.3.1-2**
Table A.3.1-2: INVITE request (AS-D to S-CSCF-B)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, tel:+11111111
Additional-Identity: \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**3\. S-CSCF-B forwards the INVITE message to AS-B**
\- AS-B performs terminating services.
**4\. -AS-B forwards the INVITE message to S-CSCF-B**
**5\. S-CSCF-B forward the INVITE message to UE-B**
S-CSCF-B replaces B identity with the UE-B contact in the Request-URI and adds
a P-Called-Party-ID header field.
UE-B determines from the Additional-Identity header field that it has been
reached using the identity D. The P-Called-Party-Id header field can be
ignored.
## A.3.2 UE-B reached by native identity on multiple devices
This call flow illustrates the handling of the terminating call case when the
request is forwarded towards the user holding the requested identity as native
identity who subscribes to the MuD service. It follows normal procedures and
is included for completeness.
Figure A.3.2-1: UE-B reached by a native identity on multiple devices
**1\. S-CSCF-B receives an INVITE message from PLMN-A, for an example see
table A.3.2-1**
The Request-URI identifies user B as B-native.
Table A.3.2-1: INVITE request (PLMN-A to I/S/P-CSCF-B)
INVITE tel:+11112222 SIP/2.0
To: \
From: \;tag=4fa3
P-Asserted-Identity: \, \
Other SIP header fields and SDP according to 3GPP TS 24.229 [3]
**2\. S-CSCF-B forwards the INVITE message to AS-B**
The AS-B determines that it shall forward the request towards UE1-B and UE2-B
for which the identity in Request-URI is a native identity.
AS-B can also send this to UEs configured to use the identity from the
Request-URI as external alternative identity. This follows the terminating
procedure in clause A.3.1.
**3\. AS-B forwards the INVITE message to the S-CSCF-B**
The S-CSCF-B replaces B identity with the UE1-B contact and UE2-B contact ,
respectively, in the Request-URI and adds a P-Called-Party-ID header field.
**4\. S-CSCF-B forwards the INVITE message to UE-B**
**5\. UE2-B responds with 200 (OK)**
**6\. The S-CSCF-B forwards the 200 (OK) response to AS-B**
The S-CSCF-B inserts a Feature-Caps header field including a \"registration-
token\" header field parameter to identify the registration flow.
NOTE: The AS-B learns the values of the registration-token during registration
as specified in TS 24.229 [3]
**7\. The AS-B forwards the 200 (OK) response to the S-CSCF-A.**
**8\. The S-CSCF-B forwards the 200 (OK) response to PLMN-A.**
The S-CSCF-B removes the \"registration-token\" header field parameter.
# A.4 MuD call flows: Synchronization of call logs
## A.4.1 General
The call flows in the following clauses illustrate typical scenarios to
synchronize local call logs in federated UEs with the network stored call log.
The network call log storage is hosted in the AS. The AS updates the call log
objects as appropriate based on the SIP call control signalling. The UE uses
HTTP over the Ut reference point to subscribe to changes in the centralized
call log, and use the notifications received to update the own local call log.
The UE and the AS procedures and signalling related to the call log
synchronization are based on the \"strict synchronization\" mechanism in
accordance to OMA-TS-CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9] and OMA-TS-
REST_NetAPI_NMS.
Incoming and outgoing calls of user A follow normal procedures as specified in
TS 24.229 [3] but for simplicity only the AS node is shown (the CSCF, MRF,
IBCF nodes have been omitted).
In the examples, \"solid\" lines represent the HTTP signalling between the UE
and the AS and \"dashed\" lines represent the SIP call control signalling.
## A.4.2 Subscription to notifications of network call log changes
This call flow illustrates subscription to notifications of network call log
changes for the user of the MuD service which has two UEs. Subscription to
notifications of network call log changes needs to be done separately for each
UE.
NOTE 1: The UE can also read an individual subscription to a call log
notification, update an individual subscription to notifications of network
call log changes or unsubscribe to call log notifications.
Figure A.4.2-1: Subscription to notifications of network call log changes
**1\. UE1-A sends an HTTP POST request to AS-A**
To subscribe to notifications of network call log changes, the UE1-A sends the
HTTP POST request with
\"{apiRoot}/nms/{apiVersion}/{storeName}/{boxId}/subscriptions\" as a request
URI and the \"NmsSubscription\" data structure as a request body to the AS-A.
NOTE 2: The \"NmsSubscription\" data structure is defined in OMA-TS-
REST_NetAPI_NMS.
The UE1-A includes in the \"NmsSubscription\":
\- a UE1-A_callback_URI where the UE1-A wants to receive the requested
notifications in the \"callbackReference\" attribute;
\- changes in the call log the UE1-A is interested to receive in the
\"filter\" attribute i.e. flag for an indication of a call log entry with
enriched calling information received in association with the call (type =
Flag, name = \$CPM_CallLog_EnCall);
and can include:
\- period of time (in seconds) notifications are provided for in the
\"duration\" attribute; and
\- subscription restart token indicating the point at which this UE1-A
subscription is to start in the \"restartToken\" attribute (e.g., if the UE1-A
has been offline for a period).
NOTE 3: If the \"restartToken\" attribute is absent, any changes from the time
this UE1-A subscription is created will be notified by the AS-A.
**2\. AS-A sends a HTTP response \"201 Created\" to UE1-A**
The AS-A creates a new Individual Subscription resource and sends a \"201
Created\" response to the UE1-A. The AS-A includes in the \"201 Created\"
response:
\- a Location header field containing the URI of the created resource i.e.
\"{apiRoot}/nms/{apiVersion}/{storeName}/{boxId}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId-1}\";
and
\- \"NmsSubscription\" data structure.
The AS-A includes in the \"NmsSubscription\" data structure subscription data
for the UE1-A:
\- period of time (in seconds) which the UE1-A subscription will still be
valid in the \"duration\" attribute;
\- index of the next notification to be issued to the UE1-A in the \"index\"
attribute; and
\- subscription restart token indicating the point at which this UE1-A
subscription currently starts in the \"restartToken\" attribute,
and can include:
\- the maximum number of events that can be delivered in a NmsEventList in the
\"maxEvents\" attribute if \"maxEvents\" attribute was not provided by the
UE1-A.
**3\. UE2-A sends an HTTP POST request to AS-A**
This step is same as step 1, but in the \"NmsSubscription\" data structure the
UE2-A includes its own subscription data e.g. the \"callbackReference\"
attribute contains a UE2-A_callback_URI where the UE2-A wants to receive the
requested notifications.
**4\. AS-A sends a HTTP response \"201 Created\" to UE2-A**
This step is same as step 2, but the AS-A creates a new Individual
Subscription resource for the UE2-A. The \"NmsSubscription\" data structure
contains subscription data for the UE2-A. The URI of the created resource is
indicated in a Location header field:\
\"{apiRoot}/nms/{apiVersion}/{storeName}/{boxId}/subscriptions/{subscriptionId-2}\".
## A.4.3 Synchronization of list of outgoing calls
This call flow illustrates synchronization of list of outgoing calls when the
user of the MuD service has two UEs and both UEs subscribed to notifications
of network call log changes, as shown in clause A.4.2.
Figure A.4.3-1: Synchronization of list of outgoing calls
**1\. - 10 User A makes a call towards UE-B from UE1-A**
The call flow between the UE1-A and the UE-B via the AS-A follows normal
procedures as specified in TS 24.229 [3]. The UE-B answered call.
NOTE 1: For simplicity SIP \"100 Trying\", \"183 Session Progress\" responses,
SIP ACK requests etc. are not shown.
**11\. UE1-A updates local call log**
After call release i.e. in this example sending SIP 200 OK response to the
UE-B, the UE1-A adds outgoing call to the UE-B in the local call log.
**12\. AS-A updates UE-A network call log**
After call release i.e. in this example sending SIP 200 OK response to the
UE-B, the AS-A adds a call log entry with enriched calling information in the
UE-A\'s network call log.
**13\. AS-A sends a HTTP POST request to UE1-A**
The AS-A observes changes in the call log for which the UE1-A has subscribed
to and sends an HTTP POST request with \"callbackReference\" as a request URI
(i.e. UE1-A_callback_URI) and the \"NmsEventList\" data structure as a request
body, containing the call log object.
NOTE 2: The \"NmsEventList\" data structure is defined in OMA-TS-
REST_NetAPI_NMS [10] and Call log object is defined in OMA-TS-
CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9].
**14\. UE1-A sends a HTTP response \"204 No Content\" to AS-A**
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request the UE1-A:
\- stores received \"index\" attribute;
\- stores received \"restartToken\" attribute; and
\- sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the AS-A.
**15\. UE1-A local call log update**
The UE1-A may update its local call log with the call log object for the
outgoing call from the UE1-A to the UE-B as needed.
**16\. AS-A sends a HTTP POST request to UE2-A**
The AS-A observes changes in the call log for which the UE2-A has subscribed
to and sends an HTTP POST request with \"callbackReference\" as a request URI
(i.e. UE2-A_callback_URI) and the \"NmsEventList\" data structure as a request
body, containing the call log object.
**17\. UE2-A sends a HTTP response \"204 No Content\" to AS-A**
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request the UE1-A:
\- stores received \"index\" attribute;
\- stores received \"restartToken\" attribute; and
\- sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the AS-A.
**18\. UE2-A local call log update**
Based on information received from the AS-A in the HTTP POST request, the
UE2-A adds the outgoing call log object from the UE-A to the UE-B in the local
call log.
## A.4.4 Synchronization of missed call notifications
This call flow illustrates synchronization of missed call notifications when
the user of the MuD service has two UEs and both UEs subscribed to
notifications of network call log changes, as shown in clause A.4.2.
Figure A.4.4-1: Synchronization of missed call notifications
**1\. - 6 UE-B makes a call towards UE-A**
The call flow between the UE-B and the user A UE\'s via the AS-A follows
normal procedures as specified in TS 24.229 [3]. The user A subscribed to MuD
service and the AS-A forwards SIP initial INVITE request to the UE1-A and the
UE2-A. The user A did not answer call from the UE-B.
NOTE 1: For simplicity SIP \"100 Trying\", \"183 Session Progress\" responses,
SIP ACK requests etc. are not shown.
**7a. UE1-A updates local call log**
After sending of an unsuccessful SIP response on SIP initial INVITE request
(i.e. in this example SIP \"480 Temporarily Unavailable\" response) to the
UE-B, the UE1-A adds incoming call from the UE-B in the local call log and
marks it as \"Missed\" and flagged as \"Not seen\".
**7b. UE2-A updates local call log**
After sending of an unsuccessful SIP response on SIP initial INVITE request
(i.e. in this example SIP \"480 Temporarily Unavailable\" response) to the
UE-B, the UE2-A adds incoming call from the UE-B in the local call log and
marks it as \"Missed\" and flagged as \"Not seen\".
**8\. AS-A updates UE-A network call log**
After sending of unsuccessful SIP response on SIP initial INVITE request (i.e.
in this example SIP \"480 Temporarily Unavailable\" response) to the UE-B, the
AS-A creates a call log entry with enriched calling information in the UE-A\'s
network call log: incoming call from the UE-B is marked as \"LEFT_MESSAGE\".
NOTE 2: The following values are specified for the incoming call:
\"ANSWERED\", \"LEFT_MESSAGE\", \"HUNG_UP\", \"REJECTED\", \"BUSY\" or
\"BLACKLISTED\", see attribute \"Call-Disposition\" defined in clause 5.3.9.3
of OMA-TS-CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API [9].
**9\. AS-A sends a HTTP POST request to UE1-A**
The AS-A observes changes in the call log for which the UE1-A has subscribed
to and sends an HTTP POST request with \"callbackReference\" as a request URI
(i.e. UE1-A_callback_URI) and the \"NmsEventList\" data structure as a request
body, containing the call log object.
**10\. UE1-A sends a HTTP response \"204 No Content\" to AS-A**
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request the UE1-A:
\- stores received \"index\" attribute;
\- stores received \"restartToken\" attribute; and
\- sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the AS-A.
**11\. UE1-A local call log update**
The UE1-A may update the local call object if needed with information from the
call log object for the incoming call from the UE-B.
**12\. AS-A sends a HTTP POST request to UE2-A**
The AS-A observes changes in the call log for which the UE2-A has subscribed
to and sends an HTTP POST request with \"callbackReference\" as a request URI
(i.e. UE2-A_callback_URI) and the \"NmsEventList\" data structure as a request
body, containing the call log object.
**13\. UE2-A sends a HTTP response \"204 No Content\" to AS-A**
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request the UE2-A:
\- stores received \"index\" attribute;
\- stores received \"restartToken\" attribute; and
\- sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the AS-A.
**14\. UE2-A local call log update**
The UE2-A may update the local call object if needed with information from the
call log object for the incoming call from the UE-B.
**15\. User A checked UE2-A local call log**
The user A checked UE2-A local call log and flag \"Not seen\" is deleted from
call log.
**16\. UE2-A sends HTTP PUT request to AS-A**
The UE2-A indicates to the AS-A that the call from the UE-B needs to be
flagged as \"Seen\" by sending the HTTP PUT request.
NOTE 3: Flag \"/Seen\" is added to the flaglist of a call log object in
accordance to clause 6.6.1.1. of OMA-TS-CPM_Message_Storage_Using_RESTFul_API
[9] and clause 6.3.4 of OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_NMS [10].
**17\. AS-A sends a HTTP response \"200 OK\" to UE2-A**
The AS-A responds with HTTP \"200 OK\" response to the UE2-A.
**18\. AS-A updates UE-A network call log**
The AS-A adds flag \"/Seen\" to the call log object for the incoming call from
the UE-B.
**19\. AS-A sends a HTTP POST request to UE1-A**
Since the AS-A observes changes in the call log for which the UE1-A has
subscribed to (flag \"/Seen\" added to the call log object for the incoming
call from the UE-B), the AS-A sends an HTTP POST request with
\"callbackReference\" as a request URI (i.e. UE1-A_callback_URI) and the
\"NmsEventList\" data structure as a request body containing the call log
object with the flag \"/Seen\".
**20\. UE1-A sends a HTTP response \"204 No Content\" to AS-A**
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request the UE1-A:
\- stores received \"index\" attribute;
\- stores received \"restartToken\" attribute; and
\- sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the AS-A.
**21\. UE1-A local call log update**
The UE1-A updates local call log and deletes flag \"Not seen\" for the
incoming call from the UE-B.
**22\. AS-A sends a HTTP POST request to UE2-A**
Since the AS-A observes changes in the call log for which the UE2-A has
subscribed to (flag \"/Seen\" added to the call log object for the incoming
call from the UE-B), the AS-A sends an HTTP POST request with
\"callbackReference\" as a request URI (i.e. UE2-A_callback_URI) and the
\"NmsEventList\" data structure as a request body containing the call log
object with the flag \"/Seen\".
**23\. UE2-A sends a HTTP response \"204 No Content\" to AS-A**
Upon successful reception of the HTTP POST request the UE2-A:
\- stores received \"index\" attribute;
\- stores received \"restartToken\" attribute; and
\- sends an HTTP \"204 No Content\" response to the AS-A.
**24\. UE2-A local call log update**
The UE2-A observes that local call update is not needed since the UE2-A
deleted flag \"Not seen\" for the incoming call from the UE-B in step 15.
###### ## Annex B (normative): IP-Connectivity Access Network specific
concepts when using GPRS (Iu mode only) to access IM CN subsystem
# B.1 Scope
The present annex defines IP-CAN specific requirements for a multimedia
telephony communication service and associated supplementary services in the
IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem, where the IP-CAN is General
Packet Radio Service (GPRS).
# B.2 GPRS aspects when connected to the IM CN subsystem
## B.2.1 Procedures at the UE
### B.2.1.1 Service specific access control
#### B.2.1.1.1 General
This clause specifies service specific access control in addition to
procedures as specified in annex K of 3GPP TS 24.173 [19].
#### B.2.1.1.2 Call pull specific procedures
When the UE decides to pull a call from another federated UE, the UE provides
a \"call-pull-initiated\" indication to the lower layers.
###### ## Annex C (normative): IP-Connectivity Access Network specific
concepts when using EPS to access IM CN subsystem
# C.1 Scope
The present annex defines IP-CAN specific requirements for a multimedia
telephony communication service and associated supplementary services in the
IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem, where the IP-CAN is Evolved
Packet System (EPS).
# C.2 EPS aspects when connected to the IM CN subsystem
## C.2.1 Procedures at the UE
### C.2.1.1 Service specific access control
#### C.2.1.1.1 General
This clause specifies service specific access control in addition to
procedures as specified in annex J of 3GPP TS 24.173 [19].
#### C.2.1.1.2 Call pull specific procedures
When the UE decides to pull a call from another federated UE, the UE provides
a \"call-pull-initiated\" indication to the lower layers.
###### ## Annex D (normative): IP-Connectivity Access Network specific
concepts when using 5GS to access IM CN subsystem
# D.1 Scope
The present annex defines IP-CAN specific requirements for a multimedia
telephony communication service and associated supplementary services in the
IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem, where the IP-CAN is 5G System
(5GS).
# D.2 5GS aspects when connected to the IM CN subsystem
## D.2.1 Procedures at the UE
### D.2.1.1 Service specific access control
#### D.2.1.1.1 General
This clause specifies service specific access control in addition to
procedures as specified in annex M of 3GPP TS 24.173 [19].
#### D.2.1.1.2 Call pull specific procedures
When the UE decides to pull a call from another federated UE, the UE provides
a \"call-pull-initiated\" indication to the lower layers.
#