# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the media plane control protocols and
interactions with the media needed to support Mission Critical Data (MCData)
services, which are IP Connectivity, Short Data Service (SDS) and File
Distribution (FD).
Mission critical communication services are services that require preferential
handling compared to normal telecommunication services, e.g. in support of
police or fire brigade.
The MCData service and its associated media plane control protocols can be
used for public safety applications and also for general commercial
applications (e.g., utility companies and railways).
The present document is applicable to User Equipment (UE) supporting MCData
client functionality and to servers in the MCData system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.282: \"Functional architecture and information flows to support
Mission Critical Data (MCData) Stage-2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.280: \"Common functional architecture to support mission
critical services Stage-2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.481: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) group management;
Protocol Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.482: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) identity management;
Protocol Specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.483: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) Management Object
(MO)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.484: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) configuration
management; Protocol Specifications \".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.282: \"Mission Critical Services (MCS) signalling control;
Protocol Specifications \".
[9] IETF RFC 2046 (November 1996): \"Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
(MIME) Part Two: Media Types\".
[10] IETF RFC 4122 (July 2005): \"A Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN
Namespace\".
[11] IETF RFC 4975 (September 2007): \"The Message Session Relay Protocol
(MSRP)\".
[12] IETF RFC 6135 (February 2011): \"An Alternative Connection Model for the
Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[13] IETF RFC 6714 (August 2012): \"Connection Establishment for Media
Anchoring (CEMA) for the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[14] IETF RFC 4976 (September 2007): \"Relay Extensions for the Message
Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.180: \"Security of mission critical services\".
[16] IETF RFC 3550 (July 2003): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
Applications\".
[17] IETF RFC 3711 (March 2004): \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol
(SRTP)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[19] IETF RFC 2784 (March 2000): \"Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE).
[20] IETF RFC 2790 (September2000): \"Key and Sequence Number Extensions to
GRE.
[21] IETF RFC 791 (September 1981) \"INTERNET PROTOCOL\".
[22] IETF RFC 8200 (July 2017) \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[23] IETF RFC 8086 (March 2017) \"GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation.
[24] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CSK Client-Server Key
CSK-ID Client-Server Key Identifier
DPCK MCData Payload Cipher Key
DPCK-ID MCData Payload Cipher Key Identifier
DPKK MCData Payload Protection Key
DPKK-ID MCData Payload Protection Key Identifier
FD File Distribution
GMK Group Master Key
GMK-ID Group Master Key Identifier
GRE Generic Routing Encapsulation
KMS Key Management Server
KPAK KMS Public Authentication Key
MBS Multicast/Broadcast Service
PCK Private Call Key
PCK-ID Private Call Key Identifier
PVT Public Validation Token
SDS Short Data Service
SPK Signalling Protection Key
SPK-ID Signalling Protection Key Identifier
SSK Secret Signing Key
# 4 General
## 4.1 Overview
### 4.1.1 Short data service
The media plane control procedures, both for one-to-one and group short data
services, take place for on-network only, when standalone short data is sent
using media plane or when the short data is sent after an SDS session is
established. In both cases the media plane is established as specified in 3GPP
TS 24.282 [8].
The media plane uses the MSRP protocol as specified in RFC 4975 [11], RFC 4976
[14], RFC 6135 [12], and RFC 6714 [13].
In a standalone SDS using media plane, a single SDS message is sent by the
originating MCData client as specified in this document. The procedure is
terminated as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
When an SDS session is established any MCData client with appropriate
permissions, which participates this SDS session, can initiate the
transmission of and SDS message until the termination of the SDS session. The
termination of an SDS session is specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
An SDS message sent using media plane is carried in the body of an MSRP SEND
request. The media control parameters and the data of an SDS message are
carried in separate bodies in the same MSRP SEND request.
The Conversation ID,the Message ID, the optional InReplyTo message ID, the
optional SDS disposition request type and the optional Application identifier
are communicated by the MCData client which sends the SDS message in the media
control part of the body in the MSRP SEND request. The data is carried in a
separate body of the MSRP SEND request.
For standalone SDS using media plane, the disposition notification is
communicated as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
For SDS during an SDS session the disposition notification is communicated
using the procuderes specified in the current document until the SDS session
is terminated. After the termination of the SDS session the disposition
notification, if any, is communicated as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
### 4.1.2 File distribution
The media plane control procedures, both for one-to-one and group file
distribution using media plane, take place for on-network only. The media
plane for FD is established as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The media plane uses the MSRP protocol as specified in RFC 4975 [11], RFC 4976
[14], RFC 6135 [12], and RFC 6714 [13].
A file is sent using media plane by the originating MCData client as specified
in this document. The procedure is terminated as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8].
The Conversation ID , the Message ID, the optional InReplyTo message ID, the
optional FD disposition request type, the optional Application ID, the
optional Mandatory download and the optional Metadata are communicated by the
MCData client which sends the file using the procedures specified in 3GPP TS
24.282 [8] while establishing the media plane.
The file is carried in the body of the MSRP SEND request as specified in this
document.
The disposition notification is communicated as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8].
### 4.1.3 Void
### 4.1.4 IP Connectivity
The media plane control procedures for one-to-one IP Connectivity service
using media plane, take place for on-network only. The media plane for IP
Connectivity is established and terminated as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The media plane uses the IP protocol as specified in RFC 791 [21] and RFC 8200
[22].
The IP Connectivity media plane is established by the originating MCData
client as specified in this document.
IP Connectivity provides a media plane for exchange of any kind of IP data
between IP applications. Once the media plane is established along with IP
Connectivity the IP applications can exchange IP data.
NOTE IP Connectivity specified in the current document is not compatible with
release 16.
## 4.2 Other considerations
When an SDS message is sent using media plane, the body included in the MSRP
SEND request, which carries media control information or which carries
notification information, is protected between each entity separately if
protection is applied. On the other hand the body included in the MSRP SEND
request which carries the data is end to end protected. The procedures for the
protection of the media control information or notification or of the data are
specified in this document.
When a file is is sent using media plane, the file or file portion, included
in the body of the MSRP SEND request, is end to end protected. The procedure
for the protection of the file is specified in this document.
# 5 Functional entities
## 5.1 General for MCData functional entities
### 5.1.1 SDS and FD
Media plane control is conducted between the MCData server and MCData UE.
MCData server has capability functions for SDS and FD. MCData UE incorporates
the MCData client. MCData user or MCData user application may feed or consume
data transmitted or received via the capability functions in the MCData
client. The capability function in the MCData client provides SDS and FD
services.
The capability functions of the MCData server are specified for the
controlling MCData function and the participating MCData function. The
capability functions of the MCData UE are specified for the MCData client.
Data to be transmitted either by the MCData user or by a MCData user
application using media plane shall be transmitted by the MCData client to the
participating MCData function. The participating MCData function shall forward
the data to the controlling MCData function. The controlling MCData function
shall distribute the data to the destination MCData client for one-to-one
MCData service and to the MCData clients of the affiliated group members for
group MCData service via the participating MCData functions serving each
destination MCData client. A participating MCData function may serve one or
more MCData clients. Based on deployment, controlling MCData function may be
in communication with zero, one or more participating MCData functions. If a
participating MCData function is collocated with the controlling MCData
function, the controlling MCData function may perform the functions of this
co-located participating MCData function. In this case the controlling MCData
function and this co-located participating MCData function shall act as a
single entity.
In the media plane the MCData client and the controlling MCData function shall
act as MSRP clients. If and when a participating MCData function is in the
communication path as a separate entity between the controlling MCData
function and one or more MCData clients, it shall act as an MSRP relay.
### 5.1.2 IP Connectivity
IP Connectivity provides a media plane for exchange of any kind of IP data
between IP applications. These IP applications may reside on external non-3GPP
hosts connected via an IP interface to the MCData UE that incorporates the
MCData client, or they may be running on the MCData UE. The participating
MCData function and the controlling MCData functions may be in the path of the
data exchange between the authorized MC Data users.
## 5.2 Functional entities for SDS
The capability function for SDS for media plane in the MCData server is
composed of SDS distribution function and the Transmission/Reception control.
In the media plane the functions of SDS distribution and the
Transmission/Reception control are specified for the controlling MCData
function and the participating MCData function. The functions of the SDS are
specified for the SDS function in MCData client.
For SDS, data is composed of short data in the form of text, hypertext, binary
string or location information. Short data generated in the MCData client and
sent using media plane follows the path for the originating MCData client to
the terminating MCData clients as explained in clause 5.1.1.
## 5.3 Functional entities for FD
The capability function for FD for media plane in the MCData server is
composed of FD function and the Transmission/Reception control. The file
distribution over media plane functionalities in the MCData server are
specified for the controlling MCData function and the participating MCData
function. The functions of the FD are specified for the FD function in the
MCData client.
For FD, data is composed of a file. A file provided at the MCData client and
sent using media plane follows the path from the originating MCData client to
the terminating MCData clients as explained in clause 5.1.1.
## 5.4 Functional entities for IP Connectivity
For IP Connectivity, the transmitted data may consist of any kind of IP data.
IP Connectivity data sent by the MCData client using media plane follows the
path from the originating MCData client to the terminating MCData client as
explained in clause 5.1.2.
# 6 SDS media plane procedures
## 6.1 MCData client procedures
### 6.1.1 Standalone SDS via media plane
#### 6.1.1.1 General
In a standalone SDS via media plane, upon receiving an SDS request from the
user or user application the originating MCData client establishes the media
plane as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8]. When the media plane is established
a conversation ID is associated with this SDS message.
For the procedures in clause 6.1.1.2 it is assumed that it has been verified
that:
1\. if standalone one to one SDS using media plane is initiated:
a. the MCData client is allowed to transmit data;
b. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to maximum amount of data
that the MCData user can transmit in a single request during one-to-one
communication; and
c. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to maximum data size for
SDS;
2\. if standalone group SDS using media plane is initiated:
a. the MCData client is allowed to transmit data in this group;
b. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to maximum amount of data
that the MCData user can transmit in a single request during group
communication;and
c. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to maximum data size for
SDS; and3. the size of the short data including the media plane information
elements is larger than the allowed limits over MCData-SDS-1 interface using
SIP reference points.
before the media plane establishment is initiated as specified in 3GPP TS
24.282[8]:
The procedures in clause 6.1.1.2 and clause 6.1.1.3 are applicable for one-to-
one and group standalone SDS using media plane.
#### 6.1.1.2 Procedures for the originating MCData client
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Handling MSRP connection
Upon receiving an indication to establish MSRP connection for standalone SDS
using media plane as the originating client, the MCData client:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
2\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\";
3\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the SDP answer received in the SIP 200 (OK) response according
to IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
4\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session from the perspective of the
passive endpoint according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]
and IETF RFC 6135 [12].
On receiving MSRP 200 (OK) response to the first MSRP SEND request, the MCData
client:
1\. shall generate a SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD as specified in clause 6.1.1.2.2;
2\. shall generate a SDS DATA PAYLOAD as specified in clause 6.1.1.2.3;
3\. shall include the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD and SDS DATA PAYLOAD in an MSRP
SEND request as specified in clause 6.1.1.2.4; and
4\. shall send the MSRP SEND request on the established MSRP connection.
If MSRP chunking is not used then on receipt of a 200 (OK) response, the
MCData client shall terminate the SIP session as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8].
If MSRP chunking is used, the MCData client:
1\. shall send further MSRP SEND requests as necessary;
2\. shall wait for a 200 (OK) response to each MSRP SEND request sent; and
3\. on receipt of the last 200 (OK) response shall terminate the SIP session
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
On receiving a non-200 MSRP response to the MSRP SEND request the MCData
client shall handle the error as specified in IETF RFC 4975 [11]. To terminate
the MSRP session, the MCData client:
1\. if there are further MSRP chunks to send, shall abort transmission of
these further MSRP chunks;
2\. shall indicate to MCData user that the SDS message could not be sent; and
3\. shall terminate the SIP session as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
On receiving an indication to terminate the session from the signalling plane,
the MCData client:
1\. if there are further MSRP chunks to send, shall abort transmission of
these further MSRP chunks and may indicate to MCData user that the SDS message
could not be sent.
##### 6.1.1.2.2 Generate signalling payload
In order to generate an SDS signalling payload, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate an SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message as specified in 3GPP TS
24.282 [8]; and
2\. shall include the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message in an
application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling MIME body as specified in 3GPP TS
24.282 [8]; and
When generating a an SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate a SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message as defined in 3GPP TS
24.282 [8]. In the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message, the MCData client:
a. may include and set the Disposition request type IE to:
i. \"DELIVERY\", if only delivery disposition is requested;
ii. \"READ\", if only read disposition is requested; or
iii. \"DELIVERY AND READ\", if both delivery and read dispositions are
requested;
b. shall set Date and time IE to current UTC time;
c. shall set Conversation ID IE to a universally unique message ID generated
as per IETF RFC 4122 [10];
d. shall set Message ID IE to a universally unique message ID generated as per
IETF RFC 4122 [10];
e. if indicated that the SDS message is in reply to another SDS message then,
shall include the Reply ID IE set to the message identifier of the indicated
SDS message;
f. if indicated that the target recipient of the SDS message is an application
then, shall set Application Identifier IE to the application identifier; and
g) shall set the Sender MCData user ID to its own MCData user ID as specified
in clause 15.2.15 of 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
##### 6.1.1.2.3 Generate data payload
In order to generate SDS data payload, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate a DATA PAYLOAD message as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8];
and
2\. shall include the DATA PAYLOAD message in an application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-
payload MIME body as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
When generating a a DATA PAYLOAD message, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate a SDS DATA PAYLOAD message as defined in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8]. In the SDS DATA PAYLOAD message, the MCData client:
a. shall set Number of payloads IE to the total number of payloads being sent;
and
b. for each payload, shall include Payload IE. In the Payload IE:
i. shall set Payload content type to \"TEXT\", or \"BINARY\", or
\"HYPERLINKS\", or \"LOCATION\" according to the payload type; and
ii. shall set Payload data IE to actual payload.
##### 6.1.1.2.4 Generate MSRP SEND for SDS message
The MCData client shall take the procedures in clause 6.4.1 into consideration
when generating MSRP SEND messages.
The MCData client shall generate MSRP SEND for SDS message requests according
to IETF RFC 4975 [11].
When generating an MSRP SEND for SDS message request containing an SDS
SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message and an SDS DATA PAYLOAD message, the MCData client
1\. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI(s) received in the
answer SDP;
2\. shall include two MIME bodies in accordance with clause 6.4.1 where:
a. in the first body the Content-Type header field is set to
\"application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling\" and the generated SDS SIGNALLING
PAYLOAD message is included; and
b. in the second body the Content-Type header field is set to
\"application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-payload\" and the generated SDS DATA PAYLOAD
message is included.
When generating an MSRP SEND for SDS message request containing only an SDS
DATA PAYLOAD message, the MCData client:
1\. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI(s) received in the
answer SDP;
2\. shall set the Content-Type as \"application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-payload\"; and
3\. shall set the body of the MSRP SEND request to the generated SDS DATA
PAYLOAD message.
When generating an MSRP SEND for SDS message request containing only an SDS
SIGNALLING PAYLOAD, the MCData client.
1\. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI(s) received in the
answer SDP;
2\. shall set the Content-Type as \"application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling\";
and
3\. shall set the body of the MSRP SEND request to the generated SDS
SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message.
#### 6.1.1.3 Procedures for the terminating MCData client
##### 6.1.1.3.1 Handling MSRP connection
Upon receiving an indication to establish MSRP connection for standalone SDS
using media plane as the terminating client, the MCData client:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
2\. shall act either as an active endpoint or as an passive endpoint to open
the transport connection, according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the SDP offer received in the SIP INVITE request according to
IETF RFC 4975 [11];
4\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session from the perspective of the
passive endpoint according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]
and IETF RFC 6135 [12];
Once the MSRP connection is established, the MCData client:
1\. on receipt of an MSRP request in an MSRP session, shall follow the rules
and procedures defined in IETF RFC 4975 [11] and in IETF RFC 6714 [13];
2\. If an MSRP SEND request indicates the use of chunking, shall wait until
all further MSRP SEND requests for the remaining chunks have been received and
shall reassemble the entire set of MSRP requests into the MCData standalone
message before delivering the content to the application; and
3\. shall handle the received content as described in clause 6.1.1.3.2.
##### 6.1.1.3.2 Handling received content and disposition requests
The MCData client:
1\. shall decode the contents of the application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling
MIME body;
2\. shall decode the contents of the application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-payload MIME
body;
3\. if the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message contains a new Conversation ID,
shall instantiate a new conversation with the Message ID in the SDS SIGNALLING
PAYLOAD identifying the first message in the conversation thread;
4\. if the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message contains an existing Conversation ID
and:
a. if the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message does not contain an InReplyTo Message
ID, shall use the Message ID in the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD to identify a new
message in the existing conversation thread; and
b. if the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message contains an InReplyTo Message ID,
shall associate the message to an existing message in the conversation thread
as identified by the InReplyTo Message ID in the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD and
use the Message ID in the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD to identify the new message;
5\. shall identify the number of Payload IEs in the DATA PAYLOAD message from
the Number of Payloads IE in the DATA PAYLOAD message;
6\. if the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message does not contain an Application
identifier IE:
a. shall determine that the payload contained in the DATA PAYLOAD message is
for user consumption;
b. may notify the MCData user; and
c. shall render the contents of the Payload IE(s) to the MCData user;
7\. if the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message contains an Application identifier
IE:
a. shall determine that the payload contained in the DATA PAYLOAD message is
not for user consumption;
b. shall not notify the MCData user;
c. if the Application identifier value is unknown, shall discard the SDS
message; and
d. if the Application identifier value is known, shall deliver the contents of
the Payload IE(s) to the identified application; and
8\. if SDS Disposition request type IE is present in the SDS SIGNALLING
PAYLOAD message received in clause 6.1.1.3.1 then, shall send a disposition
notification as described in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8] clause 9.2.1.3.
### 6.1.2 Short data during an SDS session
#### 6.1.2.1 General
In a SDS session, upon receiving an SDS request from the user or user
application the originating MCData client establishes the media plane as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The procedure in clause 6.1.2.2 and clause 6.1.2.3 are applicable for one-to-
one and group SDS session.
Any MCData user with appropriate permissions, originator of the SDS session or
not, can send a SDS message during the SDS session.
A client which is not permitted to transmit data should not use the procedure
in clause 6.1.2.2 and clause 6.1.2.3.
#### 6.1.2.2 Procedures for the originating MCData client
##### 6.1.2.2.1 Handling MSRP connection
Upon receiving an indication to establish MSRP connection for SDS session as
the originating MCData client, the MCData client:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
2\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\";
3\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the SDP answer received in the SIP 200 (OK) response according
to IETF RFC 4975 [11];
4\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session from the perspective of the
passive endpoint according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]
and IETF RFC 6135 [12];
Once the MSRP session is established, the MCData client:
1\. on receipt of an MSRP request in the MSRP session, shall follow the rules
and procedures defined in IETF RFC 4975 [11] and in IETF RFC 6714 [13];
2\. If an MSRP SEND request indicates the use of chunking, shall wait until
all further MSRP SEND requests for the remaining chunks have been received and
shall reassemble the entire set of MSRP requests into the MCData SDS message
before delivering the content to the application; and
3\. shall handle the received content as described in clause 6.1.2.6.
On receiving MSRP 200 (OK) response to the first MSRP SEND request, the MCData
client can generate and send an SDS message as specified in clause 6.1.2.4, or
can generate and send an SDS disposition notification for a received SDS
message as specified in clause 6.1.2.5, if requested.
Received content and disposition requests shall be handled as specified in
clause 6.1.2.6.
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Void
##### 6.1.2.2.3 Void
##### 6.1.2.2.4 Void
#### 6.1.2.3 Procedures for the terminating MCData client
##### 6.1.2.3.1 Handling MSRP connection
Upon receiving an indication to establish MSRP connection for SDS session as
the terminating MCData client, the MCData client:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
2\. shall act either as an active endpoint or as an passive endpoint to open
the transport connection, according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the SDP offer received in the SIP INVITE request according to
IETF RFC 4975 [11];
4\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session from the perspective of the
passive endpoint according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]
and IETF RFC 6135 [12];
Once the MSRP session is established, the MCData client:
1\. on receipt of an MSRP request in the MSRP session, shall follow the rules
and procedures defined in IETF RFC 4975 [11] and in IETF RFC 6714 [13];
2\. If an MSRP SEND request indicates the use of chunking, shall wait until
all further MSRP SEND requests for the remaining chunks have been received and
shall reassemble the entire set of MSRP requests into the MCData SDS message
before delivering the content to the application; and
3\. shall handle the received content as described in clause 6.1.2.6.
On receiving MSRP 200 (OK) response to the first MSRP SEND request sent as
\"active\" endpoint, or after sending MSRP 200 (OK) response to the first MSRP
SEND request received as \"passive\" endpoint, the MCData client can generate
and send an SDS message as specified in clause 6.1.2.4, or can generate and
send an SDS disposition notification for a received SDS message as specified
in clause 6.1.2.5, if requested.
Received content and disposition requests shall be handled as specified in
clause 6.1.2.6.
##### 6.1.2.3.2 Void
#### 6.1.2.4 Sending SDS message
An MCData client is allowed to send a one-to-one SDS message only if:
1\. the \ element of an \ element is present
with a value \"true\" (see the MCData user profile document in 3GPP TS 24.484
[7]);
2\. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to the value of the
\ element in the MCData service configuration
document as specified in 3GPP TS 24.484 [7]; and
3\. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to the value of
\ element of the MCData user profile document (see the MCData
user profile document in 3GPP TS 24.484 [7]).
An MCData client is allowed to send a group SDS message only if:
1\. the \ element of an \
element is present with a value \"true\" as defined in the MCData group
document for this MCData group as specified in 3GPP TS 24.481 [4];
2\. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to the value contained
in the \ as defined in the MCData
group document for this MCData group as specified in 3GPP TS 24.481 [4]; and
3\. the size of the SDS message is less than or equal to the value contained
in the \ element of the \ element of
the MCData group document for this MCData group as specified in 3GPP TS 24.481
[4].
If the above-mentioned conditions satisfy, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate an SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD as specified in clause 6.1.1.2.2;
2\. shall generate an SDS DATA PAYLOAD as specified in clause 6.1.1.2.3;
3\. shall include the SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD and SDS DATA PAYLOAD in an MSRP
SEND request as specified in clause 6.1.1.2.4, with the following
clarification:
a. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI in the received SDP; and
4\. shall send the MSRP SEND request on the established MSRP connection.
#### 6.1.2.5 SDS Notification
##### 6.1.2.5.1 Sending SDS Notification
To send an SDS disposition notification, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate a SDS NOTIFICATION as specified in clause 6.1.2.5.2;
2\. shall include the SDS NOTIFICATION in an MSRP SEND request as specified in
clause 6.1.2.5.3, with the following clarification;
a. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI in the received SDP; and
3\. shall send the MSRP SEND request on the established MSRP connection.
If MSRP chunking is used, the MCData client:
1\. shall send further MSRP SEND requests as necessary.
On receiving a non-200 MSRP response to the MSRP SEND request the MCData
client shall handle the error as specified in IETF RFC 4975 [11]. To terminate
the MSRP session, the MCData client:
1\. if there are further MSRP chunks to send, shall abort transmission of
these further MSRP chunks; and
2\. shall indicate to MCData user that the SDS message or the SDS disposition
notification could not be sent.
##### 6.1.2.5.2 Generate SDS NOTIFICATION
In order to generate an SDS notification, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate an SDS NOTIFICATION message as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8]; and
2\. shall include the SDS NOTIFICATION message in an
application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling MIME body as specified in 3GPP TS
24.282 [8].
When generating an SDS NOTIFICATION message, the MCData client:
1\. if sending a delivered notification, shall set the SDS disposition
notification type IE as \"DELIVERED\";
2\. if sending a read notification, shall set the SDS disposition notification
type IE as \"READ\";
3\. if sending a delivered and read notification, shall set the SDS
disposition notification type IE as \"DELIVERED AND READ\";
4\. if the SDS message could not be delivered to the user or application (e.g.
due to lack of storage), shall set the SDS disposition notification type IE as
\"UNDELIVERED\";
5\. shall set the Date and time IE to the current time;
6\. shall set the Conversation ID to the value of the Conversation ID that was
received in the SDS message;
7\. shall set the Message ID to the value of the Message ID that was received
in the SDS message;
8\. if the SDS message was destined for the user, shall not include an
Application ID IE;
9\. if the SDS message was destined for an application, shall include an
Application ID IE set to the value of the Application ID that was included in
the SDS message; and
10\. shall set the Sender MCData user ID to its own MCData user ID as
specified in clause 15.2.15 of 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
##### 6.1.2.5.3 Generate MSRP SEND for SDS disposition notification
The MCData client shall generate MSRP SEND requests for SDS disposition
notification according to IETF RFC 4975 [11].
When generating an MSRP SEND request for SDS disposition notification
containing an SDS NOTIFICATION message, the MCData client
1\. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI(s) received in the
answer SDP;
2\. shall set the content type as Content-Type =
\"application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling\"; and
3\. shall set the body of the MSRP SEND request to the generated SDS
NOTIFICATION message.
#### 6.1.2.6 Handling received content and disposition requests
Upon receiving an SDS message, the MCData client:
1\. shall follow the procedure defined in clause 6.1.1.3.2, with the following
clarification:
a. if SDS Disposition request type IE is present in the received SDS
SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message then, shall send an SDS disposition notification as
described in clause 6.1.2.5.
Upon receiving an SDS disposition notification, the MCData client:
1\. shall decode the contents of the application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-signalling
MIME body; and
2\. shall deliver the notification to the user or application.
## 6.2 Participating MCData function procedures
### 6.2.1 Standalone SDS via media plane
#### 6.2.1.1 General
For a standalone SDS via media plane, the media plane is established between
the originating MCData client and the originating participating MCData
function, the originating participating MCData function and the controlling
MCData function, the controlling MCData function and the terminating
participating MCData function(s) and each terminating participating MCData
function and the terminating MCData client(s) as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8].
The procedures in clause 6.2.1.4 and clause 6.2.1.5 are applicable for one-to-
one and group standalone SDS using media plane.
#### 6.2.1.2 Establishing MSRP session to receive standalone SDS message
To receive a SDS message over MSRP, the participating MCData function:
1\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the sent SDP answer was
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the sent SDP answer was set
to \"active\"; and
2\. shall establish an MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the sent SDP answer response as described in IETF RFC 4976 [14].
#### 6.2.1.3 Establish MSRP session to send standalone SDS message
To send a SDS message over MSRP, the participating MCData function:
1\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\"; and
2\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the received SDP answer response as described in IETF RFC 4976
[14].
#### 6.2.1.4 Procedures for the originating participating MCData function
##### 6.2.1.4.1 Establish MSRP session with the originating MCData client
The originating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the originating MCData client as specified in clause 6.2.1.2.
##### 6.2.1.4.2 Establish MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
The originating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the controlling MCData function as specified in clause 6.2.1.3.
##### 6.2.1.4.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving an MSRP SEND request from the originating MCData client, the
originating participating MCData function:
1\. if in a standalone one-to-one SDS using media plane, shall verify the SDS
message size is less than or equal to \ element of the MCData
user profile document for the originating MCData client (see the MCData user
profile document in 3GPP TS 24.484 [7]);
2\. if the verifications in 1 above fails, shall send the MSRP response with
the error code 403 to the originating MCData client and shall not continue
with the rest of the procedure;
3\. if an MSRP connection is not established with the controlling MCData
function then, shall establish the MSRP connection as specified in clause
6.2.1.4.2. Otherwise, shall use the existing MSRP connection; and
4\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND request to the controlling MCData
function according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an MSRP 200 (OK) response from the controlling MCData function,
the participating MCData function shall forward the MSRP 200 (OK) response to
the originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF
RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an error MSRP response from the controlling MCData function,
the participating MCData function shall forward the error MSRP response to the
originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC
4975 [11].
#### 6.2.1.5 Procedures for the terminating participating MCData function
##### 6.2.1.5.1 Establish MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
The terminating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the controlling MCData function as specified in clause 6.2.1.2.
##### 6.2.1.5.2 Establish MSRP session with the terminating MCData client
The terminating participating MCData function should establish MSRP session to
terminating MCData client as specified in clause 6.2.1.3.
##### 6.2.1.5.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving an MSRP SEND request from the controlling MCData function, the
terminating participating MCData function:
1\. shall generate and send a MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND request to the controlling MCData function, according to the rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
2\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND request to the terminating MCData
client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an error MSRP response from the terminating MCData client, the
participating MCData function shall forward the error MSRP response to the
originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC
4975 [11].
### 6.2.2 Short data during an SDS session
#### 6.2.2.1 General
For a one-to-one or group SDS session, the media plane is established between
the originating MCData client and the originating participating MCData
function, the originating participating MCData function and the controlling
MCData function, the controlling MCData function and the terminating
participating MCData function(s) and each terminating participating MCData
function and the terminating MCData client(s) as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8]. The procedures in clause 6.2.2.4 and clause 6.2.2.5 are applicable for
one-to-one and group SDS session.
#### 6.2.2.2 Establishing MSRP session to receive SDS message
To receive a SDS message over MSRP, the participating MCData function:
1\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the sent SDP answer was
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the sent SDP answer was set
to \"active\"; and
2\. shall establish an MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the sent SDP answer response as described in IETF RFC 4976 [14].
#### 6.2.2.3 Establish MSRP session to send SDS message
To send a SDS message over MSRP, the participating MCData function:
1\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\"; and
2\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the received SDP answer response as described in IETF RFC 4976
[14].
#### 6.2.2.4 Procedures for the originating participating MCData function
##### 6.2.2.4.1 Establish MSRP session with the originating MCData client
The originating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the originating MCData client as specified in clause 6.2.2.2.
##### 6.2.2.4.2 Establish MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
The originating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the controlling MCData function as specified in clause 6.2.2.3.
##### 6.2.2.4.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving an MSRP SEND request from the originating MCData client, the
originating participating MCData function:
1\. if an MSRP connection is not established with the controlling MCData
function then, shall establish the MSRP connection as specified in clause
6.2.2.4.2. Otherwise, shall use the existing MSRP connection; and
2\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND request to the controlling MCData
function according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an MSRP 200 (OK) response from the controlling MCData function,
the participating MCData function shall forward the MSRP 200 (OK) response to
the originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF
RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an error MSRP response from the controlling MCData function,
the participating MCData function shall forward the error MSRP response to the
originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC
4975 [11].
#### 6.2.2.5 Procedures for the terminating participating MCData function
##### 6.2.2.5.1 Establish MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
The terminating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the controlling MCData function as specified in clause 6.2.2.2.
##### 6.2.2.5.2 Establish MSRP session with the terminating MCData client
The terminating participating MCData function should establish MSRP session to
terminating MCData client as specified in clause 6.2.2.3.
##### 6.2.2.5.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving an MSRP SEND request from the controlling MCData function, the
terminating participating MCData function:
1\. shall generate and send a MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND request to the controlling MCData function, according to the rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
2\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND request to the terminating MCData
client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an error MSRP response from the terminating MCData client, the
participating MCData function shall forward the error MSRP response to the
originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC
4975 [11].
## 6.3 Controlling MCData function procedures
### 6.3.1 Standalone SDS via media plane
#### 6.3.1.1 General
The controlling MCData function plays a key role in anchoring the media
between the originating MCData client and the terminating MCData client. Hence
controlling MCData function maintains a MSRP session with all the active
MCData clients.
The procedures in clause 6.3.1.2 and clause 6.3.1.3 are applicable for both,
one-to-one and group standalone SDS using media plane.
#### 6.3.1.2 Establishing MSRP session
##### 6.3.1.2.1 MSRP session establishment with originating MCData client
To establish the MSRP connection with the originating MCData client, the
controlling MCData function performs below procedures:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client and establish TLS connection with the
originating participating MCData function, if exists, otherwise the
originating MCData client, according to the rules and procedures as described
in IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall act as an MSRP client to send MSRP SEND requests according to the
rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall act as an \"passive\" endpoint according to the rules and procedures
described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
4\. shall establish the MSRP connection with originating MCData client,
according to the rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12]; and
5\. as a passive endpoint, shall wait for MSRP SEND request on established
MSRP connection, to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11] and IETF RFC 6135 [12].
##### 6.3.1.2.2 MSRP session establishment with terminating MCData client
To establish the MSRP connection with the terminating MCData client, the
controlling MCData function performs below procedures:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client and establish TLS connection with the
terminating participating MCData function, if exists, otherwise the
terminating MCData client, according to the rules and procedures as described
in IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall act as an MSRP client to send MSRP SEND requests according to the
rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\";
4\. shall establish the MSRP connection with each terminating MCData client
identified in the 3GPP TS 24.282 [8], according to the rules and procedures
described in IETF RFC 6135 [12]; and
5\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
on each established MSRP connection, to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP
session according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11] and IETF
RFC 6135 [12].
#### 6.3.1.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving a MSRP SEND request from the originating participating MCData
function, the controlling MCData function:
1\. if in a standalone one-to-one SDS using media plane, shall verify the SDS
message size is less than or equal to \ element in
the MCData service configuration document as specified in 3GPP TS 24.484 [7];
2\. if in a standalone group SDS using media plane shall verify:
a. the SDS message size is less than or equal to \ element of the MCData group document for the (see the MCData group
document in 3GPP TS 24.481 [4]); and
b. the SDS message size is less than or equal to \ element of the MCData group document (see the MCData group
document in 3GPP TS 24.481 [4]);
3\. if the verifications in either 1 or 2 a or 2 b above fails, shall send the
MSRP response with the error code 403 to the MCData client which sent the SDS
message and shall not continue with the rest of the procedure;
4\. shall generate and send a MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND requests to the originating participating MCData function, according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
5\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND requests to each terminating MCData
client with which a successful MSRP connection was established, according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]. Following clarifications apply
to the generated MSRP SEND request:
a. shall modify the To-Path header according to the MSRP URI received in the
answer SDP from the MCData client in accordance with rules and procedures of
IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
b. shall modify the From-Path header to the controlling MCData function\'s own
MSRP URI, according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
### 6.3.2 Short data during SDS session
#### 6.3.2.1 General
#### 6.3.2.2 Establishing MSRP session
##### 6.3.2.2.1 MSRP session establishment with originating MCData client
To establish the MSRP connection with the originating MCData client, the
controlling MCData function performs below procedures:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client and establish TLS connection with the
originating participating MCData function, if exists, otherwise the
originating MCData client, according to the rules and procedures as described
in IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall act as an MSRP client to send MSRP SEND requests according to the
rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall act as an \"passive\" endpoint according to the rules and procedures
described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
4\. shall establish the MSRP connection with originating MCData client,
according to the rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12]; and
5\. acting as a \"passive\" endpoint, shall wait for MSRP SEND request on
established MSRP connection, to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session
according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11] and IETF RFC 6135
[12].
##### 6.3.2.2.2 MSRP session establishment with terminating MCData client
To establish the MSRP connection with the terminating MCData client, the
controlling MCData function performs below procedures:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client and establish TLS connection with the
terminating participating MCData function, if exists, otherwise the
terminating MCData client, according to the rules and procedures as described
in IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall act as an MSRP client to send MSRP SEND requests according to the
rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\";
4\. shall establish the MSRP connection with each terminating MCData client
identified in the 3GPP TS 24.282 [8], according to the rules and procedures
described in IETF RFC 6135 [12]; and
5\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
on each established MSRP connection, to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP
session according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11] and IETF
RFC 6135 [12].
#### 6.3.2.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving a MSRP SEND request from the originating participating MCData
function, the controlling MCData function:
1\. shall generate and send a MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND requests to the originating participating MCData function, according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
2\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND requests to each terminating MCData
client with which a successful MSRP connection was established, according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]. Following clarifications apply
to the generated MSRP SEND request:
a. shall modify the To-Path header according to the MSRP URI received in the
answer SDP from the MCData client in accordance with rules and procedures of
IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
b. shall modify the From-Path header to the controlling MCData function\'s own
MSRP URI, according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
## 6.4 General
### 6.4.1 Handling of MIME bodies in MSRP SEND messages
The MCData client and MCData server shall support several MIME bodies in MSRP
SEND requests as specified in IETF RFC 4975 [11].
When the MCData client or the MCData server sends a MSRP SEND that contains
more than one MIME body, the MCData client or the MCData server:
1) shall, as specified in IETF RFC 2046 [9], include one Content-Type header
field with the value set to multipart/mixed and with a boundary delimiter
parameter set to any chosen value;
2) for each MIME body:
a) shall insert the boundary delimiter;
b) shall insert the Content-Type header field with the MIME type of the MIME
body; and
c) shall insert the content of the MIME body; and
3) shall insert a final boundary delimiter.
When the MCData client or the MCData server sends an MSRP SEND containing only
one MIME body, the MCData client or the MCData server:
1) shall include a Content-Type header field set to the MIME type of the MIME
body; and
2) shall insert the content of the MIME body.
## 6.5 SDS delivery using MBMS
### 6.5.1 General Description (non-normative)
The procedures for group SDS delivery using MBMS via the media plane can be
seen as extensions of the procedures for group SDS session delivery using
unicast. The procedures of the originating client, originating participating
function and controling function are those used for unicast session delivery
for group SDS. Only the terminating participating function and the terminating
client are involved in MBMS delivery functionality for group SDS.
The procedures assume that consistent with 3GPP TS 24.282 [8], an SDS session
has already been established and the originating and terminating MCData
clients have already completed successfully the SDP offer/answer negotiation.
It is further assumed that the terminating MCData participating function has
already sent an MBMS bearer announcement message providing information about
the MBMS bearer and subchannel intended for MBMS delivery and that the
terminating MCData client has received and processed the MBMS bearer
announcement message, as described in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
During the SDS session, the terminating MCData participating function
intercepts MSRP SEND messages arriving from the originating side, and, after
eliminating duplicates, encapsulates them unchanged as payload in
(S)RTP/UDP/IP (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]) packets and transmits them on an MBMS
bearer towards the terminating MCData client. Upon reception, the terminating
MCData client decapsulates the payload and processes it as an MSRP SEND
message within the SDS session, arriving from the originating side.
NOTE 1: Since MSRP chunking is supported for unicast delivery, it is also
supported for MBMS delivery.
NOTE 2: If SRTP (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]), rather than RTP, is used to security
protect packets sent on MBMS bearer, MuSiK (see 3GPP TS 24.482 [5] and 3GPP TS
33.180 [15]) may be employed to provide protection in addition to the security
mechanisms that protect the unicast MSRP traffic.
NOTE 3: Whether unicast or MBMS delivery are used is up to the terminating
participating function, which can use listening status reports from the MCData
clients, the presence or absence of the DELIVERED disposition in SDS, as well
as other information, to decide on an individual MCData client and SDS basis.
At any time during a session, the terminating participating server can toggle
between unicast and MBMS delivery.
### 6.5.2 Procedures for the terminating MCData client
#### 6.5.2.1 Handling the MSRP connection
The terminating MCData client shall execute the procedure for MSRP connection
establishment described in clause 6.1.2.3.1.
#### 6.5.2.2 Receiving Map Group To Bearer and Unmap Group To Bearer
While MBMS delivery is expected, the terminating MCData client shall monitor
the general purpose MBMS subchannel.
When receiving a Map Group To Bearer message over the general purpose MBMS
subchannel, the MBMS interface in the MCData client:
1) shall associate the TMGI in the TMGI field, the MBMS subchannel for media
with the MCData group identity in the MCData Group ID field; and
2) shall start or continue the procedure described in clause 6.5.2.3.
When receiving the Unmap Group To Bearer message referring to the current
communication over a MBMS subchannel, the MBMS interface in the MCData client:
1) shall remove the association between the TMGI, the MBMS subchannel for
media in the group session identified by the MCData Group ID field, if such an
association exists; and
2) shall cease monitoring the associated MBMS bearer and subchannel for media
and, if the SDS session is still ongoing, shall resume or continue SDS
delivery via media plane over unicast.
#### 6.5.2.3 Receiving media packets
The terminating MCData client shall:
1\. while MBMS delivery is expected, the terminating MCData client shall
monitor the MBMS bearer and subchannel indicated by the Map Group To Bearer
message; and
2\. for each received (S)RTP media packet, until a SIP BYE is received or
until an implementation dependent timeout occurs:
a. decapsulate the payload out of the (S)RTP packet and, if SRTP rather than
RTP is used (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]), decrypt and validate the payload;
b. if the media packet was received via an MBMS bearer with the TMGI
associated to the group, accept the payload as correctly destined for the
terminating MCData client, regardless of whether or not the To‑Path header of
the MSRP SEND message in the payload matches the terminating MCData client\'s
MSRP URI (i.e. the MSRP URI provided in the answer SDP to the controlling
function during the MSRP session establishment, in accordance with rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]); and
c. process the payload as a received MSRP SEND message according to clause
6.1.2.3.1, in the context of the media flow formed by previously received MSRP
SEND messages, whether delivered via unicast or via MBMS.
### 6.5.3 Procedures for the terminating MCData participating function
#### 6.5.3.1 Establishing MSRP session
The terminating MCData participating function:
1\. shall establish an MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
according to clause 6.2.2.5.1; and
2\. shall establish an MSRP session with the terminating MCData client
according to clause 6.2.2.5.2.
#### 6.5.3.2 Sending Map Group To Bearer and Unmap Group To Bearer
The terminating MCData participating function:
1\. shall build a Map Group To Bearer message (see clause 11.2.4) to include:
a. the TMGI of the MBMS bearer to carry the traffic;
b. the identifier of the media stream; and
c. the MCData Group identifier field; and
2\. shall send (repetitively, at short, implementation dependent time
intervals) the Map Group To Bearer message over the general purpose MBMS
subchannel.
When the session ends, the terminating MCData participating function shall
build the corresponding Unmap Group To Bearer message (see clause 11.2.5) and
shall send it over the general purpose MBMS subchannel.
#### 6.5.3.3 Receiving media packets intended for a terminating MCData client
When receiving an MSRP SEND message that the terminating participating server
considers qualified for MBMS delivery and is destined to one of the MCData
clients listening to the MBMS subchannel, the participating MCData function:
NOTE 1: An MSRP SEND message that does not qualify for MBMS delivery or is not
destined to an MCData client listening to the MBMS subchannel is handled as an
MSRP SEND message to be delivered over unicast (see clause 6.2.1.5.3).
1\. shall generate and send an MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND message to the controlling MCData function, according to the rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall check if the media packet that encapsulates the MSRP SEND message is
already sent over the MBMS subchannel or not;
3\. if the media packet is already sent over the MBMS subchannel, shall
discard the MSRP SEND message; and
4\. otherwise:
a. shall build an (S)RTP/UDP/IP (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]) media packet with the
IP address and UDP port number indicated in the sent Map Group To Bearer
message and with the received MSRP SEND message as payload, security protected
if SRTP is used, per IETF RFC 3711 [17] and 3GPP TS 33.180 [15]; and
b. shall transmit the built (S)RTP/UDP/IP packet on the MBMS bearer identified
by the TMGI indicated in the sent Map Group To Bearer message.
NOTE 2: To save over-the air resources, the terminating MCData participating
function releases or reduces the bandwidth of the unicast downlink bearers
used for unicast SDS delivery. However, to enable the ability of rapid
switching between unicast and MBMS delivery, the terminating MCData
participating function can keep the unicast bearers intact.
Upon receiving error MSRP responses (see IETF RFC 4975 [11]) from the
terminating MCData client, the terminating MCData participating function shall
forward the error MSRP responses towards the originating MCData client.
## 6.6 SDS delivery using MBS
All steps of clause 6.5 apply also for MBS, with the clarification that
terminology mapping specified in annex X applies.
# 7 FD media plane procedures
## 7.1 MCData client procedures
### 7.1.1 General
For file distribution, upon receiving a request from the user or user
application the originating client establishes the media plane as specified in
3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The procedures in clause 7.1.2 and clause 7.1.3 are applicable for one-to-one
and group file distribution.
A MCData client which is not permitted to transmit data should not use the
procedure in clause 7.1.2.
### 7.1.2 Originating MCData client procedures
#### 7.1.2.1 Handling MSRP connection
Upon receiving an indication to establish MSRP connection for file
distribution as the originating client, the MCData client:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
2\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\";
3\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the SDP answer received in the SIP 200 (OK) response according
to IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
4\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session from the perspective of the
passive endpoint according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]
and IETF RFC 6135 [12].
On receiving MSRP 200 (OK) response to the first MSRP SEND request, the MCData
client can send the file. To send the file, the MCData client:
1\. shall generate MSRP SEND for file distribution request according to IETF
RFC 4975 [11]. When generating an MSRP SEND, the MCData client:
a. shall set To-Path header according to the MSRP URI(s) received in the
answer SDP;
b. shall set the Content-Type header field = to \"application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-
file\"; and
c. shall include in the body of the MSRP SEND request the MSRP payload. The
MSRP payload is set to the file or part of the file.
2\. shall send the MSRP SEND request(s) on the established MSRP connection.
If MSRP chunking is used, the MCData client:
1\. shall send further MSRP SEND requests containing the file as necessary;
2\. shall wait for a 200 (OK) response to each MSRP SEND request sent; and
3\. on receipt of the last 200 (OK) response shall terminate the SIP session
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
On receiving a non-200 MSRP response to the MSRP SEND request the MCData
client shall handle the error as specified in IETF RFC 4975 [11]. To terminate
the MSRP session, the MCData client:
1\. if there are further MSRP chunks to send, shall abort transmission of
these further MSRP chunks;
2\. shall indicate to MCData user that the file could not be distributed; and
3\. shall terminate the SIP session as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
### 7.1.3 Terminating MCData client procedures
#### 7.1.3.1 Handling MSRP connection
Upon receiving an indication to establish MSRP connection for file
distribution as the terminating client, the MCData client:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
2\. shall act either as an active endpoint or as an passive endpoint to open
the transport connection, according to IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the SDP offer received in the SIP INVITE request according to
IETF RFC 4975 [11];
4\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session from the perspective of the
passive endpoint according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]
and IETF RFC 6135 [12];
Once the MSRP session is established, the MCData client:
1\. on receipt of an MSRP request in the MSRP session, shall follow the rules
and procedures defined in IETF RFC 4975 [11] and in IETF RFC 6714 [13];
2\. If an MSRP SEND request indicates the use of chunking, shall wait until
all further MSRP SEND requests for the remaining chunks have been received and
shall reassemble the entire set of MSRP requests into the file before
delivering the content to the application; and
3\. shall handle the received content as described in clause 7.1.3.2.
#### 7.1.3.2 Handling received content and disposition requests
Upon receiving a file, the MCData client:
1\. shall decode the contents of the application/vnd.3gpp.mcdata-file MIME
body; and
2\. once all the chunks of the file are successfully received, shall indicate
to the signalling plane that the file download is completed.
## 7.2 Participating MCData function procedures
### 7.2.1 General
For a one-to-one or group file distribution, the media plane is established
between the originating MCData client and the originating participating MCData
function, the originating participating MCData function and the controlling
MCData function, the controlling MCData function and the terminating
participating MCData function(s) and each terminating participating MCData
function and the terminating MCData client(s) as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282
[8]. The procedures in clause 7.2.2 and clause 7.2.3 are applicable for one-
to-one and group file distribution.
### 7.2.2 Establishing MSRP session to receive the file
To receive a file over MSRP, the participating MCData function:
1\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the sent SDP answer was
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the sent SDP answer was set
to \"active\"; and
2\. shall establish an MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the sent SDP answer response as described in IETF RFC 4976 [14].
### 7.2.3 Establish MSRP session to send the file
To send a file over MSRP, the participating MCData function:
1\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\"; and
2\. shall establish the MSRP connection according to the MSRP connection
parameters in the received SDP answer response as described in IETF RFC 4976
[14].
### 7.2.4 Originating participating MCData function procedures
#### 7.2.4.1 Establish MSRP session with the originating MCData client
The originating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the originating MCData client as specified in clause 7.2.2.
#### 7.2.4.2 Establish MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
The originating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the controlling MCData function as specified in clause 7.2.3.
#### 7.2.4.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving an MSRP SEND request from the originating MCData client, the
originating participating MCData function:
1\. if an MSRP connection is not established with the controlling MCData
function then, shall establish the MSRP connection as specified in clause
7.2.4.2. Otherwise, shall use the existing MSRP connection; and
2\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND request to the controlling MCData
function according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an MSRP 200 (OK) response from the controlling MCData function,
the participating MCData function shall forward the MSRP 200 (OK) response to
the originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF
RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an error MSRP response from the controlling MCData function,
the participating MCData function shall forward the error MSRP response to the
originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC
4975 [11].
### 7.2.5 Terminating participating MCData function procedures
#### 7.2.5.1 Establish MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
The terminating participating MCData function should establish the MSRP
session with the controlling MCData function as specified in clause 7.2.2.
#### 7.2.5.2 Establish MSRP session with the terminating MCData client
The terminating participating MCData function should establish MSRP session to
terminating MCData client as specified in clause 7.2.3.
#### 7.2.5.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving an MSRP SEND request from the controlling MCData function, the
terminating participating MCData function:
1\. shall generate and send a MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND request to the controlling MCData function, according to the rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
2\. if the indication to store the received file for later delivery is
received from the signaling plane, the participating function:
a) shall receive and store the file; and
b) shall indicate to the signalling plane that the file download is completed
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8] clause 10.2.5.3.4;
otherwise:
a) shall forward the received MSRP SEND request to the terminating MCData
client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
Upon receiving an error MSRP response from the terminating MCData client, the
participating MCData function shall forward the error MSRP response to the
originating MCData client according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC
4975 [11].
## 7.3 Controlling MCData function procedures
### 7.3.1 General
### 7.3.2 Establishing MSRP session
#### 7.3.2.1 MSRP session establishment with originating MCData client
To establish the MSRP connection with the originating MCData client, the
controlling MCData function performs below procedures:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client and establish TLS connection with the
originating participating MCData function, if exists, otherwise the
originating MCData client, according to the rules and procedures as described
in IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall act as an MSRP client to send MSRP SEND requests according to the
rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall act as an \"passive\" endpoint according to the rules and procedures
described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
4\. shall establish the MSRP connection with originating MCData client,
according to the rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12]; and
5\. acting as a \"passive\" endpoint, shall wait for MSRP SEND request on
established MSRP connection, to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP session
according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11] and IETF RFC 6135
[12].
#### 7.3.2.2 MSRP session establishment with terminating MCData client
To establish the MSRP connection with the terminating MCData client, the
controlling MCData function performs below procedures:
1\. shall act as an MSRP client and establish TLS connection with the
terminating participating MCData function, if exists, otherwise the
terminating MCData client, according to the rules and procedures as described
in IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall act as an MSRP client to send MSRP SEND requests according to the
rules and procedures described in IETF RFC 6135 [12];
3\. shall act according to IETF RFC 6135 [12], as:
a. an \"active\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"passive\"; and
b. an \"passive\" endpoint, if a=setup attribute in the received SDP answer is
set to \"active\";
4\. shall establish the MSRP connection with each terminating MCData client
identified in the 3GPP TS 24.282 [8], according to the rules and procedures
described in IETF RFC 6135 [12]; and
5\. if acting as an \"active\" endpoint, shall send an empty MSRP SEND request
on each established MSRP connection, to bind the MSRP connection to the MSRP
session according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11] and IETF
RFC 6135 [12].
### 7.3.3 Handling of received MSRP messages
Upon receiving a MSRP SEND request from the originating participating MCData
function, the Controlling function:
1\. shall generate and send a MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND requests to the originating participating MCData function, according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
2\. shall forward the received MSRP SEND requests to each terminating MCData
client with which a successful MSRP connection was established, according to
the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]. Following clarifications apply
to the generated MSRP SEND request:
a. shall modify the To-Path header according to the MSRP URI received in the
answer SDP from the MCData client in accordance with rules and procedures of
IETF RFC 4975 [11]; and
b. shall modify the From-Path header to the controlling MCData function\'s own
MSRP URI, according to the rules and procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11].
## 7.4 FD using MBMS delivery via MB2 interface
### 7.4.1 General Description
The procedures for group FD using MBMS delivery via the MB2 interface can be
seen as extensions of the procedures for group FD media delivery using
unicast. The procedures of the originating client, originating participating
function and controling function are those used for unicast session delivery
for group FD. Only the terminating participating function and the terminating
client are involved in MBMS delivery over MB2 interface functionality for
group FD.
The procedures assume that consistent with 3GPP TS 24.282 [8], an MSRP session
has already been established and the originating and terminating MCData
clients have already completed successfully the SDP offer/answer negotiation.
It is further assumed that the terminating MCData participating function has
already sent an MBMS bearer announcement message providing information about
the MBMS bearer and subchannel intended for MBMS delivery and that the
terminating MCData client has received and processed the MBMS bearer
announcement message, as described in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
During the session, the terminating MCData participating function intercepts
MSRP SEND messages arriving from the originating side, and, after eliminating
duplicates, encapsulates them unchanged as payload in (S)RTP/UDP/IP (see IETF
RFC 3711 [17]) packets and transmits them on an MBMS bearer towards the
terminating MCData client. Upon reception, the terminating MCData client
decapsulates the payload and processes it as an MSRP SEND message within the
MSRP session, arriving from the originating side.
NOTE 1: Since MSRP chunking is supported for unicast delivery, it is also
supported for MBMS delivery.
NOTE 2: If SRTP (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]), rather than RTP, is used to securely
protect packets sent on MBMS bearer, MuSiK (see 3GPP TS 24.282 [8] and 3GPP TS
33.180 [15]) may be employed to provide protection in addition to the security
mechanisms that protect the unicast MSRP traffic.
NOTE 3: The terminating participating function, which can use listening status
reports from the MCData clients, the presence, absence or content of the FILE
DOWNLOAD COMPLETED report, as well as other information, decides whether to
use unicast or MBMS delivery on an individual MCData client and file basis. At
any time during a session, the terminating participating server can toggle
between unicast and MBMS delivery.
### 7.4.2 Procedures for the terminating MCData client
#### 7.4.2.1 Handling the MSRP connection
The terminating MCData client shall execute the procedure for MSRP connection
establishment described in clause 7.1.3.1.
#### 7.4.2.2 Receiving Map Group To Bearer and Unmap Group To Bearer
While MBMS delivery is expected, the terminating MCData client shall monitor
the general purpose MBMS subchannel.
When receiving a Map Group To Bearer message over the general purpose MBMS
subchannel, the MBMS interface in the MCData client:
1) shall associate the TMGI in the TMGI field, the MBMS subchannel for media
with the MCData group identity in the MCData Group ID field; and
2) shall start or continue the procedure described in clause 7.4.2.3.
When receiving the Unmap Group To Bearer message referring to the current
communication over a MBMS subchannel, the MBMS interface in the MCData client:
1) shall remove the association between the TMGI, the MBMS subchannel for
media in the group session identified by the MCData Group ID field, if such an
association exists; and
2) shall cease monitoring the associated MBMS bearer and subchannel for media
and, if the MSRP session is still ongoing, shall resume or continue file
delivery via media plane over unicast.
#### 7.4.2.3 Receiving media packets
The terminating MCData client shall:
1\. while MBMS delivery is expected, monitor the MBMS bearer and subchannel
indicated by the Map Group To Bearer message; and
2\. for each received (S)RTP media packet, until a SIP BYE is received or
until an implementation dependent timeout occurs:
a. decapsulate the payload out of the (S)RTP packet and, if SRTP rather than
RTP is used (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]), decrypt and validate the payload;
b. if the media packet was received via an MBMS bearer with the TMGI
associated to the group, accept the payload as correctly destined for the
terminating MCData client, regardless of whether or not the To‑Path header of
the MSRP SEND message in the payload matches the terminating MCData client\'s
MSRP URI (i.e. the MSRP URI provided in the answer SDP to the controlling
function during the MSRP session establishment, in accordance with rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11]); and
c. process the payload as a received MSRP SEND message during the established
MSRP session, according to clause 7.1.3.1, in the context of the media flow
formed by previously received MSRP SEND messages, whether delivered via
unicast or via MBMS.
### 7.4.3 Procedures for the terminating MCData participating function
#### 7.4.3.1 Establishing MSRP sessions
The terminating MCData participating function:
1\. shall establish an MSRP session with the controlling MCData function
according to clause 7.2.5.1; and
2\. shall establish an MSRP session with the terminating MCData client
according to clause 7.2.5.2.
#### 7.4.3.2 Sending Map Group To Bearer and Unmap Group To Bearer
The terminating MCData participating function:
1\. shall build a Map Group To Bearer message (see clause 11.2.4) to include:
a. the TMGI of the MBMS bearer to carry the traffic;
b. the identifier of the media stream; and
c. the MCData Group identifier field; and
2\. shall send (repetitively, at short, implementation dependent time
intervals) the Map Group To Bearer message over the general purpose MBMS
subchannel.
When the MSRP session with the terminating MCData client (see clause 7.4.3.1)
ends, the terminating MCData participating function shall build the
corresponding Unmap Group To Bearer message (see clause 11.2.5) and shall send
it over the general purpose MBMS subchannel.
#### 7.4.3.3 Receiving media packets intended for a terminating MCData client
When receiving an MSRP SEND message that the terminating participating
function considers qualified for MBMS delivery and is destined to one of the
MCData clients listening to the MBMS subchannel, the terminating participating
MCData function:
NOTE 1: An MSRP SEND message that does not qualify for MBMS delivery or is not
destined to an MCData client listening to the MBMS subchannel is handled as an
MSRP SEND message to be delivered over unicast (see clause 7.2.5.3).
1\. shall generate and send an MSRP 200 (OK) response for the received MSRP
SEND message to the controlling MCData function, according to the rules and
procedures of IETF RFC 4975 [11];
2\. shall check if the media packet that encapsulates the MSRP SEND message is
already sent over the MBMS subchannel or not;
3\. if the media packet is already sent over the MBMS subchannel, shall
discard the MSRP SEND message; and
4\. otherwise:
a. shall build an (S)RTP/UDP/IP (see IETF RFC 3711 [17]) media packet with the
IP address and UDP port number indicated in the sent Map Group To Bearer
message and with the received MSRP SEND message as payload, security protected
if SRTP is used, per IETF RFC 3711 [17] and 3GPP TS 33.180 [15]; and
b. shall transmit the built (S)RTP/UDP/IP packet on the MBMS bearer identified
by the TMGI indicated in the sent Map Group To Bearer message.
NOTE 2: To save over-the air resources, the terminating MCData participating
function releases or reduces the bandwidth of the unicast downlink bearers
used for unicast file delivery. However, to enable the ability of rapid
switching between unicast and MBMS delivery, the terminating MCData
participating function can keep the unicast bearers intact.
Upon receiving error MSRP responses (see IETF RFC 4975 [11]) from the
terminating MCData client, the terminating MCData participating function shall
forward the error MSRP responses towards the originating MCData client.
## 7.5 FD using MBS delivery via MCData-FD interface
All steps of clause 7.4 apply also for MBS except different interfaces, with
the clarification that terminology mapping specified in annex X applies.
# 8 Communication release media plane procedures
When communication is released by the MCData client or by the MCData server,
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8], for an SDS or FD session which uses the
media plane, the related MSRP session and the TCP or TLS connections used for
this MSRP session shall also be released.
# 9 Coding
## 9.1 General
SDS and FD over media plane messages are coded according to MSRP as specified
in RFC 4975 [11] both for short data and disposition notification. The body of
an MSRP message includes SDS specific messages of a file.
## 9.2 SDS specific messages
SDS specific messages used for on-network SDS using media plane are SDS
SIGNALLING PAYLOAD message, DATA PAYLOAD message and SDS NOTIFICATION message.
The message structures and the format of the information elements are
specified in clause 15 of 3GPP TS 24.282 [8]
# 10 Media plane security aspects
## 10.1 General
Media plane security provides integrity and confidentiality protection for the
MCData media information and media plane control information transmitted using
media plane. Media plane security also provides the authentication of MCData
media information.
The media plane security is based on 3GPP MCData security solution including
key management as defined in 3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
NOTE: In 3GPP TS 33.180 [15] media information is denoted as MCData Data
Payload and media plane control information is denoted as MCData Data
signalling Payload.
Various keys and associated key identifiers protect the media information and
media plane control information carried in the body of an MSRP SEND message.
The media plane control information may be:
1\. SDS SIGNALLING PAYLOAD; or
2\. SDS NOTIFICATION.
The media information may be:
1\. DATA PAYLOAD; or
2\. File or file portion.
In an on-network MCData communication for an MCData group, if protection of
media is negotiated, the GMK and the GMK-ID of the MCData group shall be used
for protecting the media sent and received by MCData clients.
In an on-network one-to-one MCData communication, if protection of media is
negotiated, the PCK and the PCK-ID shall be used for protecting the media sent
and received by MCData clients.
If protection of media control information sent using unicast between the
MCData client and the participating MCData function serving the the MCData
client is negotiated, the CSK and the CSK-ID shall be used for protecting the
media control information sent and received using unicast by the MCData client
and by a participating MCData function.
If protection of media control information between the participating MCData
function and the controlling MCData function is configured, the SPK and the
SPK-ID shall be used for protecting the media control information sent and
received between the participating MCData function and the controlling MCData
function.
The GMK and the GMK-ID are distributed to the MCData clients using the group
document subscription and notification procedure specified in 3GPP TS 24.481
[4].
The PCK and the PCK-ID are generated by the MCData client initiating the
standalone one-to-one SDS using media plane or one-to-one SDS session or one-
to-one FD using media plane and provided to the MCData client receiving the
SIP signalling according to 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The CSK and the CSK-ID are generated by the MCData client and provided to the
participating MCData function serving the MCData client using SIP signalling
according to 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The SPK and the SPK-ID are configured in the participating MCData function and
the controlling MCData function.
The key material for creating and verifying the authentication signature (SSK,
PVT and KPAK) is provisioned to the MCData clients by the KMS as specified in
3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
## 10.2 **Derivation of master keys for media and media control**
Each MCData Payload Protection Key (DPPK) (i.e. GMK, PCK, CSK, SPK) and its
associated key identifier DPPK-ID (i.e. GMK-ID, PCK-ID, CSK-ID, SPK -ID)
described in clause 10.1 shall be used to derive a MCData Payload Cipher Key
(DPCK) and its associated DPCK-ID as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
DPCK and DPCK-ID shall be used in the protection of media or media plane
control information as specified in 3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
## 10.3 Protection of media and media control and authentication of media
### 10.3.1 General
The media information may be protected. Protection shall be applied as
specified in clause 8.5.4 in 3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
The media control information may be protected. Protection shall be applied as
specified in clause 8.5.4 in 3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
MCData media information or protected MCData media information may also be
authenticated as specified in clause 8.5.5 in 3GPP TS 33.180 [15].
### 10.3.2 The MCData client
A MCData client transmitting media information shall protect the media
information using the related DPPK and DPPK-ID according to the negotiatd
protection method. For one-to-one communication PCK and PCK-ID shall be used
as DPPK and DPPK-ID. For group communication GMK and GMK-ID shall be used as
DPPK and DPPK-ID.
A MCData client transmitting media information or protected media information
shall use the key material provisioned by the KMS when generating the
authentication signature.
A MCData client which receives protected media information shall decrypt and
check the integrity of the protected media using the related DPPK and DPPK-ID
according to the negotiated protection method.
A MCData client which receives signed media information or signed and
protected media information shall verify the signature by using the signature,
the identity of the originating MCData client and the KPAK provisioned by the
KMS.
A MCData client transmitting media control information shall protect the media
control information using CPK and CPK-ID if media control information
protection is negotiated.
A MCData client which receives protected media control information shall
decrypt and check the integrity of the protected media control information
using CPK and CPK-ID.
### 10.3.3 The participating MCData function
A participating MCData function which receives protected media information
shall forward it to the next entity without any additional action related to
the security framework.
A participating MCData function, when receiving a protected media control
information from a MCData client shall decrypt and integrity check the
protected media control using the CSK and CSK-ID negotiated with the MCData
client which has sent the media control. Then, the participating MCData
function shall forward the media control information to the controlling MCData
function by protecting the media control information using SPK and SPK-ID, if
protection is configured between the participating MCData function and the
controlling MCData function.
A participating MCData function, when receiving a protected media control
information from the controlling MCData function shall decrypt and integrity
check the protected media control information using the SPK and SPK-ID
configured between the participating MCData function and the controlling
MCData function. Then, the participating MCData function shall forward the
media control information to the destination MCData client by protecting the
media control information using the CSK and CSK-ID if protection is negotiated
between the participating MCData function and the MCData client.
### 10.3.4 The controlling MCData function
A controlling MCData function which receives protected media information shall
forward it to the next entity without any additional action related to the
security framework.
A controlling MCData function, when receiving a protected media control
information from a participating MCData function shall decrypt and integrity
check the protected media control information using the SPK and SPK-ID
configured between the participating MCData function and the controlling
MCData function. Then, the controlling MCData function shall forward the media
control information to the participating MCData function serving the
destination MCData client by protecting the media control information using
SPK and SPK-ID, if protection is configured between the participating MCData
function and the controlling MCData function.
# 11 Communication using MBMS
## 11.1 Control messages sent over MBMS bearers
### 11.1.1 General
The control messages sent over MBMS bearers by MCData participating function
and specified in the present document are based on the (S)RTCP Application
Packets (SRTCP: APP), as defined in IETF RFC 3550 [16] and IETF RFC 3711 [17],
but the control messages do not conform to the rules for compound RTCP packets
or RTCP packet transmission.
Each MBMS control message is one (S)RTCP: APP packet. These RTCP: APP packets
are not to be sent in compound RTCP packets, but more than one MBMS control
message can be sent in a single IP packet.
### 11.1.2 SRTCP: APP format for control messages sent over MBMS bearers
The definition of the fields in the SRTCP APP packet is found in IETF RFC 3550
[16] and IETF RFC 3711 [17].
Table 11.1.2-1 shows the RTCP APP packet format used for control messages sent
over MBMS bearers.
Table 11.1.2-1: MBMS control message format
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name (ASCII) \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| application-dependent data \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Secure RTCP message part \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
**[P]{.underline}**
The padding bit P is set to \'0\'.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype values in use by MCData are defined in table 11.2.2-1.
**[length]{.underline}**
The length field in the RTCP header is the length of the packet in 32-bit
words, not counting the first 32-bit word in which the length field resides.
NOTE: The length field can indicate message size longer than specified in this
version of the protocol. This can be the case e.g., if message is of later
version of this protocol.
**[SSRC]{.underline}**
The content of this field is described for each MBMS control message
separately.
**[Name]{.underline}**
The 4-byte ASCII string in the RTCP header is used to define the set of MBMS
control messages for MCData, to be unique with respect to other APP packets
that may be sent over the MBMS bearer. For MCData, the name string is \"MCDM\"
(Mission Critical Data over MBMS).
**[Application-dependent data]{.underline}**
The application-dependent data contains zero or more application specific data
fields. The format for these fields is described in clause 11.1.3.
This part is encrypted if SRTCP is used.
**[Secure RTCP message part]{.underline}**
The content of the secure RTCP message part is the \"tail\" appended to the
RTCP packet per IETF RFC 3711 [17].
### 11.1.3 Application specific data field
Each application specific data field is composed of:
1\. a field ID which is one octet long;
2\. a length value which is:
\- one octet long, if the field ID is less than 192; and
\- two octets long, if the field ID is equal to or greater than 192;
3\. a field value. The length in octets of the field value is indicated in the
length value; and
4\. a padding. The padding is zero, one, two, or three octets long. The value
of the padding octet(s) is set to zero by sender and ignored by receiver.
An application specific data field is always a multiple of 4 octets long.
Table 11.1.3-1 shows the application dependent data field structure when the
field ID is less than 192. Table 11.1.3-2 shows the application dependent data
field structure when the field ID is equal to or greater than 192.
Table 11.1.3.-1: Application specific data field structure when the field ID
is less than 192
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Field ID \| Length value \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ +
: \ :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
Table 11.1.3.-2: Application specific data field structure when the field ID
is equal to or greater than 192
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Field ID \| Length value \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ +
: \ :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
## 11.2 MBMS Subchannel Control
### 11.2.1 General
The MBMS subchannel control messages shall be coded as described in clause
11.1.2.
For the MBMS subchannel control protocol used for MCData the ASCII name string
shall be: \"MCDM\".
The list of MBMS subchannel control messages can be found in the clause
11.2.2.
The MBMS subchannel control specific fields are specified in clause 11.2.3.
### 11.2.2 MBMS subchannel control messages
Table 11.2.2-1 provides a list of MBMS subchannel control protocol messages.
Table 11.2.2-1: MBMS subchannel control protocol messages
Message name Subtype Reference Direction
* * *
Map Group To Bearer 00000 clause 11.2.4 Server client Unmap Group To Bearer
00001 clause 11.2.5 Server client Application Paging 00010 clause 11.2.6
Server client Bearer Announcement 00011 clause 11.2.7 Server client NOTE: The
participating MCData function is the server and the MCData client is the
client.
### 11.2.3 MBMS subchannel control specific fields
#### 11.2.3.1 Introduction
This clause describes the MBMS subchannel control specific data fields.
The MBMS subchannel control specific data fields are contained in the
application-dependent data of the MBMS subchannel control message. The MBMS
subchannel control specific data fields follow the syntax specified in clause
11.1.3.
Table 11.2.3.1-1 lists the available fields including the assigned Field ID.
Table 11.2.3.1-1: MBMS subchannel control specific data fields
Field name Field ID Description
* * *
                     Decimal    Binary
MBMS Subchannel 000 00000000 Clause 11.2.3.3 TMGI 001 00000001 Clause
11.2.3.4. MCData Group ID 002 00000010 Clause 11.2.3.2 Monitoring State 003
00000011 Subcaluse 11.2.3.5
#### 11.2.3.2 MCData Group ID field
The MCData Group ID field contains a SIP URI identifying the MCData group to
which the MBMS subchannel control messages applies.
Table 11.2.3.2-1 describes the coding of the MCData Group Identity field.
Table 11.2.3.2-1: MCData Group Identity field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|MCData Group \|MCData Group \|MCData Group Identity \|
\|Identity field \|Identity field \| \|
\|ID \|length \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ :
: (Padding) :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set
according to table 11.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the
length in octets of the \ value item except padding.
\ value contains the MCData group identity as defined
in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8] and is in URI format (ASCII string).
If the length of the \ value is not (2 + multiple of 4)
bytes, the \ value shall be padded to (2 + multiple of
4) bytes. The value of the padding bytes should be set to zero. The padding
bytes shall be ignored.
#### 11.2.3.3 MBMS Subchannel field
The MBMS Subchannel field identifies the MBMS subchannel to use.
Table 11.2.3.3-1 describes the coding of the MBMS Subchannel field.
Table 11.2.3.3-1: MBMS Subchannel field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|MBMS Subchannel\|MBMS Subchannel\|Appl. \|reser- \|IP \| spare \|
\|field ID value \|length value \|m-line \|ved \|Version\| \|
\| \| \|Number \| \| \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Media Port Number \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
: IP Address :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set
according to table 11.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the total
length in octets of the \ value, reserved, \
value, spare, \ value and \ items.
The \ value shall consist of 4 bit parameter giving the
number of the \"m=application\" m-line in the SIP MESSAGE request announcing
the MBMS bearer described in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The \"reserved\" 4 bits shall be set to \"0000\".
The \ value indicates the IP version:
\'0\' IP version 4
\'1\' IP version 6
All other values are reserved for future use.
The \"spare\" 4 bits shall be set to \"0000\".
The \ value is a 32-bit binary value giving the port to be used.
The \ value is always present in the MBMS Subchannel field.
The \ value is:
1\. a 32 bit binary value containing the IP v4 address if the \
indicates that the \ value is a IP v4 Address; or
2\. four 32-bit words that together forms a 128 bit binary value representing
the IP v6 address, if the \ indicates that the \ value
is a IP v6 Address.
#### 11.2.3.4 TMGI field
Table 11.2.3.4-1 describes the coding of the TMGI field.
Table 11.2.3.4-1: TMGI field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|TMGI \|TMGI \|TMGI \|
\|ID \|length \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ :
: (Padding) :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set according to
table 11.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the length in octets of
the \ value item except padding.
The \ value is coded as described in 3GPP TS 24.008 [18] clause
10.5.6.13 excluding the Temporary Mobile Group Identity IEI and Length of
Temporary Mobile Group Identity contents (octet 1 and octet 2 in 3GPP TS
24.008 [18] clause 10.5.6.13).
If the length of the \ value is not (2 + multiple of 4) bytes, the
\ value shall be padded to (2 + multiple of 4) bytes. The value of the
padding bytes should be set to zero. The padding bytes shall be ignored.
#### 11.2.3.5 Monitoring state
Table 11.2.3.5-1 describes the coding of the Monitoring State field.
Table 11.2.3.5-1: Monitoring State field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|Monitoring \|Monitoring \|Monitoring \|Spare \|
\|State ID \|length=1 \| State \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set according
to table 11.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the length
in octets of the \ value item. The field is set to 1.
The \ value is a binary value where the following values are
defined:
\'0\' Monitoring is inactive
\'1\' Monitoring is active
All other values are reserved for future use.
The \"spare\" bits are set to zero.
### 11.2.4 Map Group To Bearer message
The Map Group To Bearer message is sent by the participating function when the
media associated with the group starts being transmitted on the MBMS bearer
and, potentially, multiple times while the transmission is ongoing.
Table 11.2.4-1 shows the content of the Map Group To Bearer message.
Table 11.2.4-1: Map Group To Bearer message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype\| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC of participating MCData function \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDM \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MCData Group ID field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| TMGI field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBMS Subchannel field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words, the order of the fields
are irrelevant.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype shall be set according to table 11.2.3.1-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[SSRC:]{.underline}**
The SSRC field shall carry the SSRC of the participating MCData function.
The SSRC field shall be coded as specified in IETF RFC 3550 [16].
**[MCData Group ID:]{.underline}**
The MCData Group ID field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.2.
**[TMGI:]{.underline}**
The TMGI field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.4.
**[MBMS Subchannel:]{.underline}**
The MBMS Subchannel field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.3.
### 11.2.5 Unmap Group To Bearer message
The Unmap Group To Bearer message is sent by the participating function when
media associated with the group stops being sended on the bearer. The message
may be repeated several times immediately after.
Table 11.2.5-1 shows the content of the Unmap Group To Bearer message.
Table 11.2.5-1: Unmap Group To Bearer message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC of participating MCData function \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDM \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MCData Group ID field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| TMGI field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBMS Subchannel field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words, the order of the fields
are irrelevant. MCData Group ID field is mandatory. Including the TMGI field
and the MBMS Subchannel field is optional, but if one of those fields is
included the other one also needs to be included.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype shall be coded according to table 11.2.3.1-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[SSRC:]{.underline}**
The SSRC field shall carry the SSRC of the participating MCData function.
The SSRC field shall be coded as specified in IETF RFC 3550 [16].
**[MCData Group ID:]{.underline}**
The MCData Group ID field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.2.
**[TMGI:]{.underline}**
The TMGI field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.4.
**[MBMS Subchannel:]{.underline}**
The MBMS Subchannel field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.3.
### 11.2.6 Application Paging message
The Application Paging message is sent by the participating function when an
existing media transmission is to be switched to unicast bearers or when a new
media transmission is to be started on unicast bearers.
Table 11.2.6-1 shows the content of the Application Paging message.
Table 11.2.6-1: Application Paging message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC of participating MCData function \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDM \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MCData Group ID \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words, the order of the fields is
irrelevant.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype shall be coded according to table 11.2.2-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[SSRC:]{.underline}**
The SSRC field shall carry the SSRC of the participating MCData function.
The SSRC field shall be coded as specified in IETF RFC 3550 [16].
**[MCData Group ID:]{.underline}**
The MCData Group ID field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.2.
### 11.2.7 Bearer Announcement message
The Bearer Announcement message is sent by the participating function on an
MBMS bearer for application control messages. It may be sent by the
participating function in order to achieve a faster setup of the MBMS bearer.
Table 11.2.7-1 shows the content of the Bearer Announcement message.
Table 11.2.7-1: Bearer Announcement message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDM \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| TMGI \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Alternative TMGI fields \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Monitoring State \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words and the internal order of
the TMGI field and the Alternative TMGI fields, the order of the fields is
irrelevant.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The subtype shall be coded according to table 11.2.3.1-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[TMGI:]{.underline}**
The TMGI field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.4. This field is
mandatory.
**[Alternative TMGI:]{.underline}**
Zero or more alternative TMGI fields are coded as described in clause
11.2.3.4. This field is coded immediately after the TMGI field.
**Monitoring State:**
The monitoring state field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.5.
### 11.2.8 Handling of unknown messages and fields
When an RTCP APP message is received, the receiver shall:
1) ignore the whole message, if the combination of name and subtype is
unknown;
2) ignore the whole message if it is too short or has errors in the mandatory
fields;
3) ignore the unspecified fields in the message (e.g. specified in future
version of the protocol); and
4) ignore the syntactically incorrect optional fields.
# 11A Communication using MBS
## 11A.1 Control messages sent over MBS session
### 11A.1.1 General
Clause 11.1.1 apply also for MBS, with the clarification that terminology
mapping specified that references to 4G MBMS corresponds to be references to
5G MBS.
### 11A.1.2 SRTCP: APP format for control messages sent over MBS sessions
The definition of the fields in the SRTCP APP packet is found in IETF RFC 3550
[16] and IETF RFC 3711 [17].
Table 11A.1.2-1 shows the RTCP APP packet format used for control messages
sent over MBS sessions.
Table 11A.1.2-1: MBS control message format
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name (ASCII) \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| application-dependent data \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Secure RTCP message part \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
**[P]{.underline}**
The padding bit P is set to \'0\'.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype values in use by MCData are defined in table 11A.2.2-1.
**[length]{.underline}**
The length field in the RTCP header is the length of the packet in 32-bit
words, not counting the first 32-bit word in which the length field resides.
NOTE: The length field can indicate message size longer than specified in this
version of the protocol. This can be the case e.g., if message is of later
version of this protocol.
**[SSRC]{.underline}**
The content of this field is described for each MBS control message
separately.
**[Name]{.underline}**
The 4-byte ASCII string in the RTCP header is used to define the set of MBS
control messages for MCData, to be unique with respect to other APP packets
that may be sent over the MBS session. For MCData, the name string is \"MCDS\"
(Mission Critical Data over MBS).
**[Application-dependent data]{.underline}**
The application-dependent data contains zero or more application specific data
fields. The format for these fields is described in clause 11A.1.3.
This part is encrypted if SRTCP is used.
**[Secure RTCP message part]{.underline}**
The content of the secure RTCP message part is the \"tail\" appended to the
RTCP packet per IETF RFC 3711 [17].
### 11A.1.3 Application specific data field
Clause 11.1.3 apply also for MBS.
## 11.2A MBS Subchannel Control
### 11A.2.1 General
The MBS subchannel control messages shall be coded as described in clause
11A.1.2.
For the MBS subchannel control protocol used for MCData the ASCII name string
shall be: \"MCDS\".
The list of MBS subchannel control messages can be found in the clause
11A.2.2.
The MBS subchannel control specific fields are specified in clause 11A.2.3.
### 11A.2.2 MBS subchannel control messages
Table 11A.2.2-1 provides a list of MBS subchannel control protocol messages.
Table 11A.2.2-1: MBS subchannel control protocol messages
Message name Subtype Reference Direction
* * *
MapGroupToSessionStream 00000 clause 11A.2.4 Server client
UnMapGroupToSessionStream 00001 clause 11A.2.5 Server client MBS Application
Paging 00010 clause 11A.2.6 Server client Session Announcement 00011 clause
11A.2.7 Server client NOTE: The participating MCData function is the server
and the MCData client is the client.
### 11A.2.3 MBS subchannel control specific fields
#### 11A.2.3.1 Introduction
This clause describes the MBS subchannel control specific data fields.
The MBS subchannel control specific data fields are contained in the
application-dependent data of the MBS subchannel control message. The MBS
subchannel control specific data fields follow the syntax specified in clause
11A.1.3.
Table 11A.2.3.1-1 lists the available fields including the assigned Field ID.
Table 11A.2.3.1-1: MBS subchannel control specific data fields
Field name Field ID Description
* * *
                     Decimal    Binary
MBS Subchannel 000 00000000 Clause 11A.2.3.3 MBS Session ID 001 00000001
Clause 11A.2.3.4. MCData Group ID 002 00000010 Clause 11A.2.3.2 Monitoring
State 003 00000011 Subcaluse 11A.2.3.5
#### 11A.2.3.2 MCData Group ID field
The MCData Group ID field contains a SIP URI identifying the MCData group to
which the MBS subchannel control messages applies.
Table 11A.2.3.2-1 describes the coding of the MCData Group Identity field.
Table 11A.2.3.2-1: MCData Group Identity field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|MCData Group \|MCData Group \|MCData Group Identity \|
\|Identity field \|Identity \| \|
\|ID \|length \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ :
: (Padding) :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set
according to table 11A.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the
length in octets of the \ value item except padding.
\ value contains the MCData group identity as defined
in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8] and is in URI format (ASCII string).
If the length of the \ value is not (2 + multiple of 4)
bytes, the \ value shall be padded to (2 + multiple of
4) bytes. The value of the padding bytes should be set to zero. The padding
bytes shall be ignored.
#### 11A.2.3.3 MBS Subchannel field
The MBS Subchannel field identifies the MBS subchannel to use.
Table 11A.2.3.3-1 describes the coding of the MBS Subchannel field.
Table 11A.2.3.3-1: MBS Subchannel field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|MBS Subchannel\|MBS Subchannel\|Appl. \|reser- \|IP \| spare \|
\|field ID \|length \|m-line \|ved \|Version \| \|
\| \| \|Number \| \| \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Media Port Number \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
: IP Address :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set
according to table 11A.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the total
length in octets of the \ value, reserved, \
value, spare, \ value and \ items.
The \ value shall consist of 4 bit parameter giving the
number of the \"m=application\" m-line in the SIP MESSAGE request announcing
the MBS session described in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8].
The \"reserved\" 4 bits shall be set to \"0000\".
The \ value indicates the IP version:
\'0\' IP version 4
\'1\' IP version 6
All other values are reserved for future use.
The \"spare\" 4 bits shall be set to \"0000\".
The \ value is a 32-bit binary value giving the port to be used.
The \ value is always present in the MBS Subchannel field.
The \ value is:
1\. a 32 bit binary value containing the IP v4 address if the \
indicates that the \ value is a IP v4 Address; or
2\. four 32-bit words that together forms a 128 bit binary value representing
the IP v6 address, if the \ indicates that the \ value
is a IP v6 Address.
#### 11A.2.3.4 MBS Session ID field
Table 11A.2.3.4-1 describes the coding of the MBS Session ID field.
Table 11A.2.3.4-1: MBS Session ID field coding
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|MBS Session ID \|MBS Session ID \|MBS Session ID \|
\|field ID \|length \| \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ :
: (Padding) :
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
The \ value is a binary value and shall be set
according to table 11A.2.3.1-1.
The \ value is a binary value indicating the length in
octets of the \ value item except padding.
The \ value is coded as described in 3GPP TS 24.501 [24]
clause 10.5.6.1 figure 9.11.4.30.2.
If the length of the \ value is not (2 + multiple of 4) bytes,
the \ value shall be padded to (2 + multiple of 4) bytes. The
value of the padding bytes should be set to zero. The padding bytes shall be
ignored.
#### 11A.2.3.5 Monitoring state
Clause 11.2.3.5 apply also for MBS.
### 11A.2.4 MapGroupToSessionStream message
The MapGroupToSessionStream message is sent by the participating function when
the media associated with the group starts being transmitted on the MBS
session and, potentially, multiple times while the transmission is ongoing.
Table 11A.2.4-1 shows the content of the MapGroupToSessionStream message.
Table 11A.2.4-1: MapGroupToSessionStream message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype\| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC of participating MCData function \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDS \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MCData Group ID field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBS Session ID field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBS Subchannel field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words, the order of the fields
are irrelevant.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype shall be set according to table 11A.2.3.1-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[SSRC:]{.underline}**
The SSRC field shall carry the SSRC of the participating MCData function.
The SSRC field shall be coded as specified in IETF RFC 3550 [16].
**[MCData Group ID:]{.underline}**
The MCData Group ID field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.2.
**[MBS Session ID:]{.underline}**
The MBS Session ID field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.4.
**[MBS Subchannel:]{.underline}**
The MBS Subchannel field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.3.
### 11A.2.5 UnMapGroupFromSessionStream message
The UnMapGroupFromSessionStream message is sent by the participating function
when media associated with the group stops being sended on the session. The
message may be repeated several times immediately after.
Table 11A.2.5-1 shows the content of the UnMapGroupFromSessionStream message.
Table 11A.2.5-1: UnMapGroupFromSessionStream message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC of participating MCData function \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDS \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MCData Group ID field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBS Session ID field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBS Subchannel field \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words, the order of the fields
are irrelevant. MCData Group ID field is mandatory. Including the MBS Session
ID field and the MBS Subchannel field is optional, but if one of those fields
is included the other one also needs to be included.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype shall be coded according to table 11A.2.3.1-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[SSRC:]{.underline}**
The SSRC field shall carry the SSRC of the participating MCData function.
The SSRC field shall be coded as specified in IETF RFC 3550 [16].
**[MCData Group ID:]{.underline}**
The MCData Group ID field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.2.
**[MBS Session ID:]{.underline}**
The MBS Session ID field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.4.
**[MBS Subchannel:]{.underline}**
The MBS Subchannel field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.3.
### 11A.2.6 MBS Application Paging message
The MBS Application Paging message is sent by the participating function when
an existing media transmission is to be switched to unicast sessions or when a
new media transmission is to be started on unicast sessions.
Table 11A.2.6-1 shows the content of the MBS Application Paging message.
Table 11A.2.6-1: MBS Application Paging message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| SSRC of participating MCData function \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDS \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MCData Group ID \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words, the order of the fields is
irrelevant.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The Subtype shall be coded according to table 11A.2.2-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[SSRC:]{.underline}**
The SSRC field shall carry the SSRC of the participating MCData function.
The SSRC field shall be coded as specified in IETF RFC 3550 [16].
**[MCData Group ID:]{.underline}**
The MCData Group ID field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.2.
### 11A.2.7 SessionAnnouncement message
The Session Announcement message is sent by the participating function on an
MBS session for application control messages. It may be sent by the
participating function in order to achieve a faster setup of the MBS session.
Table 11A.2.7-1 shows the content of the Session Announcement message.
Table 11A.2.7-1: Session Announcement message
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\|V=2\|P\| Subtype \| PT=APP=204 \| length \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| name=MCDS \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| MBS Session ID \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| TMGI \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Alternative TMGI fields \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\| Monitoring State \|
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
With the exception of the three first 32-bit words and the internal order of
the MBS Session ID field and the Alternative MBS Session ID fields, the order
of the fields is irrelevant.
**[Subtype:]{.underline}**
The subtype shall be coded according to table 11A.2.3.1-1.
**[length:]{.underline}**
The length shall be set to the total number of 32-bit words in the message
minus one.
**[MBS Session ID:]{.underline}**
The MBS Session ID field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.4. This field
is mandatory.
**[TMGI:]{.underline}**
The TMGI field is coded as described in clause 11.2.3.4. This field is
mandatory.
**[Alternative TMGI:]{.underline}**
Zero or more alternative TMGI fields are coded as described in clause
11.2.3.4. This field is coded immediately after the TMGI field.
**Monitoring State:**
The monitoring state field is coded as described in clause 11A.2.3.5.
### 11A.2.8 Handling of unknown messages and fields
When an RTCP APP message is received, the receiver shall:
1) ignore the whole message, if the combination of name and subtype is
unknown;
2) ignore the whole message if it is too short or has errors in the mandatory
fields;
3) ignore the unspecified fields in the message (e.g. specified in future
version of the protocol); and
4) ignore the syntactically incorrect optional fields.
# 12 Pre-established session media plane procedures
## 12.1 MCData client procedure
Upon establishing one-to-one or group SDS using media plane or one-to-one or
group SDS session using pre-established call, the MCData client shall follow
procedures as descried in clause 6.1.
## 12.2 Participating MCData function procedure
Upon establishing one-to-one or group SDS using media plane or one-to-one or
group SDS session using pre-established call, the participating MCData
function shall follow the procedure as described in clause 6.2.
# 13 IP Connectivity media plane procedures
## 13.1 IP Connectivity client procedures
### 13.1.1 General
For IP Connectivity the endpoint of the media plane is an IP application that
can send and receive any kind of IP messages. The IP application may reside on
an external non-3GPP host connected via an IP interface to the MCData UE that
incorporates the MCData client, or it may be running on the MCData UE. If the
IP application resides on an external non-3GPP host, the MCData UE that
incorporates the MCData client provides a second IP interface with an IP
address independent of the 3GPP system for communication with the external non
3GPP host. The IP interface between the IP application the MCData UE and the
MCData client is implementation specific.
### 13.1.2 Originating MCData client procedures
Upon receiving a request by an MCData user, or an IP packet from an IP
application, the MCData client shall follow the procedure in 20.2.1 in 3GPP TS
24.282 [8]. The IP address and port number received in the SDP payload of the
200 OK response in this procedure shall be used to establish an IP tunnel. The
IP tunnel shall be based on GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation as specified in IETF RFC
8086 [23], and as specified in clause 13.4. Generic Routing Encapsulation
(GRE) as specified in IETF RFC 2784 [19] is used as a basis of GRE-in-UDP
Encapsulation.
The MCData client shall perform encapsulation and decapsulation according to
clause 13.4.
The MCData client acts as an IP relay for IP traffic between the IP
application and the IP tunnel to the far endpoint. Once the IP tunnel is
established, the IP applications can exchange IP data. The MCData client that
receives the IP packets from the IP application shall perform encapsulation to
the tunnelling protocol adding a GRE header and a UDP header to the IP packet,
and send the outgoing UDP traffic to the IP address and port present in the
SDP answer. When the originating MCData client receives IP packets from the IP
tunnel it shall perform de-capsulation from the tunnelling protocol, removing
the UDP header and the GRE header from the received packet, before passing the
IP data to the IP application.
### 13.1.3 Terminating MCData client procedures
The successful outcome of the procedure 20.2.2 in 3GPP TS 24.282 [8] shall be
the trigger to start the establishment of the IP tunnel. The IP tunnel is
based on GRE-in-UDP Encapsulation as specified in IETF RFC 8086 [23], and as
specified in clause 13.4.
The MCData client shall perform encapsulation and decapsulation in accordance
with clause 13.4.
The MCData client acts as an IP relay for IP traffic between the IP tunnel and
the IP application. Once the IP tunnel is established, the IP applications can
exchange IP data. The client that receives IP packets from the IP tunnel shall
perform de-capsulation from the tunnelling protocol, removing the UDP header
and the GRE header from the received packet, before passing the IP data to the
IP application. When the terminating MCData client receives an IP packet from
the IP application, it shall perform encapsulation to the tunnelling protocol
adding a GRE header and a UDP header to the IP packet, and send the outgoing
UDP traffic to the IP address and port present in the SDP offer.
## 13.2 Participating MCData function procedures
### 13.2.1 Originating procedures
If the originating participating MCData function is in the path of the data
exchange between the MCData clients, it shall provide an endpoint for the UDP
based communication towards the originating MCData client, and a second
endpoint for UDP based communication towards the next hop of the UDP based
communication in the direction of the terminating MCData client. The
originating participating MCData function shall act as a relay for the UDP
traffic between these two adjacent UDP communication endpoints using the IP
addresses and UDP ports exchanged in the SDP offers/answers.
### 13.2.2 Terminating procedures
If the terminating participating MCData function is in the path of the data
exchange between the MCData clients, it shall provide an endpoint for the UDP
based communication towards the terminating MCData client, and a second
endpoint for UDP based communication towards the next hop of the UDP based
communication in the direction of the originating MCData client. The
terminating participating MCData function shall act as a relay for the UDP
traffic between these two adjacent UDP communication endpoints using the IP
addresses and UDP ports exchanged in the SDP offers/answers.
## 13.3 Controlling MCData function procedures
If the controlling MCData function is in the path of the data exchange between
the MCData clients, it shall provide an endpoint for the UDP based
communication towards the next hop of the UDP based communication in the
direction of the originating MCData client, and a second endpoint for the UDP
based communication towards the next hop of the UDP based communication in the
direction of the terminating MCData client. The controlling MCData function
shall act as a relay for the UDP traffic between these two adjacent UDP
Communication endpoints using the IP addresses and UDP ports exchanged in the
SDP offers/answers.
## 13.4 Encapsulation of the user data in the GRE-in-UDP tunnel
The Encapsulation of the user data in the GRE-in-UDP tunnel shall be performed
as defined in IETF RFC 8086 [23] with the following clarifications:
1.) UDP checksum shall be used when encapsulating in both IPv4 and IPv6;
2.) The UDP ports can be freely chosen. The port information is exchanged via
SDP; and
3.) GRE keys shall not be used.
## 13.5 Media plane details
### 13.5.1 General
The media plane is used for transport of data via the GRE-in-UDP tunnel as
specified in the present clause.
### 13.5.2 Establishing a media plane for a GRE-in-UDP tunnel
#### 13.5.2.1 General
The MCData client and the MCData server use the SDP offer/answer mechanism in
order to negotiate the establishment of the media plane for a GRE-in-UDP
tunnel.
The media description (\"m=\" line) associated with the media plane of the
GRE-in-UDP tunnel shall have the values as described in table 13.5.2.1-1.
Table 13.5.2.1-1: GRE-in-UDP tunnel media description
Media description element Value
* * *
\ \"application\" \ UDP port \ \"udp\" \ \"MCDATA
The format of the optional SDP fmtp attribute, when associated with the GRE-
in-UDP ports, is described in clause 13.6.
The example below shows an SDP media description for MCData IP Connectivity
media plane
m=application 20032 udp MCDATA
a=fmtp:MCDATA mcdata-ipconn
## 13.6 Session description types defined within the present document
### 13.6.1 General
This clause contains definitions for SDP parameters that are specific to SDP
usage with MCData IP connectivity and therefore are not described in an IETF
RFC.
### 13.6.2 SDP \"fmtp\" attribute for MCData IP connectivity
#### 13.6.2.1 General
This clause defines the structure and syntax of the SDP \"fmtp\" attribute,
when used to negotiate the ports used for GRE-in-UDP tunnel establishment.
#### 13.6.2.2 Semantics
In an SDP offer and answer, the \"mcdata-ipconn-sport\" fmtp attribute is used
to indicate the UDP source port of the GRE-in-UDP tunnel.
#### 13.6.2.3 Syntax
Table 13.6.2.3-1: SDP \"fmtp\" attribute for the MCData IP connectivity
fmtp-attr-ipconn = \"a=fmtp:\" \"MCDATA\" SP attr-param
attr-param = mcdata-ipconn-s-port
mcdata-ipconn-sport = \"mcdata-ipconn-s-port=1*(DIGIT)\"
###### ## Annex X (Informative): Mapping of MBMS terms to MBS
In the EPS, using the MBMS procedures, in the 5GS or MBMS and 5G MBS co-
existence, using the MBS procedures;
\- in the MBS procedures, references to 4G \"MBMS\" is understood to be
references to 5G \"MBS\";
\- in the MBS procedures, \"MBS session ID\" corresponds to the \"TMGI\" in
MBMS;
\- in the MBS procedures, \"Map Group To Session Stream\" corresponds to the
\"Map Group To Bearer\" in MBMS; and
\- in the MBS procedures, \"UnMap Group From Session Stream\" corresponds to
the \"UnMap Group To Bearer\" in MBMS.
#