# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document specifies procedures used between the Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) and the Visitors Location Register (VLR) for co-ordination
between GSM circuit switched services and GSM packet data services within the
3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document specifies or references the procedures to provide co-
ordination between the GSM circuit switched services controlled at the
Visitors Location Register (VLR) and the GSM packet switched services
controlled at the Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN). The procedures specified
in the present document are intended to optimise the use of the resources when
an MS supports both GSM circuit switched services and GSM packet switched
services.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies or references procedures used on the Serving
GPRS Support Node (SGSN) to Visitors Location Register (VLR) interface for
interoperability between GSM circuit switched services and GSM packet data
services.
The present document specifies the layer 3 messages and procedures on the Gs
interface to allow coordination between databases and to relay certain
messages related to GSM circuit switched services over the GPRS subsystem.
The functional split between VLR and SGSN is defined in 3GPP TS 23.060. The
required procedures between VLR and SGSN are defined in detail in the present
document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] [Void]
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] [Void]
[3] [Void]
[4] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[6a] 3GPP TS 23.018: \"Basic Call Handling; Technical realization\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum functions related to Mobile Station
(MS) in idle mode\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 43.064: \"Overall description of the GPRS radio interface; Stage
2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[11a] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 44.064: \"Mobile Station - Serving GPRS Support Node (MS-SGSN)
Logical Link Control (LLC) layer specification\".
[13] 3GPP TS 44.065: \"Mobile Station (MS) - Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN);
Subnetwork Dependent Convergence Protocol (SNDCP)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"Mobile-services Switching Centre - Base Station System
(MSC-BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"Base Station System (BSS) - Serving GPRS Support Node
(SGSN); BSS GPRS Protocol (BSSGP)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 48.060: \"Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) and full rate traffic channels.\"
[17] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 49.008: \"Application of the Base Station System Application Part
(BSSAP) on the E-interface\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.010: \"Information Element Mapping between Mobile Station -
Base Station System (MS-BSS) and Base Station System - Mobile-services
Switching Centre (BSS-MCS) Signalling Procedures and the Mobile Application
Part (MAP)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.016: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) - Visitors Location Register (VLR); Gs interface network
service specification\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[22] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.195: \"Provision of UE Specific Behaviour Information to
Network Entities\".
[23A] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[25] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Subscriber and equipment trace; Trace control and
Configuration Management (CM)\".
[26] 3GPP TS 23.236: \"Intra-domain connection of Radio Access Network (RAN)
nodes to multiple Core Network (CN) nodes\".
[27] 3GPP TS 29.118: \"Mobility Management Entity (MME) - Visitor Location
Register (VLR) SGs interface specification\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[22A] 3GPP TS 41.061: \"GPRS ciphering algorithm requirements\".
[23B] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[26] [Void]
[27] 3GPP TS 42.009: \"Security aspects\".
[28] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[29] 3GPP TS 22.016: \"International Mobile station Equipment Identities
(IMEI)\".
[30] 3GPP TS 42.017: \"Subscriber Identity Modules (SIM); Functional
characteristics\".
[31] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment
(UE)\".
[32] [Void]
[33] [Void]
[34] 3GPP TS 44.001: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS-BSS)
interface; General aspects and principles\".
[35] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM - UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[36] 3GPP TS 44.003: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Channel structures and access capabilities\".
[37] 3GPP TS 44.004: \"Layer 1 General requirements\".
[38] 3GPP TS 44.005: \"Data Link (DL) layer General aspects\".
[39] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[40] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[41] 3GPP TS 24.022: \"Radio Link Protocol (RLP) for data and telematic
services on the Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS-BSS) interface and
the Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS-MSC)
interface\".
[42] 3GPP TS 27.060: \"Mobile Station (MS) supporting Packet Switched
Services\".
[43] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS-MSC) interface\".
[44] 3GPP TS 48.014: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Base Station
System (BSS) - Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) interface; Gb interface layer
1\".
[45] 3GPP TS 48.016: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Base Station
System (BSS); Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) interface; Network Service\".
[46] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp Interface\".
[47] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting Packet Based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[48] [Void]
[49] [Void]
[50] [Void]
[51] [Void]
[52] [Void]
[53] [Void]
[54] [Void]
[55] [Void]
[56] ITU-T Recommendations I.130: \"Method for the characterization of
telecommunication services supported by an ISDN and network capabilities of an
ISDN\".
[57] ITU-T Recommendation Q.65: \"The unified functional methodology for the
characterization of services and network capabilities\".
[58] ITU-T Recommendation Q.702: \"Signalling data link\".
[59] ITU-T Recommendation Q.703: \"Signalling link\".
[60] ITU-T Recommendation Q.704: \"Signalling network functions and
messages\".
[61] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (03/93): \"Functional description of the
signalling connection control part\".
[62] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712 (03/93): \"Definition and function of
signalling connection control part messages\".
[63] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 (03/93): \"Signalling connection control part
formats and codes\".
[64] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714 (03/93): \"Signalling connection control part
procedures\".
[65] ANSI T1.111 (1996): \"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7); Message Transfer
Part\".
[66] ANSI T1.112 (1996): \"Signalling System No. 7 (SS7); Signalling
Connection Control Part Functional Description\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document the definitions, symbols and
abbreviations given in 3GPP TR 21.905 and in 3GPP TS 23.060 apply.
# 4 Description of the association between a VLR and an SGSN
The Gs interface connects the databases in the MSC/VLR and the SGSN. The
procedures described in the present document are used to co-ordinate the
location information of MSs that are IMSI attached to both GPRS and non-GPRS
services. The Gs interface is also used to convey some circuit switched
related procedures via the SGSN.
The basis for the interworking between a VLR and an SGSN is the existence of
an association between those entities per MS. An association consists of the
SGSN storing the number of the VLR serving the MS for circuit switched
services and the VLR storing the number of the SGSN serving the MS for packet
switched services. The association is only applicable to MSs in class-A mode
of operation and MSs in class-B mode of operation.
All the messages described in the present document use the SCCP class 0
connectionless service.
When the return option in SCCP is used and the sender receives an N_NOTICE
indication from SCCP, the sending entity shall report to the Operation and
Maintenance system (see ITU-T Recommendation Q.714).
The behaviour of the VLR and the SGSN entities related to the Gs interface are
defined by the state of the association for an MS. Individual states per
association, i.e. per MS in class-A mode of operation and MS in class-B mode
of operation, are held at both the VLR and the SGSN.
## 4.1 Association at the VLR
The states associated to the Gs interface in the VLR are specified in this
clause. The state diagram at the VLR is shown in figure 4.1. The state diagram
does not include the message error handling specified in clause 16.
### 4.1.1 States at the VLR
Gs-NULL
There is no association with an SGSN for the MS and therefore the VLR
considers that the MS is IMSI detached for GPRS services. In this state no
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST or BSSAP+-MM-INFORMATION-REQUEST messages are
sent to the SGSN. The VLR may initiate paging on the Gs interface if the
\'Confirmed by Radio Contact\' restoration indicator in the VLR is set to
\'false\' (see 3GPP TS 23.007). Any message from the SGSN is ignored apart
from the BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message.
LA-UPDATE PRESENT
The VLR has received a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message from the SGSN.
In this state the VLR may be waiting for the outcome of the Update Location
procedure from the HLR. The VLR shall send BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages to
MSs in class-A and MSs in class-B mode of operation via only the Gs interface.
Gs-ASSOCIATED
The VLR considers that the MS is attached to both GPRS and non-GPRS services.
In this state the VLR sends BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages to MSs in class-A
mode of operation and and MSs in class-B mode of operation via only the Gs
interface. The VLR can perform the MS Identification procedure and the MM
information procedure.
Figure 4.1/3GPP TS 29.018: State diagram at the VLR
## 4.2 Association at the SGSN
The states and MM context variables associated to the Gs interface in the SGSN
are specified in this clause. The state diagram at the SGSN is shown in figure
4.2. The state diagram does not include the message error handling specified
in clause 16.
### 4.2.1 MM context variables at the SGSN
VLR-Reliable: Boolean
Set to \'false\' when the SGSN has received a reset indication from the VLR.
The SGSN may request to the MS, upon reception of the next routeing area
update (either periodic routeing area update or combined routeing and location
area update) procedure, to re-attach to non-GPRS services if the MS is still
IMSI attached to non-GPRS services. Alternatively the SGSN may upon reception
of a combined routeing and location area update request or a periodic routeing
area update from a MS that is still attached for non-GPRS service, perform
immediately the location update for non-GPRS services procedure.
EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag: Boolean
> Set to \'true\' when ISR is activated and:
\- the SGSN receives a Detach Notification indicating \"Local Detach\" for an
MS which supports EMM Combined procedures from the associated MME; or
\- the SGSN receives the request from the Serving GW for deactivating the last
PDP context for an MS which supports EMM Combined procedures.
On the fifth expiry of timer T3322 described as T3322 time-out in 3GPP TS
24.008 [11], the EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag shall be deactivated if it is
activated.
SGSN-Reset: Boolean
> Set to \'true\' when the SGSN restarts after a failure. The \'SGSN-Reset\'
> variable is unique within an SGSN and it applies to all the MM context
> stored in the SGSN.
### 4.2.2 States at the SGSN
Gs-NULL
There is no association with a VLR for the MS and therefore the SGSN considers
that the MS is IMSI detached of non-GPRS services. In this state the SGSN
accepts BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages to MSs only if the \'SGSN-Reset\'
restoration indicator in the SGSN is set to \'true\'.
LA-UPDATE Requested
The SGSN has sent a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message to the VLR. In this
state the SGSN waits for the outcome of the Location Update for non-GPRS
procedure at the VLR before sending the response to the MS. In this state the
SGSN accepts BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages.
Gs-ASSOCIATED
The SGSN stores an association for that MS. In this state the SGSN performs
the Location Update for non-GPRS services procedure towards the VLR for MSs in
class-A and MSs in class-B mode of operation when the MS moves to a new LA.
Figure 4.2/3GPP TS 29.018: State diagram at the SGSN
# 5 Paging for non-GPRS services procedure
## 5.1 General description
This procedure is used by the VLR to send a BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message to
an MS via the GPRS service. This procedure applies to MSs that are
simultaneously IMSI attached for GPRS services and non-GPRS services. The
procedure can be performed simultaneously with any other procedure at the Gs
interface.
## 5.2 Procedures in the VLR
The VLR shall handle the timers, queuing and retransmission for sending the
BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message on the Gs interface in the same way that it
handles the sending of a PAGING message on the A interface.
### 5.2.1 Paging Initiation
When a VLR has to page a GPRS MS it shall check whether the MSC has an SCCP
connection for that MS. If no SCCP connection exists the VLR checks the state
of the association to an SGSN and the value of the restoration indicators for
that MS. The VLR sends BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages to the SGSN if the state
of the association for the MS is Gs-ASSOCIATED, LA-UPDATE-PRESENT or if the
state of the association is Gs-NULL and the \'Confirmed by Radio Contact\'
restoration indicator is set to \'false\'. The sending of the BSSAP+-PAGING-
REQUEST message does not change the state of the association with the SGSN.
If the \'Confirmed by Radio Contact\' restoration indicator is set to
\'true\', the VLR shall include the Location area identifier IE into the
BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message, otherwise (i.e. after a VLR failure) the
Location area identifier IE shall not be included. When sending the
BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message, the VLR shall start timer T5.
If the state of the association is Gs-NULL and the restoration indicator
\'Confirmed by Radio Contact\' is set to \'false\', the VLR shall also perform
a search procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 23.018.
While domain specific access control of the PS domain is ongoing the VLR shall
be configured to send paging messages on both the Gs and the A interface. The
VLR may apply implementation specific rules for sending the paging on the A
interface; e.g. paging on the A interface may be limited to cases when the
GPRS MS did not respond to a first paging on Gs interface.
### 5.2.2 Paging Response
The VLR stops the paging procedure on expiry of timer T5 or on receipt of an
SCCP connection establishment containing the Initial L3 message from the MS
via the A interface.
### 5.2.3 Paging Failure
On receipt of a BSSAP+-PAGING-REJECT message before the timer T5 expires, the
VLR stops timer T5, the association is moved to the Gs-NULL state and within
this state the association is marked with the contents of the Gs Cause IE.
### 5.2.4 MS unreachable
On receipt of a BSSAP+-MS-UNREACHABLE message before the timer T5 expires, the
VLR stops timer T5 and the paging procedure for that paging request towards
the SGSN is stopped. The state of the association at the VLR is not changed.
## 5.3 Procedures in the SGSN
The SGSN accepts BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages in any state of the
association apart from Gs-NULL. Nevertheless the SGSN also accepts
BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST messages in the Gs-NULL state if the \'SGSN-Reset\'
restoration indicator at the SGSN is set to \'true\'. When an SGSN receives a
BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message from a VLR, the SGSN shall first check if the MS
is known by the SGSN. The handling of the paging request depends on the state
of the association and the MM context variables at the SGSN:
a) The MS is known and the restoration indicator \'SGSN-Reset\' at the SGSN is
set to \'false\':
\- If the MS is considered to be IMSI attached for GPRS and non-GPRS services
(i.e. the association is not in the state Gs-NULL), the SGSN shall page the MS
based on the location information stored in the SGSN.
\- If the MS is marked as IMSI detached for GPRS services or IMSI (implicitly
or explicitly) detached for non-GPRS services (i.e. the state of the
association is Gs-NULL), the SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-PAGING-REJECT message
to that VLR indicating in the Gs Cause IE the detach circumstance (\'IMSI
detached for GPRS services\', \'IMSI detached for non-GPRS services\' or
\'IMSI implicitly detached for non-GPRS services\').
\- If the MS is marked as unreachable (i.e. the PPF flag is set to \'false\')
the SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-MS-UNREACHABLE message to that VLR indicating
in the Gs Cause IE \'MS unreachable\'. The state of the association does not
change at the SGSN.
b) The MS is known and the restoration indicator \'SGSN-Reset\' at the SGSN is
set to \'true\':
\- If the BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message includes the Location area identifier
IE, the SGSN shall page the MS in all the routeing areas served by the SGSN
that are included in the location area indicated in the Location area
identifier IE.
\- If the BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message does not include the Location area
identifier IE, the SGSN may page in all the routeing areas served by the SGSN
that are also served by the sending VLR.
NOTE 1: The SGSN can handle the paging request as a) for the purpose of
optimization if the MS is known.
c) The MS is not known and the restoration indicator \'SGSN-Reset\' at the
SGSN is set to \'false\':
\- The SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-PAGING-REJECT message to that VLR indicating
in the Gs Cause IE \'IMSI unknown\'.
d) The MS is not known and the restoration indicator \'SGSN-Reset\' at the
SGSN is set to \'true\':
\- If the VLR provides the Location area identifier IE, the SGSN shall page
within the location area indicated by the VLR. Otherwise the SGSN may page in
all the routeing areas served by the SGSN that are also served by the sending
VLR.
If the SGSN accepts the paging request, the SGSN shall process the
BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message before sending the message on the Gb interface.
The result of the processing on the BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message is the
PAGING CS message (see 3GPP TS 48.018) sent on the Gb interface.
The SGSN shall not retransmit the PAGING CS message.
If within a location area there are cells that do not support GPRS services,
the SGSN shall group these cells under a \'null RA\'. The SGSN will perform
the paging procedure described above within both the RA(s) derived from the
location information and the \'null RA(s)\' of the corresponding location
area(s) (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
NOTE 2: The eMLPP priority information element relates to relative priorities
within the paged MS and not to the priority in the sending of PAGING CS
messages by the BSS.
# 6 Location Update for non-GPRS services procedure
## 6.1 General description
The location update for non-GPRS services procedure is a general procedure
used by MSs in class-A mode of operation and MSs in class-B mode of operation.
This procedure allows MSs and network to perform:
\- Combined IMSI attach for GPRS and non-GPRS services;
\- IMSI attach for non-GPRS services if the MS is already IMSI attached for
GPRS services;
\- IMSI attach for GPRS services indication to the VLR if the MS is already
IMSI attached for non-GPRS services;
\- Normal Location Update procedure to the VLR if the MS is IMSI attached for
both GPRS and non-GPRS services;
\- Reallocation of TMSI to an MS.
The Location Update for non-GPRS services procedures in the Gs interface is
always started as a consequence of a direct action by the MS. The combined
routeing area update procedure is further specified in 3GPP TS 23.060 and 3GPP
TS 24.008.
The Location Update for non-GPRS services procedure is used by the SGSN to
forward to the VLR those parts of the combined routeing area update or IMSI
attach procedure which belong to the non-GPRS services. This means that non-
GPRS related requests which are included in the combined request, are sent
from the SGSN to the VLR. The procedure is also used by the SGSN to indicate
to the VLR when an IMSI attach to GPRS services has been performed by an MS
that was already IMSI attached to non-GPRS services. The SGSN may also forward
a BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE message from the MS to the VLR.
The VLR shall acknowledge the BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message. When the
VLR processes the request it does not perform authentication because it relies
on the SGSN\'s security functions.
When an MS is IMSI attached for GPRS and non-GPRS services, any implicit
detach timer in the VLR shall be stopped. Instead the Paging Proceed Flag in
the SGSN is used to determine the likely availability of the MS to the
network. Upon reception of the periodic Routeing Area Update message the SGSN
does not report to the VLR , and the state of the association at the SGSN is
not changed. When the MS performs a detach only from the GPRS system the GPRS
detach indication to the VLR shall cause the VLR\'s implicit detach timer to
be restarted from its initial value.
If the SGSN performs an implicit detach for both GPRS and non-GPRS traffic,
then the SGSN shall indicate to the VLR a BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION
message with cause \'Implicit SGSN initiated IMSI detach from non-GPRS
service\', as further described in clause \'Implicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS
service procedure\' (the implicit IMSI detach message indicates that the MS is
unavailable for both GPRS and non-GPRS services).
The IMSI attach for GPRS services to the VLR, when the MS is already IMSI
attached for non-GPRS services, is requested by the MS sending a combined IMSI
attach for GPRS and non-GPRS services message to the SGSN, as further
specified in 3GPP TS 23.060 and 3GPP TS 24.008.
## 6.2 Procedures in the SGSN
The Location Update for non-GPRS services is initiated with a combined
routeing area update procedure or a IMSI/GPRS attach procedure. On receipt of
a Routeing Area Update message, the SGSN shall handle the GPRS related request
as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008. The Location Update for non-GPRS services
procedure may be handled by the SGSN in parallel to the Update Location
procedure to the HLR. The SGSN shall wait for the outcome of both location
update procedures towards the VLR and the HLR before sending the response
message to the MS (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
Upon reception of the periodic Routeing Area Update message, if the EMM
Combined UE Waiting Flag is \'true\', the SGSN shall perform network-initiated
GPRS detach procedure with the detach type IE indicating \"IMSI detach\" as
specified in 3GPP TS24.008 [11].
### 6.2.1 Location Update Initiation
If timer T6-1 is not running, the SGSN shall start the Location Update for
non-GPRS service procedure when it receives from the MS:
\- an Attach request indicating combined IMSI and GPRS attach;
\- an Attach request indicating GPRS attach while IMSI attached;
\- a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request indicating IMSI
attach;
\- a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request indicating that the
Location Area has changed;
\- a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request if the MS Network
Capability IE indicates that **EMM Combined procedures are supported by the
MS;**
\- a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request, if the state of the
association is Gs-NULL; or
\- a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request when the SGSN serving
the MS has changed.
If timer T6-1 is not running, the SGSN may start the Location Update for non-
GPRS service procedure when it receives from the MS:
  * a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request or a periodic Routeing Area Update, if the \'VLR-Reliable\' MM context variable for the MS is set to \'false\' (see section 11.3).
For networks not supporting the feature 'Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes
to Multiple CN Nodes' the number of the VLR is derived from the RAI where the
MS is camping. For networks supporting the feature 'Intra Domain Connection of
RAN Nodes to Multiple CN Nodes', the VLR number is derived as described in
3GPP TS 23.236 [26]. The SGSN starts Timer T6-1. The BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-
REQUEST message includes the old Location Area Identifier received from the
MS. The SGSN shall also include the new Location Area Identifier where the MS
is currently camping. The new LAI is derived from the RAI.
In networks supporting the feature 'Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes to
Multiple CN Nodes', the SGSN shall support load re-distribution of MSs to
another VLR than the current one as follows:
> When the SGSN receives a periodic Routeing Area Update request or a Combined
> Routeing and Location Area Update request, the SGSN shall check whether for
> this MS there is an association to a VLR for which load re-distribution has
> been initiated in the SGSN by O&M. If yes, the SGSN derives the new VLR
> number as described in 3GPP TS 23.236 [26]. The SGSN shall then send the
> BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message to the new selected VLR.
The BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message includes the type of location
update performed by the MS in the GPRS location update type IE. If the MS has
performed a combined attach request or a combined routing and location area
update request with IMSI attach, the SGSN indicates \'IMSI attach\', otherwise
the SGSN indicates \'Normal location update\'.
The BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message shall include the TMSI status if
received from the MS.
If the SGSN supports the \"Provision of UE Specific Behaviour Information to
Network Entities\" (see 3GPP TS 23.195 [23]), or the "Automatic Device
Detection" (see 3GPP TS 22.101 [23A]) or the "Trace for Management Based
Activation/Deactivation" (see 3GPP TS 32.422 [25]),, the BSSAP+-LOCATION-
UPDATE-REQUEST message shall include the IMEISV.
If timer T6-1 is running:
If the SGSN receives from the MS:
\- an Attach request indicating combined IMSI and GPRS attach;
\- an Attach request indicating GPRS attach while IMSI attached; or
\- a Combined Routeing and Location Area Update request with or without IMSI
attach.
Then:
\- if the new LAI is the same as in the outstanding request, the SGSN shall
not process this new request and shall wait for the VLR\'s response to the
ongoing procedure; or
\- if the new LAI is different but is in the same VLR as the outstanding
request:
\- any response from the VLR to the oustanding request is ignored;
\- Timer T6-1 shall be stopped and reset; and
\- The SGSN shall start the Location Update for non-GPRS service procedure; or
\- if the new LAI is different, and is in a different VLR to the outstanding
request:
\- any response from the previously addressed VLR to the oustanding request is
ignored;
\- Timer T6-1 shall be stopped and reset; and
\- the SGSN shall start the Location Update for non-GPRS service procedure.
When the SGSN receives from the MS a Routeing Area Update request and the SGSN
serving the MS has changed, the SGSN shall stop and reset timer T6-1.
### 6.2.2 Location Update Response
If the SGSN receives a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message from the VLR, the
SGSN shall:
stop timer T6-1; and
\- move the state of the association to Gs-ASSOCIATED;
\- set the the MM context variable \'VLR-Reliable\' to \'true\';
\- set the the MM context variable \'EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag\' to
\'false\'; and
\- indicate to the MS the acceptance of the VLR to the Location Update
procedure. The message to the MS includes the Routeing Area Identity, from
which the MS is able to extract the location area identity for which the
location update procedure succeeded (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
The SGSN shall wait for the outcome of the Location Update for non-GPRS
service procedure towards the VLR before sending a response to location update
procedure to the MS. Any Reject cause that needs to be reported to the MS is
specified in 3GPP TS 24.008.
If the VLR included the Mobile Identity IE in the BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-
ACCEPT message, the SGSN shall forward the information received to the MS. If
the Mobile Identity IE contains a new TMSI it will cause the MS to perform a
TMSI reallocation procedure, while an IMSI causes the MS to deallocate its
TMSI. In case a new TMSI was allocated for the MS the SGSN shall send to the
VLR the BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE message when the SGSN receives
Attach Complete or the the Routeing Area Complete message from the MS.
### 6.2.3 Location Update Failure
If the SGSN receives a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REJECT message from the VLR, the
SGSN shall:
\- stop timer T6-1;
\- move the state of the association to Gs-NULL; and
\- indicate to the MS the rejection of the VLR of the Location Update
procedure as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008. The Reject cause value sent by the
VLR shall be forwarded to the MS.
### 6.2.4 Abnormal cases
If timer T6-1 expires, the SGSN shall abort the Location Update for non-GPRS
service procedure and indicate this to the MS with the Reject cause value
\'MSC temporarily not reachable\'. The state of the association to the VLR
shall be Gs-NULL.
If the SGSN receives a BSSAP+LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message and timer T6-1 is
not running then:
\- if timer T8 is running (see clause 8), the message shall be ignored;
\- if timer T9 is running (see clause 9), the message shall be ignored; or
\- if timers T8 and T9 are not running:
\- if the state of the association to the VLR is GS-ASSOCIATED, the message
shall be ignored; or
\- if the state of the association to the VLR is different than GS-ASSOCIATED,
the message shall be treated as a message incompatible with the protocol state
of the SGSN (see clause 16.3).
## 6.3 Procedures in the VLR
When a VLR receives a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message it shall check
whether the IMSI is known. If the IMSI is not known the VLR shall retrieve the
MM context of the MS from the HLR.
For a VLR supporting the \"Provision of UE Specific Behaviour Information to
Network Entities\" (see 3GPP TS 23.195 [23]) the following applies:
\- The VLR shall store the IMEISV value received in the BSSAP+-LOCATION-
UPDATE-REQUEST message in the MM context for that MS.
\- If the VLR receives a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message without IMEISV
information element, the MSC/VLR shall request the IMEISV from the MS at the
next Iu-CS or A interface connection establishment.
### 6.3.1 Location Update Response
If the Location Update is accepted by the VLR and, if necessary by the HLR,
the VLR shall:
\- move the association to the Gs-ASSOCIATED state;
\- set the restoration indicator \'Confirmed by Radio Contact\' to \'true\';
\- update the association by storing the SGSN number included in the
BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message; and
\- send a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message to the sending SGSN. This
message includes the Location Area Identification received in the new Cell
Global Identity IE in the previous BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message.
### 6.3.2 Location Update Failure
If the Location Update is rejected by the VLR it shall:
\- Send a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REJECT message to the SGSN with the
appropriate reject cause as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008; and
\- Move the association from any state to Gs-NULL.
### 6.3.3 TMSI reallocation procedure
If the VLR decides to reallocate the TMSI to the MS it shall include the new
TMSI in the BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message. If the VLR decides to
deallocate the TMSI of the MS it shall include the IMSI of the MS in the
BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message. After sending the BSSAP+-LOCATION-
UPDATE-ACCEPT message with a new TMSI the VLR starts timer T6-2.
NOTE: In the BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST the SGSN may indicate, that there
is no valid TMSI available in the MS. This information may be used by the VLR
to decide whether to reallocate a new TMSI to the MS.
Upon receipt of the BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE message, the VLR stops
the timer T6-2 and considers the new TMSI as valid.
If an IMSI was sent to the MS, the VLR considers the old TMSI as deleted.
If no BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE message is received by the VLR before
the timer T6-2 expires, the VLR aborts the TMSI reallocation procedure. The
VLR may still perform the TMSI reallocation procedure via the A interface. The
outcome of the TMSI reallocation procedure does not change the state of the
association. The VLR uses the IMSI or the new TMSI for paging.
### 6.3.4 Abnormal cases
The following abnormal cases can be identified:
i) MM signalling via A interface
If the VLR receives a Location Update request or an IMSI detach indication
from the MS by the A interface when the state of the association in the VLR is
not Gs-NULL, the VLR shall move the state of the association to Gs-NULL.
ii) Additional Location Update Request
If the state of the association in the VLR is in the LA-UPDATE PRESENT state
and a BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message is received, then:
\- If the message is from the same SGSN and indicates the same New Location
Area as the outstanding location update request, then this additional
BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message shall be ignored;
\- If the message is from the same SGSN but indicates a different New Location
Area to the outstanding location update request, then this additional
BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message shall be treated and the VLR shall not
send any response to the previous BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message; or
\- If the message is from a different SGSN (indicating either the same or
different New Location Area) to the outstanding location update request, then
this additional BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message shall be treated and
the VLR shall not send any response to the previous BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-
REQUEST message.
iii) Detach signalling from SGSN
If the state of the association in the VLR is in the LA-UPDATE PRESENT state
and either a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION or a BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION
message is received, then, the Location Update for non-GPRS services procedure
shall be abandoned in the VLR (neither a BSSAP+LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT nor a
BSSAP+LOCATION-UPDATE-REJECT messages is sent) and the further actions
described in clauses 8 or 9 or 10 are followed.
iv) Signalling via SGs interface
If the VLR receives for a UE a SGsAP-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message (as
defined in 3GPP TS 29.118 [27]) from an MME when the state of the association
for this UE in the VLR is not Gs-NULL, the VLR shall move the state of the
association to Gs-NULL.
# 7 Non-GPRS alert procedure
## 7.1 General description
This procedure is used by the VLR to request from an SGSN an indication when
activity (either signalling or data transmission) from an MS is detected. This
procedure can be invoked at any time by the VLR. The BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST
message shall be acknowledged by the SGSN.
## 7.2 Procedures in the VLR
### 7.2.1 Alert Initiation
The VLR may start the Non-GPRS alert procedure at any time. When the VLR wants
to request to an SGSN that further activity from an MS shall reported by the
SGSN, the VLR shall send an BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message to that SGSN. The VLR
starts timer T7 when the BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message is sent.
### 7.2.2 Alert Response
When a BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK message is received, the VLR shall stop the timer T7.
The state of the association is not changed.
### 7.2.3 Alert failure
If a BSSAP+-ALERT-REJECT message is received, the VLR shall stop the timer T7,
move the state of the association to Gs-NULL and within this state the
association is marked with the contents of the Gs Cause IE.
### 7.2.4 Alert Indication
The VLR shall not change the state of the association upon reception of an
BSSAP+-MS-ACTIVITY-INDICATION message.
### 7.2.5 Abnormal cases
If no BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK message is received before the timer T7 expires, the
VLR shall retransmit the BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message a maximum of N7 times.
If no BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK message is received after that, a report shall be made
to the O&M system. The state of the association is not changed.
## 7.3 Procedures in the SGSN
### 7.3.1 Alert response
The SGSN may receive a BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message at any state of the
association. Upon receipt of an BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message from the VLR and
if the IMSI is known in the SGSN, the SGSN shall reply with a BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK
message and set the NGAF.
### 7.3.2 Alert failure
If a BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message is received for an IMSI that is unknown at
the SGSN, the SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-ALERT-REJECT message to the VLR
indicating the Gs Cause IE value \'IMSI unknown\'.
### 7.3.3 Alert indication
The SGSN shall to report to the VLR upon detection of any activity (either
signalling or data) from the MS if the NGAF is set. If the SGSN detects GPRS
signalling that leads to a procedure towards the VLR, the SGSN shall follow
this procedure and reset the NGAF. If the SGSN detects activity that does not
lead to any procedure towards the VLR, the SGSN shall send an BSSAP+-MS-
ACTIVITY-INDICATION message towards the VLR and reset the NGAF.
# 8 Explicit IMSI detach from GPRS services procedure
## 8.1 General description
This procedure is used by the SGSN to indicate to the VLR that the MS has been
IMSI detached from GPRS service and therefore the association between the SGSN
and the VLR has to be deactivated. This procedure only applies to MSs that are
not in the Gs-NULL state at the SGSN. The procedures specified in this clause
apply to GPRS detach indication initiated by the MS or by the network as
specified in 3GPP TS 23.060.
The procedure is also used by the SGSN to indicate to the VLR when a Location
Update procedure has been rejected by the SGSN.
The Explicit IMSI detach from GPRS services procedure aborts any other ongoing
procedure related to this MS on the Gs interface in the SGSN and in the VLR.
The VLR and the MS should be synchronised as to whether the PBCCH or the BCCH
is used, for any of the subsequent paging. In order to achieve this, the SGSN
shall attempt to inform the VLR about the detach event by using a retry scheme
if the initial delivery of the BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message fails.
## 8.2 Procedures in the SGSN
### 8.2.1 Explicit GPRS detach initiation
The SGSN shall send a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message to a VLR if:
\- The SGSN receives a GPRS only detach from the MS;
\- The SGSN performs network-initiated GPRS detach procedure; or
\- The combined Routing and Location Area Update procedure is rejected at the
SGSN.
If the SGSN receives a Detach Request from an MS and the state of the
association to a VLR for that MS is not Gs-NULL, the SGSN shall check the
detach type indicated in the message. If the MS is indicating GPRS detach the
SGSN shall send a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message to the VLR indicating
\'MS initiated IMSI detach from GPRS service\'.
If the SGSN decides to perform a network-initiated GPRS detach and the state
of the association to a VLR for that MS is not Gs-NULL, the SGSN shall send a
BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message to the VLR indicating \'SGSN initiated
IMSI detach from GPRS service\'.
If the combined Routing and Location Area Update procedure is rejected at the
SGSN for a MS with an association state different from Gs-NULL, the SGSN shall
send a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION to the VLR indicating \'GPRS services not
allowed\'. The SGSN then sends, for example, an Attach Reject message as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.008.
After the sending of the BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message, the SGSN shall
move the state of the association to Gs-NULL. The SGSN shall start timer T8
upon transmission of the BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message and if timer
T6-1 is running, timer T6-1 shall be stopped and reset.
### 8.2.2 Explicit GPRS detach Response
The SGSN shall not wait for the reception of the BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK
message before sending (if needed) the confirmation of the detach to the MS.
### 8.2.3 Abnormal cases
If no BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK message is received by the SGSN to a previous
BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message before timer T8 expires, the SGSN shall
repeat the BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message a maximum of N8 times. If no
BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK message is received after that, a report shall be made
to the O&M system. The state of the association during the acknowledgement
procedure remains Gs-NULL.
## 8.3 Procedures in the VLR
When a VLR receives a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message, the VLR shall
send a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK message to the sending SGSN. The state of the
association for the MS shall be moved from any state to Gs-NULL. The VLR marks
the association as \'IMSI detached for GPRS services\' with the reason
indicated in the IMSI detach from GPRS service type IE.
If the VLR\'s implicit detach timer is not running then, the VLR shall set and
restart the implicit detach timer upon reception of a BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-
INDICATION message. If the VLR\'s implicit detach timer is running (ie the
state of the association was already Gs-NULL) then, the reception of a
BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message shall not affect the VLR\'s implicit
detach timer.
# 9 Explicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS services procedure
## 9.1 General description
This procedure is used by the SGSN to indicate to the VLR that the MS has
performed IMSI detach from non-GPRS services and therefore the association
between the SGSN and the VLR has to be deactivated. This procedure only
applies to MSs that are not in the Gs-NULL state at the SGSN. The procedures
specified in this clause only apply to IMSI detach or combined IMSI and GPRS
detach requests.
The explicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS services procedure aborts any other
ongoing procedure related to this MS on the Gs interface in the SGSN and in
the VLR.
The VLR and the MS should be synchronised as to whether the PBCCH or the BCCH
is used, for any of the subsequent paging. In order to achieve this, the SGSN
shall attempt to inform the VLR about the detach event by using a retry scheme
if the initial delivery of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message fails.
## 9.2 Procedures in the SGSN
### 9.2.1 Explicit IMSI detach initiation
When an SGSN receives a Detach Request from an MS which is not in the Gs-NULL
state, it shall check the detach type indicated. If the MS is indicating IMSI
detach or combined IMSI and GPRS detach the SGSN shall send an BSSAP+-IMSI-
DETACH-INDICATION message to the VLR indicating \'Explicit MS initiated IMSI
detach from non-GPRS service\' or \'Combined explicit MS initiated IMSI detach
from GPRS and non-GPRS services\'.
After the sending of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message to the VLR, the
SGSN shall move the state of the association to Gs-NULL. The SGSN shall start
timer T9 upon transmission of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message and if
timer T6-1 is running, timer T6-1 shall be stopped and reset..
### 9.2.2 Explicit IMSI detach Response
If the detach type received from the MS indicated IMSI only detach or combined
IMSI and GPRS detach not due to switch off, the SGSN shall wait for the
reception of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK message before sending the
confirmation of the detach to the MS.
### 9.2.3 Abnormal cases
i) with switch off
If the SGSN sent a BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message for a combined IMSI
and GPRS detach due to switch off and timer T9 expires, the SGSN shall repeat
the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message a maximum of N9 times.
ii) with no switch off
If the SGSN sent a BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message for a IMSI only
detach or a combined IMSI and GPRS detach not due to switch off and timer T9
expires, the SGSN shall repeat the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message a
maximum of N9 times. If no BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK is received after that the
SGSN shall send the confirmation of the detach to the MS.
## 9.3 Procedures in the VLR
When a VLR receives an BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message, the VLR shall
send an BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK message to the sending SGSN. The state of the
association for the MS shall be moved from any state to Gs-NULL. If the
BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message indicated \'Explicit MS initiated IMSI
detach from non-GPRS service\', the VLR marks the association as \'IMSI
detached for non-GPRS services\'. If the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message
indicated \'Combined explicit MS initiated IMSI detach from GPRS and non-GPRS
services\', the VLR marks the association as \'IMSI detached for GPRS and non-
GPRS services\'.
# 10 Implicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS services procedure
## 10.1 General description
This procedure is used by the SGSN to indicate when an internal SGSN timer
mechanism has caused the SGSN to delete the GMM context of an MS or mark its
GMM context as detached. This procedure only applies to MSs that are not in
the Gs-NULL state at the SGSN.
The implicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS services procedure aborts any other
ongoing procedure related to this MS on the Gs interface in the SGSN and in
the VLR.
The VLR and the MS should be synchronised as to whether the PBCCH or the BCCH
is used, for any of the subsequent paging. In order to achieve this, the SGSN
shall attempt to inform the VLR about the detach event by using a retry scheme
if the initial delivery of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message fails.
## 10.2 Procedures in the SGSN
When the implicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS services procedure is started for
an MS by the above mentioned internal SGSN timer mechanism, the SGSN shall
send a BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message to the VLR indicating \'Implicit
SGSN initiated IMSI detach from non-GPRS service\'.
After the sending of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message, the SGSN shall
move the state of the association to Gs-NULL. The SGSN shall start timer T10
upon transmission of the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message.
If no BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK message is received by the SGSN to a previous
BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message before timer T10 expires, the SGSN shall
repeat the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message a maximum of N10 times. The
state of the association during the acknowledgement procedure remains Gs-NULL.
## 10.3 Procedures in the VLR
When a VLR receives the BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message and the state of
the association is not Gs-NULL, the state of the association for the MS shall
be moved to Gs-NULL. The VLR marks the association as \'IMSI implicitly
detached for GPRS and non-GPRS services\'. The VLR shall also send a
BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK message to the sending SGSN.
# 11 VLR failure procedure
## 11.1 General description
This procedure is used by the VLR to inform to the associated SGSNs about the
recovery from an internal failure that has affected the association with the
SGSNs.
The VLR recovery procedure shall be handled in such a way that the signalling
load on the VLR and SGSN does not create any overload problem.
## 11.2 Procedures in the VLR
### 11.2.1 VLR Reset Initiation
In the event of a failure at the VLR which has resulted in the loss of SGSN
association information on some MSs, the VLR shall move from any state to the
Gs-NULL state for all the associations with SGSNs per MS. The VLR shall also
set the \'Confirmed by Radio Contact\' restoration indicator to \'false\' (see
3GPP TS 23.007). The VLR shall not send any BSSAP+- MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST or
BSSAP+-MM-INFORMATION-REQUEST messages to MSs with the SGSN association in the
Gs-NULL state.
When the VLR restarts a BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message shall be sent to all
the SGSNs connected to the VLR by the Gs interface. This message indicates to
the SGSN that for the MSs with an association to that VLR, the associations
are no longer reliable. The VLR shall also start timer T11.
### 11.2.2 VLR Reset Response
Upon receipt of a BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message, the VLR shall stop the timer T11.
### 11.2.3 Abnormal cases
If the VLR does not receive a BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message from that SGSN before
the T11 timer expires, the VLR shall retransmit the BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION
message. The retransmission is repeated a maximum of N11 times. If no
BSSAP+-RESET-ACK is received after that a report shall be made to the O&M
system.
## 11.3 Procedures in the SGSN
Upon receipt of a BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message from the VLR, the SGSN is
informed that all the associations with that VLR for all the MSs registered in
the SGSN are no longer reliable because the VLR may have lost information
about the state of the MSs and during the failure the VLR may have missed
signalling messages. The SGSN shall set the \'VLR-Reliable\' MM context
variable to \'false\'. The detach procedures for deleting the association are
still applicable (clauses 8, 9 and 10). If the \'VLR-Reliable\' MM context
variable is set to \'false\', upon reception of a Combined Routeing and
Location Area update request or a periodic Routeing Area Update from the MS
that is attached for non-GPRS service, the SGSN may request the re-attach to
non-GPRS services, or may alternatively immediately perform the Location
Update for non-GPRS services procedure towards the VLR.
The SGSN sends a BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message to the VLR.
# 12 SGSN failure procedure
## 12.1 General description
This procedure is used by the SGSN to inform to the associated VLRs about the
recovery from an internal failure that has affected the association with the
VLRs.
The SGSN recovery procedure shall be handled in such a way that the signalling
load on the VLR and SGSN does not create any overload problem.
## 12.2 Procedures in the SGSN
### 12.2.1 SGSN Reset Initiation
In the event of a failure at the SGSN which has resulted in the loss of VLR
association information on some MSs, the SGSN shall move from any state to the
Gs-NULL state for all the associations with VLRs per MS. The SGSN shall also
set the \'SGSN-Reset\' MM context variable to \'true\' and start the timer
T12-1. When the timer T12-1 expires the \'SGSN-Reset\' MM context variable is
set to \'false\'. The value of the timer T12-1 shall be longer that the
periodic routing area update timer at the SGSN.
A BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message shall be sent to all the VLRs connected to
the SGSN by Gs interfaces. The BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message indicates to
the VLR that all the associations with that particular SGSN for all the MSs
registered in the VLR are no longer reliable. The normal procedures for
updating the association are still applicable (clauses 6, 8, 9 and 10). The
SGSN shall also start timer T12-2.
### 12.2.2 SGSN Reset Response
Upon receipt of a BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message, the SGSN shall stop the timer
T12-2.
### 12.2.3 Abnormal cases
If the SGSN does not receive a BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message from that VLR before
the T12-2 timer expires, the SGSN shall retransmit the BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION
message. The retransmission is repeated a maximum of N12 times. If no
BSSAP+-RESET-ACK is received after a report shall be to made the O&M system.
## 12.3 Procedures in the VLR
Upon receipt of a BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message from the SGSN, the VLR is
informed that all the associations with that SGSN for all the MSs registered
in the SGSN are no longer reliable because the SGSN may have lost information
about the state of the MSs for that VLR and during the failure the SGSN may
have missed signalling messages. The VLR shall set the \'Confirmed by Radio
Contact\' restoration indicator to \'false\' in all the associations
containing the restarted SGSN. If the \'Confirmed by Radio Contact\'
restoration indicator is \'false\' the VLR may send paging messages on both
the Gs and the A interface.
The VLR sends a BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message to the SGSN. This indicates to the
SGSN that all the associations for the MSs which have an association with that
SGSN will be moved to the Gs-NULL state.
# 13 HLR failure
This clause decribes the SGSN behaviour towards the VLR as a consequence of an
HLR reset.
## 13.1 General description
In the case of an HLR failure, the HLR informs the associated SGSNs about the
recovery from an internal failure that has affected the association with the
SGSNs according to the HLR reset procedure specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This information is used in the SGSN to trigger the VLR to perform a location
update towards the HLR in order to restore the HLR subscriber data.
## 13.2 Procedures in the SGSN
Upon receipt of a HLR reset indication from the HLR, the SGSN shall set the
NGAF for all registered MSs in the SGSN for which a valid MSC/VLR-association
exists.
Upon detection of any activity (either signalling or data) from the MS, the
SGSN shall report to the VLR if the NGAF is set for this MS. If the SGSN
detects GPRS signalling that leads to a procedure towards the VLR, the SGSN
shall follow this procedure and reset the NGAF. If the SGSN detects activity
that does not lead to any procedure towards the VLR, the SGSN shall send an
BSSAP+-MS-ACTIVITY-INDICATION message towards the VLR and reset the NGAF. The
activity indication may be delayed by the SGSN for a maximum operator-
configuration depending time period to avoid high signalling load.
# 14 MS Information procedure
## 14.1 General description
The MS Information procedure is used by the VLR to request specific parameters
about the MS. If the target MS for an MS Information procedure or a Provide
Subscriber Info procedure (see 3GPP TS 23.018 and 3GPP TS 29.002) is GPRS
attached (i.e. the state of the association to Gs-ASSOCIATED) the VLR may
decide to perform the procedure via GPRS. The outcome of the MS Information
procedure does not change the state of the association at the VLR or SGSN.
## 14.2 Procedures in the VLR
If the target MS for the MS information procedure is GPRS attached and the
state of the association for the MS Gs-ASSOCIATED, the VLR may initiate the MS
information procedure by transferring a BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message
to the SGSN. If the state of the association is LA-UPDATE PRESENT, the VLR
shall wait until this state is exited. The VLR starts the timer T14. The
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message specifies the requested information
parameters in the Information requested information element.
Upon receipt of a BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE the VLR shall stop timer T14.
If no BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE for that MS is received before the expiry
of timer T14the VLR shall stop the Gs interface MS information procedure. The
VLR may perform other actions to obtain the information about the MS (e.g.
retry, or send a DTAP IDENTITY REQUEST message on the A interface).
## 14.3 Procedures in the SGSN
The SGSN shall examine the type of information that is requested and if it is
stored in its database shall use this information in its response to the VLR.
The BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE message contains the information parameters
as requested by the VLR. In A/Gb mode, the Mobile location information
indicates a request for Cell Global Identity and Location information age. In
Iu mode, the Mobile location information indicates a request for Service Area
Identification and Location information age. In this case, the SGSN shall use
the Location Report Control procedure (see 3GPP TS 25.413) in order to
retrieve the SA.
If the SGSN receives an Information requested information element containing a
\'not supported\' value, then the value part of the Mobile station state
information element in the BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE message shall be set
to \'Information requested not supported\'.
If the information is not locally available and it is a request for mobile
identity information, the SGSN forwards the IDENTITY REQUEST message to the MS
indicated in the message unless the GPRS activities of the MS are suspended.
Upon receipt of the IDENTITY RESPONSE message from the MS, the SGSN shall send
a BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE message. The BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE
message contains the information parameters as requested by the VLR. If the
GPRS activities of the MS are suspended the SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-MS-
INFORMATION-RESPONSE message indicating in the Mobile station state IE
\'SUSPENDED\'. If the requested information is not available or obtainable at
the SGSN, the SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE message to
the VLR without the requested information. The SGSN should include the Mobile
station state IE in all BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE messages.
If the IMSI is not known at the SGSN, the SGSN shall return a BSSAP+-MS-
INFORMATION-RESPONSE message indicating in the Mobile station state IE \'IMSI
unknown\'.
# 15 MM information procedure
## 15.1 General description
The MM information procedure may be performed by the VLR via GPRS if the
target MS for the MM information procedure is IMSI attached to both GPRS and
non-GPRS services (i.e. the state of the association is Gs-ASSOCIATED). The
outcome of the MM Information procedure does not change the state of the
association at the VLR or SGSN.
## 15.2 Procedures in the VLR
If the target MS for the MM information procedure is GPRS attached class A or
B MS, the state of the association is Gs-ASSOCIATED, the VLR may initiate the
MM information procedure by transferring a BSSAP+-MM-INFORMATION-REQUEST
message to the SGSN.
## 15.3 Procedures in the SGSN
If the state of the association at the SGSN is not Gs-NULL, the SGSN shall
forward the MM-INFORMATION message to the MS indicated.
# 16 Error Handling and Future Compatibility
## 16.1 General
This clause specifies procedures for the handling of unknown, unforeseen, and
erroneous protocol data by the receiving entity. These procedures are called
\"error handling procedures\", but in addition to providing recovery
mechanisms for error situations they define a compatibility mechanism for
future extensions of the protocol.
In this clause the following terminology is used:
\- an IE is defined to be syntactically incorrect in a message if it contains
at least one value defined as \"reserved\", or if its value part violates
coding rules. However, it is not a syntactical error that an IE specifies in
its Length Indicator a greater length than defined in the relevant clause; and
\- a message is defined to have semantically incorrect contents if it contains
information which, possibly dependant on the state of the receiver, is in
contradiction to the resources of the receiver and/or to the procedural part
of 3GPP TS 29.018.
When a receiving entity detects the need to send a BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS
message (see errors detailed below), the entity shall copy the IMSI IE value
(if included) of the incorrect message to the IMSI IE on the BSSAP+-MOBILE-
STATUS message. The message in error is also included in the BSSAP+-MOBILE-
STATUS message. Both the receiving and the sending entity shall abandon the
procedure related to the incorrect message and return to the state from where
the procedure related to the incorrect message was started.
Both the receiving and the sending entity shall inform the O&M entity upon
sending or receiving a BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message.
The next clauses in this clause shall be applied in order of precedence.
## 16.2 Message too short
When a message is received that is too short to contain a complete message
type information element, that message shall be ignored.
## 16.3 Unknown or unforeseen message type
If a message is received with a message type not defined or not implemented by
the receiver it shall ignore the message. A BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message with
the Gs Cause Value set to \"message unknown\" and the Erroneous message IE
containing the received message shall be returned.
If a message is received that is not compatible with the protocol state, a
BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message with the Gs Cause Value set to \"message not
compatible with the protocol state\" and the erroneous message shall be
returned.
If a message is received that is not defined to be received by that entity
(i.e. the message is sent in the wrong direction) it shall be treated as
unknown message and the message shall be ignored. A BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS
message with the Gs Cause Value set to \"message unknown\" and the Erroneous
message IE containing the received message shall be returned.
## 16.4 Missing mandatory information element
When on receipt of a message, and a \"missing mandatory IE\" error is
diagnosed, the receiver shall ignore the message and return a BSSAP+-MOBILE-
STATUS message with the Gs Cause Value set to \"missing mandatory information
element\" and shall return the Erroneous message information element
containing the received message.
## 16.5 IEs unknown or unforeseen in the message
All IEs unknown or unforeseen in a message shall be ignored.
## 16.6 Out of sequence IEs
All IEs that are out of sequence shall be ignored.
## 16.7 Repeated IEs
If an information element with format T, TV, or TLV is repeated in a message
in which repetition of the information element is not specified, only the
contents of the information element appearing first shall be handled and all
subsequent repetitions of the information element shall be ignored. When
repetition of information elements is specified, only the contents of
specified repeated information elements shall be handled. If the limit on
repetition of information elements is exceeded, the contents of information
elements appearing first up to the limit of repetitions shall be handled and
all subsequent repetitions of the information element shall be ignored.
## 16.8 Syntactically incorrect mandatory IE.
On receipt of a message which contains a syntactically incorrect mandatory IE,
the receiver shall ignore the message and return a BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS
message with the Gs Cause Value set to \"invalid mandatory information\" and
shall return the Erroneous message information element containing the received
message.
## 16.9 Syntactically incorrect optional IEs
All optional IEs that are syntactically incorrect in a message shall be
treated as not present in the message.
## 16.10 Conditional IE errors
When a VLR or SGSN receives a message and diagnoses a \"missing conditional
IE\" error or an \"unexpected conditional IE\" error or when it receives a
message containing at least one syntactically incorrect conditional IE which
is required to be present in the message, a VLR or SGSN shall ignore the
message and return a BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message with the Gs Cause Value set
to \"conditional IE error\" and shall return the Erroneous message information
element containing the received message.
When a VLR or SGSN receives a message containing a syntactically incorrect
conditional IE which is not required to be present in the message, nor
required to be absent in the message, then a VLR or SGSN shall ignore that IE.
## 16.11 IEs with semantically incorrect contents
When an IE with semantically incorrect contents is received, the foreseen
reactions of the procedural part of 3GPP TS 29.018 are performed.
If however no such reactions are specified, the receiving entity shall ignore
that IE and treat the rest of the message. If, because this IE was ignored,
the rest of the message can no longer be handled then the receiving entity
shall return a BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message with the Gs Cause Value set to
\"semantically incorrect message\" and shall return the Erroneous message
information element containing the received message.
# 17 Message functional definitions and contents
This clause defines the structure of the messages that are sent between the
SGSN and the VLR.
## 17.1 Message Contents
### 17.1.1 BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK message
This message is sent by the SGSN to the VLR to acknowledge a previous
BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message.
Table 17.1.1/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
* * *
### 17.1.2 BSSAP+-ALERT-REJECT message
This message is sent from the SGSN to the VLR to indicate that the SGSN could
not identify the IMSI indicated in the BSSAP+-ALERT-Request message.
Table 17.1.2/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-ALERT-REJECT message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Gs Cause Gs Cause\ M TLV 3 18.4.7
* * *
#### 17.1.2.1 Gs Cause
The value part which is typically sent for this information element in this
message is \'IMSI unknown\'.
### 17.1.3 BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message
This message is sent by the VLR to the SGSN to request an indication when next
activity from the MS is detected.
Table 17.1.3/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
* * *
### 17.1.4 BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message
This message is sent from the non-GSM MSC/VLR to the SGSN to convey a
tunneling payload to the MS identified by the specified IMSI.
Table 17.1.4/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
VLR number VLR number\ M TLV 5-11 18.4.26
Downlink Tunnel Payload Control and Info Downlink Tunnel Payload Control and
Info\ M TLV 3-223 18.4.3
* * *
### 17.1.5 BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK message
This message is sent by the VLR to the SGSN to acknowledge a previous
BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-Indication message.
Table 17.1.5/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
* * *
### 17.1.6 BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message
This message is sent by the SGSN to the VLR to indicate a GPRS detach
performed from the MS or the SGSN. The type of detach is indicated in the IMSI
detach from GPRS service type IE.
Table 17.1.6/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
SGSN number SGSN number\ M TLV 5-11 18.4.22
IMSI detach from GPRS service type IMSI detach from GPRS service type\ M TLV 3
18.4.11
Cell global identity Cell global identity\ O TLV 10 18.4.1
Service area identification Service area identification\ O TLV 9 18.4.21b
* * *
#### 17.1.6.1 Cell global identity (A/Gb mode only)
In A/Gb mode, the SGSN shall include the Cell global identity where the mobile
was in the last radio contact.
#### 17.1.6.2 Service area identification (Iu mode only)
In Iu mode, the SGSN should include the Service area identification where the
mobile was in the last radio contact.
### 17.1.7 BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK message
This message is sent by the VLR to the SGSN to acknowledge a previous
BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-Indication message.
Table 17.1.7/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
* * *
### 17.1.8 BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message
This message is sent by the SGSN to the VLR to indicate an IMSI detach
performed from the MS. The type of detach is indicated in the IMSI detach from
non-GPRS service type IE.
Table 17.1.8/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
SGSN number SGSN number\ M TLV 5-11 18.4.22
IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type
18.4.12 M TLV 3
Cell global identity Cell global identity\ O TLV 10 18.4.1
Location information age Location information age\ O TLV 4 18.4.15
Service area identification Service area identification\ O TLV 9 18.4.21b
* * *
#### 17.1.8.1 Cell global identity (A/Gb mode only)
In A/Gb mode, the SGSN shall include the Cell global identity where the mobile
was in the last radio contact.
#### 17.1.8.2 Location information age
If the detach is due to implicit detach and the Cell global identity is
available, then the SGSN should include the Location information age.
#### 17.1.8.3 Service area identification (Iu mode only)
In Iu mode, the SGSN should include the Service area identification where the
mobile was in the last radio contact.
### 17.1.9 BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message
This message is sent by the VLR to the SGSN to indicate that update or IMSI
attach in the VLR has been completed.
Table 17.1.9/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Location area identifier Location area identifier\ M TLV 7 18.4.14
New TMSI, or IMSI Mobile identity\ O TLV 6-10 18.4.17
* * *
#### 17.1.9.1 New TMSI, or IMSI
This information element represents the identity to be used for (and then by)
the MS.
If this information element is an IMSI, then the mobile station is not
allocated any TMSI (and deletes any TMSI accordingly). If this information
element is a TMSI, then the mobile station will use this TMSI as the new
temporary identity (the MS deletes its old TMSI and stores the new TMSI). If
neither a TMSI nor an IMSI are included in this information element, the old
TMSI, if any available, will be kept.
### 17.1.10 BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REJECT message
This message is sent by the VLR to the SGSN to indicate that location update
or IMSI attach has failed.
Table 17.1.10/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REJECT message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Reject cause Reject cause\ M TLV 3 18.4.21
* * *
### 17.1.11 BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message
This message is sent by the SGSN to the VLR either to request update of its
location file (normal update) or to request IMSI attach.
Table 17.1.11/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST message content
+-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Information | Type/Reference | Presence | Format | Length | | Element | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Message type | Message type\ | M | V | 1 | | | 18.2 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IMSI | IMSI\ | M | TLV | 6-10 | | | 18.4.10 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | SGSN number | SGSN number\ | M | TLV | 5-11 | | | 18.4.22 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Update type | GPRS location | M | TLV | 3 | | | update type\ | | | | | | 18.4.6 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | New Cell global | Cell global | M | TLV | 10 | | identity | identity\ | | | | | | 18.4.1 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Mobile station | Mobile station | M | TLV | 3 | | classmark | classmark 1\ | | | | | | 18.4.18 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Old location area | Location area | O | TLV | 7 | | identifier | identifier\ | | | | | | 18.4.14 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | TMSI status | TMSI status\ | O | TLV | 3 | | | 18.4.24 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | New service area | Service area | O | TLV | 9 | | identification | identification\ | | | | | | 18.4.21b | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IMEISV | IMEISV | O | TLV | 10 | | | | | | | | | 18.4.9 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+
#### 17.1.11.1 Old location area identifier
This information element should be included. It is derived from the old
routing area identification received in the ROUTING AREA UPDATING REQUEST
message defined in 3GPP TS 24.008.
#### 17.1.11.2 New cell global identity
In A/Gb mode, the cell global identity which shall be included is the one
where the MS is in the current radio contact.
In Iu mode, the cell global identity which shall be included indicates where
the MS is in the current location area. The cell identity part of this
information shall be ignored by the VLR.
In a shared network, the PLMN identity contained in the cell global identity
shall be the PLMN identity of the selected core network operator (see 3GPP TS
23.251 [24]).
#### 17.1.11.3 TMSI status
This information element shall be included if the TMSI status received in the
ATTACH REQUEST or ROUTING AREA UPDATING REQUEST message from the MS indicates,
that no valid TMSI is available in the MS.
#### 17.1.11.4 Mobile station classmark
This information element does not serve any useful purpose, but shall be
included for reasons of compatibility with earlier versions of the protocol.
To ease interworking with old VLR equipment, the SGSN shall encode the
contents of this information element as: revision level \'GSM phase 2\',
\'early classmark sending supported\'‚ \'encryption algorithm A5/1
supported\', and RF power capability \'class 1\'.
#### 17.1.11.5 New service area identification
In Iu mode, the service area identification which should be included is the
one where the MS is in the current radio contact.
In a shared network, the PLMN identity contained in the service area
identification shall be the PLMN identity of the selected core network
operator (see 3GPP TS 23.251 [24]).
#### 17.1.11.6 IMEISV
This information element shall be included, if the SGSN supports the
\"Provision of UE Specific Behaviour Information to Network Entities\" or the
\"Automatic Device Detection\", or the "Trace for Management Based
Activation/Deactivation".
### 17.1.12 BSSAP+-MM-INFORMATION-REQUEST
This message is sent by the VLR to the SGSN to provide the MS with subscriber
specific information.
Table 17.1.12/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-MM-INFORMATION-REQUEST message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
MM information MM information\ O TLV 3-n 18.4.16
* * *
#### 17.1.12.1 MM information
This information element should be included in this message.
### 17.1.13 BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message
This message is sent by both the SGSN or the VLR to indicate an error.
Table 17.1.13/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ O TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Gs Cause Gs Cause\ M TLV 3 18.4.7
Erroneous message Erroneous message\ M TLV 3-n 18.4.5
* * *
#### 17.1.13.1 IMSI
If the MS is identified by the IMSI, then this information element shall be
included.
### 17.1.14 BSSAP+-MS-ACTIVITY-INDICATION message
This message is sent by the SGSN to the VLR to indicate that activity from an
MS has been detected.
Table 17.1.14/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-MS-ACTIVITY-INDICATION message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Cell global identity Cell global identity\ O TLV 10 18.4.1
Service area identification Service area identification\ O TLV 9 18.4.21b
* * *
#### 17.1.14.1 Cell global identity (A/Gb mode only)
In A/Gb mode, the SGSN shall include the cell global identity where the MS was
in the last radio contact.
#### 17.1.14.2 Service area identification (Iu mode only)
In Iu mode, the SGSN should include the Service area identification where the
mobile was in the last radio contact.
### 17.1.15 BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message
This message is sent from the VLR to the SGSN to request information
associated with the indicated IMSI. The type of information requested is
specified in the Information requested IE.
Table 17.1.15/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Information requested Information requested\ M TLV 3 18.4.13
* * *
### 17.1.16 BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE message
This message is sent from the SGSN to the VLR as a response to a previous
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message. (At least one of the requested
identities shall be sent).
Table 17.1.16/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE message content
+-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Information | Type/Reference | Presence | Format | Length | | Element | | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Message type | Message type\ | M | V | 1 | | | 18.2 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IMSI | IMSI\ | M | TLV | 6-10 | | | 18.4.10 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | TMSI | TMSI | O | TLV | 6 | | | | | | | | | 18.4.23 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | PTMSI | PTMSI | O | TLV | 6 | | | | | | | | | 18.4.20 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IMEI | IMEI\ | O | TLV | 10 | | | 18.4.8 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IMEISV | IMEISV\ | O | TLV | 10 | | | 18.4.9 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Cell global | Cell global | O | TLV | 10 | | identity | identity\ | | | | | | 18.4.1 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Location | Location | O | TLV | 4 | | information age | information age\ | | | | | | 18.4.15 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Mobile station | Mobile station | O | TLV | 3 | | state | state\ | | | | | | 18.4.19 | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Service area | Service area | O | TLV | 9 | | identification | identification\ | | | | | | 18.4.21b | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+----------+--------+--------+
#### 17.1.16.1 IMEI
This information element should be included if it was requested in the
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message and if this information is obtainable.
#### 17.1.16.2 IMIESV
This information element should be included if it was requested in the
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message and if this information is obtainable.
#### 17.1.16.3 Cell global identity (A/Gb mode only)
In A/Gb mode, cell global identity where the MS was in the last radio contact.
This information element should be included if it was requested in the
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message and if this information is obtainable.
#### 17.1.16.4 Location information age
Time in minutes since the MS last established a radio transaction.
This information element should be included if it was requested in the
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message and if this information is obtainable.
#### 17.1.16.5 Mobile station state
This information element should be included in this message, irrespective of
the information requested.
#### 17.1.16.6 TMSI
This information element should be included if it was requested in the
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message and if this information is obtainable.
#### 17.1.16.7 Service area identification (Iu mode only)
In Iu mode, service area identification where the MS was in the last radio
contact.
This information element should be included if it was requested in the
BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST message and if this information is obtainable.
### 17.1.17 BSSAP+-MS-UNREACHABLE message
This message is sent from the SGSN to the VLR to indicate that, for example,
paging could not be performed because the MS is marked as unreachable at the
SGSN.
Table 17.1.17/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-MS-UNREACHABLE message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Gs Cause Gs Cause\ M TLV 3 18.4.7
* * *
#### 17.1.17.1 Gs Cause
The value part which is typically sent for this information element in this
message is \'MS unreachable\'.
### 17.1.18 BSSAP+-PAGING-REJECT message
This message is sent from the SGSN to the VLR to indicate that the delivery of
a previous BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message has failed.
Table 17.1.18/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-PAGING-REJECT message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Gs Cause Gs Cause\ M TLV 3 18.4.7
* * *
### 17.1.19 BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST message
This message is sent from the VLR to the SGSN and contains sufficient
information to allow the paging message to be transmitted by the correct cells
at the correct time.
Table 17.1.19/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-PAGING_REQUEST message content
+--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Information Element | Type/Reference | Presence | Format | Length | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Message type | Message type\ | M | V | 1 | | | 18.2 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | IMSI | IMSI\ | M | TLV | 6-10 | | | 18.4.10 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | VLR number | VLR number\ | M | TLV | 5-11 | | | 18.4.26 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | TMSI | TMSI\ | O | TLV | 6 | | | 18.4.23 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Location area identifier | Location area identifier\ | O | TLV | 7 | | | 18.4.14 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Channel needed | Channel needed\ | O | TLV | 3 | | | 18.4.2 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | eMLPP Priority | eMLPP Priority\ | O | TLV | 3 | | | 18.4.4 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+ | Global CN-Id | Global CN-Id | O | TLV | 7 | | | | | | | | | 18.4.27 | | | | +--------------------------+---------------------------+----------+--------+--------+
#### 17.1.19.1 TMSI
This element is omitted in the exceptional case where the IMSI is used instead
of the TMSI as a paging address at the radio interface.
#### 17.1.19.2 Location area identifier
If the location area identifier is not included, then the SGSN shall page the
MS in all the cells served by the VLR and the SGSN, unless the SGSN has
reliable information about the location of the MS.
#### 17.1.19.3 Channel needed
If the Channel needed Information Element is not present, then the default
value is assumed to be \"any channel\".
#### 17.1.19.4 eMLPP priority
This information element may be included when the subscriber has a
subscription for eMLPP.
#### 17.1.19.5 Global CN-Id
If the network supports the Intra Domain Connection of RAN Nodes to multiple
CN Nodes functionality, this information element shall be included when
MSC/VLR initiates paging by IMSI, via the Gs interface.
### 17.1.20 BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message
This message is sent from the SGSN or the VLR to acknowledge a previous
BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message. This message indicates that all the
associations to the VLR or the SGSN have been be marked as invalid.
The sending entity (either SGSN or VLR) includes its identity in the
BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message.
Table 17.1.20/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-RESET-ACK message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
SGSN number SGSN number\ C TLV 5-11 18.4.22
VLR number VLR number\ C TLV 5-11 18.4.26
* * *
#### 17.1.20.1 SGSN number
If the SGSN is the sending entity, then it shall indicate its address by
including its SGSN number Information Element. Otherwise (i.e. if the VLR is
the sending entity), then the SGSN number Information Element shall not be
included.
#### 17.1.20.2 VLR number
If the VLR is the sending entity, then it shall indicate its address by
including its VLR number Information Element. Otherwise (i.e. if the SGSN is
the sending entity), then the VLR number Information Element shall not be
included.
### 17.1.21 BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message
This message is sent from the VLR to the SGSN to indicate that a failure in
the VLR has occurred and all the associations to the VLR shall be marked as
invalid.
This message is also sent from the SGSN to the VLR to indicate that a failure
in the SGSN has occurred and all the associations to the SGSN shall be marked
as invalid.
The sending entity (either SGSN or VLR) includes its identity in the
BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message.
Table 17.1.21/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
SGSN number SGSN number\ C TLV 5-11 18.4.22
VLR number VLR number\ C TLV 5-11 18.4.26
* * *
#### 17.1.21.1 SGSN number
If the SGSN is the sending entity, then it shall indicate its address by
including its SGSN number Information Element. Otherwise (i.e. if the VLR is
the sending entity), then the SGSN number Information Element shall not be
included.
#### 17.1.21.2 VLR number
If the VLR is the sending entity, then it shall indicate its address by
including its VLR number Information Element. Otherwise (i.e. if the SGSN is
the sending entity), then the VLR number Information Element shall not be
included.
### 17.1.22 BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE message
This message is sent by the SGSN to the VLR to indicate that TMSI reallocation
on the MS has been successfully completed.
Table 17.1.22/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE message
content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
Cell global identity Cell global identity\ O TLV 10 18.4.1
Service area identification Service area identification\ O TLV 9 18.4.21b
* * *
#### 17.1.22.1 Cell global identity (A/Gb mode only)
The SGSN shall include the cell global identity where the Mobile Station was
in the last radio contact.
#### 17.1.22.2 Service area identification (Iu mode only)
In Iu mode, the SGSN should include the Service area identification where the
mobile was in the last radio contact.
### 17.1.23 BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message
This message is sent from the SGSN to the non-GSM MSC/VLR to convey the
tunneling payload received from the MS identified by the specified IMSI.
Table 17.1.23/3GPP TS 29.018: BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message content
* * *
Information Element Type/Reference Presence Format Length
Message type Message type\ M V 1 18.2
IMSI IMSI\ M TLV 6-10 18.4.10
SGSN number SGSN number\ M TLV 5-11 18.4.22
Uplink Tunnel Payload Control and Info Uplink Tunnel Payload Control and Info\
M TLV 3-223 18.4.25
* * *
# 18 Message format and information element coding
This clause specifies the coding of the Information Elements used in by the
BSSAP+ protocol. The spare bits in the coding of an IE shall be set to zero by
the sender and shall be ignored by the receiver.
All unassigned codes (whether omitted or explicitely _Unassigned_ in the text)
shall be treated as unknown (see clause 16).
## 18.1 Overview
## 18.2 Message type
Message type uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is a single octet
element, mandatory in all messages.
Table 18.2/3GPP TS 29.018: Message type information element
+-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | Message type | _Reference_ | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an | 18 and 16 | | | unknown Message type. | | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | BSSAP+-PAGING-REQUEST | 17.1.19 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 | BSSAP+-PAGING-REJECT | 17.1.18 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an | 18 and 16 | | | unknown Message type. | | | to | | | | | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 | | | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 | BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST | 17.1.4 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 | BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST | 17.1.23 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 | BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REQUEST | 17.1.11 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 | BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-ACCEPT | 17.1.9 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 | BSSAP+-LOCATION-UPDATE-REJECT | 17.1.10 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 | BSSAP+-TMSI-REALLOCATION-COMPLETE | 17.1.22 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 | BSSAP+-ALERT-REQUEST | 17.1.3 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 | BSSAP+-ALERT-ACK | 17.1.1 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 | BSSAP+-ALERT-REJECT | 17.1.2 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 | BSSAP+-MS-ACTIVITY-INDICATION | 17.1.14 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 | BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-INDICATION | 17.1.6 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 | BSSAP+-GPRS-DETACH-ACK | 17.1.5 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 | BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-INDICATION | 17.1.8 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 | BSSAP+-IMSI-DETACH-ACK | 17.1.7 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 | BSSAP+-RESET-INDICATION | 17.1.21 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 | BSSAP+-RESET-ACK | 17.1.20 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 | BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-REQUEST | 17.1.15 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 | BSSAP+-MS-INFORMATION-RESPONSE | 17.1.16 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an | 18 and 16 | | | unknown Message type. | | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 | BSSAP+-MM-INFORMATION-REQUEST | 17.1.12 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 | BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS | 17.1.13 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an | 18 and 16 | | | unknown Message type. | | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 | BSSAP+-MS-UNREACHABLE | 17.1.17 | +-----------------+------------------------------------+-------------+
## 18.3 Information Element Identifiers
The next list shows the coding of the Information Element Identifiers used in
the present document.
Table 18.3/3GPP TS 29.018: Information Element Identifier coding
+-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | Information element | Reference | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | IMSI | 18.4.10 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 | VLR number | 18.4.26 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 | TMSI | 18.4.23 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 | Location area identifier | 18.4.14 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 | Channel Needed | 18.4.2 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 | eMLPP Priority | 18.4.4 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 | TMSI status | 18.4.24 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 | Gs cause | 18.4.7 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 | SGSN number | 18.4.22 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 | GPRS location update type | 18.4.6 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 | _Global CN-Id_ | 18.4.27 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an unknown IEI. | 18 and 16 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 | Mobile station classmark 1 | 18.4.18 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 | Mobile identity | 18.4.17 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 | Reject cause | 18.4.21 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 | IMSI detach from GPRS service type | 18.4.11 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 | IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type | 18.4.12 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 | Information requested | 18.4.13 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 | PTMSI | 18.4.20 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 | IMEI | 18.4.8 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 | IMEISV | 18.4.9 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an unknown IEI. | 18 and 16 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 | MM information | 18.4.16 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 | Cell Global Identity | 18.4.1 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 | Location information age | 18.4.15 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 | Mobile station state | 18.4.19 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 | Erroneous message | 18.4.5 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 | Downlink Tunnel Payload Control and Info | 18.4.3 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 | Uplink Tunnel Payload Control and Info | 18.4.25 | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 | Service Area Identification | 18.4.21b | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+ | 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 | _Unassigned:_ treated as an unknown IEI. | 18 and 16 | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | | | +-----------------+------------------------------------------+-----------+
## 18.4 Information elements
### 18.4.1 Cell global identity
This information element uniquely identifies one cell.
+----------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +----------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | The rest of the | | | | | | | | | | information element | | | | | | | | | to | is coded as the the | | | | | | | | | | value part of the | | | | | | | | | Octet 10 | cell global id IE | | | | | | | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 48.018 (not | | | | | | | | | | including 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 48.018 IEI and 3GPP | | | | | | | | | | TS 48.018 length | | | | | | | | | | indicator). | | | | | | | | +----------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 18.4.1/3GPP TS 29.018: Cell global identity IE
### 18.4.2 Channel needed
The purpose of the _Channel Needed_ information element is to indicate which
type of channel is needed for the transaction linked to the paging procedure.
* * *
            8                                                                                                                                     7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 The rest of the information element is coded as the IEI part and the
value part of the Channel Needed IE defined in 3GPP TS 44.018.
* * *
Figure 18.4.2/3GPP TS 29.018: Channel needed IE
### 18.4.3 Downlink Tunnel Payload Control and Info
This information element is used to convey the payload of octets to be
delivered to the identified mobile.
+---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | Spare | TOM Protocol Discriminator | E | Tunnel Priority | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 4 | Tunnel payload | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Octet n | | | | | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+
> _TOM Protocol Discriminator:_ Identifies the protocol using tunnelling of
> non-GSM signalling. For coding, see 3GPP TS 44.064.
>
> _E:_ Cipher Request. When set to 1 indicates that the SGSN shall cipher the
> payload, when set to 0 indicates that the SGSN shall not cipher the payload.
>
> _Tunnel Priority:_ Indicates the priority of the Tunnel Payload. For coding,
> see table 20.1: Association between Tunnel Priority and LLC SAPs.
Figure 18.4.3/3GPP TS 29.018: Downlink Tunnel Payload Control and Info IE
### 18.4.4 eMLPP Priority
This element indicates the eMLPP-Priority.
* * *
            8                                                                                                                                                                                           7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 The rest of the information element is coded as the value part of the
eMLPP-Priority IE defined in 3GPP TS 48.008 (not including 3GPP TS 48.008 IEI
and 3GPP TS 48.008 length indicator).
* * *
Figure 18.4.4/3GPP TS 29.018: eMLPP Priority IE
### 18.4.5 Erroneous message
The Erroneous message IE is a TLV IE that encapsulates the message in error.
+---------+-----------------------------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+-----------------------------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+-----------------------------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+-----------------------------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | Erroneous message including the message type. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Octet n | | | | | | | | | +---------+-----------------------------------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 18.4.5/3GPP TS 29.018: Erroneous message IE
### 18.4.6 GPRS location update type
The purpose of the GPRS location update type information element is to
indicate to the VLR whether an IMSI attach or a normal location update has
been performed by the MS.
* * *
            8                                 7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 GPRS location update type value
* * *
Figure 18.4.6/3GPP TS 29.018: GPRS location update type IE
Table 18.4.6/3GPP TS 29.018: GPRS location update type IE value part
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | GPRS location update type value (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Shall not be sent in this version of the protocol. | | If received, shall be treated as \'00000010\'. | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 IMSI attach | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Normal location update | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Shall not be sent in this version of the protocol. | | If received, to shall be treated as 00000010\'. | | | | To | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 18.4.7 Gs cause
The purpose of the value part of the Gs Cause information element is to
indicate an error to the receiving entity. This could be a protocol data error
or to indicate to the VLR the reason why a paging procedure could not be
performed.
* * *
            8                  7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 Gs Cause value
* * *
Figure 18.4.7/3GPP TS 29.018: Gs Cause IE
Table 18.4.7/3GPP TS 29.018: Gs Cause IE value part
+--------------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Gs Cause value (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 _Normal, unspecified_ in this version of the protocol _._ | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 IMSI detached for GPRS services | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 IMSI detached for GPRS and non-GPRS services | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 IMSI unknown | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 IMSI detached for non-GPRS services | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 IMSI implicitly detached for non-GPRS services | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 MS unreachable | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 Message not compatible with the protocol state | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Missing mandatory information element | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 Invalid mandatory information | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 Conditional IE error | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 Semantically incorrect message | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 Message unknown | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 Address error | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 TOM functionality not supported | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 Ciphering request cannot be accommodated | | | | 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 | | | | to _Normal, unspecified_ in this version of the protocol | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | +--------------------------------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: _\'Normal, unspecified_ \' has the same meaning than in 3GPP TS 24.008,
informative Annex H (UMTS specific cause values for call control). It is used
to report a normal event, and should not be interpreted as syntactically
incorrect nor unknown if received.
### 18.4.8 IMEI
The IMEI is coded as a sequence of BCD digits, compressed two into each octet.
The IMEI consists of 15 digits (see 3GPP TS 23.003).
* * *
             8                  7          6   5   4   3   2   1
octet 1 IEI  
octet 2 length indicator  
octet 3 digit 2 digit 1  
octet 4 digit 4 digit 3  
octet 5 digit 6 digit 5  
octet 6 digit 8 digit 7  
octet 7 digit 10 digit 9  
octet 8 digit 12 digit 11  
octet 9 digit 14 digit 13  
octet 10 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0
* * *
Figure 18.4.8/3GPP TS 29.018: IMEI IE
### 18.4.9 IMEISV
The IMEISV is coded as a sequence of BCD digits, compressed two into each
octet. The IMEISV consists of 16 digits (see 3GPP TS 23.003).
* * *
             8                  7          6   5   4   3   2   1
octet 1 IEI  
octet 2 length indicator  
octet 3 digit 2 digit 1  
octet 4 digit 4 digit 3  
octet 5 digit 6 digit 5  
octet 6 digit 8 digit 7  
octet 7 digit 10 digit 9  
octet 8 digit 12 digit 11  
octet 9 digit 14 digit 13  
octet 10 digit 16 digit 15
* * *
Figure 18.4.9/3GPP TS 29.018: IMEISV IE
### 18.4.10 IMSI
The IMSI is coded as a sequence of BCD digits, compressed two into each octet.
This is a variable length element, and includes a length indicator. The IMSI
is defined in 3GPP TS 23.003. It shall not exceed 15 digits (see 3GPP TS
23.003).
* * *
              8                  7              6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 IMSI digit 1 * parity 0 0 1  
Octet 4 IMSI digit 3 IMSI digit 2  
Octet 4+x IMSI digit i+1 IMSI digit i
* * *
Figure 18.4.10/3GPP TS 29.018: IMSI IE
Where x = (i-2)/2 and i is always even
* The value of the parity bit (bit 4 in octect 3) indicates:
0 Even number of IMSI digits;
1 Odd number of IMSI digits;
If the number of IMSI digits is even then bits 5 to 8 of the last octet shall
be filled with an end mark coded as 1111.
### 18.4.11 IMSI detach from GPRS service type
The purpose of the IMSI detach from GPRS service type information element is
to indicate to the VLR the type of IMSI detach from GPRS service performed by
the MS or the SGSN.
* * *
            8                                          7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 IMSI detach from GPRS service type value
* * *
Figure 18.4.11/3GPP TS 29.018: IMSI detach from GPRS service type IE
Table 18.4.11/3GPP TS 29.018: IMSI detach from GPRS service type IE value part
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | IMSI detach from GPRS service type value (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Interpreted as _reserved_ in this version of the | | protocol 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Network initiated IMSI detach from GPRS | | service | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 MS initiated IMSI detach from GPRS service | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 GPRS services not allowed | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 | | | | to Interpreted as _reserved_ in this version of the protocol | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 18.4.12 IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type
The purpose of the IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type information element
is to indicate to the VLR if the type of IMSI detach from non-GPRS service was
explicitly performed by the MS or implicitly performed by the SGSN.
* * *
            8                                              7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type value
* * *
Figure 18.4.12/3GPP TS 29.018: IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type IE
Table 18.4.12/3GPP TS 29.018: IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type IE value
part
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | IMSI detach from non-GPRS service type value (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Interpreted as _reserved_ in this version of the | | protocol | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Explicit MS initiated IMSI detach from non-GPRS | | service | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Combined explicit MS initiated IMSI detach from GPRS | | and non-GPRS services | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Implicit SGSN initiated IMSI detach from non-GPRS | | service | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 | | | | to Interpreted as _reserved_ in this version of the protocol | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 18.4.13 Information requested
The Information requested IE is a TLV IE that indicates to the SGSN the type
of information requested by the VLR. The coding of the V field is as follows.
* * *
            8                             7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 Information requested value
* * *
Figure 18.4.13/3GPP TS 29.018: Information requested IE
Table 18.4.13/3GPP TS 29.018: Information requested IE value part
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Information requested value (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Interpreted as _Not supported_ in this version of | | the protocol. | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 PTMSI | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 IMEI | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 IMEISV | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 PTMSI and IMEI | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 PTMSI and IMEISV | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 IMEI and IMEISV | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 PTMSI, IMEI, and IMEISV | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Mobile location information | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 TMSI | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 Interpreted as _Not supported_ in this version of | | the protocol. | | | | to | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
NOTE: The behaviour of the receiver in the case of a _Not supported_ value is
described in clause 14.3, _Procedures in the SGSN_.
### 18.4.14 Location area identifier
This element uniquely identifies one Location Area.
+---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length Indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | The rest of the | | | | | | | | | | information element | | | | | | | | | - | is coded as the | | | | | | | | | | value part of the | | | | | | | | | Octer 7 | location area | | | | | | | | | | identifier IE | | | | | | | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 48.018 (not | | | | | | | | | | including 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 48.018 IEI and 3GPP | | | | | | | | | | TS 48.018 length | | | | | | | | | | indicator). | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 18.4.14/3GPP TS 29.018: Location area identifier IE
### 18.4.15 Location information age
The Location information age IE is a TLV IE that indicates the elapsed time in
minutes since the last network contact of the mobile station.
+---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | The rest of the IE | | | | | | | | | | is coded as the | | | | | | | | | Octet 4 | value part of the | | | | | | | | | | AgeOf | | | | | | | | | | LocationInformation | | | | | | | | | | as specified in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 29.002. | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 18.4.15/3GPP TS 29.018: Location information age IE
### 18.4.16 MM information
The MM information IE is a TLV IE that encapsulates the user information that
the SGSN forwards to the MS.
* * *
             8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI
Octet 2 Length Indicator
Octet 3\ User information: This field is composed of one or more of the
information elements of the MM information message as defined in 3GPP TS
24.008, excluding the Protocol discriminator, Skip indicator and Message type.
This field includes the IEI and length indicatior of the other information
elements.  
\--\  
Octet n
* * *
Figure 18.4.16/3GPP TS 29.018: MM information IE
### 18.4.17 Mobile identity
The purpose of the _Mobile identity_ information element is to provide either:
\- The International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI);
\- The Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity (TMSI);
\- The International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI); or
  * The International Mobile Equipment Identity together with the Software Version number (IMEISV).
+---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length Indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | The rest of the | | | | | | | | | | information element | | | | | | | | | - | is coded as the | | | | | | | | | | value part of the | | | | | | | | | Octet n | mobile identity IE | | | | | | | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 24.008 (not | | | | | | | | | | including 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 24.008 IEI and 3GPP | | | | | | | | | | TS 24.008 length | | | | | | | | | | indicator). | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 18.4.17/3GPP TS 29.018: Mobile identity IE
### 18.4.18 Mobile station classmark 1
The purpose of the _Mobile Station Classmark 1_ information element is to
provide the network with information concerning aspects of high priority of
the mobile station equipment.
* * *
            8                                                                                                                                                                  7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 The rest of the information element is coded as the value part of the
mobile station classmark 1 IE defined in 3GPP TS 24.008 (not including 3GPP TS
24.008 IEI)
* * *
Figure 18.4.18/3GPP TS 29.018: Mobile station classmark 1 IE
### 18.4.19 Mobile station state
The Mobile station state IE is a TLV IE that indicates to the VLR the GMM and
GSM states of the MS in the SGSN. The coding of the V field is as follows.
* * *
            8                            7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 Mobile station state value
* * *
Figure 18.4.19/3GPP TS 29.018: Mobile station state IE
Table 18.4.19/3GPP TS 29.018: Mobile station state IE value part
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Mobile station state value (octet 3) | | | | Bits | | | | 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 IDLE or PMM-DETACHED | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 STANDBY or PMM-IDLE, 0 PDP contexts active | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 STANDBY or PMM-IDLE, 1 or more PDP | | | | contexts active | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 SUSPENDED, 0 PDP contexts active | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 SUSPENDED, 1 or more PDP contexts active | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 READY or PMM-CONNECTED, 0 PDP contexts | | | | active | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 READY or PMM-CONNECTED, 1 or more PDP | | | | contexts active | | | | 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 IMSI unknown | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Information requested not supported | | | | 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 Shall not be sent in this version of the protocol. | | | | to If received, shall be treated as \'00001000\'. | | | | 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 18.4.20 PTMSI
The PTMSI consists of 4 octets. It can be coded using a full hexadecimal
representation (see 3GPP TS 23.003).
* * *
            8                  7   6   5   4   3   2   1
octet 1 IEI  
octet 2 length indicator  
octet 3 PTMSI octet 1  
octet 4 PTMSI octet 2  
octet 5 PTMSI octet 3  
octet 6 PTMSI octet 4
* * *
Figure 18.4.20/3GPP TS 29.018: PTMSI IE
### 18.4.21 Reject cause
The purpose of the _Reject Cause_ information element is to indicate the
reason why a request from the mobile station is rejected by the network.
* * *
            8                                                                                                                                                    7   6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length Indicator  
Octet 3 The rest of the information element is coded as the value part of the
reject cause IE defined in 3GPP TS 24.008, not including 3GPP TS 24.008 IEI.
* * *
Figure 18.4.21/3GPP TS 29.018: Reject cause IE
### 18.4.21b Service Area Identification
This information element uniquely identifies one service area.
+---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | The rest of the | | | | | | | | | | information element | | | | | | | | | to | is coded as the the | | | | | | | | | | value part of the | | | | | | | | | Octet 9 | SAI IE defined in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 25.413 (not | | | | | | | | | | including | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 25.413 IEI | | | | | | | | | | and 3GPP TS 25.413 | | | | | | | | | | length indicator). | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Figure 18.4.27/3GPP TS 29.018: Service Area Identification IE
### 18.4.22 SGSN number
The SGSN number is coded as a sequence of TBCD digits (as specified in 3GPP TS
29.002), compressed two into each octet. The Number is in international E.164
format as indicated by Octet 3 which coding is specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This is a variable length information element, and includes a length
indicator. The value part of the SGSN number information element (not
including IEI, Length indicator and Octet 3) shall not exceed 15 digits.
* * *
            8                  7         6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 Octet 4 digit 2 digit 1  
Octet n digit i+1 digit i
* * *
Figure 18.4.22/3GPP TS 29.018: SGSN number IE
### 18.4.23 TMSI
The TMSI consists of 4 octets. It can be coded using a full hexadecimal
representation (see 3GPP TS 23.003).
* * *
            8                  7   6   5   4   3   2   1
octet 1 IEI  
octet 2 length indicator  
octet 3 TMSI octet 1  
octet 4 TMSI octet 2  
octet 5 TMSI octet 3  
octet 6 TMSI octet 4
* * *
Figure 18.4.23/3GPP TS 29.018: TMSI IE
### 18.4.24 TMSI status
The purpose of the TMSI status information element is to indicate to the VLR
whether a valid TMSI is available in the MS.
* * *
            8                  7       6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI
Octet 2 Length indicator
Octet 3 Spare TMSI\  
flag
* * *
Figure 18.4.24/3GPP TS 29.018: TMSI status IE
Table 18.4.24/3GPP TS 29.018: TMSI status IE value part
+------------------------------------------------------------------+ | TMSI flag (octet 3) | | | | Bit | | | | 1 | | | | 0 no valid TMSI available | | | | 1 valid TMSI available | | | | Bits 2-8 in octet 3 are spare and shall be coded all equal to 0. | +------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 18.4.25 Uplink Tunnel Payload Control and Info
This information element is used to convey the payload of octets received from
the mobile to the appropriate non-GSM MSC/VLR.
+---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | Spare | TOM Protocol Discriminator | E | Tunnel Priority | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 4 | Tunnel payload | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Octet n | | | | | | | | | +---------+------------------+----------------------------+---+-----------------+---+---+---+---+
> _TOM Protocol Discriminator:_ Identifies the protocol using tunnelling of
> non-GSM signalling. For coding, see 3GPP TS 44.064.
>
> _E:_ Cipher Request. When set to 1 indicates that the SGSN received the
> payload in ciphered form, when set to 0 indicates that the SGSN did not
> receive the payload in ciphered form.
>
> _Tunnel Priority:_ Indicates the priority of the Tunnel Payload. For coding,
> see Table 20.1: Association between Tunnel Priority and LLC SAPs.
Figure 18.4.25/3GPP TS 29.018:Upnlink Tunnel Payload Control and Info IE
### 18.4.26 VLR number
The VLR number is coded as a sequence of TBCD digits (as specified in 3GPP TS
29.002), compressed two into each octet. The Number is in international E.164
format as indicated by Octet 3 which coding is specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
This is a variable length information element, and includes a length
indicator. The value part of the VLR number information element (not including
IEI, length indicator and Octet 3), shall not exceed 15 digits.
Table 18.4.26/3GPP TS 29.018: VLR number IE
* * *
            8                  7         6   5   4   3   2   1
Octet 1 IEI  
Octet 2 Length indicator  
Octet 3 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 Octet 4 digit 2 digit 1  
Octet n digit i+1 digit i
* * *
### 18.4.27 Global CN-Id
The Global CN-Id consists of a PLMN-Id and a CN-Id, see 3GPP TS 23.003. The
PLMN-Id consists of MCC and MNC coded according to Location Area
Identification in 3GPP TS 24.008. The CN-Id is an integer defined by O&M. The
least significant bit of the CN-Id field is bit 1 of octet 7 and the most
significant bit is bit 8 of octet 6. If the CN-Id does not fill the field
reserved for it, the rest of the bits are set to \'0\'.
Table 18.4.27/3GPP TS 29.018: Global CN-Id IE
+---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 1 | IEI | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 2 | Length indicator | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 3 | PLMN-Id | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Coded as octets 2 | | | | | | | | | | to 4 of the | | | | | | | | | | Location Area | | | | | | | | | | Identification IE, | | | | | | | | | | defined in 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 24.008 (not | | | | | | | | | | including 3GPP TS | | | | | | | | | | 24.008 IEI and | | | | | | | | | | LAC). | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 4 | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 5 | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 6 | CN-Id (INTEGER | | | | | | | | | | 0..4095) | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+ | Octet 7 | | | | | | | | | +---------+---------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
# 19 List of system variables
## 19.1 Timers
This clause lists the management timers specified for the operation of the
BSSAP+ protocol. All the implementation shall support the range of values
specified below. The specific value of the timers shall be under the control
of the operator.
Table 19.1/3GPP TS 29.018: Management Timers
* * *
Timer name Default value Timer range Granularity Notes Relation to other
timers T5 - 2 s to 20 s 100 ms Guards the Paging procedure at the VLR. Value
is correlated to DRX parameter Split PG CYCLE (max possible = 16 s) Default
should be set acc. to max split cycle supported by the SGSN (operator choice)
T6-1 - 10 s to 90 s 1 s Guards the Location Update procedure. It should be
higher than 2 times the maximum transmission time in the Gs interface, plus
the supervision timer of the Update Location procedure [3GPP TS 29.002] T6-2
40 s 5 s to 60 s 1 s Guards the TMSI reallocation procedure. It should be
higher than 2 times the maximum transmission time in the Gs interface, plus 4
times T3350 [3GPP TS 24.008] T7 4 s 1 s to 30 s 1 s Guards the Non-GPRS alert
procedure. None. T8 4 s 1s to 30 s 1 s Guards the Explicit IMSI detach from
GPRS services procedure. None. T9 4 s 1-30 s 1 s Guards the Explicit IMSI
detach from non-GPRS services procedure. None. T10 4 s 1-30 s 1 s Guards the
Implicit IMSI detach from non-GPRS services procedure. None. T11 4 s 1-120 s 1
s Guards the VLR reset procedure. None. T12-1 - 8 - 60x384+8 s 1 min Controls
the resetting of the \'SGSN-Reset\' variable. It should be longer than the
longest Periodic RAU timer running on the SGSN, plus the transmission delay on
the radio interface. T12-2 4 s 1-120 s 1 sec Guards the SGSN reset procedure.
None. T14 - 4-36 s 1 s Guards the MS Information procedure. None NOTE: The
Default value is the recommended value.
* * *
## 19.2 Retry counters
This clause lists the management retry counters specified for the operation of
the BSSAP+ protocol. The values indicated are recommended values.
Table 19.2/3GPP TS 29.018: Management Retry counters
* * *
Retry mnemonic Retry value Notes N7 2 Recommended value N8 2 Recommended value
N9 2 Recommended value N10 2 Recommended value N11 2 Recommended value N12 2
Recommended value
* * *
# 20 Procedures for Tunnelling Non-GSM Signalling
This procedure is used to tunnel non-GSM signalling messages between an MS and
a non-GSM MSC/VLR.
## 20.1 Procedures in the non-GSM MSC/VLR
When the non-GSM MSC/VLR has a message to be tunnelled to an MS, whose Gs
state is not Gs-NULL, it shall send a BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message
to the SGSN associated with the MS. If LLC ciphering is required, the cipher
request field E shall be set to 1. The Tunnel Priority field for the payload
shall be set as required. On receiving a BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message
from an SGSN, the action taken by the non-GSM MSC/VLR is technology dependent.
## 20.2 Procedures in the SGSN
A message received by the SGSN from an MS or sent by the SGSN to an MS on one
of the Tunneling of Messages (TOM) LLC SAPs is called a _TOM Protocol
Envelope_ (see 3GPP TS 44.064). The _TOM Protocol Envelope_ is composed of the
_TOM Protocol Header_ immediately followed by a _Message Capsule_.
Upon receipt of a _TOM Protocol Envelope_ with a _TOM Protocol Header_
indicating the presence of one or more non-GSM signalling messages, the SGSN
shall determine the non-GSM MSC/VLR to which the _Message Capsule_ in the _TOM
Protocol Envelope_ shall be forwarded. The SGSN shall make this determination
based upon the RAI of the MS, the _TOM Protocol Discriminator_ field in the
_TOM Protocol Header_ , and _TOM Protocol Discriminator_ specific information
in the remaining octets (if any) in the _TOM Protocol Header_. The SGSN shall
then forward a BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message to the selected non-GSM
MSC/VLR with the received _Message Capsule_ in the _Tunnel Payload_ field. The
_Protocol Discriminator_ field in the BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message
shall be set based on the _TOM Protocol Discriminator_ in the _TOM Protocol
Envelope_. _Tunnel Priority_ field in the BSSAP+-UPLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message
shall be set based on the LLC SAP on which the _TOM Protocol Envelope_ was
received. The _E_ field shall be set to 1 if the _TOM Protocol Envelope_ was
received by the LLC in ciphered form, otherwise it shall be set to 0.
Upon receipt of a BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message from a non-GSM
MSC/VLR, the SGSN shall construct a _TOM Protocol Envelope_ by mapping the
_Tunnel Payload_ field to the _Message Capsule_ portion of the _TOM Protocol
Envelope_. The _TOM Protocol Header_ shall be constructed based on the
_Protocol Discriminator_ in the BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message. The
SGSN shall then send the _TOM Protocol Envelope_ to the MS on a specific LLC
SAP. That LLC SAP shall be determined by the _Tunnel Priority_ field in the
BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message. LLC ciphering shall be enabled or
disabled based upon the value of the _E_ field in this message. If the SGSN is
unable to send the _TOM Protocol Envelope_ to the indicated MS for any reason,
including the inability to accommodate the ciphering request as indicated in
the BSSAP+-DOWNLINK-TUNNEL-REQUEST message, then it shall send a
BSSAP+-MOBILE-STATUS message to the non-GSM MSC/VLR with an appropriate _Gs
Cause_ code.
The association between the LLC SAPs and the _Tunnel Priority_ shall be as in
the following table, where 00 is top-most priority and 11 is lowest priority.
Table 20.1: Association between Tunnel Priority and LLC SAPs
* * *
Tunnel Priority LLC SAP 00 TOM2 01 Not defined 10 TOM8 11 Not defined
* * *
#