# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 15 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API),
as identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured
in the following Parts:
Part 1: \"Overview\";
Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";
Part 3: \"Framework\";
Part 4: \"Call Control\";
Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";
Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\";
Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\"; **(new in Release 8**)
**Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";**
Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
**Part 15: \"Multi-Media Messaging SCF\";**
**Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\".**
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | M | Conf | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Co | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-10_ | ivity | 8-10 _| pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able_ | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__2 |__M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 9.198 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | -15**| media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF** | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 15 of the Stage 3 specification for an
Application Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Multi Media Messaging Service Capability
Feature (SCF) aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Multi Media
Messaging SCF are defined here, these being:
  * Sequence Diagrams.
  * Class Diagrams.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * State Transition diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * IDL Description of the interfaces.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-01: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.198-02: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 2: Common data\".
[5] IETF RFC 2045: \"**Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One:
Format of Internet Message Bodies** \".
[6] IETF RFC 822: \"Standard for the format of ARPA Internet text messages\".
[7] IETF RFC 2183: \"**Communicating Presentation Information in Internet
Messages: The Content-Disposition Header Field** \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.198-01 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.198-01 [1] apply.
# 4 Multi Media Messaging SCF
The following clauses describe each aspect of the Multi Media Messaging
Service Capability Feature (SCF).
The order is as follows:
  * The Sequence diagrams give the reader a practical idea of how each of the SCF is implemented.
  * The Class relationships clause shows how each of the interfaces applicable to the SCF, relate to one another.
  * The Interface specification clause describes in detail each of the interfaces shown within the Class diagram part.
  * The State Transition Diagrams (STD) show the transition between states in the SCF. The states and transitions are well-defined; either methods specified in the Interface specification or events occurring in the underlying networks cause state transitions.
  * The Data Definitions clause shows a detailed expansion of each of the data types associated with the methods within the classes. Note that some data types are used in other methods and classes and are therefore defined within the Common Data types part TS 29.198-2.
An implementation of this API which supports or implements a method described
in the present document, shall support or implement the functionality
described for that method, for at least one valid set of values for the
parameters of that method. Where a method is not supported by an
implementation of a Service interface, the exception P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED
shall be returned to any call of that method.
# 5 Sequence Diagrams
## 5.1 Sending messages and receiving delivery notification
This sequence diagram shows how the application can send messages on the
IpMultiMediaMessaging interface with sendMessageReq(), and how the application
can be informed about the delivery status of the message with
messageStatusReport(). It also shows how the application can query the
delivery status of a message, with queryStatusReq().
{width="6.191666666666666in" height="7.722222222222222in"}
3: Request the opening of a MultiMedia Messaging object. The application
intends to use this object to send messages to multiple destinations, so it
has not specified any defaultDestinationAddressList.
4: The application sends a message. The destination address is included in the
destinationAddressList parameter. If the source address was not provided when
the IpMultiMediaMessaging object was created, it can be provided in the
sourceAddress parameter. The application has requested delivery receipt and
read receipt in the messageTreatment parameter. The assignmentID received as a
return parameter enables the application to match any message status
information with this message.
5: This method indicates successful processing of the sendMessageReq by the
SCF, and that the message has been sent. It does not indicate a delivery
status.
6: This method contains a delivery receipt for the message just sent.
7: This method contains a read receipt for the message just sent.
8: The application queries the status of the message it has sent (to verify
the read receipt? or it has discarded the read receipt?).
9: The status of the message is returned.
10: The application sends another message, this time to a different
destination. It has requested a read receipt to be returned.
11: This method indicates successful processing of the sendMessageReq by the
SCF, and that the message has been sent. It does not indicate a delivery
status.
12: The application sends another message, to a different destination. It has
requested a read receipt to be returned.
14: This method contains an indication that the previous message has been
read.
15: This method contains an indication that the second message has been read.
The assignmentID is used to match this report to the corresponding
sendMessageReq().
## 5.2 Sending, and receiving messages in same context
This sequence diagram shows how the application can send and receive messages
within the same communication context using sendMessageReq() on the
IpMultiMediaMessaging interface and messageReceived() on the
IpAppMultiMediaMessaging interface.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="5.031944444444444in"}
3: Request the opening of a MultiMedia Messaging object. The application
intends to use this object to send messages to the same destination, so it has
specified the defaultdestinationAddressList. The defaultSourceAddress is also
specified.
4: The application sends a message. The application has not included a
destination address in the destinationAddressList parameter, as a default
value has already been supplied in the openMultiMediaMessaging() method.
Likewise the default source address was provided when the
IpMultiMediaMessaging object was created, so there is no need to provide the
sourceAddress parameter. The application has not requested delivery receipt or
read receipt in the messageTreatment parameter.
5: This method indicates successful processing of the sendMessageReq by the
SCF, and that the message has been sent. It does not indicate a delivery
status.
6: The application sends another message to the same destination, again using
default values for the destination and source addresses.
7: This method indicates successful processing of the sendMessageReq by the
SCF, and that the message has been sent. It does not indicate a delivery
status.
8: A new message is received in this communication context. The full message
contents are carried in this method. It is not specified how the SCF
identifies that this message is to be delivered in this communication context.
The SCF could use source or destination addresses, content type, time or
subject, among other parameters, to identify the context.
10: The application closes the session, i.e. closes the communication context.
## 5.3 Setting notification of received messages
This sequence diagram shows how the application can subscribe to
notifications, and how it can receive messages using reportNotifications()
method.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="4.491666666666666in"}
3: The application requests the opening of a MultiMedia Messaging object.
4: The application requests to be notified of any messages received for a
particular destination address, using the P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MESSAGE_ARRIVED
criteria. The application may request that a MultiMedia Messaging session is
created upon receipt of a message.
5: A message is received for the destination address identified in the
createNotification() method. In this type of event
(P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MESSAGE_ARRIVED), the entire message contents are delivered
in the reportNotification() method.
7: The application is no longer interested in receiving notifications of
received messages. It de-subscribes from notification of received messages.
## 5.4 Using Mailbox functions
This sequence diagram shows how an application can retrieve message details
from the mailbox.
{width="4.855555555555555in" height="9.052777777777777in"}
3: The application requests to open the mailbox identified by the mailboxID
parameter.
4: The application requests the properties of the Mailbox.
5: The property set of the mailbox is returned. The properties include the
owner, date created, date changed and size of the mailbox.
7: The application requests a list of the top-level folders in the mailbox.
The folderID parameter is left empty.
8: The list of top-level folders is returned to the application.
10: The application requests a list of the sub-folders in a folder returned
earlier. The folderID parameter identifies the folder for which the list of
sub-folders is requested.
11: The list of sub-folders is returned to the application.
13: The application requests a list of messages in a folder returned earlier.
The folderID parameter identifies the folder for which the list of messages is
requested.
14: The list of messages in the folder is returned.
16: The application requests the property set of a message returned earlier.
The message is identified by its messageID, returned in the listMessagesRes().
17: The message properties are returned. These properties may include the date
created, date received, date changed, size or status.
19: The application requests a list of the body parts of the message
identified in the messageID parameter. The location of the message is
identified in the folderID parameter.
20: The list of the message parts is returned.
22: The application requests the set of headers of the message, identified by
the messageID parameter. The location of the message is identified in the
folderID parameter.
23: The list of headers is returned to the application.
25: The application retrieves one or more parts of the message, as identified
in the partIDs parameter.
26: The contents of the requested messge parts are returned.
28: The application closes the mailbox session.
## 5.5 Using Mailbox to send and receive
This sequence diagram shows how an application can use a mailbox to send and
receive messages, if this functionality is supported by the SCF.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="7.789583333333334in"}
3: The application requests to open the mailbox identified by the mailboxID
parameter.
4: The application requests to be notified of any messages received in the
specified mailbox, using the P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MAILBOX_MESSAGE_ARRIVED criteria.
5: The application places a message in a folder in the mailbox. The message
contents are specified in the message parameter, and the folder in which to
place it is specified in the folderID. The application chooses to place the
message in the folder identified in the service property
P_PUT_MESSAGE_FOLDER_TO_SEND. Any message placed in this folder is
automatically sent. Typically it could be an Outbox folder.
6: This method indicates that the message has been successfully placed in the
specified folder, and a messageID is returned. This does not necessarily
indicate that the message has been sent, nor does it indicate that it has been
delivered or received.
8: The application is notified that a message has been received in the
mailbox. In this type of event (P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MAILBOX_MESSAGE_ARRIVED), the
messageID, location of the message and message description are delivered in
the reportNotification() method, but the message contents are not. These need
to be retrieved from the mailbox.
10: Using the messageID and folderID received in the reportNotification()
method, the application requests to retrieve the full contents of the received
message from the mailbox. The application could have chosen to retrieve
individual parts of the message using getMessageBodyPartsReq(), or to retrieve
just the headers using getMessageHeadersReq().
11: The full contents of the message are returned to the application.
13: The application closes the mailbox session.
## 5.6 Setting notification of received messages
This sequence diagram shows how the application can request delivery status
reports by subscribing to notifications.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="5.0159722222222225in"}
3: The application requests the opening of a MultiMedia Messaging object.
4: The application requests to be notified of any delivery status reports
received for a particular message, using the P_EVENT_MSG_STATUS_REPORT_ARRIVED
criteria. The application may request that a MultiMedia Messaging session is
created upon receipt of a message.
5: The application sends a message.
6: This method indicates successful processing of the sendMessageWithNotifyReq
by the SCF, and that the message has been sent. The MessageID, which uniquely
identifies the message, is returned. It does not indicate a delivery status.
7: A delivery status report received for the message identified by the Message
ID returned by sendMessageWithNotifyRes().The delivery status report is
delivered in the reportNotification() method.
# 6 Class Diagrams
{width="5.1506944444444445in" height="8.995833333333334in"}
Figure: Messaging Interfaces Overview
# 7 The Service Interface Specifications
## 7.1 Interface Specification Format
This clause defines the interfaces, methods and parameters that form a part of
the API specification. The Unified Modelling Language (UML) is used to specify
the interface classes. The general format of an interface specification is
described below.
### 7.1.1 Interface Class
This shows a UML interface class description of the methods supported by that
interface, and the relevant parameters and types. The Service and Framework
interfaces for enterprise-based client applications are denoted by classes
with name Ip\. The callback interfaces to the applications are denoted
by classes with name IpApp\. For the interfaces between a Service and
the Framework, the Service interfaces are typically denoted by classes with
name IpSvc\, while the Framework interfaces are denoted by classes with
name IpFw\.
### 7.1.2 Method descriptions
Each method (API method "call") is described. Both synchronous and
asynchronous methods are used in the API. Asynchronous methods are identified
by a \'Req\' suffix for a method request, and, if applicable, are served by
asynchronous methods identified by either a \'Res\' or \'Err\' suffix for
method results and errors, respectively. To handle responses and reports, the
application or service developer must implement the relevant IpApp\ or
IpSvc\ interfaces to provide the callback mechanism.
### 7.1.3 Parameter descriptions
Each method parameter and its possible values are described. Parameters
described as \'in\' represent those that must have a value when the method is
called. Those described as \'out\' are those that contain the return result of
the method when the method returns.
### 7.1.4 State Model
If relevant, a state model is shown to illustrate the states of the objects
that implement the described interface.
## 7.2 Base Interface
### 7.2.1 Interface Class IpInterface
All application, framework and service interfaces inherit from the following
interface. This API Base Interface does not provide any additional methods.
+-------------------+ | \> | | | | IpInterface | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+
## 7.3 Service Interfaces
### 7.3.1 Overview
The Service Interfaces provide the interfaces into the capabilities of the
underlying network - such as call control, user interaction, messaging,
mobility and connectivity management.
The interfaces that are implemented by the services are denoted as \'Service
Interface\'. The corresponding interfaces that must be implemented by the
application (e.g. for API callbacks) are denoted as \'Application Interface\'.
## 7.4 Generic Service Interface
### 7.4.1 Interface Class IpService
Inherits from: IpInterface.
All service interfaces inherit from the following interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpService | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | setCallback (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef) : void | | | | setCallbackWithSessionID (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef, | | sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.1 Method setCallback()
This method specifies the reference address of the callback interface that a
service uses to invoke methods on the application. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that uses SessionIDs. Multiple invocations of this
method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references being
specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided by
the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 7.4.1.2 Method setCallbackWithSessionID()
This method specifies the reference address of the application\'s callback
interface that a service uses for interactions associated with a specific
session ID: e.g. a specific call, or call leg. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that does not use SessionIDs. Multiple invocations
of this method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references
being specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided
by the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session for which the service can invoke the application\'s
callback interface.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
# 8 Multi Media Messaging Interface Classes
The MultiMedia Messaging SCF (MMM SCF) is used by applications to send, store
and receive messages either from within the context of a mailbox paradigm, or
outside of it. MMM SCF also supports voice mail and electronic mail as the
messaging mechanisms. The messaging service interface can be used by both.
The MMM SCF is represented by the IpMultiMediaMessagingManager, IpMailbox and
IpMultiMediaMessaging interfaces to services provided by the network. To
handle responses and reports, the developer must implement
IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager to provide the callback mechanism for the
MultiMediaMessaging service manager.
The MMM SCF also supports messaging in the context of Instant Messaging (IM),
SMS, MMS, GSM USSD etc., These contexts, IM in particular, may support
communication in either the page mode or the session mode. The reader is
encouraged to refer to \"The Message Session Relay Protocol\" work [] being
done in the IETF for more details.
A messaging system that is conformant with the mailbox paradigm is assumed to
have the following entities:
· Mailboxes. This is the application\'s main entry point to the messaging
system. The framework may or may not need to authenticate an application
before it accesses a mailbox
· Folders. Folders may have sub-folders. The names of these sub-folders are
appended to their parents\' names with \'/\' as the delimiter. For instance,
if there is a folder called INBOX and a sub-folder in INBOX called
\'Personal\' and a sub-folder in that folder called \'archive\' then the fully
qualified names, which are required for all operations, of the three folders
are \'INBOX\', \'INBOX/Personal\', and \'INBOX/Personal/archive\'. The names
are case sensitive.
· Messages. Messages are stored in folders. Messages consist of a message
header and message body.
Non-mailbox paradigm messaging is supported through the
IpMultiMediaMessagingManager and IpMultiMediaMessaging interfaces.
## 8.1 Interface Class IpMultiMediaMessagingManager
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface is the \'service manager\' interface for the MultiMedia
Messaging Service. The service manager interface provides the management
functions to the MultiMedia Messaging service. The application programmer can
use this interface to open mailbox objects, MultiMedia Messaging objects, and
also to enable or disable event notifications on them.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMultiMediaMessagingManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | openMailbox (mailboxID : in TpString, authenticationInfo : in | | TpString, appMailbox : in IpAppMailboxRef) : TpMailboxIdentifier | | | | openMultiMediaMessaging (defaultDestinationAddressList : in | | TpTerminatingAddressList, defaultSourceAddress : in TpAddress, | | appMultiMediaMessaging : in IpAppMultiMediaMessagingRef) : | | TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier | | | | createNotification (appMultiMediaMessagingManager : in | | IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManagerRef, eventCriteria : in | | TpMessagingEventCriteriaSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | destroyNotification (assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | changeNotification (assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID, eventCriteria | | : in TpMessagingEventCriteriaSet) : void | | | | getNextNotification (reset : in TpBoolean) : | | TpMessagingNotificationRequestedSetEntry | | | | enableNotifications (appMultiMediaMessagingManager : in | | IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManagerRef) : TpAssignmentID | | | | disableNotifications () : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.1.1 Method openMailbox()
This method opens a mailbox for the application. The session ID and reference
to the IpMailbox interface for use by the application is returned.
Authentication information may be needed to open the mailbox.
The application can open more than one mailbox at the same time. The
application is not allowed to open the same mailbox more than once at the same
time.
Returns: mailboxIndentifier.
Specifies the reference to the opened mailbox and the session ID.
Parameters
mailboxID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the mailbox. If the mailbox chosen is invalid, the
P_MMM_INVALID_MAILBOX exception is thrown.
authenticationInfo : in TpString
Authentication information needed for the application to open a mailbox in the
messaging system, such as a key or password. This is distinct from the
authentication performed by the Framework. If the Framework authentication
process is considered strong enough for the application to gain access to the
mailbox, then this parameter will be an empty string. If the authentication
information is not valid, the error code
P_MMM_INVALID_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION is returned.
appMailbox : in IpAppMailboxRef
Specifies the client callback interface to be used with this mailbox session.
P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE is thrown if the reference is not an IpAppMailbox.
Returns
TpMailboxIdentifier
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_MMM_INVALID_MAILBOX,
P_MMM_INVALID_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
### 8.1.2 Method openMultiMediaMessaging()
This method is used to open a MultiMedia Messaging object that can be used for
single-shot (page mode), or session mode messaging (e.g. instant-messaging).
The defaultDestinationAddressList is used to identify the default set of users
that a message is to be sent to when using this interface. This default set is
overridden by the information supplied in the sendMessageReq() method. If no
destinationAddressList is present in the sendMessageReq(), then the default
list supplied here applies. If no address is provided in the
defaultDestinationAddressList, then the instance can be re-used for multiple
invocations of sendMessageReq() to different destination addresses, with the
destination address specified each time in the sendMessageReq() method.
The defaultSourceAddress is used to identify the default address to be used as
the source of any message sent when using this interface. This default address
is overridden by the information supplied in the sendMessageReq() method. If
no sourceAddress is present in the sendMessageReq(), then the default address
supplied here applies. If no address is provided in the defaultSourceAddress
here, then the instance can be re-used for multiple invocations of
sendMessageReq(), with a sourceAddress specified each time in the
sendMessageReq() method.
Returns: multimediaMessagingIdentifier
Specifies the reference to the opened MultiMediaMessaging object and session
ID.
Parameters
defaultDestinationAddressList : in TpTerminatingAddressList
Used to identify the default set of users that a message is to be sent to when
using this interface. This default set is overridden by the information
supplied in the sendMessageReq() method. If no destinationAddressList is
present in the sendMessageReq(), then the default list supplied here applies.
If no address is provided in the defaultDestinationAddressList, then the
instance can be re-used for multiple invocations of sendMessageReq() to
different destination addresses, with the destination address specified each
time in the sendMessageReq() method.
defaultSourceAddress : in TpAddress
Used to identify the default address to be used as the source of any message
sent when using this interface. This default address is overridden by the
information supplied in the sendMessageReq() method. If no sourceAddress is
present in the sendMessageReq(), then the default address supplied here
applies. If no address is provided in the defaultSourceAddress here, then the
instance can be re-used for multiple invocations of sendMessageReq(), with a
sourceAddress specified each time in the sendMessageReq() method.
appMultiMediaMessaging : in IpAppMultiMediaMessagingRef
If this parameter is set (i.e. not NULL) it specifies a reference to the
MultiMedia Messaging application interface, which is used for callbacks. If
set to NULL, the application interface defaults to the interface specified via
the setCallback() method. P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE is thrown if the reference
is not an IpAppMultiMediaMessaging interface.
Returns
TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE, P_INVALID_ADDRESS
### 8.1.3 Method createNotification()
This method enables the application to indicate that it wishes to receive
notifications of messaging related events (e.g. receipt of an incoming
message).
If the same application invokes this method multiple times with exactly the
same criteria but with different callback references, then these shall be
treated as additional callback references. Each such notification request
shall share the same assignmentID. The gateway shall use the most recent
callback interface provided by the application using this method. Therefore in
the event that a callback reference fails or is no longer available, the next
most recent callback reference available shall be used.
In case the createNotification contains no callback, at the moment the
application needs to be informed the gateway will use as callback the callback
that has been registered by setCallback().
Returns: assignmentID.
Specifies the ID assigned by the multimedia messaging manager interface for
this newly-enabled event notification.
Parameters
appMultiMediaMessagingManager : in IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManagerRef
If this parameter is set (i.e. not NULL) it specifies a reference to the
application interface, which is used for callbacks. If set to NULL, the
application interface defaults to the interface specified via the
setCallback() method. P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE is thrown if the reference is
not an IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager.
eventCriteria : in TpMessagingEventCriteriaSet
Specifies the event specific criteria used by the application to define the
event required. This parameter can be used to request the notification of the
delivery status reports when used with sendMessageWithNotifyReq(). In this
case, the list of destination addresses must not contain duplicate addresses.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_CRITERIA, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
### 8.1.4 Method destroyNotification()
This method is used by the application to destroy or delete a notification
previously set using createNotification. The notification tied to the
assignment ID is deleted by this operation.
Parameters
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID given by the generic communications manager
interface when the previous createNotification() was called. If the assignment
ID does not correspond to one of the valid assignment IDs, the service manager
will return the error code P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
### 8.1.5 Method changeNotification()
This method is used by the application to modify or change a notification
previously set using createNotification. The assignment ID tied to the
original notification is not changed by this operation.
Parameters
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment ID given by the multimedia messaging manager
interface when the previous createNotification() was called. If the assignment
ID does not correspond to one of the valid assignment IDs, the service manager
will return the error code P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID.
eventCriteria : in TpMessagingEventCriteriaSet
Specifies the event specific criteria used by the application to define the
event required.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID, P_INVALID_CRITERIA
### 8.1.6 Method getNextNotification()
This method is used by the application to query the event criteria set with
createNotification or changeNotification. Since a lot of data can potentially
be returned (which might cause problem in the middleware), this method must be
used in an iterative way. Each method invocation may return part of the total
set of notifications if the set is too large to return it at once. The reset
parameter permits the application to indicate whether an invocation to
getNextNotification is requesting more notifications from the total set of
notifications or is requesting that the total set of notifications shall be
returned from the beginning.
Returns messagingNotificationRequestedSetEntry: The set of notifications and
an indication whether all off the notifications have been obtained or if more
notifications are available that have not yet been obtained by the
application. If no notifications exist, an empty set is returned and the final
indication shall be set to TRUE.
Note that the (maximum) number of items provided to the application is
determined by the gateway.
Parameters
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: indicates that the application intends to obtain the set of
notifications starting at the beginning.
FALSE: indicates that the application requests the next set of notifications
that have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication in TpNotificationRequestedSetEntry, for the
next call to this method reset shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be
thrown if these conditions are not met.
Returns
TpMessagingNotificationRequestedSetEntry
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 8.1.7 Method enableNotifications()
This method is used to indicate that the application is able to receive
notifications which are provisioned from within the network (i.e. these
notifications are NOT set using createNotification() but via, for instance, a
network management system). If notifications provisioned for this application
are created or changed, the application is unaware of this until the
notification is reported.
If the same application invokes this method multiple times with different
IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager references, then these shall be treated as
additional callback references. Each such notification request shall share the
same assignmentID. The gateway shall use the most recent callback interface
provided by the application using this method. Therefore in the event that a
callback reference fails or is no longer available, the next most recent
callback reference available shall be used.
When this method is used, it is still possible to use createNotification() for
service provider provisioned notifications on the same interface as long as
the criteria in the network and provided by createNotification() do not
overlap. However, it is NOT recommended to use both mechanisms on the same
service manager.
The methods changeNotification(), getNotification(), and destroyNotification()
do not apply to notifications provisioned in the network and enabled using
enableNotifications(). These only apply to notifications created using
createNotification().
Returns: assignmentID.
Specifies the ID assigned by the manager interface for this operation. This ID
is contained in any reportNotification() that relates to notifications
provisioned from within the network.
Parameters
appMultiMediaMessagingManager : in IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManagerRef
If this parameter is set (i.e. not NULL) it specifies a reference to the
application interface, which is used for callbacks. If set to NULL, the
application interface defaults to the interface specified via the
setCallback() method. P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE is thrown if the reference is
not an IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
### 8.1.8 Method disableNotifications()
This method is used to indicate that the application is not able to receive
notifications for which the provisioning has been done from within the
network. (i.e. these notifications that are NOT set using createNotification()
but via, for instance, a network management system). After this method is
called, no such notifications are reported anymore.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
## 8.2 Interface Class IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager
Inherits from: IpInterface.
The client application developer implements the multimedia messaging manager
application interface to handle mailbox termination, mailbox fault and
messaging notifications.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | mailboxTerminated (mailboxIdentifier : in TpMailboxIdentifier) : | | void | | | | reportNotification (assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID, eventInfo : in | | TpMessagingEventInfoSet) : IpAppMultiMediaMessagingRef | | | | notificationsInterrupted () : void | | | | notificationsResumed () : void | | | | multiMediaMessagingTerminated (multimediaMessagingIdentifier : in | | TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier) : void | | | | terminateMultipleMailboxes (mailboxSet : in TpMailboxIdentifierSet) | | : void | | | | terminateMultipleMultiMediaMessagingSessions (multiMediaMessagingSet | | : in TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifierSet) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.2.1 Method mailboxTerminated()
This method indicates to the application that the mailbox has terminated or
closed abnormally. No further communication will be possible between the
mailbox and application.
Parameters
mailboxIdentifier : in TpMailboxIdentifier
Specifies the interface and session ID of the mailbox that has terminated.
### 8.2.2 Method reportNotification()
This method notifies the application of the arrival of messaging-related
events.
Returns appMultiMediaMessaging: Specifies a reference to an
IpAppMultiMediaMessaging interface, if the application has requested the
creation of an IpMultiMediaMessaging session upon receipt of a new message
arrived event outside the context of a mailbox, and the event reported is
P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MESSAGE_ARRIVED. In all other cases this parameter will be
null.
Parameters
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
Specifies the assignment id which was returned by the createNotification() or
enableNotifications() method. The application can use assignment id to
associate events with event specific criteria and to act accordingly.
eventInfo : in TpMessagingEventInfoSet
Specifies data associated with the events.
Returns
IpAppMultiMediaMessagingRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 8.2.3 Method notificationsInterrupted()
This method indicates to the application that all event notifications have
been temporarily interrupted (for example, due to faults detected in
communication with underlying messaging system).
Note that more permanent failures are reported via the Framework (integrity
management).
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method
### 8.2.4 Method notificationsResumed()
This method indicates to the application that event notifications will again
be possible.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method
### 8.2.5 Method multiMediaMessagingTerminated()
This method indicates to the application that a MultiMediamessaging session
has terminated or closed abnormally. No further communication will be possible
between the session and application.
Parameters
multimediaMessagingIdentifier : in TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier
Specifies the interface and session ID of the MultiMediaMessaging session that
has terminated.
### 8.2.6 Method terminateMultipleMailboxes()
The service may invoke this method on the IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager
interface to indicate that a number of mailboxes have terminated or closed
abnormally. No further communication will be possible between the application
and the mailbox. This may be used for example in the event of service failure
and recovery in order to instruct the application that a number of mailboxes
have failed. The service shall provide a set of TpMailboxIdentifiers,
indicating to the application the interface references and sessionsIDs of the
mailboxes that have aborted. In the case that the service invokes this method
and provides an empty set of TpMailboxIdentifiers, this shall be used to
indicate that all mailboxes previously active on the
IpMultiMediaMessagingManager interface have been aborted.
Parameters
mailboxSet : in TpMailboxIdentifierSet
Specifies the set of interfaces and sessionIDs of the mailboxes that have
aborted or terminated abnormally. The empty set shall be used to indicate that
all mailboxes have aborted.
### 8.2.7 Method terminateMultipleMultiMediaMessagingSessions()
The service may invoke this method on the IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager
interface to indicate that a number of ongoing multi media messaging sessions
have aborted or terminated abnormally. No further communication will be
possible between the application and the multi media messaging sessions. This
may be used for example in the event of service failure and recovery in order
to instruct the application that a number of sessions have failed. The service
shall provide a set of TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifiers, indicating to the
application the interface references and sessionsIDs of the multi media
messaging sessions that have aborted. In the case that the service invokes
this method and provides an empty set of TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifiers,
this shall be used to indicate that all multi media messaging sessions
previously active on the IpMultiMediaMessaginManager interface have been
aborted.
Parameters
multiMediaMessagingSet : in TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifierSet
Specifies the set of interfaces and sessionIDs of the multi media messaging
sessions that have aborted or terminated abnormally. The empty set shall be
used to indicate that all multi media messaging sessions have aborted.
## 8.3 Interface Class IpMailbox
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface supports methods which enable the application to access and
manipulate the contents of the mailbox. In order to send messages from the
mailbox, the putMessageReq() method is used to put messages in a specified
folder, which will automatically result in their being sent.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMailbox | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | close (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | getMessageInfoPropertiesReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | messageID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | setMessageInfoPropertiesReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | messageID : in TpString, properties : in TpMessageInfoPropertySet) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | createFolderReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : in | | TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | getFoldersReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : in | | TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | deleteFolderReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : in | | TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | copyFolderReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, sourceFolderID : | | in TpString, destinationFolderID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | moveFolderReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, sourceFolderID : | | in TpString, destinationFolderID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | putMessageReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : in | | TpString, message : in TpOctetSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | copyMessageReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, fromFolderID : in | | TpString, toFolderID : in TpString, messageID : in TpString) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | moveMessageReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, fromFolderID : in | | TpString, toFolderID : in TpString, messageID : in TpString) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | deleteMessageReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, fromFolderID : | | in TpString, messageID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | listMessagesReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : in | | TpString, criteria : in TpListMessagesCriteria, reset : in | | TpBoolean) : TpAssignmentID | | | | listMessageBodyPartsReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID | | : in TpString, messageID : in TpString, maxNestingLevel : in | | TpInt32) : TpAssignmentID | | | | getMessageBodyPartsReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID | | : in TpString, messageID : in TpString, partIDs : in TpStringList) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | getMessageHeadersReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : | | in TpString, messageID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | getMessageContentReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : | | in TpString, messageID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | getFullMessageReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, folderID : in | | TpString, messageID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | | | | getMailboxInfoPropertiesReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID) : | | TpAssignmentID | | | | getFolderInfoPropertiesReq (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | folderID : in TpString) : TpAssignmentID | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.3.1 Method close()
This method closes the mailbox. After closing, the interfaces to the mailbox
and any associated folders are automatically de-assigned and are no longer
valid.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
The session ID of the open mailbox previously opened by openMailbox. From now
on, the session ID is no longer valid. If by coincidence an identical session
ID is returned by a subsequent openMailbox, the session ID will be associated
with the new session and has nothing to do with the closed session. If the
session ID is not a valid session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is
returned.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 8.3.2 Method getMessageInfoPropertiesReq()
This asynchronous method requests the values of properties of a message. The
response is provided in getMessageInfoPropertiesRes().
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the message for which the properties are to be retrieved.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.3 Method setMessageInfoPropertiesReq()
This asynchronous method requests to set the properties of a message. In cases
where more than one property was requested to be set, and where not all
properties were successfully set, a setMessageInfoPropertiesRes() will be
returned indicating those properties successfully set, and a
setMessageInfoPropertiesErr() method will be returned as well, indicating
those properties which were not set.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the message for which the properties are to be set.
properties : in TpMessageInfoPropertySet
The message properties (names and values) to be set.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_PROPERTY
### 8.3.4 Method createFolderReq()
This method creates a new folder in the mailbox opened by that Mailbox
Session. The name of the new folder may be passed in. If the operation fails,
a createFolderErr() is invoked by the SCF on the IpAppMailbox interface.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
This is the proposed fully qualified name of the new folder to be created.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID
### 8.3.5 Method getFoldersReq()
This method requests a list of the (sub)folder names in the mailbox or a
folder. The list is provided as a string list, returned in getFoldersRes().
Only the names of the 1st (top) level of folders is returned.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
This contains the fully qualified name of the folder for which the names of
the top level of sub-folders are to be returned. If an emptystring is
provided, the getFoldersReq requests the names of the top level of folders in
the Mailbox.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID
### 8.3.6 Method deleteFolderReq()
This method requests to remove a folder from the currently open mailbox
session. The operation is carried out even for non-empty folders (i.e. folders
with subtended folders or email messages within them).
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
This contains the fully qualified name of the folder to be deleted.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID
### 8.3.7 Method copyFolderReq()
This method copies a folder from a mailbox session context, including all its
contents into a new folder with the provided name but in the same mailbox
context.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
sourceFolderID : in TpString
The fully qualified name of the folder to be copied.
destinationFolderID : in TpString
The fully qualified name of the folder to be created, which will contain a
copy of the source folder.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID
### 8.3.8 Method moveFolderReq()
This method moves a folder from a mailbox session context, including all its
contents into a new folder with the provided name but in the same mailbox
context.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
sourceFolderID : in TpString
The fully qualified name of the folder to be moved.
destinationFolderID : in TpString
The fully qualified name of the folder to be created, which will contain a
copy of the source folder.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID
### 8.3.9 Method putMessageReq()
This method requests to put a message into an open mailbox folder. The message
and the headers are transferred to the Messaging service. The message will be
taken as is. No checking is done on the message. Furthermore, the message is
assumed to be a simple message, that is, with no attachments. If the
application knows the messaging system and understands the format to send
attachments, it can do so. The service will not flag any inconsistencies if
the formatting of the message is not correct.
In order to send messages from the mailbox, the application can use
putMessageReq to place messages in a specified folder, from which they will be
sent. The folder to use is indicated by the service property
P_PUT_MESSAGE_FOLDER_TO_SEND.
The messageID associated with the message is returned in putMessageRes().
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
This is the fully qualified name of the folder in which the message should be
placed.
message : in TpOctetSet
The message to put into the mailbox.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_MAX_MESSAGE_SIZE_EXCEEDED
### 8.3.10 Method copyMessageReq()
This method requests to copy a message with the specified ID from its current
folder into the folder specified by the toFolderID. The message will be copied
as is. This effects a deep copy, not just a cloning of pointers to the
message.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
fromFolderID : in TpString
This specifies the name of the folder from which the message is to be copied.
toFolderID : in TpString
This specifies the name of the folder into which the message is to be copied.
messageID : in TpString
The ID of the message to be copied into the specified folder.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.11 Method moveMessageReq()
This method requests to move a message with the specified ID from its current
position into the folder specified by the toFolderID. The message will be
moved as is.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
fromFolderID : in TpString
This specifies the name of the folder from which the message is to be moved.
toFolderID : in TpString
This specifies the name of the folder into which the message is to be moved.
messageID : in TpString
The ID of the message to be moved into the specified folder.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.12 Method deleteMessageReq()
This method requests to delete the message with the specified ID from its
current position in the folder. If the messaging system supports a file or
folder structure with a \"Trash\" folder, the message may be put into that
folder. In other systems, the message may be permanently deleted. If this
method is invoked on a message in the trash folder, it is permanently deleted.
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
fromFolderID : in TpString
This specifies the name of the folder from which the message is to be deleted.
messageID : in TpString
The ID of the message to be deleted.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.13 Method listMessagesReq()
Request a list of messages in a mailbox folder, the list can be narrowed down
by providing listing criteria. The maximum size of the list returned for a
request is depending on the System configuration. In that case subsequent
requests can be used to obtain the complete list, see also the description of
the reset parameter.
Returns requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the folder for which a list of messages is
requested. The folderID parameter is only relevant if the reset parameter is
set to TRUE. If the reset parameter is set to FALSE it is ignored.
criteria : in TpListMessagesCriteria
Specifies the criteria that items to be listed need to conform to. The
criteria parameter is only relevant if the reset parameter is set to TRUE. If
the reset parameter is FALSE it is ignored.
reset : in TpBoolean
TRUE: Indicates that the application is intended to obtain the list of
messages starting from the beginning.
FALSE: Indicates that the application requests the next part of the list that
have not (yet) been obtained since the last call to this method with this
parameter set to TRUE.
The first time this method is invoked, reset shall be set to TRUE. Following
the receipt of a final indication in the ListMessagesRes(), for the next call
to this method reset shall be set to TRUE. P_TASK_REFUSED may be thrown if
these conditions are not met.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_INVALID_CRITERIA
### 8.3.14 Method listMessageBodyPartsReq()
Request a list of body parts that are contained in a message. This is
especially useful with MIME multipart messages. The Application shall indicate
up to what nesting level it wants the structure presented. When an Application
wants to download only a specific attachment with the GetBodyPartReq() method
this method needs to invoked first in order to find out the partID of the
attachment to be retrieved.
Returns requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the folder in which the targeted message is
contained.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the exact message on which to perform this operation.
maxNestingLevel : in TpInt32
Parts of a multipart message can be multipart structures themselves. The
Application can indicate what is the maximum nesting level it wants the
structure to be reported. A nesting level of 0 means that only the message
content itself will be reported. A nesting level of 1 means that the parts of
a multipart type on level 0 will be reported as well. In general a
maxNestingLevel of nl=n means that the parts of a multipart type on level nl-1
will be reported, for every nl in the range 0..n.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.15 Method getMessageBodyPartsReq()
Request for retrieval of one or more parts of a multipart message. The
targeted message is identified by its messageID and the folderID to know where
in the mailbox the message is stored. The messageID is typically obtained
either by having received a notification of new message arrival or from the
result of a list-message request. The partIDs that identify which parts of the
message shall be retrieved is obtained by listing the messages body parts
first.
Returns requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the folder in which the targeted message is
contained.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the exact message on which to perform this operation.
partIDs : in TpStringList
Identifies the parts of the message to retrieve. If an emptystring is
provided, all parts are to be retrieved.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_PART_ID
### 8.3.16 Method getMessageHeadersReq()
Request the headers of a message. The targeted message is identified by its
messageID and the folderID to know where in the mailbox the message is stored.
The messageID is typically obtained either by having received a notification
of new message arrival or from the result of a list-message request.
Returns requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the folder in which the targeted message is
contained.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the exact message on which to perform this operation.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.17 Method getMessageContentReq()
Request the entire body of a message. The targeted message is identified by
its messageID and the folderID to know where in the mailbox the message is
stored. The messageID is obtained either by having recieved a notification of
new message arrival or from the result of a list-message request.
Returns requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the folder in which the targeted message is
contained.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the exact message on which to perform this operation.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.18 Method getFullMessageReq()
Request the entire message, including headers and body. The targeted message
is identified by its messageID and the folderID to know where in the mailbox
the message is stored. The messageID is typically obtained either by having
recieved a notification of new message arrival or from the result of a list-
message request.
Returns requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Specifies the identity of the folder in which the targeted message is
contained.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the exact message on which to perform this operation.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID,
P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID
### 8.3.19 Method getMailboxInfoPropertiesReq()
This asynchronous method requests the values of properties of a mailbox. The
response is provided in getMailboxInfoPropertiesRes().
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 8.3.20 Method getFolderInfoPropertiesReq()
This asynchronous method requests the values of properties of a folder. The
response is provided in getFolderInfoPropertiesRes().
Returns: requestID:
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
folderID : in TpString
Identifies the folder for which the properties are to be retrieved.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID
## 8.4 Interface Class IpAppMailbox
Inherits from: IpInterface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppMailbox | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | getMessageInfoPropertiesRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, messageID : in TpString, | | returnedProperties : in TpMessageInfoPropertySet) : void | | | | setMessageInfoPropertiesRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, messageID : in TpString, | | propertiesUpdated : in TpMessageInfoPropertySet) : void | | | | setMessageInfoPropertiesErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, messageID : in TpString, | | propertiesNotUpdated : in TpMessageInfoPropertyErrorSet) : void | | | | getMailboxInfoPropertiesErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, | | errorDetails : in TpString) : void | | | | getFolderInfoPropertiesErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, | | errorDetails : in TpString) : void | | | | getMessageInfoPropertiesErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, | | errorDetails : in TpString) : void | | | | createFolderRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, folderID : in TpString) : void | | | | createFolderErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | getFoldersRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, folderID : in TpString, folderNames : in | | TpStringList) : void | | | | getFoldersErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, folderID : in TpString, error : in TpMessagingError, | | errorDetails : in TpString) : void | | | | deleteFolderRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | deleteFolderErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | copyFolderRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | copyFolderErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | moveFolderRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | moveFolderErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | putMessageRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, messageID : in TpString) : void | | | | putMessageErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | copyMessageRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | copyMessageErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | moveMessageRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | moveMessageErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | deleteMessageRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | deleteMessageErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | listMessagesRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, messageList : in TpMessageDescriptionList, | | mailboxStatusInfo : in TpMailboxFolderStatusInformation, final : in | | TpBoolean) : void | | | | listMessagesErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | listMessageBodyPartsRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, partsList : in | | TpBodyPartDescriptionList) : void | | | | listMessageBodyPartsErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, | | errorDetails : in TpString) : void | | | | getMessageBodyPartsRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID | | : in TpAssignmentID, bodyParts : in TpBodyPartList) : void | | | | getMessageBodyPartsErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID | | : in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | getMessageHeadersRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : | | in TpAssignmentID, headers : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet) : void | | | | getMessageHeadersErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : | | in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | getMessageContentRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : | | in TpAssignmentID, contentType : in TpString, | | contentTransferEncoding : in TpString, content : in TpOctetSet) : | | void | | | | getMessageContentErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : | | in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | getFullMessageRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, message : in TpOctetSet) : void | | | | getFullMessageErr (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, requestID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | getMailboxInfoPropertiesRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, returnedProperties : in | | TpMailboxInfoPropertySet) : void | | | | getFolderInfoPropertiesRes (mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID, | | requestID : in TpAssignmentID, folderID : in TpString, | | returnedProperties : in TpFolderInfoPropertySet) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.4.1 Method getMessageInfoPropertiesRes()
This method returns the properties of a message, requested by
getMessageInfoPropertiesReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the message for which the properties are being returned.
returnedProperties : in TpMessageInfoPropertySet
The message properties (names and values).
### 8.4.2 Method setMessageInfoPropertiesRes()
This method returns the list of properties updated following a
setMessageInfoPropertiesReq() invoked by the application. In cases where more
than one property was requested to be set, and where not all properties were
successfully set, a setMessageInfoPropertiesRes() will be returned indicating
those properties successfully set, and a setMessageInfoPropertiesErr() method
will be returned as well, indicating those properties which were not set.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
setMessageInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the message for which the properties were set.
propertiesUpdated : in TpMessageInfoPropertySet
This identifies the properties whose values were successfully updated as a
result of invoking setMessageInfoPropertiesReq().
### 8.4.3 Method setMessageInfoPropertiesErr()
This method returns the list of properties which were not updated, and a
reason why not, following a setMessageInfoPropertiesReq() invoked by the
application. In cases where more than one property was requested to be set,
and where not all properties were successfully set, a
setMessageInfoPropertiesReq() will be returned indicating those properties
successfully set, and a setMessageInfoPropertiesErr() method will be returned
as well, indicating those properties which were not set.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
setMessageInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
messageID : in TpString
Identifies the message for which the properties were requested to be set.
propertiesNotUpdated : in TpMessageInfoPropertyErrorSet
This identifies the names of the properties whose values were not updated as a
result of invoking setMessageInfoPropertiesReq(), and the reason why each
property was not updated.
### 8.4.4 Method getMailboxInfoPropertiesErr()
This method indicates that the getMailboxInfoPropertiesReq() was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMailboxInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.5 Method getFolderInfoPropertiesErr()
This method indicates that the getFolderInfoPropertiesReq() was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getFolderInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.6 Method getMessageInfoPropertiesErr()
This method indicates that the getMessageInfoPropertiesReq() was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.7 Method createFolderRes()
This method indicates the successful creation of a folder, requested by
createFolderReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
createFolderReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
folderID : in TpString
This is the name of the new folder which has been created.
### 8.4.8 Method createFolderErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to create a folder, requested by
createFolderReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
createFolderReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.9 Method getFoldersRes()
This method returns the list of the (sub)folder names in the mailbox or a
folder. Only the names of the 1st (top) level of folders is returned.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding getFoldersReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
folderID : in TpString
This contains the name of the folder for which the names of the top level of
sub-folders are returned. If an emptystring is provided, the list contains the
names of the top level of folders in the Mailbox.
folderNames : in TpStringList
Contains the list of names of folders contained within the mailbox or folder.
### 8.4.10 Method getFoldersErr()
This method indicates that the request for a list of folder names, requested
by getFoldersReq(), has failed.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding getFoldersReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
folderID : in TpString
This contains the name of the folder for which the names of the top level of
sub-folders are requested. If an emptystring is provided, the request was for
the names of the top level of folders in the Mailbox.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.11 Method deleteFolderRes()
This method indicates the successful deletion of a folder, requested by
deleteFolderReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
deleteFolderReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
### 8.4.12 Method deleteFolderErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to delete a folder, requested by
deleteFolderReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
deleteFolderReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.13 Method copyFolderRes()
This method indicates the successful copying of a folder, requested by
copyFolderReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding copyFolderReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
### 8.4.14 Method copyFolderErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to copy a folder, requested by
copyFolderReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding copyFolderReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.15 Method moveFolderRes()
This method indicates the successful move of a folder, requested by
moveFolderReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding moveFolderReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
### 8.4.16 Method moveFolderErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to move a folder, requested by
moveFolderReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding moveFolderReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.17 Method putMessageRes()
This method indicates the successful placing of a message in a folder,
requested by putMessageReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding putMessageReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
messageID : in TpString
The new ID of the message which has been placed in the folder as requested.
### 8.4.18 Method putMessageErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to put a message in a folder, requested
by putMessageReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding putMessageReq()
that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.19 Method copyMessageRes()
This method indicates the successful copying of a message from one folder to
another, as requested by copyMessageReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
copyMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
### 8.4.20 Method copyMessageErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to copy a message from one folder to
another, requested by copyMessageReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
copyMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.21 Method moveMessageRes()
This method indicates the successful move of a message from one folder to
another, as requested by moveMessageReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
moveMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
### 8.4.22 Method moveMessageErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to move a message from one folder to
another, requested by moveMessageReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
moveMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.23 Method deleteMessageRes()
This method indicates the successful deletion of a message, as requested by
deleteMessageReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
deleteMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
### 8.4.24 Method deleteMessageErr()
This method indicates that the attempt to delete a message, requested by
deleteMessageReq(), was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
deleteMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.25 Method listMessagesRes()
This method delivers the result of a completed list messages request. Whether
there are still more messages that can be listed yet will be indicated with
the final parameter.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
listMessagesReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
messageList : in TpMessageDescriptionList
A list with each entry giving a short description of the message.
mailboxStatusInfo : in TpMailboxFolderStatusInformation
Gives some information about the status of the mailbox regarding the number of
messages it holds, how many new messages etc.
final : in TpBoolean
Indication whether the returned list is the final part of the complete list
(TRUE) or if there are still parts of the list to retrieve (FALSE).
### 8.4.26 Method listMessagesErr()
This method indicates that the list messages request was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
listMessagesReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.27 Method listMessageBodyPartsRes()
This method delivers the result of a completed list message body parts
request.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
listMessageBodyPartsReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
partsList : in TpBodyPartDescriptionList
Specifies the structure of the message up to the requested nesting level.
### 8.4.28 Method listMessageBodyPartsErr()
This method indicates that the list message body parts request was
unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
listMessageBodyPartsReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.29 Method getMessageBodyPartsRes()
This method delivers the result of a completed get message body parts request.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageBodyPartsReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
bodyParts : in TpBodyPartList
Contains the details and content of the requested Body Parts of the message.
### 8.4.30 Method getMessageBodyPartsErr()
This method indicates that the get message body parts request was
unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageBodyPartsReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.31 Method getMessageHeadersRes()
This method delivers the result of a completed get message headers request.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageHeadersReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
headers : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet
Carries the headers of the message.
### 8.4.32 Method getMessageHeadersErr()
This method indicates that the get message headers request was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageHeadersReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.33 Method getMessageContentRes()
This method delivers the result of a completed get message content request.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageContentReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
contentType : in TpString
Specifies the content type value according to the RFC2045 format.
contentTransferEncoding : in TpString
Specifies the content transfer encoding value according to the RFC2045 format.
content : in TpOctetSet
Contains the body of the message.
### 8.4.34 Method getMessageContentErr()
This method indicates that the get message content request was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMessageContentReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.35 Method getFullMessageRes()
This method delivers the result of a completed get full message request.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getFullMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
message : in TpOctetSet
Contains the entire message (headers and body) in unstructured format.
### 8.4.36 Method getFullMessageErr()
This method indicates that the get full message request was unsuccessful.
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox. If the session ID is not a valid
session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getFullMessageReq() that was previously invoked by the client application.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.4.37 Method getMailboxInfoPropertiesRes()
This method returns the properties of a mailbox, requested by
getMailboxInfoPropertiesReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getMailboxInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
returnedProperties : in TpMailboxInfoPropertySet
The mailbox properties (names and values).
### 8.4.38 Method getFolderInfoPropertiesRes()
This method returns the properties of a folder, requested by
getFolderInfoPropertiesReq().
Parameters
mailboxSessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open mailbox.
requestID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the requestID associated with the corresponding
getFolderInfoPropertiesReq() that was previously invoked by the client
application.
folderID : in TpString
Identifies the folder for which the properties are being returned.
returnedProperties : in TpFolderInfoPropertySet
The folder properties (names and values).
## 8.5 Interface Class IpMultiMediaMessaging
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface supports methods that enable messages to be sent or received
when the mailbox paradigm is not in use. Mechanisms such as SMS, MMS, GSM
USSD, etc., could be used in this context for either single-shot (page mode),
or session mode messaging (e.g. instant-messaging). Default source and
destination addresses can be provided by the application when an instance of
IpMultiMediaMessaging is created. These addresses are overridden by including
source or destination addresses in the sendMessageReq() method. If no default
source or destination address is provided when an instance of
IpMultiMediaMessaging is created, then the instance can be reused for multiple
invocations of sendMessageReq() to different targets or from different
sources, with the addresses specified each time in the sendMessageReq()
method.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpMultiMediaMessaging | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | sendMessageReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, sourceAddress : in | | TpAddress, destinationAddressList : in TpTerminatingAddressList, | | deliveryType : in TpMessageDeliveryType, messageTreatment : in | | TpMessageTreatmentSet, message : in TpOctetSet, additionalHeaders : | | in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet) : TpAssignmentID | | | | cancelMessageReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | queryStatusReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | close (sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | | | | sendMessageWithNotifyReq (sessionID : in TpSessionID, sourceAddress | | : in TpAddress, destinationAddressList : in | | TpTerminatingAddressList, deliveryType : in TpMessageDeliveryType, | | messageTreatment : in TpMessageTreatmentSet, message : in | | TpOctetSet, additionalHeaders : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet) : | | TpAssignmentID | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.5.1 Method sendMessageReq()
This method requests the underlying network infrastructure to send the message
being passed in through the message parameter as one of the data elements, to
the set of identified targets specified using the supported addressing schemes
from the specification.
As a response to this method invocation, the SCF will respond with either a
sendMessageRes(), or a sendMessageErr(), indicating that the SCF has or has
not succeeded to send the message.
If the application requests further reports about the message status, such as
successful delivery, read receipt, or wishes to be notified of non-delivery,
it must request this explicitly in the messageTreatment parameter. These
reports are delivered in the messageStatusReport() method on
IpAppMultiMediaMessaging.
Returns: assignmentID.
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open multimedia messaging session. If the
session ID is not a valid session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is
returned.
sourceAddress : in TpAddress
The address that is used to represent the sender of the message. For
alphanumeric SMS addresses the address plan P_ADDRESS_PLAN_UNDEFINED shall be
used.
The address provided here overrides the default address provided in the
openMultiMediaMessaging() method, if one was provided then. If this parameter
is empty, then the default address is used.
destinationAddressList : in TpTerminatingAddressList
A list of addresses of users to whom the message will be sent. A
terminatingAddressList contains a TO, CC and BCC address list. When the
underlying network technology can not distinguish these all addresses can be
concatenated.
The address list provided here overrides the default address list provided in
the openMultiMediaMessaging() method, if one was provided then. If this
parameter is empty, then the default address is used.
deliveryType : in TpMessageDeliveryType
Specifies what delivery method shall be used to deliver the message to the
user. If an unsupported delivery type is specified, the exception
P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TYPE is returned.
messageTreatment : in TpMessageTreatmentSet
This parameter contains instructions to the messaging system about how to
process and send the message. These instructions can include a request for
report of delivery, read receipt, message expiry or non-delivery of the
message.
message : in TpOctetSet
The actual message that needs to be sent.
additionalHeaders : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet
This parameter contains additional header information which is intended to be
sent as part of the message. This information could have been provided in the
raw message, if correctly formulated. Information contained in the additional
headers may duplicate information provided in the sourceAddress and
destinationAddressList parameters of the sendMessageReq(). In case of
conflict, the SCF will take as priority the information provided in the
sourceAddress and the destinationAddressList parameters.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_ADDRESS,
P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TYPE, P_MMM_MAX_MESSAGE_SIZE_EXCEEDED,
P_MMM_DELIVERY_TYPE_ADDRESS_TYPE_MISMATCH,
P_MMM_DELIVERY_TYPE_MESSAGE_TYPE_MISMATCH, P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TIME,
P_MMM_INVALID_VALIDITY_TIME, P_MMM_MAX_SUBJECT_SIZE_EXCEEDED,
P_MMM_INVALID_HEADER
### 8.5.2 Method cancelMessageReq()
This method requests the underlying network infrastructure to cancel an
undelivered message previously sent in a sendMessageReq.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open multimedia messaging session. If the
session ID is not a valid session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is
returned.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignmentID associated with the sendMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS and which now needs to
be cancelled. If an invalid assignment ID is used, a P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
exception is thrown.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID,
P_INVALID_NETWORK_STATE, P_MMM_CANNOT_CANCEL
### 8.5.3 Method queryStatusReq()
This method requests the underlying network infrastructure to query the status
of messages already sent using the sendMessageReq(). A session ID and an
assignment ID are used to identify individual messages. Implementations may
choose to use the same assignment ID in different sessions to reference
different messages, but the specification merely requires that assignment IDs
in individual sessions be unique.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open communications session. If the session ID
is not a valid session ID, the exception P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is returned.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the sendMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS and which now needs to
be cancelled. If an invalid assignment ID is issued, a P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID
exception is thrown.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_ASSIGNMENT_ID,
P_MMM_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE
### 8.5.4 Method close()
This method requests the SCS to close a previously opened session. Once
closed, the application can no longer send new messages, query the status of
already sent messages, nor cancel the transmission of pending messages on that
session.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open multi media messaging session. If the
session ID is not a valid session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is
returned.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID
### 8.5.5 Method sendMessageWithNotifyReq()
This method requests the underlying network infrastructure to send the message
being passed in through the message parameter as one of the data elements, to
the set of identified targets specified using the supported addressing schemes
from the specification.
As a response to this method invocation, the SCF will respond with either an
sendMessageWithNotifyRes(), or an sendMessageWithNotifyErr(), indicating that
the SCF has or has not succeeded to send the message.
The messageTreatment parameter can be used to indicate delivery report type,
delivery time or validity time for the message, or to provide a billing
identifier to indicate how the costs for this transaction shall be charged.
The SCF will not maintain any state for a message, i.e. contrary to the use of
sendMessageReq the SCF will not store the triplet (applicationID, sessionID,
destinationAddress). As a consequence, the cancelMessageReq and queryStatusReq
methods are not applicable.
Returns: assignmentID.
A reference to the request for later use by the application.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the open multimedia messaging session. If the
session ID is not a valid session ID, the error code P_INVALID_SESSION_ID is
returned.
sourceAddress : in TpAddress
The address that is used to represent the sender of the message. For
alphanumeric SMS addresses the address plan P_ADDRESS_PLAN_UNDEFINED shall be
used.
The address provided here overrides the default address provided in the
openMultiMediaMessaging() method, if one was provided then. If this parameter
is empty, then the default address is used.
destinationAddressList : in TpTerminatingAddressList
A list of addresses of users to whom the message will be sent. A
terminatingAddressList contains a TO, CC and BCC address list. When the
underlying network technology can not distinguish these all addresses can be
concatenated.
The address list provided here overrides the default address list provided in
the openMultiMediaMessaging() method, if one was provided then. If this
parameter is empty, then the default address is used.
deliveryType : in TpMessageDeliveryType
Specifies what delivery method shall be used to deliver the message to the
user. If an unsupported delivery type is specified, the exception
P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TYPE is returned.
messageTreatment : in TpMessageTreatmentSet
This parameter contains instructions to the messaging system about how to
process and send the message. These instructions can include a request message
expiry or billing identifier of the message.
message : in TpOctetSet
The actual message that needs to be sent.
additionalHeaders : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet
This parameter contains additional header information which is intended to be
sent as part of the message. This information could have been provided in the
raw message, if correctly formulated. Information contained in the additional
headers may duplicate information provided in the sourceAddress and
destinationAddressList parameters of the sendMessageWithNotifyReq(). In case
of conflict, the SCF will take as priority the information provided in the
sourceAddress and the destinationAddressList parameters.
Returns
TpAssignmentID
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_ADDRESS,
P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TYPE, P_MMM_MAX_MESSAGE_SIZE_EXCEEDED,
P_MMM_DELIVERY_TYPE_ADDRESS_TYPE_MISMATCH,
P_MMM_DELIVERY_TYPE_MESSAGE_TYPE_MISMATCH, P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TIME,
P_MMM_INVALID_VALIDITY_TIME, P_MMM_MAX_SUBJECT_SIZE_EXCEEDED,
P_MMM_INVALID_HEADER
## 8.6 Interface Class IpAppMultiMediaMessaging
Inherits from: IpInterface.
This interface provides methods that may be invoked by the SCS on the client
application as callbacks to asynchronously inform it of the status of pending
requests, etc., for requests issued within the context of non-mailbox
messaging systems employed for either single-shot or session-based messaging.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpAppMultiMediaMessaging | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | sendMessageRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | sendMessageErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | cancelMessageRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID) : void | | | | cancelMessageErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | queryStatusRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID, result : in TpQueryStatusReportSet) : void | | | | queryStatusErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString) : void | | | | messageStatusReport (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : in | | TpAssignmentID, destinationAddress : in TpAddress, | | deliveryReportType : in TpMessageDeliveryReportType, | | deliveryReportInfo : in TpString) : void | | | | messageReceived (sessionID : in TpSessionID, message : in | | TpOctetSet, headers : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet) : void | | | | sendMessageWithNotifyRes (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : | | in TpAssignmentID, messageID : in TpString) : void | | | | sendMessageWithNotifyErr (sessionID : in TpSessionID, assignmentID : | | in TpAssignmentID, error : in TpMessagingError, errorDetails : in | | TpString, messageID : in TpString) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.6.1 Method sendMessageRes()
This asynchronous method informs the application about the completion of a
sendMessageReq(). Receipt of this method indicates that the SCF has
successfully processed the sendMessageReq() method and successfully sent the
message. It does not indicate that the message was delivered or read.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the sendMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
### 8.6.2 Method sendMessageErr()
This asynchronous method indicates that the request to send a message was
unsuccessful. The SCF was unable to process the sendMessageReq() or was unable
to send the message. Further details are provided in the error parameter.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the sendMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.6.3 Method cancelMessageRes()
This method indicates successful execution of a cancelMessageReq() method by
the SCS.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the cancelMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
### 8.6.4 Method cancelMessageErr()
This asynchronous method indicates that the request to cancel a message was
unsuccessful.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the cancelMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.6.5 Method queryStatusRes()
This method indicates successful execution of a queryStatusReq() method by the
SCS, and provides the status along with the response indication.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the queryStatusReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
result : in TpQueryStatusReportSet
This is a list of each destination address of the message, together with the
reported status from that address.
### 8.6.6 Method queryStatusErr()
This method indicates a failure in the execution of the queryStatusReq()
method by the SCS.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the queryStatusReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
### 8.6.7 Method messageStatusReport()
This method is used to provide the application with any read or delivery etc.
reports it has explicitly requested in the sendMessageReq() method. This
method may be received more than once for a single invocation of
sendMessageReq(), if multiple report types have been requested, or if the
message had multiple destination addresses.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the sendMessageReq that was
previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
destinationAddress : in TpAddress
Identifies from which destination address of the original message that this
report arrives.
deliveryReportType : in TpMessageDeliveryReportType
Indicates the type of report carried by this messageStatusReport method. If
more than one report type needs to be delivered to the application, the SCF
will invoke a separate messageStatusReport for each report type.
deliveryReportInfo : in TpString
Additional information which may have been provided by the messaging system in
its read, delivery etc. report, and which the SCF passes to the application.
The format of this information is not specified.
### 8.6.8 Method messageReceived()
This method is used to inform the application that a message has been received
for a remote party within the context of the conversation or session currently
active. The full contents of the message are provided. The message may be, but
is not necessarily in reply to a message sent by the application using the
sendMessageReq().
Messages which are received outside the context of the conversation or session
are notified to the application using the
IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager.reportNotification() method.
It is not specified how the SCF is expected to identify that a received
message is inside or outside of the context of a currently active conversation
or session.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
message : in TpOctetSet
The actual message received. Contains the entire message (headers and body) in
unstructured format.
headers : in TpMessageHeaderFieldSet
This parameter contains header information which was sent as part of the
message. This information could be duplicated in the raw message, depending on
its format.
### 8.6.9 Method sendMessageWithNotifyRes()
This asynchronous method informs the application about the completion of a
sendMessageWithNotifyReq(). Receipt of this method indicates that the SCF has
successfully processed the sendMessageWithNotifyReq() method and successfully
sent the message. It does not indicate that the message was delivered or read.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the sendMessageWithNotifyReq
that was previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
messageID : in TpString
This parameter uniquely identifies the message associated with the
sendMessageWithNotifyReq that was previously invoked by the client application
on the SCS. This ID can be used by the application to correlate between the
sendMessageWithNotifyRes and a delivery report received via
reportNotification() method on IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager.
### 8.6.10 Method sendMessageWithNotifyErr()
This asynchronous method indicates that the request to send a message was
unsuccessful. The SCF was unable to process the sendMessageWithNotifyReq() or
was unable to send the message. Further details are provided in the error
parameter.
Parameters
sessionID : in TpSessionID
This is the session ID of the multimedia messaging session.
assignmentID : in TpAssignmentID
This specifies the assignment ID associated with the sendMessageWithNotifyReq
that was previously invoked by the client application on the SCS.
error : in TpMessagingError
Indicates the error that occurred.
errorDetails : in TpString
Provides additional information which may help to locate the source of the
error. There is no specified format for this information.
messageID : in TpString
This parameter uniquely identifies the message associated with the
sendMessageWithNotifyReq that was previously invoked by the client application
on the SCS. This field may not be supplied, for instance in case of a error in
the network.
# 9 State Transition Diagrams
There are no State Transition Diagrams for the Multi-Media Messaging SCF.
# 10 Multi-Media Messaging Service Properties
The following table lists properties relevant for the Multi-Media Messaging
API.
* * *
Property Type Description P_MESSAGE_DELIVERY_TYPE STRING_SET Specifies the
message delivery capabilities which the SCS supports. Values are defined by
TpMessageDeliveryType. P_PUT_MESSAGE_FOLDER_TO_SEND STRING_SET Identifies the
folder in the mailbox into which messages should be placed in order to be
sent.
* * *
The previous table lists properties related to capabilities of the SCS itself.
The following table lists properties that are used in the context of the
Service Level Agreement, e.g. to restrict the access of applications to the
capabilities of the SCS.
* * *
Property Type Description P_NOTIFICATION_ADDRESS_RANGES XML_ADDRESS_RANGE_SET
Indicates for which addresses notifications may be set. This applies a
restriction to addresses the SCS can request notification from. More than one
range may be present. P SOURCE_ADDRESS_RANGES XML_ADDRESS_RANGE_SET Indicates
which addresses a client application on the SCS is allowed to use for its own
identity, as used when sending a message to a destination or in criteria for
notification of new message arrived.
* * *
# 11 Data Definitions
All data types referenced but not defined in this clause are common data
definitions which may be found in TS 29.198‑2.
## 11.1 Multi-Media Messaging data definitions
### 11.1.1 IpMultiMediaMessagingManager
Defines the address of an IpMultiMediaMessagingManager Interface.
### 11.1.2 IpMultiMediaMessagingManagerRef
Defines a Reference to type IpMultiMediaMessagingManager.
### 11.1.3 IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager
Defines the address of an IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager Interface.
### 11.1.4 IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManagerRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppMultiMediaMessagingManager.
### 11.1.5 IpMailbox
Defines the address of an IpMailbox Interface.
### 11.1.6 IpMailboxRef
Defines a Reference to type IpMailbox.
### 11.1.7 IpAppMailbox
Defines the address of an IpAppMailbox Interface.
### 11.1.8 IpAppMailboxRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppMailbox.
### 11.1.9 IpMultiMediaMessaging
Defines the address of an IpMultiMediaMessaging Interface.
### 11.1.10 IpMultiMediaMessagingRef
Defines a Reference to type IpMultiMediaMessaging.
### 11.1.11 IpAppMultiMediaMessaging
Defines the address of an IpAppMultiMediaMessaging Interface.
### 11.1.12 IpAppMultiMediaMessagingRef
Defines a Reference to type IpAppMultiMediaMessaging.
### 11.1.13 TpBodyPartDescription
Defines a sequence of data elements that specify the properties of a body
part.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description ContentDescription
TpString The contents of the field shall be interpreted as the RFC 2045
Content-Description field body. ContentSize TpInt32 This field specifies the
length of the body part content in bytes. ContentType TpString The contents of
the field shall be interpreted as the RFC 2045 Content-Type field body.
ContentTransferEncoding TpString The contents of the field shall be
interpreted as the RFC 2045 Content-Transfer-Encoding field body. ContentID
TpString The contents of the field shall be interpreted as the RFC 2045
Content-ID field body. ContentDisposition TpString The contents of the field
shall be interpreted as the RFC 2183 Content-Disposition field body. PartID
TpString Identifies the body part uniquely within the message. This identifier
is created by the System and shall always be the same for the same message,
whether a structure was listed with a nesting level of n or n+1 should not
make a difference. NestingLevel TpInt32 Specifies how deep the part is nested
within the structure.
* * *
### 11.1.14 TpBodyPartDescriptionList
Defines a numbered list of data elements of TpBodyPartDescription.
### 11.1.15 TpBodyPart
Defines a sequence of data elements that specify a body part.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description BodyPartHeader
TpBodyPartDescription Specifies details about the body part that are needed in
order to interpret the content correctly. BodyPartContent TpOctetSet Contains
the content of a body part.
* * *
### 11.1.16 TpBodyPartList
Defines a numbered list of data elements of TpBodyPart.
### 11.1.17 TpDeliveryTime
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specifies when the message
shall be delivered.
* * *
     Tag Element Type     
     TpDeliveryTimeType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_MMM_SEND_IMMEDIATE
NULL Undefined P_MMM_DELIVERY_TIME TpDateAndTime DeliveryTime
* * *
### 11.1.18 TpDeliveryTimeType
Defines whether a message shall be delivered instantly or at some specified
time.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_SEND_IMMEDIATE 0 The message shall be delivered
as soon as possible. P_MMM_DELIVERY_TIME 1 The message shall be delivered at a
certain specified time.
* * *
### 11.1.19 TpFolderInfoProperty
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the information
properties of a folder.
* * *
     Tag Element Type           
     TpFolderInfoPropertyName
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_MMM_FOLDER_DATE_CREATED TpDateAndTime FolderDateCreated
P_MMM_FOLDER_DATE_CHANGED TpDateAndTime FolderDateChanged P_MMM_FOLDER_SIZE
TpInt32 FolderSize P_MMM_FOLDER_NUMBER_OF_MESSAGES TpInt32
FolderNumberOfMessages
* * *
### 11.1.20 TpFolderInfoPropertyName
Defines a specific folder information property name.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_FOLDER_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined
P_MMM_FOLDER_DATE_CREATED 1 Indicates the date created. The application cannot
modify this property. P_MMM_FOLDER_DATE_CHANGED 2 Indicates the date last
changed. The application cannot modify this property. P_MMM_FOLDER_SIZE 3
Indicates the size of the Folder in Bytes. The application cannot modify this
property. P_MMM_FOLDER_NUMBER_OF_MESSAGES 4 Indicates the number of messages
in the Folder. The application cannot modify this property.
* * *
### 11.1.21 TpFolderInfoPropertySet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpFolderInfoProperty.
### 11.1.22 TpGenericHeaderField
Specifies the name and value of a header field.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description FieldName TpString
Contains the field name of an RFC 822 header field. FieldValue TpString
Contains the field body of a RFC 822 header field.
* * *
### 11.1.23 TpListMessagesCriteria
The list message criteria can be used to narrow down the list of messages
reported to the Application by specifying extra criteria that the listed
messages need to conform to.
+--------------------+------------------+----------------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Description | | | | | | Name | Type | | +--------------------+------------------+----------------------------+ | OnlyUnreadMessages | TpBoolean | When this field is TRUE | | | | only unread messages shall | | | | be reported. | +--------------------+------------------+----------------------------+
### 11.1.24 TpMailboxFolderStatusInformation
Describes the status of a mailbox folder.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description TotalMessageCount
TpInt32 Specifies the total number of messages in the mailbox folder.
* * *
### 11.1.25 TpMailboxIdentifier
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify a mailbox.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Mailbox IpMailboxRef SessionID
TpSessionID
* * *
### 11.1.26 TpMailboxIdentifierSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMailboxIdentifier.
### 11.1.27 TpMailboxInfoProperty
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the information
properties of a mailbox.
* * *
     Tag Element Type            
     TpMailboxInfoPropertyName
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name P_MMM_MAILBOX_OWNER
TpString MailboxOwner P_MMM_MAILBOX_DATE_CREATED TpDateAndTime
MailboxDateCreated P_MMM_MAILBOX_DATE_CHANGED TpDateAndTime MailboxDateChanged
P_MMM_MAILBOX_SIZE TpInt32 MailboxSize
* * *
### 11.1.28 TpMailboxInfoPropertyName
Defines a specific mailbox information property name.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_MAILBOX_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined.
P_MMM_MAILBOX_OWNER 1 The owner of the mailbox. The application cannot modify
this property. P_MMM_MAILBOX_DATE_CREATED 2 Indicates the date created. The
application cannot modify this property. P_MMM_MAILBOX_DATE_CHANGED 3
Indicates the date last changed. The application cannot modify this property.
P_MMM_MAILBOX_SIZE 4 Indicates the size of the Mailbox in Bytes. The
application cannot modify this property.
* * *
### 11.1.29 TpMailboxInfoPropertySet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMailboxInfoProperty.
### 11.1.30 TpMailboxMessageStatus
Defines the status of messages stored in the Mailbox.
The first 4 status items are applicable to messages which have been received.
The 5^th^ status item refers to messages which have been created or put in the
Mailbox and not yet sent.
The remaining items are applicable to messages which have been sent from the
mailbox, and for which a status is recorded and updated depending on any
delivery reports which have been received.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_RECEIVED_MSG_STATUS_READ 0 The message received
has been read P_MMM_RECEIVED_MSG_STATUS_UNREAD 1 The message received has not
been read P_MMM_RECEIVED_MSG_STATUS_FORWARDED 2 The message received has been
forwarded P_MMM_RECEIVED_MSG_STATUS_REPLIED_TO 3 The message received has been
replied to P_MMM_DRAFT_MSG_STATUS_SAVED_OR_UNSENT 4 The message has been saved
as a draft or is unsent P_MMM_SENT_MSG_STATUS_SENT 5 The message has been
sent. No further information is available, because no delivery report was
received, or none was requested P_MMM_SENT_MSG_STATUS_DELIVERED 6 The message
sent has been delivered P_MMM_SENT_MSG_STATUS_READ 7 The message sent has been
read P_MMM_SENT_MSG_STATUS_DELETED_UNREAD 8 The message sent has been deleted
without being read P_MMM_SENT_MSG_STATUS_NOT_DELIVERABLE 9 The message sent
was undeliverable P_MMM_SENT_MSG_STATUS_EXPIRED 10 The message sent has
expired before it was delivered
* * *
### 11.1.31 TpMessageDeliveryType
This data type is identical to a TpString, and is defined as a string of
characters that identify the names of the modes of delivery for a message.
Other Network operator specific names may also be used, but should be preceded
by the string \"SP_\". The following values are defined.
* * *
Name Description P_MMM_SMS The message shall be delivered as a Short Message.
P_MMM_SMS_BINARY The message shall be delivered as a Binary Short Message.
P_MMM_MMS The message shall be delivered as a Multimedia Message.
P_MMM_WAP_PUSH The message shall be delivered as a WAP-push Message.
P_MMM_EMAIL The message shall be delivered as an e-mail Message.
* * *
### 11.1.32 TpMessageInfoProperty
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the information
properties of a message.
* * *
     Tag Element Type            
     TpMessageInfoPropertyName
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_MMM_MESSAGE_DATE_CREATED TpDateAndTime MessageDateCreated
P_MMM_MESSAGE_DATE_RECEIVED TpDateAndTime MessageDateReceived
P_MMM_MESSAGE_DATE_CHANGED TpDateAndTime MessageDateChanged P_MMM_MESSAGE_SIZE
TpInt32 MessageSize P_MMM_MESSAGE_STATUS TpMailboxMessageStatus MessageStatus
* * *
### 11.1.33 TpMessageInfoPropertyName
Defines a specific message information property name.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_MESSAGE_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined.
P_MMM_MESSAGE_CREATED 1 Indicates the date created. The application cannot
modify this property. P_MMM_MESSAGE_DATE_RECEIVED 2 Indicates the date
received. The application cannot modify this property.
P_MMM_MESSAGE_DATE_CHANGED 3 Indicates the date last changed. The application
cannot modify this property. P_MMM_MESSAGE_SIZE 4 Indicates the size of the
message in bytes. The application cannot modify this property.
P_MMM_MESSAGE_STATUS 5 The status of the message. This property can be
modified by the application.
* * *
### 11.1.34 TpMessageInfoPropertySet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMessageInfoProperty.
### 11.1.35 TpMessageHeaderFieldType
Specifies the different types of header fields recognized.
+-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | Name | Value | Description | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_DATE_SENT | 0 | The origination date | | | | specifies the date and time | | | | at which the creator of the | | | | message indicated that the | | | | message was complete and | | | | ready to enter the mail | | | | delivery system. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SENT_FROM | 1 | Specifies the author(s) of | | | | the message, that is, the | | | | mailbox address(es) of the | | | | person(s) or system(s) | | | | responsible for the writing | | | | of the message. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SENDER | 2 | Specifies the mailbox | | | | address of the agent | | | | responsible for the actual | | | | transmission of the | | | | message. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_REPLY_TO | 3 | Indicates the mailbox | | | | adress(es) to which the | | | | author of the message | | | | suggests that replies be | | | | sent. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SENT_TO | 4 | Specifies the address(es) | | | | of the primary recipient(s) | | | | of the message. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_CC_TO | 5 | Specifies the addresses of | | | | others who are to receive | | | | the message, though the | | | | content of the message may | | | | not be directed at them. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_BCC_TO | 6 | Specifies addresses of | | | | recipients of the message | | | | whose addresses are not to | | | | be revealed to other | | | | recipients of the message. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_M | 7 | Specifies a unique message | | ESSAGE_RFC822_MESSAGE_ID | | identifier that refers to a | | | | particular version of a | | | | particular message. This | | | | field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC 822 / | | | | RCF 2822 \"Message-ID:\" | | | | field. | | | | | | | | Note that this message ID | | | | can not be used on the | | | | messaging interface to | | | | address this specific | | | | message. See | | | | TpMessageDescription for | | | | more information. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_IN_REPLY_TO | 8 | May be used to identify the | | | | message (or messages) to | | | | which the new message is a | | | | reply. The messages are | | | | referred by their RFC 822 / | | | | RCF 2822 Message-ID. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_REFERENCES | 9 | May be used to identify the | | | | message (or messages) with | | | | which this message forms a | | | | thread of conversation. The | | | | messages are referred by | | | | their RFC 822 / RCF 2822 | | | | Message-ID. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SUBJECT | 10 | A short string identifying | | | | the topic of the message. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_COMMENTS | 11 | This field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC 822 / | | | | RCF 2822 \"Comments:\" | | | | field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_KEYWORDS | 12 | This field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC(2)822 | | | | \"Keywords:\" field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_TRACE_FIELD | 13 | All trace fields like for | | | | example RFC 822 / RCF 2822 | | | | \"Return-Path:\" and | | | | \"Received:\" will be | | | | gathered under this flag. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_RESENT_FIELD | 14 | All RFC 822 / RCF 2822 | | | | resent fields will be | | | | gathered under this flag. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_MIME_VERSION | 15 | Declare the version of the | | | | Internet message body | | | | format standard in use. | | | | This field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC 2045 | | | | \"MIME-Version:\" field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_MIME_CONTENT | 16 | The Content-Type header | | | | field specifies the nature | | | | of the data in the body of | | | | an entity by giving media | | | | type and subtype | | | | identifiers, and by | | | | providing auxiliary | | | | information that may be | | | | required for certain media | | | | types. This field has the | | | | same semantics as the | | | | RFC 2045 \"Content-Type:\" | | | | field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_MIME_ENCODING | 17 | This field\'s value is a | | | | single token specifying the | | | | type of encoding. This | | | | field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC 2045 | | | | \"C | | | | ontent-Transfer-Encoding:\" | | | | field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_MIME_ID | 18 | When present uniquely | | | | identifies a MIME entity. | | | | This field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC 2045 | | | | \"Content-ID:\" field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P\ | 19 | Specifies some descriptive | | _MESSAGE_MIME_DESCRIPTION | | information about the MIME | | | | entity. This field has the | | | | same semantics as the | | | | RFC 2045 | | | | \"Content-Description:\" | | | | field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P\ | 20 | Specifies how the MIME | | _MESSAGE_MIME_DISPOSITION | | entity shall be presented, | | | | inline or as an attachment. | | | | This field has the same | | | | semantics as the RFC 2183 | | | | \"Content-Disposition:\" | | | | field. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESS | 21 | Any RFC 822 header field | | AGE_MIME_EXTENSION_FIELD | | which begins with the | | | | string \"Content-\" and | | | | does not match the | | | | description of the other | | | | MIME fields. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P | 22 | Any header field that does | | _MESSAGE_EXTENSION_FIELD | | not match any of the of the | | | | other field types in this | | | | datatype. | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_PRIORITY | 23 | The Priority of the message | +-----------------------------+-------+-----------------------------+
### 11.1.36 TpMessageHeaderField
Carries the contents of one message header field.
* * *
     Tag Element Type           
     TpMessageHeaderFieldType
* * *
+----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | Tag Element | Choice Element | Choice Element Name | | | | | | Value | Type | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P\ | TpDateAndTime | DateSent | | _MESSAGE_DATE_SENT | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P\ | TpAddressSet | From | | _MESSAGE_SENT_FROM | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SENDER | TpAddress | Sender | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P | TpAddressSet | ReplyTo | | _MESSAGE_REPLY_TO | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SENT_TO | TpAddressSet | To | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_CC_TO | TpAddressSet | Cc | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_BCC_TO | TpAddressSet | Bcc | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE\ | TpString | RFC822MessageID | | _RFC822_MESSAGE_ID | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_ME | TpStringSet | InReplyTo | | SSAGE_IN_REPLY_TO | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P\ | TpStringSet | References | | _MESSAGE_REFERENCES | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_SUBJECT | TpString | Subject | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_COMMENTS | TpString | Comments | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_KEYWORDS | TpStringSet | Keywords | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_M | TpGenericHeaderField | TraceField | | ESSAGE_TRACE_FIELD | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_ME | TpGenericHeaderField | ResentField | | SSAGE_RESENT_FIELD | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_ME | TpString | MimeVersion | | SSAGE_MIME_VERSION | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_ME | TpString | MimeContent | | SSAGE_MIME_CONTENT | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MES | TpString | MimeEncoding | | SAGE_MIME_ENCODING | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_MIME_ID | TpString | MimeID | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAG | TpString | MimeDescription | | E_MIME_DESCRIPTION | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAG | TpString | MimeDisposition | | E_MIME_DISPOSITION | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_MI | TpGenericHeaderField | MimeExtensionField | | ME_EXTENSION_FIELD | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSA | TpGenericHeaderField | ExtensionField | | GE_EXTENSION_FIELD | | | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+ | P_MESSAGE_PRIORITY | TpMessagePriority | Priority | +----------------------+----------------------+---------------------+
### 11.1.37 TpMessageHeaderFieldSet
Defines a numbered set of data elements of TpMessageHeaderField.
### 11.1.38 TpMessagePriority
Defines the priority of a message.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_MESSAGE_PRIORITY_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined/Normal
P_MMM_MESSAGE_PRIORITY_HIGH 1 High priority P_MMM_MESSAGE_PRIORITY_LOW 2 Low
priority
* * *
### 11.1.39 TpMessageDeliveryReportType
Defines the type of message delivery report requested or reported. In order to
request multiple report types at once,.the values can be added together (i.e.
a logical OR function). So a value of 3 identifies both Read and Delivery
reports.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MESSAGE_REPORT_DELIVERY_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined /
status unknown P_MESSAGE_REPORT_DELIVERED 1 A report that the message has been
successfully delivered. P_MESSAGE_REPORT_READ 2 A report that the message was
read. P_MESSAGE_REPORT_DELETED_UNREAD 4 A report that the message was deleted
without being read. P_MESSAGE_REPORT_NOT_DELIVERABLE 8 A report that the
message could not be successfully delivered. P_MESSAGE_REPORT_EXPIRED 16 A
report that the message could not be delivered before the validity time of the
message expired.
* * *
### 11.1.40 TpMessageTreatment
Defines the specific message treatment which an application requests of the
messaging system when sending a message.
* * *
     Tag Element Type         
     TpMessageTreatmentType
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_MMM_TREATMENT_REPORT_REQUESTED TpMessageDeliveryReportType DeliveryReport
P_MMM_TREATMENT_BILLING_ID TpString BillingID P_MMM_TREATMENT_DELIVERY_TIME
TpDeliveryTime DeliveryTime P_MMM_TREATMENT_VALIDITY_TIME TpDateAndTime
ValidityTime
* * *
### 11.1.41 TpMessageTreatmentType
Specifies the various types of message treatment which the application may
request when sending a message.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_TREATMENT_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined
P_MMM_TREATMENT_REPORT_REQUESTED 1 Request various delivery notifications
P_MMM_TREATMENT_BILLING_ID 2 A Billing Identifier/Charging Code that can be
used to indicate how the costs for this transaction shall be charged.
P_MMM_TREATMENT_DELIVERY_TIME 3 Specifies whether the message shall be
delivered instantly or at some specified time. P_MMM_TREATMENT_VALIDITY_TIME 4
Specifies the time within which the message keeps its validity. When the
message is not delivered before the validity time passes, the message is
dropped by the messaging system.
* * *
### 11.1.42 TpMessageTreatmentSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMessageTreatment.
### 11.1.43 TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify a mailbox.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type MultiMediaMessaging
IpMultiMediaMessagingRef SessionID TpSessionID
* * *
### 11.1.44 TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifierSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier.
### 11.1.45 TpQueryStatusReport
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify the status of a message,
as reported in messageStatusReport. If a message is sent to more than one
addressee, a different status can apply to the message sent to each addressee.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type DestinationAddress TpAddress
ReportedStatus TpMessageDeliveryReportType
* * *
### 11.1.46 TpQueryStatusReportSet
Defines a numbered set of data elements of TpQueryStatusReport.
### 11.1.47 TpTerminatingAddressList
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a send message request.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description ToAddressList
TpAddressSet The list of addresses that are the main target of the message.
CcAddressList TpAddressSet The list of addresses that receive a copy of the
message. BccAddressList TpAddressSet The list of addresses that receive a copy
of the message, without this being visible to other receivers.
* * *
## 11.2 Event Notification data definitions
### 11.2.1 TpMessagingEventName
Defines the names of the messaging events which can be notified.
* * *
Name Value Description P_EVENT_MSG_NAME_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined.
P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MAILBOX_MESSAGE_ARRIVED 1 New message arrived in the mailbox.
The message contents are not requested/delivered - the message can be
retrieved from the mailbox. P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MESSAGE_ARRIVED 2 New message
arrived. The Message contents are requested/delivered with this event.
P_EVENT_MSG_STATUS_REPORT_ARRIVED 3 New message status report arrived as a
result of using the sending with notification functionality. The status
contents are requested/delivered with this event.
* * *
### 11.2.2 TpMessagingEventCriteria
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the criteria for an
event notification to be generated.
* * *
     Tag Element Type       
     TpMessagingEventName
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_EVENT_MSG_NAME_UNDEFINED NULL Undefined
P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MAILBOX_MESSAGE_ARRIVED TpNewMailboxMessageArrivedCriteria
EventNewMailboxMessageArrived P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MESSAGE_ARRIVED
TpNewMessageArrivedCriteria EventNewMessageArrived
P_EVENT_MSG_STATUS_REPORT_ARRIVED TpAddressRange
EventNewMessageStatusReportArrived
* * *
The address range defined for EventNewMessageStatusReportArrived refers to the
addresses of devices in the network to which the client application on the SCS
has sent or intends to send a message.
### 11.2.3 TpMessagingEventCriteriaSet
Defines a numbered set of data elements of TpMessagingEventCriteria.
### 11.2.4 TpNewMailboxMessageArrivedCriteria
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria for a New
Mailbox Message Arrived event.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type MailboxID TpString
AuthenticationInfo TpString
* * *
### 11.2.5 TpNewMessageArrivedCriteria
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria for a New
Message Arrived event, for messages which are received outside the context of
a mailbox.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description SourceAddress
TpAddressRange Defines the source address for which the notification is
requested. The source is the originator of the message, and is a device in the
network. DestinationAddress TpAddressRange Defines the destination address or
address range for which the notification is requested. The destination is the
address identity for the client application on the SCS.
CreateMultiMediaMessagingSession TpBoolean Used by the application to indicate
if the SCF should create an instance of IpMultiMediaMessaging upon receipt of
an event which matches these criteria.
* * *
### 11.2.6 TpMessagingEventInfo
Defines the Tagged Choice of Data Elements that specify the information
returned to the application in an event notification.
* * *
     Tag Element Type       
     TpMessagingEventName
* * *
* * *
Tag Element Value Choice Element Type Choice Element Name
P_EVENT_MSG_NAME_UNDEFINED TpString EventNameUndefined
P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MAILBOX_MESSAGE_ARRIVED TpNewMailboxMessageArrivedInfo
EventNewMailboxMessageArrived P_EVENT_MSG_NEW_MESSAGE_ARRIVED
TpNewMessageArrivedInfo EventNewMessageArrived
P_EVENT_MSG_STATUS_REPORT_ARRIVED TpNewMessageStatusReportArrivedInfo
EventNewMessageStatusReportArrived
* * *
### 11.2.7 TpMessagingEventInfoSet
Defines a numbered set of data elements of TpMessagingEventInfo.
### 11.2.8 TpNewMailboxMessageArrivedInfo
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the information returned to
the application in a New Mailbox Message Arrived event. Basic information is
provided in the Message Description field. If further information is to be
provided, it is included in the ExtendedHeaderInformation field.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type MailboxID TpString FolderID
TpString MessageDescription TpMessageDescription ExtendedHeaderInformation
TpMessageHeaderFieldSet
* * *
### 11.2.9 TpNewMessageArrivedInfo
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the information returned to
the application in a New Message Arrived event. The Source and Destination
addresses are included, as they are used in the criteria for this event. The
actual message received is included in the Message field. This contains the
entire message (headers and body) in unstructured format. The Headers field
contains header information which was sent as part of the message. This
information could be duplicated in the raw message, depending on its format.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type SourceAddress TpAddress
DestinationAddressSet TpAddressSet Message TpOctetSet Headers
TpMessageHeaderFieldSet MultiMediaMessagingIdentifier
TpMultiMediaMessagingIdentifier
* * *
### 11.2.10 TpMessageDescription
Specifies the properties of a message.
+------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | Sequence Element | Sequence Element | Description | | | | | | Name | Type | | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | MessageID | TpString | This is the messageID as it | | | | is used on the API to | | | | identify a message. This | | | | should not be confused with | | | | the RFC 822 \"Message-ID\" | | | | field body. The latter can | | | | be obtained with | | | | getMessageHeadersReq(). | | | | | | | | The messageID used on the | | | | API is persistent over | | | | sessions and at least unique | | | | within the context of a | | | | mailbox. | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | From | TpAddress | The address of the sender of | | | | the message. | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | To | TpAddressSet | A set of addresses | | | | representing the primary | | | | recipients of the message. | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | Subject | TpString | Specifies the subject of the | | | | message. | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | ReceivedDate | TpDateAndTime | Specifies the date/time that | | | | the message was received by | | | | the messaging system. | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+ | Size | TpInt32 | Specifies the size of the | | | | message in bytes. | +------------------+------------------+------------------------------+
### 11.2.11 TpMessageDescriptionList
Defines a numbered list of data elements of TpMessageDescription.
### 11.2.12 TpMessagingNotificationRequested
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the criteria relating to
event requests.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type EventCriteria
TpMessagingEventCriteriaSet AssignmentID TpInt32
* * *
### 11.2.13 TpMessagingNotificationRequestedSet
Defines a numbered Set of Data Elements of TpMessagingNotificationRequested.
### 11.2.14 TpMessagingNotificationRequestedSetEntry
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify a set of requested
notifications and an indication whether more notifications can be requested.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description
MessagingNotificationRequestedSet TpMessagingNotificationRequestedSet Numbered
set of requested notifications. Final TpBoolean Indication whether the set of
notifications is the final set (TRUE) or if there are more notifications
available (FALSE).
* * *
### 11.2.15 TpNewMessageStatusReportArrivedInfo
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that specify the information returned to
the application in a New Message Status Report Arrived event.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description MessageID TpString The
message ID uniquely identifying the message. DestinationAddress TpAddress
Indicates the destination address of the original MM message sent using
sendMessageWithNotifyReq() DeliveryReportType TpMessageDeliveryReportType
Defines the type of message delivery report DeliveryReportInfo TpString
Additional information
* * *
## 11.3 Error type data definitions
### 11.3.1 TpMessageInfoPropertyError
Defines the Sequence of Data Elements that identify a message property and the
reason why it was not set.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type MessagePropertyName
TpMessageInfoPropertyName Error TpSetPropertyError
* * *
### 11.3.2 TpMessagingError
A set of general error identifiers to include in Err methods.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_ERROR_UNDEFINED 0 Undefined
P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION 1 Authentication Information is
not valid P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_MAILBOX 2 Chosen Mailbox Address is invalid
P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_DELIVERY_TYPE 3 The delivery mechanism specified is
invalid or is not supported P_MMM_ERROR_MAX_MESSAGE_SIZE_EXCEEDED 4 The
maximum size of a message has been exceeded P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_FOLDER_ID 5
The folder ID is invalid P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID 6 The message ID is
invalid P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_PART_ID 7 The part ID is invalid
P_MMM_ERROR_DELIVERY_TYPE_ADDRESS_TYPE_MISMATCH 8 The address type does not
match the message delivery type
P_MMM_ERROR_DELIVERY_TYPE_MESSAGE_TYPE_MISMATCH 9 The message format does not
match the message delivery type P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_DELIVERY_TIME 10 The
requested delivery time is invalid P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_VALIDITY_TIME 11 The
requested validity time is invalid P_MMM_ERROR_MAX_SUBJECT_SIZE_EXCEEDED 12
The maximum size of the subject field has been exceeded P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_ID
13 The BillingID is invalid P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_NESTING_LEVEL 14 The nesting
level is invalid P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_CRITERIA 15 The criteria specified are
invalid P_MMM_ERROR_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE 16 The requested information is
not available, e.g. message status information P_MMM_ERROR_CANNOT_CANCEL 17
The message cannot be cancelled P_MMM_ERROR_INVALID_HEADER 18 The message
header is invalid P_MMM_INVALID_NETWORK_STATE 19 Although the sequence of
method calls is allowed by the gateway, the underlying protocol cannot support
it. P_MMM_ERROR_RESOURCE_UNAVAILABLE 20 The information resources used by the
messaging service are unavailable, e.g. due to an overload situation.
P_MMM_ERROR_RESOURCE_TIMEOUT 21 The request has been accepted by the resource
but it did not report a result.
* * *
### 11.3.3 TpMessageInfoPropertyErrorSet
Defines a Numbered Set of Data Elements of
[TpMessageInfoProperty]{.underline}Error.
### 11.3.4 TpSetPropertyError
Identifies the reason why a property was not set.
* * *
Name Value Description P_MMM_PROPERTY_NOT_SET 0 The property was not set. No
further information is available. P_MMM_PROPERTY_READONLY 1 The property is
readonly and cannot be modified by an application.
P_MMM_PROPERTY_INSUFFICIENT_PRIVILEGE 2 The application is not authorised to
modify the property. P_MMM_PROPERTY_NAME_UNKNOWN 3 The property name is
unknown.
* * *
# 12 Exception Classes
The following are the list of exception classes which are used in this
interface of the API.
* * *
Name Description P_MMM_INVALID_AUTHENTICATION_INFORMATION Authentication
Information is not valid P_MMM_INVALID_MAILBOX Chosen Mailbox Address is
invalid P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TYPE The delivery mechanism specified is
invalid or is not supported P_MMM_MAX_MESSAGE_SIZE_EXCEEDED The maximum size
of a message has been exceeded P_MMM_INVALID_FOLDER_ID The folder ID is
invalid P_MMM_INVALID_MESSAGE_ID The message ID is invalid
P_MMM_INVALID_PART_ID The part ID is invalid
P_MMM_DELIVERY_TYPE_ADDRESS_TYPE_MISMATCH The address type does not match the
message delivery type P_MMM_DELIVERY_TYPE_MESSAGE_TYPE_MISMATCH The message
format does not match the message delivery type P_MMM_INVALID_PROPERTY The
property name is invalid P_MMM_INVALID_DELIVERY_TIME The requested delivery
time is invalid P_MMM_INVALID_VALIDITY_TIME The requested validity time is
invalid P_MMM_MAX_SUBJECT_SIZE_EXCEEDED The maximum size of the subject field
has been exceeded P_MMM_INFORMATION_NOT_AVAILABLE The requested information is
not available, e.g. message status information P_MMM_CANNOT_CANCEL The message
cannot be cancelled P_MMM_INVALID_HEADER The message header is invalid
* * *
Each exception class contains the following structure.
* * *
Structure Element Name Structure Element Type Structure Element Description
ExtraInformation TpString Carries extra information to help identify the
source of the exception, e.g. a parameter name
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Multi-Media Messaging
SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in a
text file (mmm.idl) contained in archive 2919815V800IDL.ZIP which accompanies
the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Multi-Media Messaging
SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 2919815V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java API Description of the Multi-Media
Messaging SCF
The Java API realization of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java Realization rules defined in Part 1 of the present
document. These rules aim to deliver for Java, a developer API, provided as a
realization, supporting a Java API that represents the UML specifications. The
rules support the production of both J2SE and J2EE versions of the API from
the common UML specifications.
The J2SE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 2919815V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE representation of this interface specification is provided as Java
Code, contained in archive 2919815V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 1:
Common Definitions Multi Media Messaging for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification. The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: Multi Media Messaging SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.6 Clause 6: Class Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: The Service Interface Specifications
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Multi Media Messaging Interface Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.9 Clause 9: State Transition Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.10 Clause 10: Multi-Media Messaging Service Properties
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.11 Clause 11: Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.12 Clause 12: Exception Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.13 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Multi-Media Messaging
SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.14 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Multi-Media Messaging
SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.15 Annex C (informative): Java API Description of the Multi-Media
Messaging SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
#