# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 22 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
**Part 18: \"Device capabilities and configuration\"**
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: **\"** Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
**Part 22: \"Policy\"**
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 22 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Policy Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Policy Web Service are defined here, these
being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.199-01: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services;
Part 1: Common\".
[5] IETF RFC 3460: \"Policy Core Information Model (PCIM) Extensions\".
[6] IETF RFC 3198: \"Terminology for Policy-Based Management\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.198-13: \"Open Service Access (OSA) Application Programming
Interface (API); Part 13: Policy management Service Capability Feature
(SCF)\".
[8] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
> NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] apply.
**Policy** : An ordered combination of policy rules that defines how to
administer, manage, and control access to resources. Derived from RFC 3460 [5]
and RFC 3198 [6].
**Policy Rule** : A combination of conditions and actions to be performed if
the condition is true.
**Policy Action** : Action (e.g. invocation of a function, script, code,
workflow, etc) that is associated to a policy condition in a policy rule and
that is executed when its associated policy condition results in \"true\" from
the policy evaluation step.
**Policy Condition** : A condition is a Boolean predicate that yields true or
false.
**Policy Evaluation** : The process of evaluating the policy conditions and
executing the associated policy actions up to the point that the end of the
policy is reached.
**Policy Provisioning** : The act of describing, creating, updating, deleting,
provisioning, and viewing policies. A meta-model or representation scheme may
be used in this activity.
**Resource** : any component, function, or application that can receive and
process requests.
**Role** : a type of attribute that is used to select one or more policies for
a set of entities and/or components from among a much larger set of available
policies.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The Policy Web Service is defined to offer provisioning and evaluation
functions for policies. This Specification is separated into four interfaces.
  * PolicyProvisioning interface includes the operation to create, modify, view, and delete policies.
  * PolicyEvaluation interface provides operations to request evaluation of policies.
  * PolicyEventNotificationManager interface provides functions for starting and ending subscription of the notification about events.
  * PolicyEventNotification interface is defined for delivering the notification to the application when the event occurs.
The Policy Web Service is defined to provide simple means for applications to
make use policies to satisfy two purposes as follows:
  * The first one is to provide the user defined policies for the 3^rd^ party applications who want to personalize their services by using their own preference expressed as policies at a high level. At this level, policies could be defined and managed by 3^rd^ party applications, and applied to any policy enabled service.
  * The second one is to protect resources in network from unauthorized requests based on policies, therefore enables the network operators and service providers to control the access to their resources. Network resources can be accessed in a secure and controlled way and network operator could impose constraints on the usage of their services.
The Policy Web Service is provided with the architecture as shown in figure
4-1. This Policy Web Service is focused on the easy and simplified way to
manage and evaluate policy rules. It can interact with OSA/Parlay Policy
Management SCF [7] or directly access network resource if necessary.
Figure 4-1 : Policy web service architecture
# 5 Namespaces
The PolicyProvisioning interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/policy_provisioning/v4_0
The PolicyEvaluation interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/policy_evaluation/v4_0
The PolicyEventNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/policy_event_notification_manager/v4_0
The PolicyEventNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/policy_event_notification/notification/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/policy/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [8]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Creation of a conditionList or actionList
Pattern: Request / Response
It provides the mechanism for creating unattached conditionList or actionList.
When the operation is invoked, the sequence diagram below shows both cases for
creating a conditionList and an actionList. As the result of creation, a
conditionID or actionID may be returned to the application. For deleting
created conditionList or actionList, Application should use the conditionID or
actionID.
Figure 6.1 : Sequence Diagram of creating a conditionList and an actionList
## 6.2 Creation of a Rule
Pattern: Request / Response
It provides the mechanism for creating the specified rule. An application
should assign the name for the new rule. As the result of the request, a
ruleID may be returned to the application and application should keep this ID
for management of the rule created.
Figure 6.2 : Sequence Diagram of creating a rule
## 6.3 Querying DomainRuleList
Pattern: Request / Response
It provides the mechanism for retrieving a domainList or ruleList. If an
application wants to request a ruleList in the specified domain, then it
should be requested with the name of domain or rule. This sequence diagram
below shows both cases.
Figure 6.3 : Sequence Diagram of querying a domainList or ruleList
## 6.4 Querying of a ConditionList/Conditions or ActionList/Actions
Pattern: Request / Response
This sequence diagram below shows how to retrieve a conditionList or
actionList, and the conditions or actions in the conditionList or actionList.
An application may request an unattached conditionLists or actionLists to
reuse conditions or actions in a conditionList or actionList.
Figure 6.4 : Sequence Diagram of querying a conditionList or actionList and
conditions or actions aggregated in the list
## 6.5 Policy Evaluation
Pattern: Request / Response
The following sequence diagram shows how to request the evaluation of a policy
rule. An application should create a signature in a domain before requesting
the evaluation. The name of signature should be clarified within a request for
evaluation.
Figure 6.5 : Sequence Diagram of requesting an evaluation
## 6.6 Policy Event Notification
Pattern: Application Correlated Multiple Notifications.
The application can request to be notified of the event which is related with
event types.
Figure 6.6 : Sequence Diagram of Event Notification
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 Void
NameValuePair structure is moved to the Parlay X Web Services part
1\"common\".
## 7.2 VariableSet
This data structure is used to define the attribute which is used in a
condition or action.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description name xsd:string No Name of the variable set
type xsd:string No Type of the variable value xsd:string Yes Value of the
variable description xsd:string Yes Description of the variable
* * *
## 7.3 ConditionType
This enumeration is to clarify expressional syntax of conditions in a
condition list.
* * *
Enumeration Description and It indicates the conditions in a condition list
are represented as an ANDed set. or It indicates the conditions in a condition
list are represented as an ORed set.
* * *
## 7.4 Action
This data structure is to be performed when the condition expression evaluates
to TRUE.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description actionName xsd:string No Name of the action
data set nameValuePair NameValuePair[1..unbounded] No Name and value pair of
action sequenceNumber xsd:int Yes It indicates the relative position of ac
action in the sequence of actions associated with a policy rule
* * *
## 7.5 Condition
This data structure is used to be associated with a policy rule.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description conditionName xsd:string No Name of the
condition data set nameValuePair NameValuePair[1..unbounded] No Name and value
pair of condition negated xsd:Boolean No Individual conditions may either be
negated(NOT Condition) or unnegated(Condition)
* * *
## 7.6 RuleInfo
Applications use this information structure to describe detailed information
about a policy rule.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description roles xsd:string[1..unbounded] No This
represents the roles and role combinations associated with a policy rule. More
than one role combination can be associated with a single policy rule.
description xsd:string Yes This provides an informative description about a
rule. ruleUsage xsd:string Yes This is to recommend how this policy rule
should be used. priority xsd:int Yes This is to prioritize policy rules
relative to each other in a Domain. Lager integer values indicate higher
priority. mandatory xsd:boolean Yes This is to indicate whether evaluation of
a policy rule is mandatory or not. The evaluation of a policy rule must be
attempted if this value is TRUE. If it is FALSE, then the evaluation of the
rule is \"best effort\" and may be ignored. duration Common:TimeMetric Yes
Length of time a rule is valid for, null to use default time defined by
service policy
* * *
## 7.7 EventType
This type is used for requesting notification about any change or deletion of
one among a specified domain, rule, conditionlist, condition, actionlist, and
action.
* * *
Enumeration Description domain It means the event is related with a domain
rule It means the event is related with a rule conditionList It means the
event is related with a conditionList condition It means the event is related
with a condition actionList It means the event is related with an actionList
action It means the event is related with an action
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: PolicyProvisioning
### 8.1.1 Operation: createDomain
  * This operation is used for requesting the creation of the specified policy domain.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: createDomainRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainName xsd:string No The name of
the domain to be created roles xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The name of the
role to be associated with the domain description xsd:string Yes This provides
a informative description about a domain
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: createDomainResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainID xsd:string No The ID of domain
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.2 Operation: createRule
This operation is used to request the creation of the specified policy rule
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: createRuleRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description ruleName xsd:string No The name of the
rule to be created domainName xsd:string No The name of the domain to be
created conditionListName xsd:string No The name of the condition list to be
attached with the rule. This conditionList should be created before this
request. actionListName xsd:string No The name of the action list to be
attached to with the rule. This action list should be created before this
request. ruleInfo RuleInfo No This describes rule information to be associated
with the rule.
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: createRuleResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description ruleID xsd:string No The ID of rule
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.3 Operation: modifyRule
This operation is used to request modifying the specified policy rule. The
ruleID which was returned from Web Service when the rule was created, should
be included in this request.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: modifyRuleRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description ruleName xsd:string No The name of the
rule to be modified ruleID xsd:string No The ID of rule returned from the
initial request of creation conditionListName xsd:string Yes The name of the
condition list to change actionListName xsd:string Yes The name of the action
list to change ruleInfo RuleInfo Yes This describes rule information to be
associated with the rule
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: modifyRuleResponse
None
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.4 Operation: deleteDomain
This operation is used to request to delete a domain. The domainID which is
returned from this Policy Web Service when the domain is created, it should be
included in this request.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: deleteDomainRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainID xsd:string No The ID of domain
returned from the initial request of creation
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: deleteDomainResponse
None
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.5 Operation: deleteRule
This operation is used to request to delete a rule. The ruleID which was
returned from Web Service when the rule was created, should be included in
this request.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: deleteRuleRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description ruleID xsd:string No The ID of rule
returned from the initial request of creation
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output Message: deleteRuleRespons
None
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.6 Operation: queryDomainList
This operation is used to query a list of domains.
#### 8.1.6.1 Input message: queryDomainList Request
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description applicationID xsd:string No Id of
requestor
* * *
#### 8.1.6.2 Output message: queryDomainList Response
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The
list of Domains
* * *
#### 8.1.6.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.7 Operation: queryRuleList
This operation is used to query a list of rules in a domain. It may return all
of rule lists in the specified domain and in this case, domain name should be
included within the request.
#### 8.1.7.1 Input message: queryRuleList Request
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainName xsd:string Yes The name of
the specified domain. Only when an application needs the list of rule in a
domain, domain name is required.
* * *
#### 8.1.7.2 Output message: queryRuleList Response
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The
list of Rules
* * *
#### 8.1.7.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.8 Operation: queryRuleInfo
This operation is used to query information of a rule in the specified domain.
#### 8.1.8.1 Input message: queryRuleInfo Request
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description ruleName xsd:string No The name of the
rule domainName xsd:string No The name of the domain
* * *
#### 8.1.8.2 Output message: queryRuleInfo Response
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description name xsd:string No The name of the rule
conditionListName xsd:string No The name of the condition list to be attached
with the rule. This conditionList should be created before this request.
actionListName xsd:string No The name of the action list to be attached to
with the rule. This action list should be created before this request.
ruleInfo RuleInfo No This describes rule information to be associated with the
rule.
* * *
#### 8.1.8.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.9 Operation: queryRoles
This operation is used to query roles defined in a specified domain. It could
be used to retrieve the roles associated with the domain.
#### 8.1.9.1 Input message: queryRoles Request
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainName xsd:string No The name of
the domain
* * *
#### 8.1.9.2 Output message: queryRoles Response
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainName xsd:string No The name of
the domain roles xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The name of the roles to be
associated with the domain
* * *
#### 8.1.9.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.10 Operation: createConditonList
This operation is used to request the creation of an unattached conditionList.
#### 8.1.10.1 Input message: createConditionList Request
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description conditionListName xsd:string No The
name of the conditionList to be created. conditions Condition[1..bounded] No
The set of conditions to be included in the conditionList. conditionType
ConditionType No It describes the relationship of conditions in a condition
list. attributes VariableSet[0..bounded] Yes It describes the attribute set if
conditions need attributes
* * *
#### 8.1.10.2 Output message: createConditionList Response
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description conditionListID xsd:string No The ID of
conditionList
* * *
#### 8.1.10.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.11 Operation: createActionList
This operation is used to request the creation of an unattached actionList.
#### 8.1.11.1 Input message: createActionList Request
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description actionListName xsd:string No The name
of the action list to be created actions Action[1..unbounded] No The set of
actions to be included in the actionList. attributes VariableSet[0..unbounded]
Yes It describes the attribute set if actions need attributes
* * *
#### 8.1.11.2 Output message: createActionList Response
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description actionListID xsd:string No The ID of
actionList
* * *
#### 8.1.11.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.12 Operation: deleteConditionList
This operation is used to request deleting the specified unattached
conditionList
#### 8.1.12.1 Input message: deleteConditionListRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description conditionListID xsd:string No The ID of
conditionList returned from the initial request of creation
* * *
#### 8.1.12.2 Output message: deleteConditionListResponse
None
#### 8.1.12.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.13 Operation: deleteActionList
This operation is used to request deleting the specified unattached
actionList.
#### 8.1.13.1 Input message: deleteActionListRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description actionListID xsd:string No The ID of
request returned from the initial request of creation
* * *
#### 8.1.13.2 Output message: deleteActionListResponse
None
#### 8.1.13.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.14 Operation: queryConditionList
This operation is used to query the list of conditionLists which are
unattached with any rule.
#### 8.1.14.1 Input message: queryConditionListRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description applicationID xsd:string No Id of
requestor
* * *
#### 8.1.14.2 Output message: queryConditionListResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The
list of ConditionLists
* * *
#### 8.1.14.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.15 Operation: queryActionList
This operation is used to query the list of actionLists which are unattached
with any rule.
#### 8.1.15.1 Input message: queryActionListRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description applicationID xsd:string No Id of
requestor
* * *
#### 8.1.15.2 Output message: queryActionListResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The
list of ActionLists.
* * *
#### 8.1.15.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.16 Operation: queryActionListInfo
This operation is used to query action information aggregated in the specified
actionList. Return value may include the actions.
#### 8.1.16.1 Input message: queryActionListInfoRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description actionListName xsd:string No The name
of the actionList.
* * *
#### 8.1.16.2 Output message: queryActionListInfoResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result Action[1..unbounded] Yes Actions
aggregated in the specified actionList.
* * *
#### 8.1.16.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.17 Operation: queryConditionListInfo
This operation is used to query condition information aggregated in the
specified conditionList. Return value may include the conditions.
#### 8.1.17.1 Input message: queryConditionListInfoRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description conditionListName xsd:string No The
name of the conditionList.
* * *
#### 8.1.17.2 Output message: queryConditionListInfoResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result Condition[1..unbounded] Yes
Conditions aggregated in the specified conditionList.
* * *
#### 8.1.17.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.1.18 Operation: createSignature
This operation is used to create the new signature in specified domain for
evaluation. It includes the name of all inputs which may be used in the
request of evaluation and all outputs, relevant policy roles. Name of policy
roles are used to select rules relevant to the request. This could be a Null
collection and in this case, all of rules in the specified domain may be
evaluated. For the request of Evaluation, the operation should assign more
than one role. At the evaluation time, evaluatePoilcy operation uses this
signature to find out rules associated with the roles.
#### 8.1.18.1 Input message: CreateSignatureRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainName xsd :string No The name of
the domain. signatureName xsd :string No The name of the signature to be
created. roles xsd :string[0..unbounded] Yes More than one role could be
assigned to a signature in a domain. The names of roles should be defined when
the domain is created. inputParameters xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The names
of input variable sets which are attribute sets defined before.
outputParameters xsd:string[1..unbounded] No The names of output variable sets
which are attribute sets defined before.
* * *
#### 8.1.18.2 Output message: createSignatureResponse
None
#### 8.1.18.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4]:
  * POL0001: Policy error
## 8.2 Interface: PolicyEvaluation
### 8.2.1 Operation: evaluatePolicy
This operation is used to request an evaluation of a rule. The signature
should be defined before requesting evaluation.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input Message: evaluatePolicyRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description domainName xsd :string No Name of the
domain name signatureName xsd :string No Name of the signature which is used
for request of evaluation inputVariable NameValuePair[1..unbounded] No An
attribute set of one or more input variables that is used for evaluation of
the specified rule.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output Message: evaluatePolicyResponse
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description result NameValuePair[1..unbounded] No
An attribute set of one or more output variables.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] :
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] :
  * POL0001: Policy error
## 8.3 Interface: PolicyEventNotificationManager
### 8.3.1 Operation: startEventNotification
This operation is used to subscribe for a notification when the event occurs.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input Message: startEventNotificationRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description reference Common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition description xsd:string Yes It includes the
information of event eventType EventType No It describes the type of event.
eventName xsd:string No It describes the name of event type frequency
Common:TimeMetric Yes Maximum frequency of notifications(can also be
considered minimum time between notifications) duration Common:TimeMetric Yes
Length of time notifications occur for, null to use default notification time
defined by service policy count xsd:int Yes Maximum number of notifications,
zero if no maximum
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output Message: startEventNotificationResponse
None
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] :
  * SVC0001: Service error
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] :
  * POL0001: Policy error
### 8.3.2 Operation: endEventNotification
This operation is used to request ending a notification
#### 8.3.2.1 Input Message: endEventNotificationRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator of
request
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output Message: endEventNotificationResponse
None
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] :
  * SVC0001: Service error
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-01 [4] :
  * POL0001: Policy error
## 8.4 Interface: PolicyEventNotification
### 8.4.1 Operation: eventNotification
A notification is delivered to the application with the event information when
the monitored policy rule changes.
#### 8.4.1.1 Input Message: eventNotificationRequest
* * *
PartName PartType Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification description xsd:string No It
describes detailed information about the event.
* * *
#### 8.4.1.2 Output Message: eventNotificationResponse
None
#### 8.4.1.3 Referenced Faults
None
# 9 Fault definitions
There are no service-specific fault definitions for this service.
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MaximumNotificationFrequency Common:TimeMetric Maximum
rate of notification delivery (also can be considered minimum time between
notifications) MaximumNotificationDuration Common:TimeMetric Maximum amount of
time a notification may be set up for DefaultNotificationDuration
Common:TimeMetric Default amount of time a notification will be set up for
MaximumCount xsd:int Maximum number of notifications that may be requested
UnlimitedCountAllowed xsd:boolean Allowed to specify unlimited notification
count(i.e. specify zero in notification count requested)
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for policy
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to the content requirements specified in the present document and is
contained in text files;
  * parlayx_policy_evaluation_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_evaluation_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_event_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_event_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_event_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_event_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_provisioning_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_provisioning_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_policy_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 22_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 22_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 22:
Policy for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: \"cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905 [1]) mostly in
the broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are
no additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for policy
There are no additions or exclusions.
#