# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 11 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
**Part 11: \"Audio call\"**
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 11 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Audio Call Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Audio Call Web Service are defined here, these
being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The web service had been extended to support media.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The service provides a flexible way to provide multimedia message delivery and
the dynamic management of the media involved for the call participants. The
interface is very simple, not requiring the developer to manage the creation
of the call.
The Audio Call web service allows media to be added/dropped for any ongoing
call. This web service also allows interaction with other call control web
services (e.g. multimedia conference, third party call), enabling delivery of
multimedia to call participants in an ongoing call.
The underlying model of the service is based on the following entities:
  * **Call Session:** a call (uniquely identified) to which participants > can be added/removed.
  * **Call Participant:** each of the call parties (uniquely identified) > involved in the call session.
  * **Media:** the call can utilize multiple media types to support the > participants\' communication. In particular both audio and video > streams are available, including the specific stream direction > (i.e. incoming, outgoing, bidirectional).
NOTE 1: Call participants in a Call Session are anticipated to be uniquely
identifiable using their URI address.
There are several mechanisms which may be utilized for the message content:
  * Text, to be rendered using a Text-To-Speech (TTS) engine.
  * Audio content (such as .WAV content), to be rendered by an audio > player.
  * VoiceXML, to be rendered using a VoiceXML browser.
  * Video, to provide video streaming to the user.
  * Capture media input from the end user
The service may provide one or more mechanisms, as determined by service
policy.
The service allows application control of the call participants' multimedia in
a call:
  * Allow multiple media types for each participant. In particular both > audio and video as well as chat and data.
  * Add and delete media types.
  * Control the specific media stream direction (i.e. incoming, > outgoing, bidirectional) for each media type.
  * Get the current media status of a single call participant or for all > the call participants in a call.
  * Control the media interactions for a call participant.
A service policy determines if multimedia application control is supported.
# 5 Namespaces
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/ audio_call/v4_0
The PlayMedia interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/audio_call/play_media/v4_0
The CaptureMedia interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/audio_call/capture_media/v4_0
The Multimedia interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/audio_call/multimedia/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema http:///[5]. The use of the name
\'xsd\' is not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Play audio and check status
Pattern: Request / response.
This example shows an audio message being played, and the different responses
to status requests that occur at different phases. Note that the last
response, a service exception, reflects the transient nature of results, and
that these results will expire.
## 6.2 Play audio and cancel
Pattern: Request / response.
The playing of a message may be ended by the requester, as shown.
## 6.3 Adding and Removing Media
This example shows how to add media, read media information, and remove media
for a participant on an existing call.
## 6.4 Play Media File and Collect Digits from End User
This example shows an application playing a media file and retrieving digits
from the end user.
Making call session should precede any operations for media interaction. Call
session can be created by TPC, CN, or MMC web services. In this case, the call
session for media interaction is created by invoking MakeCallSession request.
Collecting digits should be performed by StartPlayAndCollectNotification prior
to StartPlayAndCollectInteraction with the same call session identifier
generated by MakeCallSession.
{width="6.133333333333334in" height="4.61875in"}
Figure 6.4
## 6.5 Play Media and Retrieve media from End user
This example shows an application playing a media file, retrieving media from
the end user and recording it.
Making call session should precede any operations for media interaction. Call
session can be created by TPC, CN, or MMC web services. In this case, the call
session for media interaction is created by invoking MakeCallSession request.
Recording information should be performed by StartPlayAndRecordNotification
prior to StartPlayAndRecordInteraction with the same call session identifier
generated by MakeCallSession.
{width="6.133333333333334in" height="4.61875in"}
Figure 6.5
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 MessageStatus enumeration
Status of the message after play message operation has been invoked.
* * *
Element Name Description Played Message has been played Playing Message is
currently playing Pending Message has not yet started playing Error An error
has occurred, message will not be played
* * *
## 7.2 DigitConfig Structure
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description MaxDigits xsd:int Yes The
maximum number of digits that will be collected. MinDigits xsd:int Yes The
minimum number of digits that will be collected. If this isn\'t achieved, then
a default prompt shall be played requesting for more digits to be entered.
InterruptMedia xsd:boolean No Indicates whether the application allows the end
user to interrupt, or pause, the prompt.
* * *
## 7.3 RecConfig Structure
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description RecFileLocation xsd:anyURI Yes
The location for storing the information recorded from the terminal
MaxRecordingLength common:TimeMetric Yes The maximum time to record the media
for
* * *
## 7.4 PlayConfig Structure
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description PlayFileLocation xsd:anyURI Yes
The location of the file that will be played to the endpoint, including
VoiceXML script location TextString xsd:string Yes The text to be converted by
a Text-To-Speech engine MessageFormat AnnouncementFormat No The type of
announcement prompt to play to the end user InterruptMedia xsd:boolean No
Indicates whether the application allows the end user to interrupt, or pause,
the prompt.
* * *
## 7.5 AnnouncementFormat Enumeration
* * *
Enumeration value Description Audio Announcement is in Audio format VoiceXML
Announcement is in VoiceXML format TextToSpeech Announcement is in
TextToSpeech format Video Announcement is in Video format
ApplicationSpecificFormat Announcement is in an ApplicationSpecificFormat
* * *
## 7.6 MediaMessageStatus structure
Status of the message for each callParticipant after message operation has
been invoked.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description callParticipant xsd:anyURI No
Participant address associated with correlator status MessageStatus No Current
playing status of the participant
* * *
## 7.7 MediaParticipantInfo structure
* * *
Name Type Optional Description CallParticipant xsd:anyURI No Call Participant
identifier MediaInfo common:MediaInfo[1..unbounded] No Information about media
currently used by a call participant
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: PlayMedia
The PlayMedia interface allows the playing of media messages using different
forms of media content, and operations to monitor or cancel requests.
In all operations, a callSessionIdentifier is used to indicate the ongoing
call session to which the request applies. If the call session is not valid,
the Parlay X web service shall raise an exception, invalid input value. All
operations may also list the set of **CallParticipants** to which the
requested media shall be provided. The set of participant addresses is
restricted to a subset of the valid participant addresses contained within the
callSession identified.
### 8.1.1 Operation: PlayTextMessage
The invocation of **PlayTextMessage** requests to play a text identified by
**Text,** to the set of call participants that are provided and contained
within the **CallSessionIdentifier** specified. The text will be read through
a Text-to-Speech engine, according to the specified **Language**. The
invocation returns as soon as the request is received by the system, i.e. the
actual call is performed asynchronously. The **Correlator** , returned by the
invocation, can be used to identify the request, e.g. to get information on
the request status.
This operation is intended to play a message to all of the call participants
identified. If no call addresses are specified, the Parlay X Web Service shall
play the message to all call participants associated within the
**CallSessionIdentifier**. If call participants are specified, then only those
call participants specified within the call session shall be played the
message. The latter is to allow a message to be played to just one (or some)
of the participants, where not all the participants in the call session are to
receive the message.
All occurrences of invalid **CallSessionIdentifier** or **CallParticipants**
shall result in an invalid input value exception.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: PlayTextMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Identifies the call session to which the message shall be played.
CallParticipants xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes The set of participant
addresses contained within the callSession to which the message is to be
played Text xsd:string No Text to process with a Text-To-Speech engine
Language xsd:string No Language of text (ISO string) Charging
common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to apply for the playing of this
message. If charging is not supported then a PolicyException (POL0008) will be
returned.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: PlayTextMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No Correlator for
this message for subsequent interactions
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0008: Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
### 8.1.2 Operation: PlayAudioMessage
The invocation of **PlayAudioMessage** requests to play an audio file located
at **AudioUrl,** to the set of call participants that are provided and
contained within the **CallSessionIdentifier** specified. The invocation
returns as soon as the request is received by the system, i.e. the actual call
is performed asynchronously. The **Correlator** , returned by the invocation,
can be used to identify the request, e.g. to get information on the request
status.
This operation is intended to play a message to all of the call participants
identified. If no call participant addresses are specified, the Parlay X Web
Service shall play the message to all call participants associated within the
**callSessionIdentifier**. If call participant addresses are specified, then
only those addresses specified within the call session shall be played the
message. The latter is to allow a message to be played to just one (or some)
of the participants, where not all the participants in the call session are to
receive the message.
All occurrences of invalid **CallSessionIdentifier** or **CallParticipants**
shall result in an invalid input value exception.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: PlayAudioMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Identifies the call session to which the message shall be played.
CallParticipants xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes The set of call participant
addresses contained within the callSession to which the message is to be
played AudioUrl xsd:anyURI No Location of audio content to play Charging
common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to apply for the playing of this
message. If charging is not supported then a PolicyException (POL0008) will be
returned.
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: PlayAudioMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No Correlator for
this message for subsequent interactions
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0008: Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
### 8.1.3 Operation: PlayVoiceXmlMessage
The invocation of **PlayVoiceXmlMessage** requests to process VoiceXML content
located at **VoiceXmlUrl,** to the set of call participants that are provided
and contained within the **CallSessionIdentifier** specified. The invocation
returns as soon as the request is received by the system, i.e. the actual call
is performed asynchronously. The **Correlator** , returned by the invocation,
can be used to identify the request, e.g. to get information on the request
status.
This operation is intended to play a message to all of the call participants
identified. If no call participant addresses are specified, the Parlay X Web
Service shall play the message to all call participants associated within the
**CallSessionIdentifier**. If call participant addresses are specified, then
only those addresses specified within the call session shall be played the
message. The latter is to allow a message to be played to just one (or some)
of the participants, where not all the participants in the call session are to
receive the message.
All occurrences of invalid **CallSessionIdentifier** or **CallParticipants**
shall result in an invalid input value exception.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: PlayVoiceXmlMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Identifies the call session to which the message shall be played.
CallParticipants xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes The set of call participant
addresses contained within the callSession to which the message is to be
played VoiceXmlUrl xsd:anyURI No Location of VoiceXML content to process
Charging common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to apply for the playing of
this message. If charging is not supported then a PolicyException (POL0008)
will be returned.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: PlayVoiceXMLMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No Correlator for
this message for subsequent interactions
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0008: Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
### 8.1.3a Operation: PlayVideoMessage
The invocation of **PlayVideoMessage** requests to play a video stream
identified by **Video,** to the set of call participants that are provided and
contained within the **CallSessionIdentifier** specified. The invocation
returns as soon as the request is received by the system, i.e. the actual call
is performed asynchronously. The **Correlator** , returned by the invocation,
can be used to identify the request, e.g. to get information on the request
status.
This operation is intended to play video to all of the call participants
identified. If no call participant addresses are specified, the Parlay X Web
Service shall play the video to all call participants associated within the
**CallSessionIdentifier**. If call participant addresses are specified, then
only those addresses specified within the call session shall be played the
message. The latter is to allow a message to be played to just one (or some)
of the participants, where not all the participants in the call session are to
receive the message.
All occurrences of invalid **CallSessionIdentifier** or **CallParticipants**
shall result in an invalid input value exception.
#### 8.1.3a.1 Input message: PlayVideoMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Identifies the call session to which the message shall be played.
CallParticipants xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes The set of call participant
addresses contained within the callSession to which the message is to be
played Video xsd:anyURI No Identifies the video content to be played. Charging
common:ChargingInformation Yes Charge to apply for the playing of this
message. If charging is not supported then a PolicyException (POL0008) will be
returned.
* * *
#### 8.1.3a.2 Output message: PlayVideoMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:string No Correlator for
this message for subsequent interactions
* * *
#### 8.1.3a.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0008: Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
### 8.1.4 Operation: GetMessageStatus
The invocation of **GetMessageStatus** retrieves the current status,
**Result** , of a previous request identified by **Correlator**.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: GetMessageStatusRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
returned from play operation to check
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: GetMessageStatusResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
Result MediaMessageStatus\ No Current playing status for each call participant
related to correlator [1..unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.1.5 Operation: EndMessage
The invocation of **EndMessage** cancels/stops a previous request identified
by **Correlator**. It returns a **Result** , with the status of the request at
the moment of abort.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: EndMessageRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
returned from play operation to cancel
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: EndMessageResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
Result MediaMessageStatus\ No Status of call Participants related to
correlator at the time the endMessage was acted on [1..unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: CaptureMedia
### 8.2.1 Operation: StartPlayAndCollectInteraction
The application shall invoke this operation in order to play a media file to
either one or all call parties on an existing call and collect digits from a
call party. The call shall be identified using the **CallSessionIdentifier**
part of the request message. If the **CallParticipant** part is provided, then
the media interaction is limited to this participant on the call as opposed to
the entire call.
The **PlayingConfiguration** part shall contain all the information about the
announcement to be played to the participant or call. The
**DigitConfiguration** part shall contain the configuration parameters for the
digit collection.
The response message shall contain a **MediaIdentifier** part that can be used
by the application, if so desired, to interrupt an ongoing media interaction
using the **stopMediaInteraction** operation.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: StartPlayAndCollectInteractionRequest
+--------------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | Part Name | Part Type | Optional | Description | +--------------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | Cal | xsd:string | No | Identifies the | | lSessionIdentifier | | | call session for | | | | | the media | | | | | interaction. | +--------------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | CallParticipant | xsd:anyURI | Yes | If this is | | | | | present, the media | | | | | interaction is | | | | | with this call | | | | | participant only. | | | | | | | | | | If this is not | | | | | present, the media | | | | | interaction is | | | | | with all | | | | | participants on | | | | | the call | +--------------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | Pl | PlayConfig | No | Configuration | | ayingConfiguration | | | parameters related | | | | | to the playing of | | | | | a media file | +--------------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+ | DigitConfiguration | DigitConfig | No | Configuration | | | | | parameters related | | | | | to digit | | | | | collection | +--------------------+-------------+----------+--------------------+
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: StartPlayAndCollectInteractionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result xsd:string No An identifier
that uniquely defines the media interaction
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
```{=html}
``` \- SVC0004 - No valid addresses
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0002 -- Privacy error
### 8.2.2 Operation: StartPlayAndRecordInteraction
The application shall invoke this operation in order to play a media file to
either one or all call parties on an existing call and record information
(media) from a call party. The call shall be identified using the
**CallSessionIdentifier** part of the request message. If the
**CallParticipant** part is provided, then the media interaction is limited to
this participant on the call as opposed to the entire call.
The **PlayingConfiguration** part contains all the information about the
announcement to be played to the participant or call. The
**RecordingConfiguration** part shall contain the configuration parameters for
the media recording.
The response message shall contain a **MediaIdentifier** part that can be used
by the application, if so desired, to interrupt an ongoing media interaction
using the **stopMediaInteraction** operation.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: StartPlayAndRecordInteractionRequest
+---------------------+------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part Name | Part Type | Optional | Description | +---------------------+------------+----------+---------------------+ | Ca | xsd:string | No | Identifies the call | | llSessionIdentifier | | | session for the | | | | | media interaction. | +---------------------+------------+----------+---------------------+ | CallParticipant | xsd:anyURI | Yes | If this is present, | | | | | the media | | | | | interaction is with | | | | | this call | | | | | participant only. | | | | | | | | | | If this is not | | | | | present, the media | | | | | interaction is with | | | | | all participants on | | | | | the call. | +---------------------+------------+----------+---------------------+ | P | PlayConfig | No | Configuration | | layingConfiguration | | | parametersrelated | | | | | to the playing of a | | | | | media file | +---------------------+------------+----------+---------------------+ | Rec | RecConfig | No | Configuration | | ordingConfiguration | | | parameters related | | | | | to media recording | +---------------------+------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: StartPlayAndRecordInteractionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result xsd:string No An identifier
that uniquely defines the media interaction
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
```{=html}
``` \- SVC0004 - No valid addresses
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0002 -- Privacy error
### 8.2.3 Operation: StopMediaInteraction
This operation shall stop an ongoing media interaction. The
**MediaIdentifier** part provided by the application in the request message
shall contain the value returned in the response message of the associated
startPlayAndCollectInteraction or startPlayAndRecordInteraction operation.
The stopMediaInteraction operation is only required in order to interrupt an
ongoing interaction such as on hold music. Many interactions have a natural
endpoint (e.g. collecting digits) and in this case the stopMediaInteraction is
not required.
#### 8.2.3.1 Input message: StopMediaInteractionRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description MediaIdentifier xsd:string No An
identifier that uniquely defines the media interaction
* * *
#### 8.2.3.2 Output message: StopMediaInteractionResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.3.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: Multimedia
The Multimedia interface can be used by an application for dynamically
managing the media types for the participants involved in the call.
### 8.3.1 Operation: AddMediaForParticipants
The invocation of **addMediaForParticipants** requests to add **media**
type(s) to the media set used by all of the call participants identified. If
no call participant addresses are specified, the Audio Call Web Service shall
request addition of the media type(s) specified to all call participants in
the call session (i.e. associated with the **CallSessionIdentifier)**. If call
participants are specified, then only those call participants explicitly
specified shall have the media type(s) added. The latter is to allow media
type(s) to be added or changed for just one (or some) of the participants,
where not all the participants in the call session are to have exactly the
same set of media types.
The added media type has to be compatible with the the set of media types
supported by the participant's device, otherwise the operation will fail. The
resultant media details can be retrieved using **getMediaForParticipant** or
**getMediaForCall.** If a participant has already the requested media type and
direction, the operation shall fail and throw ServiceException SVC0290.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: addMediaForParticipantsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier. It identifies the existing call session or call
conference. This must be a non-null value as it identifies a pre-existing call
(or conference) in the network CallParticipants xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes
Call participant(s). The set of participant addresses contained within the
callSession to which the add media stream is to apply. MediaInfo common:
MediaInfo [1..unbounded] No It identifies the media type(s) the participant(s)
is requested to be able to receive/send and the desired direction of the media
stream(s), i.e. incoming, outgoing or bidirectional. At least one media type
shall be specified as desired.
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: addMediaForParticipantsResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0290: Duplicate media type
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0011: Media type not supported
### 8.3.2 Operation: DeleteMediaForParticipants
The invocation of **deleteMediaForParticipants** requests to delete **media**
types from the media set used by all the call participants identified. If no
call participant addresses are specified, the requested media type(s) for all
call participants in the call session (i.e. associated with the
**CallSessionIdentifier)** shall be removed. If call participants are
specified, then only those call participants explicit specified shall have the
media type(s) removed. The latter is to allow media type(s) to be removed for
just one (or some) of the call participants, where not all the call
participants in the call are to have exact the same set of media types. The
resultant media details can be retrieved using **getMedia ForParticipant** or
**getMediaForCall**
If a call participant does not have the requested media type, the operation
shall fail and throw ServiceException SVC0291.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: deleteMediaForParticipantsRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No Call session identifier. It identifies the
existing call session or call conference. This must be a non-null value as it
identifies a pre-existing call (or conference) in the network
CallParticipants xsd:anyURI [0..unbounded] Yes Call participant(s). The set of
participant addresses contained within the callSession to which the delete
media type(s) is to apply.
Media common:\ No It identifies the media type(s) not to be used any more by
the participant(s). At least one media type shall be specified as desired to
remove. Media [1..unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: deleteMediaForParticipantResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0291: Media stream does not match
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.3.3 Operation: GetMediaForParticipant
The invocation of **getMediaForParticipant** requests information concerning
the current media status of a single participant of the multi-media call
(identified by **CallSessionIdentifier**)
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: getMediaForParticipantRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier. It identifies the existing call session or call
conference. This must be a non-null value as it identifies a pre-existing call
(or conference) in the network CallParticipant xsd:anyURI No Identifies a
specific call participant address within the call session
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: getMediaForParticipantResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result common:
MediaInfo[1..unbounded] No Array containing media status information for the
requested call participant
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.3.4 Operation: GetMediaForCall
The invocation of **getMediaForCall** requests information concerning the
current media status of each participant of the multi-media call identified by
**CallSessionIdentifier.**
#### 8.3.4.1 Input message: getMediaForCallRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Call session identifier. It identifies the existing call session or call
conference. This must be a non-null value as it identifies a pre-existing call
(or conference) in the network
* * *
#### 8.3.4.2 Output message: getMediaForCallResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result MediaParticipantInfo
[1..unbounded] No Array containing media status information for each call
participant
* * *
#### 8.3.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0290: Duplicate media stream
* * *
Name Description messageId SVC0290 text Duplicate media stream variables None
* * *
### 9.1.2 SVC0291: Media stream does not match
* * *
Name Description messageId SVC0291 text Media stream does not match type
specified variables None
* * *
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description AudioContentAvailable xsd:boolean Indicates whether the
service accepts audio content for playing with an audio player.
AudioFormatsSupported xsd:string Comma separated list of audio formats
supported (e.g. WAV, MP3, AU) ChargingSupported xsd:boolean Indicates whether
charging is supported for the play operations DigitCollectionAvailable
xsd:boolean Service accepts digit collection input from the end user MinDigits
xsd:int The minimum number of digits supported for interaction with the end-
user MaxDigits xsd:int The maximum number of digits supported for interaction
with the end-user MaxRecordingLength common:TimeMetric Time interval
indicating the maximum length of time end-user input will be recorded for.
MultimediaSupported xsd:boolean Indicates whether multimedia is supported and
whether an application can change the media types used in a call.
RecordMessageAvailable xsd:boolean Service accepts recorded message input from
the end user StatusRetentionTime common:TimeMetric Time interval for which
status is retained for after a message is played or an error occurs.
TextToSpeechAvailable xsd: boolean Indicates whether the service accepts text
as an input for processing with a Text‑To‑Speech engine. VideoAvailable xsd:
boolean Indicates whether the service accepts video content for streaming.
VoiceXMLAvailable xsd:boolean Indicates whether the service accepts VoiceXML
as an input for processing with a VoiceXML browser. MaximumDescriptions
xsd:int Maximum number of Descriptions that can be charged simultaneously
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Audio call
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files:
  * parlayx_audio_call_capture_media_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_audio_call_capture_media_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_audio_call_multimedia_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_audio_call_multimedia_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_audio_call_play_media_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_audio_call_play_media_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_audio_call_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 11_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 11_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 11:
Audio call for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Audio call
There are no additions or exclusions.
#