# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 19 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
**Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"**
**Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"**
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 19 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Multimedia streaming control Web Service
aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Multimedia streaming control Web
Service are defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.199-6: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
6: Payment\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed Service Description
The service provided to an end-user is consumption of streaming Multimedia.
The end-user has a terminal that is able to request a media stream, either
from a built-in player, or an installed application. The terminal can be any
terminal with streaming media playing capabilities, and the service should
allow a user to transfer between his terminals.
  * The basic scenario is where an individual is browsing the Internet and finds some interesting content that he/she wants to watch. The end-user is then either doing this through the operator's portal or accesses the content provider's site. In the first case, the request is then processed through the portal, and charged as the stream is set-up. In the second case, the content provider redirects the request to the operator, so that the terminal capabilities can be collected and charging is done, before the stream is started.
  * One scenario is an individual watching his favourite sports stream on his TV or PC at home, but he/she must leave the house of some reason, and still wants to continue the session on his mobile terminal. In that case he/she would transfer the ongoing session to the other terminal with other capabilities, since he already paid for the entire episode.
  * The other way is a similar case where an individual arrives at a destination with better viewing capabilities.
## 4.1 Overview
Figure 4.4.1 shows streaming content delivered to mobile terminals, but is not
restricted to any particular terminal type. The content is either on a
location accessible over the Internet or stored locally on an operator\'s
domain or the content provider\'s domain. The access to the content is done
through a smart router controlling the stream towards the terminal.
Transcoding of a stream is an optional feature that could allow users to
switch between different terminal and networks, while consuming content from a
streaming source.
{width="5.206944444444445in" height="3.310416666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.1:
# 5 Namespaces
The StreamingControl interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/streaming / v4_0
The StreamingNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/streaming/notification_manager/v4_0
The StreamingNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/streaming/notification/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/streaming /v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence Diagrams
The following use case diagram defines the core functionality which should be
supported by the Multimedia streaming control web service. These high level
logical use cases will be supported by the defined API, but not necessarily on
a one to one mapping basis.
{width="4.93125in" height="4.88125in"}
Figure 6.1
## 6.1 Getting requests
The following diagram illustrates the scenario where incoming stream requests
are buffered at the operator. The content provider periodically retrieves
streaming requests and handles them. The following diagram illustrates the
scenario where incoming stream requests are buffered at the operator. The
content provider periodically retrieves streaming requests and handles them.
## 6.2 Charging refund
The following diagram illustrates the scenario where incoming stream requests
are sent to the content provider when received by the operator. In this
scenario the stream is cancelled before playing is completed and the content
provider refunds an amount previously requested.
## 6.3 Trans-coding update
The following diagram illustrates the scenario where the capabilities for a
terminal or a network changes, for example due to handover between GRPS and
3G. The contents provider is notified about this change and can change for
example transcoding of the stream.
## 6.4 Controlling multiple streams
The following diagram illustrates the scenario where the content provider
pauses an ongoing stream and temporarily plays another stream, for example an
advertisement. When the second stream ends the first original stream is
continued. From the end users point of view this should be perceived as one
uninterrupted stream.
## 6.5 Redirecting a stream
The following diagram illustrates the scenario where a stream is being
redirected to another device due to a user request. The contents provider
receives the request from the end-user and continues the stream to the new
device.
## 6.6 Multimedia Stream Control with Dynamic QoS
The following sequence diagram provides an example of how an application could
combine functionality from the Multimedia streaming control web service (this
specification) with the Application Driven QoS (ADQ) web service to provide
guaranteed media stream delivery.
Flow summary:
  1. ContentProvider receives a NotifyMediaStreamRequest which includes the content identifier, terminal capabilities and an estimated available bandwidth of the current network session.
  2. Based upon content requirements and current network bandwidth, the content provider may decide to provide a guaranteed QoS for content delivery by applying a temporary QoS session (addTemporaryQoSFeature on ADQ Web Service).
  3. The content provider will then continue to setup the media stream through the StartMediaStream operation, as for previous scenarios.
  4. At some point during the ongoing stream, the network / terminal capabilities change and the content provider is notified by the operator with the NotifySessionStatus operation.
  5. Based on the new session parameters (e.g. available bandwidth), the content provider may modify the guaranteed QoS parameters previously requested (modifyTemporaryQoSFeature).
  6. Upon stream completion, content provider will remove the previously requested QoS session (removeTemporaryQosFeature).
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 MediaStreamRequest Structure
Data type used to capture attributes of a single media stream request.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description subscriberIdentifier xsd:anyURI
No Identity of subscriber / end user making the request for content streaming
contentIdentifier xsd:anyURI No Identifier / Address of requested content item
sessionIdentifier xsd:string No Operator provided session identifier
streamTransfer xsd:boolean Yes States whether this request is a result of a
stream transfer (e.g. transfer of existing stream from mobile device to a PC)
or is a new media stream request. terminalCapabilities xsd:string
[0..unbounded] Yes Terminal capability description derived from
_TpTerminalCapabilities_ (ref ES 203 915-07) availableBandwidth xsd:int Yes
Estimation of current available network bandwidth in bits per second
* * *
## 7.2 MediaStreamInformation Structure
Composite data type required by the **getMediaStreamStatus** operation in
order to return all requested information in a single message part..
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description status MediaStreamStatus No
Communicates status of ongoing media stream information xsd:string Yes
Contains event data specific to the **status** parameter.
* * *
## 7.3 StreamControlAction Enumeration
Set of enumerated actions which may be applied to an ongoing Multimedia
stream.
* * *
Enumeration value Description Pause Pause ongoing stream Resume Resume
previously paused stream Terminate Terminate an active media stream Start
Start a stream Stop Stop a stream Forward Move forward in time on a stream
Rewind Move backwards in time on a stream
* * *
## 7.4 MediaStreamStatus Enumeration
Set of enumerated status for a media stream.
* * *
Enumeration value Description Started Media stream started Ready Media stream
is ready to be played at router Playing Media stream is playing Completed
Media stream completed. Cancelled Media stream cancelled by user Interrupted
Media stream interrupted. E.g. loss of network signal coverage, terminal loses
power etc. Failed Media stream delivery failed. E.g. permanent failure in
delivery, no route to terminal etc.
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: Streaming
### 8.1.1 Operation: startMediaStream
The startMediaStream operation is sent to the ParlayX server to specify how a
stream should be handled by the operator. The information included is media
server location, charging data and information about how to handle
transcoding. The operation is sent as a response to either a previous received
notifyMediaStreamRequest or to streaming requests received in a
getStreamingRequests response.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: startMediaStreamRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
sessionIdentifier xsd:string No Session identifier provided by the operator in
the initial notifyMediaStreamRequest or getStreamingRequest operation
contentLocation xsd:anyURI No Location (URL) of content item to be delivered
in streaming session
chargingInformation common:\ Yes Optionally allows content provider to specify
charging information to be applied to media stream ChargingInformation
allowNetworkTranscoding xsd:boolean Yes Allows a content provider to specify
whether or not the network operator may apply further transcoding to the
content media stream
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: startMediaStreamResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result MediaStreamStatus No Current
status
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0007 - Invalid charging information
  * SVC0270 - Charge failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0008 - Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
### 8.1.2 Operation: getStreamingRequests
The invocation of getStreamingRequests retrieves all the content requests
received that fulfil the criteria identified by contentProviderID. The method
returns only the list of content requests received since the previous
invocation of the same method, i.e. each time the method is executed the
content requests returned are removed from the server. Moreover, each content
request will be automatically removed from the server after a maximum time
interval as defined by a service policy. This operation allows the content
provider to poll for a list of pending streaming requests rather than receive
dynamic notification (notifyMediaStreamRequest). The operation returns a list
of pending MediaStreamRequest structures.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: getStreamingRequestsRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description contentProviderIdentifier xsd:string
No Identifies content provider.
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: getStreamingRequestsResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result
MediaStreamRequest[0..unbounded] Yes List of pending MediaStreamRequests for
Content Provider
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
```{=html}
``` \- POL0010 -- Retention time interval expired
### 8.1.3 Operation: controlMediaStream
Allows content provider to control an ongoing multimedia streaming session, as
identified by the sessionIdentifier parameter. The actions allowed are as
defined in the StreamControlAction enumeration: e.g. pause, resume, terminate,
etc.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: controlMediaStreamRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description sessionIdentifier xsd:string No The
session ID as provided by the operator in the initial notifyMediaStreamRequest
or getStreamingRequests operation action StreamControlAction No Specifies
action to be applied to active media stream.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: controlMediaStreamResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result MediaStreamStatus No Current
status
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.4 Operation: getMediaStreamStatus
Allows the content provider to request current status (e.g. whether a stream
has started, completed etc) on a previously requested (startMediaStream)
Multimedia stream (identified by the sessionIdentifier parameter). Returns the
current status (as defined by the MediaStreamStatus enumeration) and any
associated status parameters (e.g. StartTime, CompletionTime etc) where
applicable.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: getMediaStreamStatusRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description sessionIdentifier xsd:string No
Session identifier as provided in the initial notifyMediaStreamRequest or
getStreamingRequests operation.
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: getMediaStreamStatusResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result MediaStreamInformation No
Communicates status of ongoing media stream and any status-specific
information.
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.5 Operation: refundEndUserCharges
Allows content provider to request that the operator apply a refund of charges
to an end-user account. For example, this could be as a result of a multimedia
stream failing before completion due to loss of network connectivity etc.
(This would have been notified to the content provider through invocation of
either a getMediaStreamStatus operation or a notifyMediaStreamStatus callback
operation) Content provider will specify the refund amount within the
chargingInformation parameter.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: refundEndUserChargesRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description subscriberIdentifier xsd:anyURI No
Identity of subscriber / end user sessionIdentifier xsd:string No Session
identifier as provided by the operator in the initial notifyMediaStreamRequest
or getStreamingRequests operation. chargingInformation
common:ChargingInformation No Specifies refund amount to be applied by
operator to end user\'s account. referenceCode xsd:string Yes Textual
information to uniquely identify the request, e.g. in case of disputes
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: refundEndUserChargesResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0007 - Invalid charging information
  * SVC0270 - Charge failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
```{=html}
``` \- POL0008 - Charging not supported.
  * POL0012 - Too many description entries specified.
## 8.2 Interface: StreamingNotificationManager
This interface manages the call-back towards the content provider
### 8.2.1 Operation: startNotification
The notification pattern with correlation is used in order to correlate the
notification events with the request.
Initial event registration operation which allows content provider\'s
application to subscribe to receive event notifications from the web service
relating to newly requested (i.e. notifyMediaStreamRequest) and ongoing
Multimedia streams (e.g. notifyMediaStreamStatus). Content provider will
provide a call-back address and correlator string (which may subsequently be
used to cancel notifications) within the reference parameter.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: startNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
reference common:\ No Notification endpoint definition SimpleReference
frequency common:\ No Maximum frequency of notifications (can also be
considered minimum time between notifications) TimeMetric
duration common:\ Yes Length of time notifications occur for; do not specify
to use default notification time defined by service policy TimeMetric
count xsd:int Yes Maximum number of notifications. For no maximum, either do
not specify this part or specify a value of zero.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: startNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0005 -- Duplicate correlator
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0004 - Unlimited notifications not supported.
  * POL0005 - Too many notifications requested.
  * POL0009 -- Invalid frequency requested.
### 8.2.2 Operation: endNotification
Ends event notifications previously requested by startNotification operation.
Content Provider must provide the correlator string originally submitted in
the startNotification operation.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: endNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
as supplied (as part of reference parameter) in original startNotification
request
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: endNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional? Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: StreamingNotification
This interface is used towards the content provider.
### 8.3.1 Operation: notifyMediaStreamRequest
The notifyMediaStreamRequest operation is invoked by the ParlayX server when
an end-user requests a stream.\ The notification contains information about
the subscriber, the terminal capabilities and the requested stream.\ To invoke
this notification the criteria must match the ones sent in a previous
startNotification operation.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: notifyMediaStreamRequestRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Identifies
the notification request mediaStreamRequest MediaStreamRequest No Media Stream
Request structure containing request details.
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: notifyMediaStreamRequestResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
### 8.3.2 Operation: notifyMediaStreamStatus
The notifyMediaStreamStatus operation is invoked by the ParlayX server when
the status of an ongoing session changes. Session changes are related to the
network or terminal status rather than end-user interactions. The information
provided could be used by the content provider to change transcoding settings
or to cancel an ongoing stream due to changed network capabilities.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: notifyMediaStreamStatusRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Identifies
the notification request sessionIdentifier xsd:string No Session identifier as
provided in the initial RequestMediaStream request. statusInformation
MediaStreamInformation No Communicates status of ongoing media stream and any
status-specific information.
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: notifyMediaStreamStatusResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
### 8.3.3 Operation: notifyError
The error message is sent to the application to indicate that the notification
for a user, or for the whole notification, is being cancelled by the Web
Service.
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: notifyErrorRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification. sessionIdentifer xsd:string
Yes The session to which the error applies. If not specified the error applies
to all sessions associated with this notification. reason common:ServiceError
No The reason the notification is being discontinued.
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: notifyErrorResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.4 Operation: notifyEnd
The notifications have ended for this correlator. This operation will be
invoked when the duration or count of notifications has been attained. This
operation will not be invoked in the case of an error ending the notifications
or deliberate ending of the notification (using endNotification).
#### 8.3.4.1 Input message: notifyEndRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Identifies
the notification request
* * *
#### 8.3.4.2 Output message: notifyEndResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.4.3 Referenced Faults
None
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0270: Charge failed
Refer to the definition in 3GPP TS 29.199-6 [7].
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description Currency xsd:string Currency used by service (per ISO
4217) ContentRequestRetentionTime common:TimeMetric A time interval that
begins after the the receipt of a streaming content request. During this
interval, the content request remains available for retrieval by the
application. MaximumNotificationFrequency common:TimeMetric Maximum rate of
notification delivery (also can be considered minimum time between
notifications) MaximumNotificationDuration common:TimeMetric Maximum amount of
time a notification may be set up for MaximumCount xsd:int Maximum number of
notifications that may be requested UnlimitedCountAllowed xsd:boolean Allowed
to specify unlimited notification count (i.e. either by not specifying the
optional Count message part in startNotificationRequest or by specifying a
value of zero) MaximumDescriptions xsd:int Maximum number of Descriptions that
can be charged simultaneously
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Multimedia streaming control
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files :
  * parlayx_streaming_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_streaming_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_streaming_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_streaming_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_streaming_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_streaming_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_streaming_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 19_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 19_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 19:
Multimedia streaming control for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Multimedia streaming control
There are no additions or exclusions.
#