# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 10 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project: Technical Specification Group Core Network;
Open Service Access (OSA); Application Programming Interface (API), as
identified below. The **API specification** (3GPP TS 29.198) is structured in
the following Parts:
> Part 1: \"Overview\";
>
> Part 2: \"Common Data Definitions\";
>
> Part 3: \"Framework\";
>
> Part 4: \"Call Control\";
>
> Sub-part 1: \"Call Control Common Definitions\";
>
> Sub-part 2: \"Generic Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 3: \"Multi-Party Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 4: \"Multi-Media Call Control SCF\";
>
> Sub-part 5: \"Conference Call Control SCF\";
>
> Part 5: \"User Interaction SCF\";
>
> Part 6: \"Mobility SCF\";
>
> Part 7: \"Terminal Capabilities SCF\";
>
> Part 8: \"Data Session Control SCF\";
>
> Part 9: \"Generic Messaging SCF\"; (not part of 3GPP Release 8)
>
> **Part 10: \"Connectivity Manager SCF\";** (new in 3GPP Release 8)
>
> Part 11: \"Account Management SCF\";
>
> Part 12: \"Charging SCF\".
>
> Part 13: \"Policy Management SCF\";
>
> Part 14: \"Presence and Availability Management SCF\";
>
> Part 15: \"Multi Media Messaging SCF\";
>
> Part 16: \"Service Broker SCF\".
The **Mapping specification of the OSA APIs and network protocols** (3GPP TR
29.998) is also structured as above. A mapping to network protocols is however
not applicable for all Parts, but the numbering of Parts is kept.\ Also in
case a Part is not supported in a Release, the numbering of the parts is
maintained.
Table: Overview of the OSA APIs & Protocol Mappings 29.198 & 29.998-family
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | OSA | OSA | | | | | | | | API | API | | | | | | | | spec | Ma | | | | | | | | ifica | pping | | | | | | | | tions | - | | | | | | | | 29. | 29. | | | | | | | | 198-f | 998-f | | | | | | | | amily | amily | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ove | 29.9 | Ove | | | | | | 98-01 | rview | 98-01 | rview | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | C | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-02 | ommon | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Data | 8-02_ | pplic | | | | | | | D | | able _| | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Fram | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-03 | ework | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | | 8-03 _| pplic | | | | | | | | | able_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Call | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | Ge | | Co | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.198 | 9.998 | neric | | ntrol | -04-1 | -04-2 | -04-3 | -04-4 | -04-5 | -04-1 | Call | | (CC) | | | | M | Conf | | Co | | SCF | C | Ge | M | ulti- | CC | | ntrol | | | ommon | neric | ulti- | media | SCF | | -- | | | CC | CC | Party | CC | | | CAP | | | data | SCF | CC | SCF | | | ma | | | d | | SCF | | | | pping | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-2 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | _29 |_ Ge | | | | | | | | .998- | neric | | | | | | | | 04-3 _| Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | 2 | Multi | | | | | | | | 9.998 | party | | | | | | | | -04-4 | Call | | | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | ISC | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | User | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-05 | I | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | ntera | -05-1 | ntera | | | | | | | ction | | ction | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-2 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | INAP | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | _29 |_ User | | | | | | | | .998- | I | | | | | | | | 05-3 _| ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | egaco | | | | | | | | | map | | | | | | | | | ping_ | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | I | | | | | | | | -05-4 | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Mob | 2 | User | | | | | | 98-06 | ility | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | SCF | -06-1 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | MAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 2 | User | | | | | | | | 9.998 | S | | | | | | | | -06-2 | tatus | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | Loc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | -- | | | | | | | | | SIP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ter | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-07 | minal | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Ca | 8-07_ | pplic | | | | | | | pabil | | able _| | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Data | 29.9 | Data | | | | | | 98-08 | Se | 98-08 | Se | | | | | | | ssion | | ssion | | | | | | | Co | | Co | | | | | | | ntrol | | ntrol | | | | | | | SCF | | -- | | | | | | | | | CAP | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * |_ Ge | * | _Not | | | | | | 29.19 | neric | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 8-09_ | Mess | 8-09 _| pplic | | | | | | | aging | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_**29 |**_Co | * |_ Not | | | | | | .198- | nnect | 29.99 | A | | | | | | 10** _| ivity | 8-10_ | pplic | | | | | | | Ma | | able* | | | | | | | nager | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | CF** _| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Ac | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-11 | count | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-11 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Cha | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-12 | rging | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | SCF | 8-12_ | pplic | | | | | | | | | able _| | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | P | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-13 | olicy | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | Manag | 8-13 _| pplic | | | | | | | ement | | able_ | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Pre | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-14 | sence | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | & | 8-14_ | pplic | | | | | | | Av | | able _| | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | Manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | M | * |_ Not | | | | | | 98-15 | ulti- | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | media | 8-15 _| pplic | | | | | | | Mess | | able_ | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 29.1 | Se | * | _Not | | | | | | 98-16 | rvice | 29.99 | A | | | | | | | B | 8-16_ | pplic | | | | | | | roker | | able* | | | | | | | SCF | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 10 of the Stage 3 specification for an
Application Programming Interface (API) for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardised
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Connectivity Manager Service Capability
Feature (SCF) aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Connectivity
Manager SCF are defined here, these being:
  * Sequence Diagrams
  * Class Diagrams
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions
  * State Transition diagrams
  * Data definitions
  * IDL Description of the interfaces
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces
The process by which this task is accomplished is through the use of object
modelling techniques described by the Unified Modelling Language (UML).
This specification has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and the Parlay Group, in co-operation with a number of JAIN™ Community
member companies.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.198-1 \"Open Service Access; Application Programming Interface;
Part 1: Overview\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 29.198-1 [1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TS
29.198-1 [1] apply.
# 4 Connectivity Manager SCF
Connectivity Manager includes the APIs between the enterprise operator and the
provider network for the two parties to establish QoS parameters for
enterprise network packets travelling through the provider network.
The Connectivity Manager service provides tools for the enterprise operator to
set up a Provisioned QoS service in the provider network. The QoS measures
used in the enterprise network are outside the scope of the service. The API
does not require any specific QoS method to be used in the enterprise network,
nor in the provider network. However, in order for Provisioned QoS service to
be applied to packets arriving from the enterprise network into the provider
network, the packets have to be marked using DS Codepoint marking. Once the
packets are so marked, they can enjoy the QoS service provisioned in the
provider network.
APIs provide the enterprise network operator on-line access to provision
quality of service measures that control the enterprise\'s own traffic passing
through the provider network. Using APIs the operator can create Virtual
Provisioned Pipes (VPrPs) in the provider network to carry the enterprise
traffic and support it with pre-specified quality of service attributes. A
VPrP can be thought of as a Virtual Leased Line (VLL) provisioned to deliver
pre-specified QoS. The provider may offer to the enterprise operator a set of
templates that are used by the operator to specify a VPrP. For instance, the
provider may offer templates for video conferencing, audio conferencing, Gold
Service, Silver Service, etc. Using these templates the operator can select
and provision a VPrP that specifies the quality of service attributes for this
VPrP.
Elements that can be specified for a VPrP include attributes such as packet
delay and packet loss. Characteristics of traffic that enters the VPrP at its
access point to the provider network can be also specified with attributes
such as maximum rate and burst rate.
The following is an example of a possible scenario:
  * The provider prepares a template with _operator-specified_ attributes, _provider-specified_ attributes, and _unspecified_ attributes, one for each QoS level.
  * The provider generates for the enterprise network a list of all the current sites and their access points to the provider network.
  * Enterprise operator logs into connectivity manager after being authenticated and authorised by the Framework service.
  * Operator gets the list of the sites and service access points of the enterprise Virtual Private Network (VPN) already provided to the enterprise by the provider.
  * Enterprise operator retrieves the set of templates available to the enterprise (as supported by the SLA), selects one, and requests a template for constructing a new VPrP based upon the selected QoS.
  * Enterprise operator completes the VPrP template: i.e. selects a value for delay, loss, jitter and excess traffic treatment action, enters the SLA ID against which the template could be validated, selects endpoints, load parameters and traffic flow direction, and selects the time requirements desired. The enterprise operator can choose or modify those attributes that are _operator-specified_ attributes in the template. P _rovider-specified_ attributes cannot be modified and are inherently part of the service.
  * Enterprise operator submits the completed VPrP template for validation by the CM service. Operator creates a new VPrP with _pending-status_ that holds these selections.
  * The provider responds after validating the requests, which may be an approval or a denial (e.g. the requested service is not available at this access point, or at the specified time).
  * If the provider approves service, the operator may send packets marked with the templates DiffServ Codepoint, which identifies together with the endpoints the VPrP that carries these packets.
Some additional clarification points:
  * a VPrN is associated with a single network provider.
  * a VPrP defines QoS parameters for traffic flowing through this provider network, between two specified enterprise endpoints, optionally during specified date/time period(s).
  * The enterprise operator may be (provider\'s choice) constrained to selecting QoS parameter values from a pre-defined set of values, and selecting endpoints from a predefined set of enterprise sites; where these sets were negotiated off-line between the enterprise and the network provider and possibly documented in a Service Level Agreement (SLA).
  * The CM service validates each VPrP request submitted by the enterprise operator. The validation process is not specified here. Validation against the SLA is an example of such possible validation.
  * If the CM service accepts the VPrP request, it adds it to the VPrN. The DiffServ Codepoint provided by the enterprise operator is then used by the enterprise for marking all packets belonging to any traffic flow associated with the VPrP.
The following is a summary of interfaces and methods supported by connectivity
manager. The syntax method (interface) is used for this description.
There are Passive CM interface functions (CM1, CM2, CM4) that are used to
retrieve information (read) relative to VPN, VPrN, and QoS templates provided
by the service provider, and active (CM3) functions (read/write) used to
provision new services.
CM1: Retrieve information on a Virtual Private Network, its sites and their
service access points:
getEnterpriseNetwork(IpConnectivityManager)
getSiteList(IpEterpriseNetwork)
getSite(IpEterpriseNetwork)
getSAPList(IpEnterpriseNetworkSite)
getSiteID(IpEnterpriseNetworkSite)
getSiteLocation(IpEnterpriseNetworkSite)
getSiteDescription(IpEnterpriseNetworkSite)
getSAPIPSubnet(IpEnterpriseNetworkSite)
getSiteIPSubnet(IpEnterpriseNetworkSite)
CM2: Retrieve QoS services offered by provider, stored in QoS templates:
getQoSMenu(IpConnectivityManager)
getTemplateList(IpQoSMenu)
getTemplate(IpQoSMenu)
getTemplateType(IpQoSTemplate)
getDescription(IpQoSTemplate)
getPipeQoSInfo(IpQoSTemplate)
getValidityInfo(IpQoSTemplate)
getProvisionedQoSInfo(IpQoSTemplate)
getDsCodepoint(IpQoSTemplate)
CM3: Set up a new Virtual Provisioned Pipe:
createVPrP(IpVPrN)
deleteVPrP(IpVPrN)
setSlaID(IpQoSTemplate)
setPipeQoSInfo(IpQoSTemplate)
setValidityInfo(IpQoSTemplate)
setProvisionedQoSInfo(IpQoSTemplate)
CM4: Retrieve information on a Virtual Provisioned Network and its Virtual
Provisioned Pipes:
getVPrN(IpEterpriseNetwork)
getVPrPList(IpVPrN)
getVPrP(IpVPrN)
getVPrPID(IpVPrP)
getSlaID(IpVPrP)
getStatus(IpVPrP)
getProvisionedQoSInfo(IpVPrP)
getPipeQoSInfo(IpVPrP)
getDsCodepoint(IpVPrP)
Two typical scenarios:
1) To set up a new VPrP:
  * The enterprise operator retrieves information regarding > enterprise\'s existing VPN (sites and SAPs), using as needed the > methods listed in CM1 above.
  * Enterprise operator retrieves information on provider\'s offered QoS > services, using methods listed in CM2 above as needed.
  * Enterprise operator submits a request to set up a new VPrP, using > methods listed in CM3 above as needed.
  * Enterprise operator checks the status of the request using the > methods listed in CM4 above as needed.
  * If the request was approved by the network provider, the VPrP is put > in an active mode, and packets that are marked in the enterprise > network with appropriate marking in their packet header will > travel the provider\'s network through the new Virtual Provisioned > Pipe that supports the requested QoS levels.
2) Retrieve information on current enterprise network services > delivered to
the enterprise by the provider network:
  * Enterprise operator retrieves information on current QoS services > delivered to the enterprise network using CM4 methods listed above > as needed.
  * Enterprise operator checks if the provider offers new QoS services > using CM2 listed above as needed.
The following clauses describe each aspect of the Connectivity Manager Service
Capability Feature (SCF).
The order is as follows:
  * The Sequence diagrams give the reader a practical idea of how each of the SCF is implemented.
  * The Class relationships clause shows how each of the interfaces applicable to the SCF, relate to one another
  * The Interface specification clause describes in detail each of the interfaces shown within the Class diagram part.
  * The State Transition Diagrams (STD) show the transition between states in the SCF. The states and transitions are well-defined; either methods specified in the Interface specification or events occurring in the underlying networks cause state transitions.
  * The Data Definitions clause shows a detailed expansion of each of the data types associated with the methods within the classes. Note that some data types are used in other methods and classes and are therefore defined within the Common Data types part ES 204 915-2.
An implementation of this API which supports or implements a method described
in the present document, shall support or implement the functionality
described for that method, for at least one valid set of values for the
parameters of that method. Where a method is not supported by an
implementation of a Service interface, the exception P_METHOD_NOT_SUPPORTED
shall be returned to any call of that method.
# 5 Sequence Diagrams
## 5.1 Operator Selects Service Components and creates a new VPrP
The following sequence diagram shows how an enterprise operator client
collects the information required to select a service, and then selects the
service parameters, and finally submits it to the connectivity manager.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="6.097222222222222in"}
## 5.2 Operator Browses Virtual Provisioned Pipe
The following shows an enterprise operator client browses and collect
information pertinent to an existing virtual provisioned pipe, including all
the QoS parameters that have been set for this pipe.
{width="6.686111111111111in" height="9.199305555555556in"}
## 5.3 Operator Browses SAPs and Sites
The following sequence diagram shows how an enterprise operator browses
service access points and sites to retrieve information regarding a site and
its SAP(s).
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="8.74236111111111in"}
# 6 Class Diagrams
The class diagram below shows the connectivity manager interfaces. The
connectivity manager interface is the entry point to this service. From this
interface a reference to the enterprise network and to the Quality of Service
(QoS) menu interfaces can be retrieved. The QoS menu interface provides a list
of templates, each of which specifies the QoS service parameters that are
offered by the service provider. The service is composed of components that
are associated with a Provisioned QoS. The template interface is used to
specify the service parameters that are offered by the service provider, and
also, for temporary storage of parameters that the operator selects. The
enterprise network interface is associated with two components: enterprise
network sites, and the Virtual Provisioned Network that has been already
provisioned in the provider network. The Virtual Provisioned Network interface
contains references to all the Virtual Provisioned Pipes (VPrPs) already
established. The QoS Menu contains references to all the QoS templates offered
by the provider. Each template specifies the QoS parameters that can be set in
order to create a new VPrP. Once the operator selects the QoS parameters
provided in the QoS template, and submits the request to create a new VPrP,
the provider validates the information submitted and if the request is
approved, the new VPrP is set to an active mode.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="5.022916666666666in"}
Figure : Connectivity Management High level class diagram
The connectivity manager class is associated with the QoS menu class and the
enterprise network class as shown in the figure below. From the CM class the
QoS Menu and Enterprise Network reference can be retrieved. The QoS menu
provides a method (getTemplateList()), to get the list of all the QoS offered
services, each of which is stored as a template (e.g. Gold template, Silver
template). The QoS menu provides a method (getTemplate()) that instantiates a
temporary template to retrieve the default parameters for a specific template,
and store the parameters selected by the operator for a new service (VPrP).
The Enterprise Network class is used to retrieve the list of sites that the
operator has established for a Virtual Private Network (VPN) service with the
service provider, and to get a reference to a specific site. This class also
provides a reference to the Virtual Provisioned Network class that holds the
information regarding the already established QoS network with the provider.
{width="6.397222222222222in" height="4.452083333333333in"}
Figure : QoS Menu and Enterprise Network class diagram
The figure below shows QoS templates class that is used to retrieve the QoS
parameters offered by the provider and select the parameters for a new VPrP
and store them in this template. Most of these parameters are tagged using the
TPNameDescrpTag class to indicate whether the parameter is set by the provider
and cannot be changed by the operator, or is a parameter that can be set by
the operator. A third option associated with each QoS parameter is the
unspecified tag, that means that the operator does not offer this parameter as
an option for this template. All the QoS parameters that constitute a VPrP are
stored in the template class, including the source and destination site/SAP,
the direction of the traffic, the provisioned QoS parameters, such as packet
loss, delay, jitter, the Pipe QoS parameters, such as load conditioning.
{width="5.075in" height="6.338888888888889in"}
Figure : QoS Template class diagram
The figure below shows the data types that specify the Provisioned QoS
information: as packet loss, packet delay, packet jitter. All use the Name
Description Tag class to indicate whether each parameter is specified by the
provider, the operator, or unspecified for this template. The value used for
each of individual parameters is either an integer, or a string. For the
excess load condition, one of the four actions can be applied: drop, transmit,
reshape, and remark. The DS Codepoint used by this template is also shown
below.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="6.346527777777778in"}
Figure : Provisioned QoS Data Types Classes
The figure below shows the Pipe QoS information data type classes. They
include the load parameters, and the endpoint termination of the pipe. The
individual values are integer, and for the directional type, either uni-
directional traffic or bi-directional traffic is specified for the Pipe.
{width="6.6875in" height="6.8in"}
Figure : Pipe QoS Data Types
The figure below shows the classes that store information regarding the
existing services already established between the provider and the enterprise.
This includes the Virtual Private Network that is contained in the Enterprise
Network Site class, and the Virtual Provisioned Network Class, and the
associated Virtual Provisioned Pipe class. Also shown here is the information
included for Pipe QoS, and the IP subnet information stored in these classes.
However, the class that shows the information collected for Provisioned QoS is
not shown here but in another class diagram below.
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="6.74375in"}
Figure : Existing VPN and VPrN services class diagram
The figure below shows the validity data type classes. They specify a window
between two points in time, and repetitions events during a day, which days of
the week, and which month of the year. They can be specified by the provider,
to limit the service to certain time periods, or by the operator. The
individual values are shown as subclasses to the Name Description Tag class.
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="4.360416666666667in"}
Figure : Validity Data Type Classes
# 7 The Service Interface Specifications
## 7.1 Interface Specification Format
This clause defines the interfaces, methods and parameters that form a part of
the API specification. The Unified Modelling Language (UML) is used to specify
the interface classes. The general format of an interface specification is
described below.
### 7.1.1 Interface Class
This shows a UML interface class description of the methods supported by that
interface, and the relevant parameters and types. The Service and Framework
interfaces for enterprise-based client applications are denoted by classes
with name Ip\. The callback interfaces to the applications are denoted
by classes with name IpApp\. For the interfaces between a Service and
the Framework, the Service interfaces are typically denoted by classes with
name IpSvc\, while the Framework interfaces are denoted by classes with
name IpFw\.
### 7.1.2 Method descriptions
Each method (API method "call") is described. Both synchronous and
asynchronous methods are used in the API. Asynchronous methods are identified
by a \'Req\' suffix for a method request, and, if applicable, are served by
asynchronous methods identified by either a \'Res\' or \'Err\' suffix for
method results and errors, respectively. To handle responses and reports, the
application or service developer must implement the relevant IpApp\ or
IpSvc\ interfaces to provide the callback mechanism.
### 7.1.3 Parameter descriptions
Each method parameter and its possible values are described. Parameters
described as \'in\' represent those that must have a value when the method is
called. Those described as \'out\' are those that contain the return result of
the method when the method returns.
### 7.1.4 State Model
If relevant, a state model is shown to illustrate the states of the objects
that implement the described interface.
## 7.2 Base Interface
### 7.2.1 Interface Class IpInterface
All application, framework and service interfaces inherit from the following
interface. This API Base Interface does not provide any additional methods.
+-------------------+ | \> | | | | IpInterface | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+ | | +-------------------+
## 7.3 Service Interfaces
### 7.3.1 Overview
The Service Interfaces provide the interfaces into the capabilities of the
underlying network - such as call control, user interaction, messaging,
mobility and connectivity management.
The interfaces that are implemented by the services are denoted as \'Service
Interface\'. The corresponding interfaces that must be implemented by the
application (e.g. for API callbacks) are denoted as \'Application Interface\'.
## 7.4 Generic Service Interface
### 7.4.1 Interface Class IpService
Inherits from: IpInterface;
All service interfaces inherit from the following interface.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpService | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | setCallback (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef) : void | | | | setCallbackWithSessionID (appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef, | | sessionID : in TpSessionID) : void | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 7.4.1.1 Method setCallback()
This method specifies the reference address of the callback interface that a
service uses to invoke methods on the application. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that uses SessionIDs. Multiple invocations of this
method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references being
specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided by
the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
#### 7.4.1.2 Method setCallbackWithSessionID()
This method specifies the reference address of the application\'s callback
interface that a service uses for interactions associated with a specific
session ID: e.g. a specific call, or call leg. It is not allowed to invoke
this method on an interface that does not use SessionIDs. Multiple invocations
of this method on an interface shall result in multiple callback references
being specified. The SCS shall use the most recent callback interface provided
by the application using this method. In the event that a callback reference
fails or is no longer available, the next most recent callback reference
available shall be used.
Parameters
appInterface : in IpInterfaceRef
Specifies a reference to the application interface, which is used for
callbacks.
sessionID : in TpSessionID
Specifies the session for which the service can invoke the application\'s
callback interface.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_INVALID_SESSION_ID, P_INVALID_INTERFACE_TYPE
# 8 Connectivity Manager Interface Classes
## 8.1 Interface Class IpConnectivityManager
Inherits from: IpService.
The service Connectivity Manager Interface is the entry point to the
Connectivity Manager service. After the enterprise operator client is
authenticated and authorised, the client application discovers the
Connectivity Manager interface, then the operator can use this interface to
step through the process of provisioning a new VPrP. This interface has two
methods, one to get the handle to the menu of QoS services offered by the
provider, and the other one is a handle to the enterprise network interface
that holds information about current services that the provider network
delivers to the enterprise network.
+------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpConnectivityManager | +------------------------------------------+ | | +------------------------------------------+ | getQoSMenu () : IpInterfaceRef | | | | getEnterpriseNetwork () : IpInterfaceRef | +------------------------------------------+
### 8.1.1 Method getQoSMenu()
A client uses this method to get a reference to the QoS menu interface.
Returns menuRef : This parameter is a reference to the QoS menu interface. If
no menu is found, P_UNKNOWN_MENU exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_MENU
### 8.1.2 Method getEnterpriseNetwork()
This method is used to get a handle to the enterprise network interface, which
holds information regarding network services that are already provisioned for
the enterprise network in the provider network.
Returns enterpriseNetworkRef : This parameter is a reference to the enterprise
network interface. If enterprise network is not found,
P_UNKNOWN_ENTERPRISE_NETWORK exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_ENTERPRISE_NETWORK
## 8.2 Interface Class IpEnterpriseNetwork
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface stores enterprise network information maintained by the
provider as it relates to the virtual private network service and the virtual
provisioned network service that the enterprise had already established with
the service provider network. The enterprise operator can only retrieve but
not change the information stored with this interface. The methods of this
interface enable the enterprise operator to obtain the handle to the interface
that holds information regarding an existing VPrN, to list the sites connected
to the VPN, and get the handle to a specific site interface that store
information about the site.
+-------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpEnterpriseNetwork | +-------------------------------------------------+ | | +-------------------------------------------------+ | getSiteList () : TpStringList | | | | getVPrN () : IpInterfaceRef | | | | getSite (siteID : in TpString) : IpInterfaceRef | +-------------------------------------------------+
### 8.2.1 Method getSiteList()
This method is used to get the list of enterprise network site IDs. These IDs
identify the sites that are inter-connected through the provider network.
These IDs were set when the VPN was provisioned in the provider network in the
provider network.
Returns siteList : This parameter lists the site IDs (e.g., research,
marketing, Middletown Building D5, London) of the enterprise network that are
serviced by the provider network. If no site is found, then a P_UNKNOWN_SITES
exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpStringList
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SITES
### 8.2.2 Method getVPrN()
This method is used to get a handle to the interface that holds information
regarding a previously provisioned Virtual Provisioned Network (VPrN).
Returns vPrNRef : This parameter is a handle to the VPrN interface that holds
information about previously provisioned VPrN.
If no VPrN is found for this enterprise network, then a P_UNKNOWN_VPRN
exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_VPRN
### 8.2.3 Method getSite()
This method is used to get a handle to an interface that holds information
about a specific site.
Returns siteRef : This parameter is a reference to the site interface.
Parameters
siteID : in TpString
This parameter is the ID given to a particular site. The ID is not assigned
via OSA APIs, but previously when a new VPN (or VLL) is established for the
enterprise on the provider network. These ID are typically names that refer to
objects that are meaningful in the context of the enterprise network, such as:
Marketing, New York, or Bulling 4. This site ID can be used as an endpoint of
a provisioned virtual provisioned pipe (VPrP). - If the string representation
of the siteID does not obey the rules for site identification, then a
P_ILLEGAL_SITE_ID exception is raised. - If the site ID representation is
legal but there is no site with this ID, then P_UNKNOWN_SITE_ID exception is
raised.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_SITE_ID, P_UNKNOWN_SITE_ID
## 8.3 Interface Class IpEnterpriseNetworkSite
Inherits from: IpEnterpriseNetwork.
This interface stores enterprise network site information maintained by the
provider.
+---------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpEnterpriseNetworkSite | +---------------------------------------------------+ | | +---------------------------------------------------+ | getSAPList () : TpStringList | | | | getSiteID () : TpString | | | | getSiteLocation () : TpString | | | | getSiteDescription () : TpString | | | | getIPSubnet () : TpIPSubnet | | | | getSAPIPSubnet (sapID : in TpString) : TpIPSubnet | +---------------------------------------------------+
### 8.3.1 Method getSAPList()
This method is used to get the list of SAP IDs of the enterprise VPN (i.e. on
the provider network) that have previously been established for this site with
the provider network.
Returns sapList : This parameter is a list of SAP IDs. This SAP ID can be used
as an endpoint of a provisioned virtual provisioned pipe (VPrP).
If no SAPs are found for this site, then P_UNKNOWN_SAPS exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpStringList
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SAPS
### 8.3.2 Method getSiteID()
This method is used to get the site ID for this site.
Returns siteID : This parameter holds the value for the site ID.
If no site ID is found for this site, then P_UNKNOWN_SITE_ID exception is
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SITE_ID
### 8.3.3 Method getSiteLocation()
This method is used to get the site location.
Returns siteLocation : This parameter holds the value for the site location.
If no site location is found for this site, then P_UNKNOWN_SITE_LOCATION
exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SITE_LOCATION
### 8.3.4 Method getSiteDescription()
This method is used to get the description associated with this site.
Returns siteDescription : This parameter is a string that holds the site
description.
If no description is found for this site, then P_UNKNOWN_SITE_DESCRIPTION
exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SITE_DESCRIPTION
### 8.3.5 Method getIPSubnet()
This method is used to get IP subnet information for this site.
Returns ipSubnet : This parameter lists the subnet information.
If no IP Subnet information is found for this site, then a P_UNKNOWN_IPSUBNET
exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpIPSubnet
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_IPSUBNET
### 8.3.6 Method getSAPIPSubnet()
This method is used to get the IP address of the SAP on the enterprise
network.
Returns ipSubnet : This parameter holds the IP address information for the
SAP. This TpIPSubnet data type follows the DMTF CIM specification for IP sub-
net.
Parameters
sapID : in TpString
This parameter holds the IP address information for the SAP. - If the string
representation of the sapID does not obey the rules for site identification,
then a P_ILLEGAL_SITE_ID exception is raised. - If the site ID representation
is legal but there is no site with this ID, then P_UNKNOWN_SAP exception is
raised. - If no IP Subnet information is found for this SAP, then a
P_UNKNOWN_IPSUBNET exception is raised.
Returns
TpIPSubnet
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_SITE_ID, P_UNKNOWN_SAP, P_UNKNOWN_IPSUBNET
## 8.4 Interface Class IpQoSMenu
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface holds the QoS menu offered by the provider. Each QoS service
offered (e.g. Gold, Silver) is specified in a separate template. The template
specifies the parameters and their default values from which the operator may
choose to create a VPrP. When the operator asks for a specific template from
the list of templates (getTemplate method), a temporary template interface is
created. This temporary template interface holds all the parameters (e.g. all
the Gold parameters) and their default values offered by the provider for this
template.
+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpQoSMenu | +-----------------------------------------------------------+ | | +-----------------------------------------------------------+ | getTemplate (templateType : in TpString) : IpInterfaceRef | | | | getTemplateList () : TpStringList | +-----------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.4.1 Method getTemplate()
This method is used to get an interface reference to a specific template. The
provider creates a temporary copy of the original template that contains all
the QoS parameters for this template (e.g. Gold).
Returns templateRef : This parameter contains a reference to the template
interface. Note that if the reference to this temporary template is lost,
there is no way to recall it. To create a new temporary template this method
has to be applied again, however, any values that were set in the old
temporary template are lost.
Parameters
templateType : in TpString
This parameter contains template type.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions
### 8.4.2 Method getTemplateList()
This method is used to get a list of templates, each of which specifies a QoS
service, such as Gold or Silver.
Returns templateList : This parameter contains a list of QoS service templates
IDs.
If no templates are found, then a P_UNKNOWN_TEMPLATES exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpStringList
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_TEMPLATES
## 8.5 Interface Class IpQoSTemplate
Inherits from: IpService.
This interface provides access to a specific QoS template, such as Gold,
offered by the provider. This interface provides get methods to discover the
QoS service details, and set methods to set the requested values for a new
VPrP. The template specifies the QoS parameters and their default values. Each
service template parameter is tagged by the service provider to indicate one
of the following: -· Provider specified: the value cannot be modified for this
template. -· Enterprise operator specified: operator may change the default
value set by the provider. The default value can be blank to indicate that
there is no default value for this parameter, and the user can change it
according to advice typically given by the description parameters. -·
Unspecified: the parameter is not used for this template, and the Enterprise
operator cannot change it. For example, maximum delay for a Gold template may
be provider specified, while maximum bandwidth may be Enterprise operator
specified, meaning that its values can be changed by the
setProvisionedQoSInfo, or by setPipeQoSInfo methods. Guidance how to change
the default values may be provided by the template description parameter. The
tag of a parameter cannot be changed by any set method of this interface,
i.e., if a parameter is tagged unspecified, or provider specified, Enterprise
operator cannot override the value of this tag to say operator specified. This
template is a temporary interface created as a copy of the original template
that stores all the template parameters. The temporary interface is created
with the getTemplate method of IpQoSMenu interface. The values passed to this
template interface by the set methods replace (if permitted by the tags) the
default values stored in this template interface, i.e. a get following a set
method to this template interface will fetch the new values set by the
Enterprise operator. Once a new VPrP is created by the create method in
IpVPrN, the temporary interface might not be accessible anymore.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpQoSTemplate | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | getTemplateType () : TpString | | | | getDescription () : TpString | | | | setSlaID (slaID : in TpString) : void | | | | getPipeQoSInfo () : TpPipeQoSInfo | | | | setPipeQoSInfo (pipeQoSInfo : in TpPipeQoSInfo) : void | | | | getValidityInfo () : TpValidityInfo | | | | setValidityInfo (validityInfo : in TpValidityInfo) : void | | | | setProvisionedQoSInfo (provisionedQoSInfo : in TpProvisionedQoSInfo) | | : void | | | | getProvisionedQoSInfo () : TpProvisionedQoSInfo | | | | getDsCodepoint () : TpDsCodepoint | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.5.1 Method getTemplateType()
This method is used to get the template type, e.g. Gold.
Returns templateType : This parameter contains the template type.
If template type is not found, then P_UNKNOWN_TEMPLATE_TYPE exception is
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_TEMPLATE_TYPE
### 8.5.2 Method getDescription()
This method is used to get a description of the QoS service stored in this
template interface. Connectivity manager APIs support default values set by
the provider for each QoS parameter, i.e. a template (e.g. Gold template) may
have a set of default values (e.g. a default value for minimum delay, a
default value for maximum delay, etc.). If the network service provider allows
(using the tags described above) the enterprise operator to change a specific
default value, the provider can use this description to advise the user the
conditions under which they can be changed, and the alternate values that can
be used.
Returns description : This parameter contains a description of the service for
this template and may also be used to convey any advice to the user such as
what values can be selected instead of default values.
If the description is not found, then P_UNKNOWN_DESCRIPTION exception is
raised. Note that if the description is found, but it contains no description,
this should not raise the exception.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_DESCRIPTION
### 8.5.3 Method setSlaID()
This method is used to store an existing Service Level Agreement (SLA)
identifier associated it with a specific VPrP. SLA ID is optional and is not
required to be part of every VPrP. Each time this method is performed, the new
value replaces the old value in the template.
Parameters
slaID : in TpString
This parameter contains the SLA ID. If the string representation of the SLA ID
does not obey the rules for SLA identification, then a P_ILLEGAL_SLA_ID
exception is raised.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_SLA_ID
### 8.5.4 Method getPipeQoSInfo()
This method is used to get pipe QoS information consisting of load parameters,
direction of the traffic, and the endpoint (SAP or site) of a virtual
provisioned pipe offered by this template.
Returns pipeQoSInfo : This parameter includes the pipe QoS default parameters
for this template. The endpoints are not specified in the getpipeQoS method.
The directionality and load parameters are tagged, and can be set by the
provider or left for the operator to be set.
· If no pipe QoS information is found, then P_UNKNOWN_PIPEQOSINFO exception is
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpPipeQoSInfo
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_PIPEQOSINFO
### 8.5.5 Method setPipeQoSInfo()
This method is used to request pipe QoS parameters consisting of load
parameters, direction of the traffic, and the endpoint (SAP or site) of the
virtual provisioned pipe, as selected by the operator from the set of values
offered by the provider. To modify any default value, the tag has to be set to
OperatorSpecified. The parameters name, description, and tag are ignored with
this method.
Parameters
pipeQoSInfo : in TpPipeQoSInfo
This parameter includes the virtual provisioned pipe information regarding the
flow direction, the load on the endpoint of the pipe, and the load on the
endpoints. - If a parameter is tagged with providerSpecified, or unspecified,
then the P_ILLEGAL_TAG exception is raised. - If a value requested for a
specific parameter by this method is not consistent with the advice given by
the provider for choosing parameter values, the P_ILLEGAL_VALUE is raised.
This is an optional exception that would be applied if the provider can verify
consistency on the fly. Otherwise, the new VPrP request will be denied by
setting its status flag to disallowed. - If a combination of requested
parameters is illegal, then P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION is raised.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_TAG, P_ILLEGAL_VALUE, P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION
### 8.5.6 Method getValidityInfo()
The operator uses this method to get the default time period set by the
provider for the template. Applying a logical AND operation of all the
components of this parameter evaluates the valid period(s).
Returns validityInfo : This parameter provides the default validity
information.
· If no validity information is found for this template, then
P_UNKNOWN_VALIDITY_INFO exception is raised. Note that if the validity
information is found and validitySpecified, is FALSE this exception is not
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpValidityInfo
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_VALIDITY_INFO
### 8.5.7 Method setValidityInfo()
The operator uses this method to set the required time period for a new VPrP.
The requested time and the default time set by the provider are all ANDed
together to determine the final valid time period for this VPrP. Note that
only those components that are tagged as operator specified can be set by the
operator.
Parameters
validityInfo : in TpValidityInfo
This parameter provides the requested validity information for a new VPrP. -
If a parameter is tagged with providerSpecified, or unspecified, then the
P_ILLEGAL_TAG exception is raised. - If a value requested for a specific
parameter by this method is not consistent with the advice given by the
provider for choosing parameter values, the P_ILLEGAL_VALUE is raised. This is
an optional exception that would be applied if the provider can verify
consistency on the fly. Otherwise, the new VPrP request will be denied by
setting its status flag to disallowed. - If a combination of requested
parameters is illegal, then P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION is raised. . For example, if
the specified time duration is longer than 24 hours for a time-of-day
parameter, or the integer value representing day-of-week or month-of-year is
outside the permitted range.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_TAG, P_ILLEGAL_VALUE, P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION
### 8.5.8 Method setProvisionedQoSInfo()
The Enterprise operator uses this method to set the requested values for the
QoS parameters. The values passed by this method replace the default values in
the temporary template interface. Tag values associated with each parameter
can be set only by the provider and cannot be changed by the operator. If tag
values are included in this method, they should be ignored. Only those
parameters that are tagged with the value operator specified can be modified
using this method. With this method, the name and description parameters are
ignored.
Parameters
provisionedQoSInfo : in TpProvisionedQoSInfo
This parameter consists of delay, loss, jitter, and exceed load action
parameters.
· If a parameter from the delayParameters, lossParameters, jitterParameters,
or excessLoadAction is tagged in the template with the values provider
specified, or unspecified, then the P_ILLEGAL_TAG exception is raised.
· If a value requested for a specific parameter by this method is not
consistent with the advice given by the provider for choosing parameter
values, the P_ILLEGAL_VALUE is raised. This is an optional exception that
would be applied if the provider can verify consistency on the fly. Otherwise,
the new VPrP request will be denied by setting its status flag to disallowed.
· If a combination of requested parameters or parameter values is illegal,
then P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION is raised. An example of an illegal combination is
maximum delay parameter and delay priority, as only one of the two can be
used.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_TAG, P_ILLEGAL_VALUE, P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION
### 8.5.9 Method getProvisionedQoSInfo()
This method is used to get the default values associated with this template
(e.g. delay default value, loss default value).
Returns provisionedQoSInfo:
This parameter consists of delay, loss, jitter, and exceed load action
parameters. · If no QoS information is found, then P_UNKNOWN_QOS_INFO
exception is raised. The Provisioned QoS Information has the following
information: The Delay descriptor lists the delay default values, i.e. default
values for mean delay, maximum delay, minimum delay, and delay priority. A
provider may choose to tag any number of delay parameters as provider
specified, Enterprise operator specified, or unspecified. For example, a Gold
template may have a default value just for the mean delay, leaving the other
parameters either unspecified, or some set to enterprise operator specified.
The loss descriptor lists the packet loss default values, i.e., mean loss,
maximum loss, minimum loss, and loss priority. A provider may choose to tag
any number of loss parameters as provider specified, Enterprise operator
specified, or unspecified. For example, a Gold template may have a default
value just for the mean loss only, leaving the other parameters either
unspecified, or some be Enterprise operator specified. The jitter descriptor
lists the jitter default values (the delay measured between arriving packets),
that is, mean jitter, maximum jitter, minimum jitter, and jitter priority. A
provider may choose to tag any number of jitter parameters as provider
specified Enterprise operator specified, or unspecified. For example, a Gold
template may have a default value just for the mean jitter only, leaving the
other parameters either unspecified, or some may be Enterprise operator
specified. The excess load action parameter specifies the policing treatment
for traffic that exceeds the load parameters set for the virtual provisioned
pipe. This policing function can take the following actions when the provider
network detects that the traffic trying to enter the VPrP exceeds the load
parameters specified in the pipe QoS loads parameters: · Drop: drop packets
(i.e. do not ever transmit them) that exceed the load traffic parameters that
were set for the VPrP - Transmit: transmit packets even though transmitting
them will create a load in excess of the load traffic parameters that were set
for the VPrP - Reshape: reshape the entering traffic by trying to keep the
packet (and not drop them yet) waiting for the entering traffic load to come
down below the load conditions set for the VPrP, and if it does, transmit the
packets then. - Remark : remark the packet for a lower QoS service, then
transmit them (i.e. transfer the packet through some other less demanding
VPrP). This may result in increased packet loss (i.e. the excess packets may
have now higher probability of being dropped before reaching their SAP or Site
destination), or increased packet delay and / or packet jitter.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpProvisionedQoSInfo
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_QOS_INFO
### 8.5.10 Method getDsCodepoint()
This method is used to get the DiffServ Codepoint of QoS service offered by
the template.
Returns dsCodepoint : This parameter holds the DS Codepoint for the VPrP. It
has two parameters: match and mask to enable the provider to locate the bit
string in any location in the 6-bit long field. The actual Codepoint is a
result of an AND operation bit by bit of the two parameters.
· If no DS Codepoint is found, then P_UNKNOWN_DSCODEPOINT exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpDsCodepoint
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_DSCODEPOINT
## 8.6 Interface Class IpVPrN
Inherits from: IpService.
The enterprise operator can create a new Virtual Provisioned Pipe (VPrP) in an
existing Virtual Private Network (VPN) with this VPN interface. Such a pipe is
extended between specific SAPs/sites. Each such pipe is associated with QoS
parameters identified by a specific DiffServ Codepoint. A packet that arrives
at the SAP/site with a specific Codepoint, is \"directed\" to the virtual
provisioned pipe that supports the QoS parameters provisioned for this pipe.
The collection of all the Virtual Provisioned Pipes (VPrPs), provisioned
within the enterprise VPN, constitutes the Virtual Provisioned Network (VPrN).
Enterprise operator can create new VPrPs and delete existing VPrP using this
interface. This interface provides also methods to get the list of already
provisioned VPrPs, and a handle to a specific VPrP interface that holds
information for this VPrP.
+---------------------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpVPrN | +---------------------------------------------------------------+ | | +---------------------------------------------------------------+ | getVPrPList () : TpStringList | | | | getVPrP (vPrPID : in TpString) : IpInterfaceRef | | | | createVPrP (templateRef : in IpInterfaceRef) : IpInterfaceRef | | | | deleteVPrP (vPrPID : in TpString) : void | +---------------------------------------------------------------+
### 8.6.1 Method getVPrPList()
This method is used to get the list of VPrP IDs for the already established
virtual provisioned pipes for the enterprise network. Each pipe is assigned an
ID at the provisioning of the pipe.
Returns vPrPList : This parameter lists the IDs of all the virtual provisioned
pipes established in the virtual provisioned network.
· If no VPrP is found, then the P_UNKNOWN_VPRP exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpStringList
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_VPRP
### 8.6.2 Method getVPrP()
This method is used to get a handle to the virtual provisioned pipe.
Returns vPrPRef : This parameter is the reference to a provision virtual
provisioned pipe interface.
Parameters
vPrPID : in TpString
This parameter is virtual provisioned pipe ID, a unique ID across all VPrNs
(of different enterprises) in the provider network. This ID is assigned by the
provider when a new VPrP is created by the create method of this interface. -
If the string representation of the vPrPID does not obey the rules for site
identification, then a P_ILLEGAL_VPRP_ID exception is raised. - If the VPrP ID
representation is legal but there is no VPrP with this ID, then the
P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID exception is raised. - Note that as soon a request to create
a new VPrP (see IpVPrN interface) is submitted by the enterprise client, a new
VPrP interface should be created by the provider. However, the provider might
be in a situation where the evaluation of the request for a new VPrP has not
been completed yet. In such a case, until the provider makes a decision, the
status of the new VPrP should be set to Pending. The P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID
exception should not be raised in this case.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_VPRPID, P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID
### 8.6.3 Method createVPrP()
This method is used to create a new virtual provisioned pipe, which includes
the pipe QoS information, the provisioned QoS information, the SLA ID, and the
selected pairs of SAP/Sites. The method returns a reference to the new virtual
provisioned pipe interface that is added to an existing VPrN. This VPrP needs
to be accessed in order to find the status of the request to create a new
VPrP. The status can have one of the following values: Pending, Active, or
Disallowed. The enterprise operator should delete disallowed VPrPs. The
provider may remove VPrPs with a disallowed status, if it stays in this status
for some pre-agreed length of time.
Returns vPrPRef : This parameter is the handle to the new VPrP interface
created as a response to the createVPrP method. The new VPrP interface may not
include yet the decision of the provider to the request to create a new VPrP.
However, if the request is granted, the status flag of the VPrP is set to
Active. If the request is denied, the status flag is set to DISALLOWED. The
status of the new VPrP is held in the status parameter of the VPrP, which
should be Pending if the processing of the request has not been completed by
the provider.
Parameters
templateRef : in IpInterfaceRef
This parameter is a reference to the template interface that holds all the
requested QoS parameters for a new VPrP. The requested QoS parameter values,
stored in the template interface, are used by the provider to provision a new
VPrP for the enterprise network. - If the reference representation of the
templateRef does not obey the rules for reference values, then a
P_ILLEGAL_REF_VALUE exception is raised. - If the reference representation is
legal but there is no interface with this reference, then P_UNKNOWN_INTERFACE
exception is raised. - If the one of the parameter values requested in the
template is not consistent with default values set by the provider or the
advice given in one of its description parameters, this is considered to be an
inconsistent VPrP. The provider can deny a request for an inconsistent VPrP.
The reason of the denial would be specified in the denial reason parameter for
that VPrP. Since it is not required that the provider renders a decision in
real time, no exception parameter is defined for this createVPrP method for
requesting an inconsistent VPrP.
Returns
IpInterfaceRef
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_ILLEGAL_REF_VALUE, P_UNKNOWN_INTERFACE
### 8.6.4 Method deleteVPrP()
This method is used to delete a virtual provisioned pipe. A VPrP may have one
of the following status values: Active, Pending, Disallowed. The reasons for
deleting a VPrP may vary. Here are some examples. If a VPrP is active, the
delete method is used when the VPrP is not needed anymore. If the VPrP is
pending approval, one can still delete the VPrP. If the VPrP is disallowed,
the VPrP should be deleted, as it does not serve any useful purpose anymore.
Parameters
vPrPID : in TpString
This parameter specifies the ID of the VPrP to be deleted. If the VPrP cannot
be deleted, then P_CANT_DELETE_VPRP exception is raised. If the VPrP ID is not
found, then P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID exception is raised.
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_CANT_DELETE_VPRP, P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID
## 8.7 Interface Class IpVPrP
Inherits from: IpService.
The virtual provisioned pipe interface provides information on a VPrP whose
status can be in one of the following states: - Active: a previously
established VPrP, which indicates that a previous request to create the VPrP
was granted by the provider. Packet that belong to this VPrP and meet the
validity time requirements, are admitted to the enterprise VPrN. - Pending: a
request to create a new VPrP is still pending response from the provider,
indicating that the provider is still processing the request to create a new
VPrP. Packet that belong to this VPrP are not admitted to the enterprise VPrN.
- Disallowed: a request to create a new VPrP was denied. A description
parameter may include the reason for the denial. This is a disallowed VPrP and
packets that belong to this VPrP are not admitted to the enterprise VPrN. A
VPrP is composed of the following elements, each of which provides the
following Provisioned QoS measures: Element type Element QoS measure
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Endpoint A SAP or a site Pipe QoS information based on VPrP endpoints: load
parameters, policing action. Applied to traffic entering the enterprise VPrN.
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Packet header marking TOS bits marked Provisioned QoS information. with DS
Codepoint One of the QoS levels established by the provider in its backbone
network to be applied to the packets carrying this marking.
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Time Validity A time requirement Packets are admitted to the VPrN that is
applied to only if they also meet validity an active VPrP time requirements.
+-------------------------------------------------+ | \> | | | | IpVPrP | +-------------------------------------------------+ | | +-------------------------------------------------+ | getVPrPID () : TpString | | | | getSlaID () : TpString | | | | getStatus () : TpVprpStatus | | | | getProvisionedQoSInfo () : TpProvisionedQoSInfo | | | | getValidityInfo () : TpValidityInfo | | | | getPipeQoSInfo () : TpPipeQoSInfo | | | | getDsCodepoint () : TpDsCodepoint | +-------------------------------------------------+
### 8.7.1 Method getVPrPID()
This method is used to get the ID of the virtual provisioned pipe.
Returns vPrPID : This parameter is the ID of the virtual provisioned pipe.
· If no VPrP ID is found, then P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID
### 8.7.2 Method getSlaID()
This method is used to get the ID of the service level agreement (SLA) if such
was associated with the virtual provisioned pipe at the provisioning of the
VPrP.
Returns slaID : This parameter is the identifier for the service level
description.
· If no SLA ID is found, then P_UNKNOWN_SLA_ID exception is raised.
· Note that SLA ID is optional. If no SLA ID was entered when this VPrP was
created, this exception will be raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpString
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_SLA_ID
### 8.7.3 Method getStatus()
This method is used to get the status of the virtual provisioned pipe. It can
be used to convey, for example, the status of an outstanding previously
submitted provisioning request (which the provider could not verify in real
time).
Returns status : This parameter is used to convey status of the virtual
provisioned pipe. The semantics of each of these states is specified above.
· If status information is not found, Then P_UNKNOWN_STATUS exception is
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpVprpStatus
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_STATUS
### 8.7.4 Method getProvisionedQoSInfo()
This method is used to get the provisioned QoS information set for this
virtual provisioned pipe. This method is the same method with the same
parameters as in the QoS Template interface. The only difference is that the
tag value is meaningless here. The values for an Active VPrP are the values
provisioned in the provider network, and the values for a Pending VPrP are the
requested values.
Returns provisionedQoSInfo : This parameter consists of delay, loss, jitter,
and exceed load action parameters. The tag value (provider specified, operator
specified, or unspecified) is used only with the template interface, and is
meaningless for this VPrP interface. Delay priority, Loss priority, and Jitter
priority are used to specify the priority of this VPrP relative to other
VPrPs, instead of specifying explicit values for these parameters.
· If no QoS information is found, then P_UNKNOWN_QOS_INFO exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpProvisionedQoSInfo
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_QOS_INFO
### 8.7.5 Method getValidityInfo()
This method is used to get the time period for which the VPrP is valid. For
the VPrP to be included in the VPrN, the VPrP has to be in active status and
valid.
Returns validityInfo : This parameter defines the time periods for which this
VPrP is valid. The valid periods are evaluated by applying a logical AND
operation of all the components of this parameter, without regard who
specified the valid time (i.e. specified by operator, or provider).
· If no validity information is found for this VPrP, then
P_UNKNOWN_VALIDITY_INFO exception is raised. Note that if the validity
information is found and validitySpecified is FALSE this exception is not
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpValidityInfo
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_VALIDITY_INFO
### 8.7.6 Method getPipeQoSInfo()
This method is used to get and set the pipe QoS information for this VPrP. For
an Active VPrP the values of these parameters are provisioned in the provider
network. For a Pending VPrP, the values are the requested values. The tag
value is meaningless for this interface.
Returns pipeQoSInfo : This parameter consists of load parameters, direction of
the traffic, and the endpoints (SAP or site) of the virtual provisioned pipe.
This data type is defined in the QoS Template.
If no pipe QoS information is found, then P_UNKNOWN_PIPEQOSINFO exception is
raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpPipeQoSInfo
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_PIPEQOSINFO
### 8.7.7 Method getDsCodepoint()
This method is used to get the DiffServ Codepoint of the virtual provisioned
pipe. This DS Codepoint is populated in the TOS bits of the packet header to
identify to the service provider network the specific VPrP to service this
packet entering the provider network.
Returns dsCodepoint : This parameter holds the DS Codepoint for the VPrP. It
has two parameters: match and mask to enable the provider to locate the bit
string in any location in the 6-bit long field. The actual Codepoint is a
result of an AND operation bit by bit of the two parameters.
· If no DS Codepoint is found, then P_UNKNOWN_DSCODEPOINT exception is raised.
Parameters
No Parameters were identified for this method.
Returns
TpDsCodepoint
Raises
TpCommonExceptions, P_UNKNOWN_DSCODEPOINT
# 9 State Transition Diagrams
There are no State Transition Diagrams for the Connectivity Manager SCF.
# 10 Data Definitions
Data type specifications can be found below. There is an extensive use of a
specific data type for connectivity manager. This data type is discussed here
to clarify how different interfaces and methods use it.
The data type TpNameDescrpTag is not explicitly specified (however, it is
shown in the class diagrams document) as it is inherited by various other data
types, such as TpNameDescrpTagDateTime, TpNameDescrpTagdayofWeek,
TpNameDescrpTagint, TpNameDescrpTagString, and so forth. The TpNameDescrpTag
class includes three parameters that are inherited by all of its subclasses
data types: The name parameter, the description parameter, and the tag
parameter. These parameters were defined for the get method in the template
interface, and were reused by other methods, with some semantic modifications.
The three parameters are:
  * The name parameter which names the parameter in a template.
  * The description parameter describes the parameter as it relates to the QoS service, and could add explanations and restrictions regarding the use of a parameter, such as what values can be selected by the operator for the parameter in a given template.
  * The tag parameter has the following values and interpretation:
```{=html}
``` \- Provider specified: the operator cannot modify the value of this >
parameter as set in the template interface.
  * Operator specified: enterprise operator may change the default value > set by the provider in the template. The default value can be > blank to indicate that there is no default value for this > parameter. The operator may change it according to advice, if > provided in the description parameters.
  * Unspecified: the parameter is not used for this template, and the > enterprise operator cannot change it.
Various interfaces and methods reuse these data types, since they require only
a slight semantic modification while reusing the entire structure. The
following specifies the modified semantics as used by the various methods.
For the QoS template interface and all the set methods that use the
TpNameDescrpTag data type, the tag values should be ignored by the CM
implementation, as only the provider sets the tag value in all cases, and the
operator cannot change it. For any parameter that is set to operator
specified, the set method can modify the [values]{.underline} set in the
template, but not the associated [tag]{.underline}. If the tag is set to
provider specified, or unspecified, and the operator tries to modify it with a
set method, the P_NOT_OPERATOR_SPECIFIED_VALUE exception is raised. However,
the description can be modified by the set method if the tag is operator
specified. The operator can use this feature to enter notes that would be
later shown when retrieving VPrP information. However, the name parameter can
not be changed as it might be unique in the provider\'s network.
For the VPrP interface, the tag value is irrelevant for all the get methods
and may be ignored by the operator client.
All data types referenced but not defined in this clause are common data
definitions which may be found in\ ES 204 915-2.
## 10.1 Connectivity Manager Data Types
### 10.1.1 TpIPSubnet
Defines a Sequence of Data Elements.
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description subnetNumber TpString
IP address, IPv4 example 2.3.4.15 subnetMask TpString IPv4 mask example,
255.255.255.0 addressType TpIPv4AddType Class for the Ipv4 address format
IPVersionSupport TpIPVersion Version supported NOTE: The TpIPSubnet data type
follows the DMTF CIM specification for IP sub-net.
* * *
### 10.1.2 TpIPv4AddType
* * *
Name Value Description IPV4_ADD_CLASS_A 0 Address Class A IPV4_ADD_CLASS_B 1
Address Class b IPV4_ADD_CLASS_C 2 Address Class c IPV4_ADD_CLASS_D 3 Address
Class d IPV4_ADD_CLASS_E 4 Address Class e
* * *
### 10.1.3 TpIPVersion
* * *
Name Value Description VERSION_UNKNOWN 0 Unknown IP addressing format
VERSION_IPV4 1 IPv4 addressing format VERSION_IPV6 2 IPv6 addressing format
* * *
### 10.1.4 TpVprpStatus
* * *
Name Value Description ACTIVE 0 A VPrP status indicating that this VPrP is a
previously established VPrP. Also means that a previous request to create the
VPrP was granted by the provider. Packets that belong to this VPrP and meet
the validity time requirements, are admitted to the enterprise VPrN. PENDING 1
A VPrP status indicating that this VPrP is a request to create a new VPrP, and
it is still pending a response from the provider, i.e. the provider is still
processing the request to create a this new VPrP. Packets that belong to this
VPrP are not admitted to the enterprise VPrN. DISALLOWED 2 A VPrP status
indicating that this VPrP is a request to create a new VPrP, however, the
request was denied. A description parameter may include the reason for the
denial. This is an disallowed VPrP and packets that belong to this VPrP are
not admitted to the enterprise VPrN.
* * *
### 10.1.5 TpDsCodepoint
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description match TpString Marking
significant bits. 6-bit long. Valid characters are 0 and 1. mask TpString
Identifies significant part (1s) of for marking Codepoint. 6-bit long. Valid
characters are 0 and 1.
* * *
### 10.1.6 TpProvisionedQoSInfo
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description delayDescriptor
TpDelayDescriptor Delay parameters lossDescriptor TpLossDescriptor Loss
parameters jitterDescriptor TpJitterDescriptor Jitter parameters
excessLoadAction TpNameDescrpTagExcessLoadAction Excess load action parameters
description TpNameDescrpTagString Operator can add text using the Set method,
if tag is Operator Specified
* * *
### 10.1.7 TpDelayDescriptor
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description meanDelay
TpNameDescrpTagInt in milliseconds measurementPeriod TpNameDescrpTagInt in
milliseconds maxDelay TpNameDescrpTagInt in milliseconds minDelay
TpNameDescrpTagInt in milliseconds delayPriority TpNameDescrpTagInt higher
value indicates higher priority description TpNameDescrpTagString Operator can
add text using the Set method, if tag is Operator Specified
* * *
### 10.1.8 TpLossDescriptor
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description meanLoss
TpNameDescrpTagInt per this many packets, one packet is lost measurementPeriod
TpNameDescrpTagInt in milliseconds maxLoss TpNameDescrpTagInt per this many
packets, one packet is lost minLoss TpNameDescrpTagInt per this many packets,
one packet is lost lossPriority TpNameDescrpTagInt higher value indicates
higher priority description TpNameDescrpTagString Operator can add text using
the Set method, if tag is Operator Specified
* * *
### 10.1.9 TpJitterDescriptor
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description meanJitter
TpNameDescrpTagInt in milliseconds. measurementPeriod TpNameDescrpTagInt in
milliseconds. maxJitter TpNameDescrpTagSInt in milliseconds. minJitter
TpNameDescrpTagInt in milliseconds. jitterPriority TpNameDescrpTagInt higher
value indicates higher priority. description TpNameDescrpTagString Operator
can add text using the Set method, if tag is Operator Specified.
* * *
### 10.1.10 TpNameDescrpTagInt
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpInt32 Can be
set by operator or provider, depending on the tag value.
* * *
### 10.1.11 TpNameDescrpTagString
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpString Can be
set by operator or provider, depending on the tag value.
* * *
### 10.1.12 TpTagValue
* * *
Name Value Description PROVIDER_SPECIFIED 0 The operator cannot modify the
value of this parameter as set in the template interface. OPERATOR_SPECIFIED 1
Enterprise operator may change the default value set by the provider in the
template. The default value can be blank to indicate that there is no default
value for this parameter. The operator may change it according with advice, if
provided in the description parameters. UNSPECIFIED 2 Parameter is not used
for this template, and the enterprise operator cannot change it.
* * *
### 10.1.13 TpNameDescrpTagExcessLoadAction
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpAction Can be
set by operator or provider, depending on the tag value.
* * *
### 10.1.14 TpAction
* * *
Name Value Description DROP 0 Drop packets (i.e. do not ever transmit them)
that exceed the load traffic parameters that were set for the VPrP TRANSMIT 1
Transmit packets even though transmitting them will create a load in excess of
the load traffic parameters that were set for the VPrP RESHAPE 2 Reshape the
entering traffic by trying to keep the packet (and not drop them yet) waiting
for the entering traffic load to come down below the load conditions set for
the VPrP, and if it does, transmit the packets then REMARK 3 Remark the packet
for a lower QoS service, then transmit them (i.e. transfer the packet through
some other less demanding VPrP). This may result in increased packet loss
(i.e. the excess packets may have now higher probability of being dropped
before reaching their SAP or Site destination), or increased packet delay and
/ or packet jitter
* * *
### 10.1.15 TpPipeQoSInfo
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description
directionality TpNameDescrpTagDir Specifies whether traffic is uni- or\ bi-
directional.
serviceOrigin TpEndpoint
serviceDestination TpEndpoint
forwardLoad TpLoadDescriptor Traffic flowing from service origin to service
destination.
reverseLoad TpLoadDescriptor Traffic flowing from service destination to
service source.
description TpNameDescrpTagString
* * *
### 10.1.16 TpNameDescrpTagDir
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value
TpTrafficDirection Can be set by operator or provider, depending on the tag
value.
* * *
### 10.1.17 TpTrafficDirection
* * *
Name Value Description UNIDIRECTIONAL 0 The traffic for this VPrP is
unidirectional. BIDIRECTIONAL 1 The traffic for this VPrP is bi-directional.
* * *
### 10.1.18 TpEndpoint
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description type TpSiteOrSap
Specifies whether the endpoint is a site or a SAP. id TpString Endpoint name.
* * *
### 10.1.19 TpSiteOrSap
* * *
Name Value Description SITE 0 Endpoint is a site SAP 1 Endpoint is a SAP
* * *
### 10.1.20 TpLoadDescriptor
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description meanBandwidth
TpNameDescrpTagInt Bytes per second measurmentInterval TpNameDescrpTagInt
milliseconds maxBandwidth TpNameDescrpTagInt Bytes per second minBandwidth
TpNameDescrpTagInt Bytes per second bandwidthShare TpNameDescrpTagInt 1/100 of
a percent, e.g. 500 is 0,5 % bandwidthWeight TpNameDescrpTagInt  
burstSize TpNameDescrpTagInt Bytes description TpNameDescrpTagString
* * *
### 10.1.21 TpValidityInfo
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description validFrom
TpNameDescrpTagDateTime valid start time validPeriod TpNameDescrpTagTimePeriod
valid Duration validDailyFrom TpNameDescrpTagTimeOfDay daily start time
validDailyPeriod TpNameDescrpTagTimePeriod Daily Duration validDayOfWeek
TpNameDescrpTagDayOfWeek days of the week validMonth TpNameDescrpTagMonth
months in a year description TpNameDescrpTagString description
* * *
Specifies the validity period for a VPrP.
### 10.1.22 TpNameDescrpTagDateTime
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpDateAndTime
Can be set by operator or provider, depending on the tag value. The
TpDateAndTime data type is a common data type in accordance with ISO 8601.
* * *
Specifies a date and the time on that day for a valid period to start.
### 10.1.23 TpNameDescrpTagTimePeriod
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description duration TpInt32 Time
measured from a start time specified by another parameter for the validity
information. Measured in Seconds.
* * *
### 10.1.24 TpNameDescrpTagTimeOfDay
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpString String
with the following format HH:MM. HH two digit hour, and MM two digit minutes.
Time of the day to be applied to validity information provided by other
validity parameters.
* * *
Specifies a time in a day, where the day is specified by another validity
parameter. For example, if validity information includes Mondays and Thursday
of the week, this daily time applies to these two days. The valid time window
will start on Mondays and Thursday s at the time specified by this parameter.
### 10.1.25 TpNameDescrpTagDayOfWeek
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpInt32 Day of
the week to be applied to validity information provided by other validity
parameters. Next table below shows the value assigned to each day. The value
for this parameter can be in the range of 1 to 127.
* * *
The value parameter specifies information regarding the days of the week for
the validity time period. For multiple days, this parameter holds the total
value of the days, see examples below.
In the following table the value corresponding to the valid days is obtained
by adding the values for each day. For example:
1 = Mondays
2 = Tuesdays
3 = 2 + 1 = Mondays and Tuesdays
4 = Wednesdays
5 = 4 + 1 = Mondays and Wednesdays
**96 = 32 + 64 = Saturday + Sunday = weekend.**
* * *
Values for Days Of Week  
Day Value Monday 1 Tuesday 2 Wednesday 4 Thursday 8 Friday 16 Saturday 32
Sunday 64
* * *
### 10.1.26 TpNameDescrpTagMonth
* * *
Sequence Element Name Sequence Element Type Description name TpString Name set
by provider. description TpString Description set by provider. tag TpTagValue
Tag set by provider. Cannot be overwritten by operator. value TpInt32 Months
of the year to be applied to validity information provided by other validity
parameters. Next table below shows the value assigned to each Month. The value
for this parameter must be in the range of 1 to 4095.
* * *
In the following table the value corresponding to the valid month is obtained
by adding the values for each valid month. For example:
1 = January
2 = February
3 = 2 + 1 = January and February
4 = March
5 = 4 + 1 = March and January
* * *
Values for Months of Year  
Month Sequence Element Type January 1 February 2 March 4 April 8 May 16 June
32 July 64 August 128 September 256 October 512 November 1024 December 2048
* * *
# 11 Exception Classes
The following are the list of exception classes which are used in this
interface of the API.
* * *
Name Description P_CANT_DELETE_VPRP Virtual Provisioned Pipe cannot be deleted
P_ILLEGAL_COMBINATION Illegal combination of requested parameters
P_ILLEGAL_REF_VALUE Illegal Reference Value P_ILLEGAL_SITE_ID Illegal
Enterprise Network Site ID P_ILLEGAL_SLA_ID Illegal format for Service Level
Agreement ID P_ILLEGAL_TAG Illegal or unspecified Tag used P_ILLEGAL_VALUE
Value of parameter is illegal P_ILLEGAL_VPRPID Attempt to lock an already
locked mailbox P_UNKNOWN_DESCRIPTION No description field found
P_UNKNOWN_DSCODEPOINT No DiffServ Codepoint found P_UNKNOWN_ENTERPRISE_NETWORK
No Enterprise Network found P_UNKNOWN_INTERFACE A negative number of
properties was requested P_UNKNOWN_IPSUBNET No IP Subnet found for this site
P_UNKNOWN_MENU No menu found / unknown menu P_UNKNOWN_PIPEQOSINFO No PIPE QoS
information found P_UNKNOWN_QOS_INFO No QoS information found P_UNKNOWN_SAP No
site found with the specified SAP ID P_UNKNOWN_SAPS No Service Access Point
found P_UNKNOWN_SITE_DESCRIPTION No site description found for this site
P_UNKNOWN_SITE_ID No Enterprise Network Site with this ID found
P_UNKNOWN_SITE_LOCATION No site location found for this site P_UNKNOWN_SITES
No enterprise network site found P_UNKNOWN_SLA_ID No SLA ID found
P_UNKNOWN_STATUS Status information not found P_UNKNOWN_TEMPLATE_TYPE Template
Type not found P_UNKNOWN_TEMPLATES No Templates found P_UNKNOWN_VALIDITY_INFO
No Validity Information found P_UNKNOWN_VPRN No Virtual Private Network found
P_UNKNOWN_VPRP No Virtual Provisioned Pipe found P_UNKNOWN_VPRP_ID Illegal
VPrP ID
* * *
Each exception class contains the following structure.
* * *
Structure Element Name Structure Element Type Structure Element Description
ExtraInformation TpString Carries extra information to help identify the
source of the exception, e.g. a parameter name.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Connectivity Manager SCF
The OMG IDL representation of this interface specification is contained in a
text file (am.idl contained in archive 2919810V800IDL.ZIP) which accompanies
the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Connectivity Manager
SCF
The W3C WSDL representation of this interface specification is contained in
zip file 2919810V800WSDL.ZIP, which accompanies the present document.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Java™ API Description of the Connectivity
Manager SCF
The Java™ API realisation of this interface specification is produced in
accordance with the Java™ Realisation rules defined in Part 1 of this
specification series. These rules aim to deliver for Java™, a developer API,
provided as a realisation, supporting a Java™ API that represents the UML
specifications. The rules support the production of both J2SE™ and J2EE™
versions of the API from the common UML specifications.
The J2SE™ representation of this interface specification is provided as Java™
Code, contained in archive 2919810V800J2SE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
The J2EE™ representation of this interface specification is provided as Java™
Code, contained in archive 2919810V800J2EE.ZIP that accompanies the present
document.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Description of Connectivity Manager for 3GPP2
cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA API Stage 3 interface definitions and
it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is an extension of OSA API
specifications capabilities to enable operation in cdma2000 systems
environment. They are in alignment with 3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2
architecture defined in
[1] 3GPP2 P.S0001-B: \"Wireless IP Network Standard\", Version 1.0, September
2000;
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 2.0, May 14, 2002;
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\", December 2003.
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# D.1 General Exceptions
The term UMTS is not applicable for the cdma2000 family of standards.
Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the broader sense
of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no additions or
exclusions required.
CAMEL and CAP mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# D.2 Specific Exceptions
## D.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.2 Clause 2: References
Normative references on 3GPP TS 23.078 and on 3GPP TS 29.078 are not
applicable for cdma2000 systems.
## D.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.4 Clause 4: Connectivity Manager SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.5 Clause 5: Sequence Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.6 Clause 6: Class Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.7 Clause 7: The Service Interface Specifications
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.8 Clause 8: Connectivity Manager Interface Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.9 Clause 9: State Transition Diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.10 Clause 10: Connectivity Manager Service Properties
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.11 Clause 11: Data Definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.12 Clause 12: Exception Classes
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.13 Annex A (normative): OMG IDL Description of Connectivity Manager SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
## D.2.14 Annex B (informative): W3C WSDL Description of Connectivity Manager
SCF
There are no additions or exclusions.
#