# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 18 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
**Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"**
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 18 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Device Capabilities and Configuration Web
Service aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Device Capabilities and
Configuration Web Service are defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] OMA Client Provisioning. See http://www.wapforum.org/DTD/prov.dtd
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
The Parlay X Device Capabilities and Configuration Web Service will allow
applications to get information about device capabilities and push device
configuration to a device.
4.1 Device Capabilities and 4.2 Device Configuration gives a description of
each of these two possibilities.
## 4.1 Device Capabilities
An application retrieves the device capabilities of a user's device by
providing their phone number. The device capabilities are described by a user
profile XML file, which URL is stored in the DeviceCapability structure
returned when the capabilities are requested. In addition there is an
operation to get the equipment identifier of the device. (The operation to get
the device identifier is in a separate call, in case there is a wish to
restrict this information more than the device capabilities.)
In addition it is possible to set up notification for device identifier
changes and receive the notifications when the device identifier changes.
## 4.2 Device Configuration
The application pushes the device configuration to a user's device by
providing their phone number and the configuration (chosen from a list of
available configurations.) The application can get the list of available
configurations for a given device and the history of the configurations
previously pushed to the user's device.
## 4.3 Application scenarios
The Parlay X Device Capabilities and Configuration web service relies on the
Parlay/OSA Terminal Capabilities SCF and one of the Parlay/OSA or Parlay X
Messaging interfaces. In addition storage for configuration files is provided.
. These files should respect the OMA Client Provisioning standard [7]. Usually
sent to the subscriber device by SMS messages these files may configure
settings such as WAP, MMS, Emails, etc. The following figure gives two
examples of applications that can utilize the Device Capabilities and
Configuration web service. One is a Customer Relationship Management
Application used by an operator, the other is a Self Care Application used by
the subscribers.
# 5 Namespaces
The DeviceCapabilities interface uses the namespace:
> http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/device_capabilities/v4_0
The DeviceCapabilitiesNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
>
> http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/device_capabilities/notification_manager/v4_0
The DeviceCapabilitiesNotification interface uses the namespace:
> http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/device_capabilities/notification/v4_0
The DeviceConfiguration interface uses the namespace:
>
> http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/device_capabilities/device_configuration/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
> http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/device_capabilities/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [ ]{.underline} [5]. The use of the
name \'xsd\' is not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Device Capability
The application gets the device capabilities of a device. With the device
capabilities the application can chose the right version of another service to
make available for the user (not shown in the diagram.)
## 6.2 Device Configuration
The first device configuration sequence diagram shows how an application for a
customer service operator can utilize the configuration history when a
customer calls in with configuration problems. The application first gets the
configuration history, and then the customer service operator chooses to push
the previous configuration to the device.
Another possibility is for the customer service operator to check available
configurations for the customer's device when the customer calls. Then the
operator chooses a configuration to push to the device.
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 ConfigurationDescription Structure
Data structure containing the configuration ID, name, description and a link
to the URL where the configuration XML file can be found.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description configurationId xsd:string No A
unique identifier for the Configuration name xsd:string No The name of the
configuration. description xsd:string No The description of the configuration
configurationReference xsd:anyURI No The URL where the configuration XML file
can be found
* * *
## 7.2 ConfigurationHistory Structure
Data structure containing configuration (ConfigurationDescription) and a
timestamp for when this configuration was sent to a device address.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description configuration
ConfigurationDescription No A Configuration timestamp xsd:dateTime No The
date/time when the configuration was sent to the device address.
* * *
## 7.3 DeviceCapabilities Structure
Data structure containing device capabilities consisting of a device ID that
uniquely identifies the device type, the name of the device/model, and a link
to the URL where the User Agent Profile XML file can be found.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description deviceId xsd:string No A unique
identifier for the device type name xsd:string No The name of the
device/model. userAgentProfileReference xsd:anyURI No The URL where the User
Agent Profile XML file is located
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: DeviceCapabilities
Request information on capabilities of a device.
### 8.1.1 Operation: getCapabilities
This operation is intended to get the capabilities of a given device. The
device is identified by its address (i.e. the phone number). The URI provided
is for a single device, not a group URI. If a group URI is provided, a fault
(POL0006) will be returned to the application. The information returned is the
Device Capabilities consisting of a unique ID for the device type, the name of
the device/model and a link to the User Agent Profile XML file for the device.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: getCapabilitiesRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description address xsd:anyURI No Address of the
device
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: getCapabilitiesResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result DeviceCapabilities No
Identification of the device and link to User Agent Profile
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
### 8.1.2 Operation: getDeviceId
This operation is intended to get the equipment identifier (e.g. IMEI) of a
given device. The device is referenced by its address (i.e. the phone number).
The URI provided is for a single address, not a group address. If a group
address is provided, a fault (POL0006) will be returned to the application.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: getDeviceIdRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description address xsd:anyURI No Address of the
device
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: getDeviceIdResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description result xsd:string No Equipment
identifier of the device
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
## 8.2 Interface: DeviceCapabilitiesNotificationManager
Set up notifications for device changes.
### 8.2.1 Operation: startNotification
The notification pattern with correlation is used in order to correlate the
notification events with the request. The application sets a notification
trigger on equipment identifier change. In the case where the address part is
a group address, the application is setting a notification of equipment
identifier change for every device address in the group. Note that the
reference part contains the correlator string used in subsequent messages to
the notification interface.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: startNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description address xsd:anyURI[1..unbounded] No
The address(es) or address group(s), for one or more devices that the
application wants to monitor for equipment identifier changes. reference
common:SimpleReference No Notification endpoint definition duration
common:TimeMetric Yes Length of the time for which notifications occur. Do not
specify to use default notification duration defined by service policy.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: startNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid address(es).
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication.
### 8.2.2 Operation: endNotification
The application may end a notification using this operation. Until this
operation completes, notifications may continue to be received by the
application.
An end of notification (**deviceChangeNotificationEnd**) operation will not be
invoked on the application for a notification ended using the
**endNotification** operation.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: endNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No The
notification the application wants to cancel.
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: endNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: DeviceCapabilitiesNotification
Notification interface to which device change notifications are delivered.
### 8.3.1 Operation: deviceNotification
This asynchronous operation is called by the Parlay X Device Capabilities and
Configuration web service when the equipment identifier of a monitored device
changes.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: deviceNotificationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification address xsd:anyURI No The
address of the device deviceId xsd:string No The new equipment identifier of
the device
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: deviceNotificationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
### 8.3.2 Operation: deviceError
This operation is invoked on the application to indicate that the Web Service
is cancelling the notification.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: deviceErrorRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No
**Correlator** provided in request to set up this notification address
xsd:anyURI Yes Address of the device if the error applies to an individual
device, or not specified if it applies to the whole notification. reason
common:ServiceError No Reason notification is being discontinued.
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: deviceErrorResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
### 8.3.3 Operation: deviceEnd
The notifications have ended for this **correlator**. This message will be
delivered when the duration for notifications has been completed. This message
will not be delivered in the case of an error ending the notifications or
deliberate ending of the notification (using **endNotification**).
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: deviceEndRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description  
correlator xsd:string No **Correlator** provided in request to set up this
notification
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: deviceEndResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
## 8.4 Interface: DeviceConfiguration
Pushes configurations to a device, gets history of pushed configurations and
gets available configurations for a given device model.
### 8.4.1 Operation: pushConfiguration
The operation enables pushing a configuration to a device. If the address part
is a group address, the configuration is pushed to all devices in the group.
#### 8.4.1.1 Input message: pushConfigurationRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description address xsd:anyURI No Address to
which the configuration is pushed configuration ConfigurationDescription No
The configuration pushed to the addressed specified above.
* * *
#### 8.4.1.2 Output message: pushConfigurationResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.4.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.4.2 Operation getConfigurationList
Gets the list of configurations available for a given device. The
configurations have to be made available in advance by the gateway operator.
#### 8.4.2.1 Input message: getConfigurationListRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description deviceId xsd:string No The
**deviceID** for which compatible configurations should be returned.
* * *
#### 8.4.2.2 Output message: getConfigurationListResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
result ConfigurationDescription\ No An array of Configuration applicable to
the **deviceID** specified in the input message. [1..unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.4.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.4.3 Operation: getConfigurationHistory
Gets the list of configurations previously pushed to a given address. The URI
provided is for a single device, not a group URI. If a group URI is provided,
a fault (POL0006) will be returned to the application.
#### 8.4.3.1 Input message: getConfigurationHistoryRequest
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description address xsd:anyURI No Address of the
device.
* * *
#### 8.4.3.2 Output message: getConfigurationHistoryResponse
* * *
Part Name Part Type Optional Description
result ConfigurationHistory\ No The history of configurations previously
pushed to this device address. [1..unbounded]
* * *
#### 8.4.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
```{=html}
``` \- POL0006: Groups not allowed.
# 9 Fault definitions
There are no service-specific fault definitions for this service.
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MaximumNotificationAddresses xsd:int Maximum number of
addresses for which a notification can be set up MaximumNotificationDuration
common:TimeMetric Maximum amount of time for which a notification may be set
up. GroupSupport xsd:boolean Indicates whether group URIs may be used
NestedGroupSupport xsd:boolean Indicates whether nested groups are supported
in group definitions AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed xsd:boolean Is duplication
addresses supported for device capabilities operations
* * *
NOTE: For service policy -- \"AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed\" , If
alias/group is used,
  1. Parlay X GW with Identity Management Framework support can verify that indeed there is a duplicate.
  2. If network capability supports alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, then the policy exception of addresses duplication may not have effect fully.
  3. If network capability don\'t support alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, the Parlay-X GW should reject the alias/group.
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Device Capabilities and Configuration
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files:
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_device_configuration_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_device_configuration_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_device_capabilities_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 18_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 18_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 18:
Device Capabilities and Configuration for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: \"cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Device Capabilities and Configuration
There are no additions or exclusions.
#