# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X web services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 8 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
**Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"**
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 8 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Terminal Status Web Service aspects of the
interface. All aspects of the Terminal Status Web Service are defined here,
these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
Terminal Status provides access to the status of a terminal through:
  * Request for the status of a terminal.
  * Request for the status of a group of terminals.
  * Notification of a change in the status of a terminal.
The status of a terminal can be expressed as reachable, unreachable or busy -
however not all terminals distinguish a busy status, so applications should be
able to adapt to what information is available (using the service properties
to determine available information).
When a request for a group of terminals is made, the response may contain a
full or partial set of results. This allows the service to provide results
based on a number of criteria including number of terminals for which the
request is made and amount of time required to retrieve the information. This
allows the requester to initiate additional requests for those terminals for
which information was not provided.
# 5 Namespaces
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/terminal_status/v4_0
The TerminalStatus interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/terminal_status/v4_0
The TerminalStatusNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/terminal_status/notification_manager/v4_0
The TerminalStatusNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/terminal_status/notification/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Terminal status query
Pattern: Request / Response.
When an application is interested in determining the status of a terminal
device, it may provide a terminal device address, and receive the status for
the device requested.
{width="3.3868055555555556in" height="3.4763888888888888in"}
## 6.2 Terminal status group query
Pattern: Request / Response.
When an application is interested in determining the status of a set of
terminal devices, it may provide an array of terminal device addresses,
including network managed group addresses, and receive the status for the set
of devices requested.
{width="3.3868055555555556in" height="3.9430555555555555in"}
## 6.3 Terminal status notification
Pattern: Application Correlated Multiple Notification.
An application can be notified of a change in the status of terminal devices.
When the status of a terminal device changes, a notification message will be
sent to the application.
{width="5.673611111111111in" height="5.043055555555555in"}
## 6.4 Terminal Status Notification with Check Immediate
In some applications, the terminal status notification will be used to watch
for a specific status change. An example is a \'call when available\' service,
where the terminal status is checked and determined to be not reachable or
busy, and a notification is set up to notify the application when the terminal
becomes reachable. Between the time that the original status determination and
the time the notification is set up, the terminal status could change to
reachable - thus the notification on change to reachable would not be sent.
Using the check immediate flag, after the notification is established, the
value of the terminal status will be determined, and if the criteria is
matched then a notification will be sent immediately. The following sequence
diagram shows this scenario.
{width="5.988888888888889in" height="6.604861111111111in"}
This sequence shows:
  * The Enterprise Application checks the status of a terminal, and > receives its status (in this scenario receiving Unreachable or > Busy.
  * The Enterprise Application generates a correlator, and starts a > notification with criteria defined to notify the Enterprise Web > Service when the terminal state becomes Reachable and the check > immediate flag set to true.
  * Sets up the notification to monitor terminal status changes.
  * Check the current status of the terminal, and determine if the > status matches the criteria.
  * In this case, the criteria matches, and a notification is delivered > to the Enterprise Web Service.
  * The count of notifications is incremented and compared to the > notification count limit.
  * In this case, a single notification was requested, and the end > notification message is sent.
  * The startNotification operation completes.
This scenario includes the full set of interactions in one sequence, which
also shows that the notifications can be received concurrent with the creation
of the notification.
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 Status enumeration
List of possible status values.
* * *
Enumeration Description Reachable Terminal is reachable Unreachable Terminal
is not reachable Busy Terminal is busy
* * *
## 7.2 RetrievalStatus enumeration
Enumeration of the status items that are related to an individual retrieval in
a set.
* * *
Enumeration Description Retrieved Status retrieved, with result in
CurrentStatus element. NotRetrieved Status not retrieved, CurrentStatus is not
provided (does not indicate an error, no attempt may have been made). Error
Error retrieving status.
* * *
## 7.3 StatusData structure
Data structure containing device identifier and its status. As this can be
related to a query of a group of terminal devices, the ResultStatus element is
used to indicate whether the information for the device was retrieved or not,
or if an error occurred.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No Address of the Terminal
Device to which the status information applies. ReportStatus RetrievalStatus
No Status of retrieval for this address. CurrentStatus Status Yes Status of
terminal. It is only provided if ReportStatus=Retrieved. ErrorInformation
common:ServiceError Yes If ReportStatus is Error, this is the reason for the
error. Error due to privacy verification will be expressed as POL0002 in the
ServiceError.
* * *
## 7.4 StatusInformation structure
* * *
Name Type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No Address of the Terminal
Device to which the status information applies. CurrentStatus Status No Status
of terminal.
* * *
# 8 Web service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: TerminalStatus
Request the status for a terminal or set of terminals.
### 8.1.1 Operation: GetStatus
This operation is intended to retrieve the status for a single terminal. The
URI provided is for a single terminal, not a group URI. If a group URI is
provided, a PolicyException will be returned to the application.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: GetStatusRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Address xsd:anyURI No Terminal to
request status for
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: GetStatusResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result Status No Status for the
terminal for which status was requested
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid address(es) -- if the address does not exist.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
### 8.1.2 Operation: GetStatusForGroup
The getStatusForGroup operation initiates a retrieval activity, where one or
more terminals, or groups of terminals, may have their status determined.
The Web Service may return a result set that does not include complete
information, allowing the Web Service implementation to choose to deliver a
partial set of results to accommodate other conditions, such as avoiding
timeouts. In this case, the addresses for which no attempt was made to provide
data will be marked NotRetrieved in the result for each address this applies
to.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: GetStatusForGroupRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded]
No List of URIs to get status for, including group URIs
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: GetStatusForGroupResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result StatusData [1..unbounded] No
Set of results for the request
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication.
## 8.2 Interface: TerminalStatusNotificationManager
Set up notifications for terminal status changes.
### 8.2.1 Operation: StartNotification
Notifications of status changes are made available to applications. The number
and duration of notifications may be requested as part of the setup of the
notification or may be governed by service policies, or a combination of the
two.
If CheckImmediate is set to true, then the notification will be set up, and
then the current value of the terminal status will be checked. If the terminal
status meets the criteria provided, a notification will be sent to the
application. This notification will count against the count requested. This
addresses the case where the status of the device changes during the time the
notification is being set up, which may be appropriate in some applications.
The correlator provided in the reference must be unique for this Web Service
at the time the notification is initiated, otherwise a ServiceException
(SVC0005) will be returned to the application.
If the frequency requested is more often than allowed by the service policy,
then the value in the service policy will be used. If the duration requested
exceeds the time allowed in the service policy, then the value in the service
policy will be used. If the notification period (duration) ends before all of
the notifications (count) have been delivered, then the notification
terminates. In all cases, when the notifications have run their course (by
duration or count), an end of notifications message will be provided to the
application.
Service policies may govern what count values can be requested, including
maximum number of notifications allowed and whether unlimited notifications
can be requested (i.e. either by not specifying the optional Count message
part or by specifying it with a value of zero). If the count value requested
is not in policy, a PolicyException (POL0004 or POL0005 as appropriate) will
be returned.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: StartNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Reference common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition Addresses xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded] No
Addresses of terminals to monitor Criteria Status [1..unbounded] No List of
status values to generate notifications for (these apply to all addresses
specified) CheckImmediate xsd:boolean No Check status immediately after
establishing notification Frequency common:TimeMetric No Maximum frequency of
notifications (can also be considered minimum time between notifications)
Duration common:TimeMetric Yes Length of time notifications occur for, do not
specify to use default notification time defined by service policy Count
xsd:integer Yes Maximum number of notifications. For no maximum, either do not
specify this part or specify a value of zero.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: StartNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0004: Unlimited notifications not supported.
  * POL0005: Too many notifications requested.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0009: Invalid frequency requested.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication.
  * POL0200: Busy criteria not supported.
### 8.2.2 Operation: EndNotification
The application may end a notification using this operation. Until this
operation returns, notifications may continue to be received by the
application.
An end of notification (statusEnd) message will not be delivered to the
application for a notification ended using this operation.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: EndNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: EndNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: TerminalNotification
Notification interface to which notifications are delivered.
### 8.3.1 Operation: StatusNotification
When the status of monitored devices change, a notification is delivered to
the application with the new status information for each of the devices. If a
group identifier was used, the terminal device URI is provided, not the group
URI.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: StatusNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification TerminalStatus
StatusInformation [1..unbounded] No List of Statusinformation elements
describing address and new terminal status.
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: StatusNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.2 Operation: StatusError
The status changed error message is sent to the application to indicate that
the notification is being cancelled by the Web Service.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: StatusErrorRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification. Address xsd:anyURI Yes
Address of terminal if the error applies to an individual terminal, or not
specified if it applies to the whole notification. Reason common:ServiceError
No Reason notification is being discontinued.
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: StatusErrorResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.3 Operation: StatusEnd
The notifications have completed for this correlator. This message will be
delivered when the duration or count for notifications have been completed.
This message will not be delivered in the case of an error ending the
notifications or deliberate ending of the notifications (using endNotification
operation).
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: StatusEndRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification.
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: StatusEndResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
None.
# 9 Fault definitions
New fault definitions for this service.
## 9.1 Fault: PolicyException
Busy criteria not supported.
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text Busy criteria is not supported.
Variables None.
* * *
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description BusyAvailable xsd:boolean Can busy be returned as a
status or be a trigger MaximumNotificationAddresses xsd:int Maximum number of
addresses for which a notification can be set up MaximumNotificationFrequency
common:TimeMetric Maximum rate of notification delivery (also can be
considered minimum time between notifications) MaximumNotification Duration
common:TimeMetric Maximum amount of time a notification may be set up for
MaximumCount xsd:int Maximum number of notifications that may be requested
UnlimitedCountAllowed xsd:boolean Allowed to specify unlimited notification
count (i.e. either by not specifying the optional Count message part in
StartNotificationRequest or by specifying a value of zero) GroupSupport
xsd:boolean Groups may be included with addresses NestedGroupSupport
xsd:boolean Are nested groups supported in group definitions
AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed xsd:boolean Indicates whether duplication of
addresses is allowed for operations
* * *
**Note: For service policy - "AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed", If alias/group
is used,**
  1. Parlay X GW with Identity Management Framework support can verify that indeed there is a duplicate.
  2. If network capability supports alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, then the policy exception of addresses duplication may not have effect fully.
  3. **If network capability doesn\'t support alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, the Parlay-X GW should reject the alias/group.**
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Terminal Status
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files;
  * parlayx_terminal_status_types_4_0.xsd
  * parlayx_terminal_status_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_status_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_status_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_status_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_status_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_status_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 8_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 8_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 8:
Terminal Status for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Terminal Status
There are no additions or exclusions.
#