# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 17 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
**Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"**
**Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"**
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 17 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Application-driven Quality of Service (QoS)
Web Service aspects of the interface. All aspects of the Application-driven
QoS Web Service are defined here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
I. References are either specific (identified by date of publication, >
edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
II. For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
III. For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM > document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the > latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the > present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] and the following apply:
ADQ Application-Driven Quality of Service
QoS Quality of Service
# 4 Detailed service description
'Application Driven QoS ' is a service which enables applications to
dynamically change the quality of service (e.g. bandwidth) available on end
user network connections. Changes in QoS may be applied on either a temporary
basis (i.e. for a defined period of time), or as the default QoS to be applied
for a user each time they connect to the network.
Applications will govern the quality of service available to the end user by
requesting that pre-defined QoS Feature profiles are applied on the end user's
connection. It is the responsibility of the Service Provider to define these
QoS Features and share them beforehand with application providers, along with
a clear indication as to which of these can be used as temporary QoS Features
and which can be used to set the default QoS on an end user connection.
The following scenarios provide example business use-cases to further
illustrate the difference between default and temporary QoS Features and when
they may be applied by the application.
{width="5.0125in" height="2.5729166666666665in"}
Figure 4.1: Example Default QoS Feature Use-Case
Figure 4.1 provides an example of where a default QoS Feature could be applied
to an end user connection.\ The scenario given shows the end user of a DSL
service requesting a permanent upgrade from their existing service offering
(e.g. 2048 kbps) to a higher bandwidth service (e.g. 8192 kbps). The
application subsequently makes a request to the ADQ web service to apply the
pre-defined 'DSL_8192' QoS Feature to the end user connection on a permanent,
or default, basis. Following successful completion of this use-case, each time
the end user's terminal equipment attaches to their DSL service, the default
QoS (in this case DSL_8192) will be applied.
{width="5.0125in" height="2.5729166666666665in"}
Figure 4.2: Example Temporary QoS Feature Use-Case
Figure 4.2 provides an example of where a temporary QoS Feature could be
applied to an end user connection.\ The scenario given shows an end user of a
DSL service who wishes to stream a piece of video content. Their current
service offering (e.g. 1024 kbps DSL) however will not support video streaming
and hence they require a temporary bandwidth upgrade for the duration of the
video stream. The streaming application then makes a request to the ADQ web
service to apply the pre-defined 'Download_QoS' QoS Feature to the end user
connection, specifying the upstream and downstream bandwidth rate and the
duration for which the temporary QoS Feature should be applied. Assuming that
the network supports the requested bandwidth rate, the end user's bandwidth
will be increased to the rate requested by the application for the specified
duration. Once the requested duration has expired, the end user's service will
resume to their original (in this example 1024 kbps bandwidth) QoS.
{width="4.142361111111111in" height="4.447916666666667in"}
Figure 4.3: ADQ Web Service
The ADQ service is enabled as a Web Service interface, as depicted in figure
4.3, and will accept four logical kinds of requests from the Applications
viz.,
  * Requests to change the default quality of service available on the end user's connection,
  * Requests to change the quality of service available on the end user's connection on a temporary basis,
  * Requests to manage event registrations and
```{=html}
``` \- Self-care requests.
Applications can register with the service for notifications about network
events that affect the quality of service temporarily configured on the end
user's connection. Whenever such events occur, the Service generates
notifications to inform Applications about the impact that these events had on
the temporary QoS features set up on the end user's connection.
Self-care requests enable Applications to view transaction history and current
quality of service status.
# 5 Namespaces
The ApplicationQoS interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/adq/v4_0
The ApplicationQoSImpactNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/adq/notification_manager/v4_0
The ApplicationQoSImpactNotification uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/adq/notification/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/adq/v4_0
The 'xsd' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML schema
data types defined in XML schema [5]. The use of the name 'xsd' is not
semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Interface Flow overview
The sequence diagrams show the interaction where the Application Provider has
a Web Service compliant Application capable of sending requests to the service
and receiving notifications from the service.
Every method defined in the interface is synchronous, in the sense, that the
response to the request is instantaneous and contains the status of the
request. There is no polling required on part of the Application to determine
the status of a request.
Notifications are unsolicited. The Application will indicate their interest in
receiving notifications by registering for events. When an event occurs in the
network that merits a notification to be raised, interested Applications will
receive a notification and its implications on the temporary QoS features
active on the end user connection.
The sequence diagrams do not show the internal logic within the server
implementing this service, which is required for processing the requests. It
is assumed that such a server is capable of interacting with the network to
service requests sent by the Application.
Figure 6.1.1:
Figure 6.1.2:
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 QoSFeatureProperties structure
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Duration common:TimeMetric Yes
e.g. "15 minutes" UpStreamSpeedRate xsd:string Yes e.g. "256 kbps"
DownStreamSpeedRate xsd:string Yes e.g. "1.5 Mbps". OtherProperties Property
[0..unbounded] Yes Additional configurable properties relating to the QoS
Feature which may be specified by the service provider and hence not defined
in this specification.
* * *
## 7.2 Void
## 7.3 QoSFeatureData structure
Uniquely identifies the temporary QoS feature instance that is currently
active on the end user connection, and any additional parameter values.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description requestID xsd:string No
Contains a unique request identifier generated by the Web Service, which can
be used by the application to identify this specific invocation to the
applyQoSFeature operation. qoSFeatureIdentifier xsd:string No Uniquely
identifies the QoS feature that was applied on a temporary basis to the end
user connection actualProperties QoSFeatureProperties Yes Contains the current
value of the configurable service attributes. Note: Values may be altered by
the service from those stated in the original applyQoSFeature request if they
do not fit the service definition of the QoS Feature.
* * *
## 7.4 QoSStatus structure
The status of an end user connection, including information about the
temporary QoS features that are currently activated
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description
userIsConnected xsd:boolean No Specifies whether the user is connected (i.e.
online) or not connected (i.e. offline)
defaultQoSFeature\ xsd:string Yes The default QoS feature that is currently
applied to the end user connection. Do not specify if no default feature is
applied. Identifier
trafficClasses TrafficClass [0..unbounded] Yes The traffic classes supported
in this end user connection including the speed rates that these traffic
classes support.
qosFeatureStatuses QoSFeatureData [0..unbounded] Yes The array containing
status of every temporary QoS feature that is currently active on the end user
connection
* * *
## 7.5 TrafficClass structure
Information about the traffic class supported on an end user connection
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description trafficClassName xsd:string No
Name of the traffic class maxUpstreamRate xsd:int No The applicable maximum
speed rate in the upstream direction for this traffic class maxDownstreamRate
xsd:int No The applicable maximum speed rate in the downstream direction for
this traffic class
* * *
## 7.6 QoSHistory structure
Information about individual transactions retrieved as part of the historical
QoS FeatureData
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description transactionDateTime
xsd:dateTime No Identifies when the transaction occurred transactionDetails
xsd:string No The details of the transaction
* * *
## 7.7 QoSEvent enumeration
Specifies the events that may occur on any active QoS features on the end user
connection(s).
* * *
Enumeration Value Description AbnormalConnectionTermination End user
connection(s) terminated abnormally because of a fault in the network causing
all the temporary QoS features that were active on the connection(s) to be
released as well. NormalConnectionTermination End user connection(s)
terminated normally -- e.g. user(s) have logged off -- causing all temporary
QoS features active on the connection(s) to be automatically released
TemporaryQoSFeatureReleased A temporary QoS feature that was active on an end
user connection has been released because the threshold set by one of the
service attributes (e.g. elapsed duration) has been reached
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: ApplicationQoS
This interface provides methods for:
  * Applying a new QoS feature to an end user connection. Either:
    * rapidly provisioning a re-grade, which results in a permanent change in the class of service provided over the end user connection
    * dynamically controlling temporary QoS features in the network which will be active for a specified period of time.
```{=html}
``` \- Modifying an active temporary QoS Feature on an end user connection.
```{=html}
``` \- Self-care like operations
### 8.1.1 Operation: applyQoSFeature
This method is used by Application to request either a temporary or a default
QoS feature to be set up on the end user connection.
The **defaultQoSFeature** parameter identifies if the requested QoS Feature is
to be applied to the end user connection as the default (i.e. long-lived) QoS
Feature, or if this parameter is set to false, the requested QoS Feature shall
be applied on a temporary basis only.
Note that there is no session associated with a default QoS Feature, as it is
the permanent default QoS Feature associated with the connection until it is
replaced. A default QoS feature governs the traffic flow on the end user
connection whenever there are no temporary QoS features active on the
connection. If a default QoS Feature is replaced by an Application, it can
potentially affect other Applications, which may require a certain level of
QoS to be available on the connection when there are no active temporary QoS
Features. To achieve this, the service implementation should allow only a
Super Application (e.g. Service Provider owned) to change the default QoS
Feature of a connection. The authorization scheme required for allowing this
facility is service implementation specific and is not covered in the scope of
this specification.
For default QoS Feature requests, the value of the **modifyExistingSession**
parameter should be taken into account before applying the default QoS Feature
to the end user connection. Default QoS Features will not have any
configurable parameters.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: applyQoSFeatureRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | e | xsd:anyURI | No | Identifies the | | ndUserIdentifier | | | end user in the | | | | | network | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | qoSF | xsd:string | No | Identifies the | | eatureIdentifier | | | QoS feature that | | | | | is applied to | | | | | the end user | | | | | connection - | | | | | e.g. "Gold724" | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | d | xsd:boolean | No | Specifies | | efaultQoSFeature | | | whether the | | | | | requested QoS | | | | | Feature is to be | | | | | applied as the | | | | | default QoS | | | | | Feature on an | | | | | end users | | | | | connection. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | modif | xsd:boolean | Yes | Only required | | yExistingSession | | | where | | | | | d | | | | | efaultQoSFeature | | | | | = TRUE. | | | | | | | | | | Specifies | | | | | whether the | | | | | default QoS | | | | | feature should | | | | | be applied to | | | | | the ongoing | | | | | connection of | | | | | the end user or | | | | | to the | | | | | subsequent | | | | | connection when | | | | | the end user | | | | | next comes | | | | | online. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | qosF | QoSF | Yes | Not required for | | eatureProperties | eatureProperties | | a default QoS | | | | | Feature request | | | | | -- i.e. where | | | | | d | | | | | efaultQoSFeature | | | | | = True. | | | | | | | | | | Optional for a | | | | | temporary QoS | | | | | Feature request. | | | | | | | | | | Specifies values | | | | | for the | | | | | configurable | | | | | service | | | | | attributes that | | | | | govern the | | | | | temporary QoS | | | | | feature (e.g. | | | | | Duration) | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message : applyQoSFeatureResponse
+-----------+----------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +-----------+----------------+----------+---------------------+ | result | QoSFeatureData | Yes | Only returned for a | | | | | temporary QoS | | | | | Feature request -- | | | | | i.e. where | | | | | defaultQoSFeature = | | | | | FALSE | | | | | | | | | | Returns the result | | | | | of the request to | | | | | add the temporary | | | | | QoS feature. | +-----------+----------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
SVC0340 -- Insufficient connection resources
SVC0341 -- Unknown QoS feature identifier
  * SVC0342 -- End User is not online
  * SVC0343 -- Specified and existing temporary QoS features conflict
  * SVC0344 -- QoS Feature cannot be applied as default.
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.1.2 Operation: modifyQoSFeature
This method will be used to alter the configurable service attributes (e.g.
duration) of an active temporary QoS feature instance.
Input message: modifyQoSFeatureRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description requestID xsd:string No Contains the
unique request identifier generated by the Web Service, in response to the
invocation of the original **applyQoSFeature** operation requestProperties
QoSFeatureProperties No Specifies new values for the service attributes that
govern the temporary QoS feature instance (e.g. Duration). Those attributes of
requestProperties not provided in this request shall not be modified from
those stated in the original applyQoSFeature request.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.1 Output message: modifyQoSFeatureResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result QoSFeatureProperties No
Returns the modified values of the configurable service attributes
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
SVC0340 -- Insufficient connection resources
SVC0341 -- Unknown QoS feature identifier
SVC0342 -- End User is not online
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.1.4 Operation: removeQoSFeature
This method will be used by the Applications to release a temporary QoS
Feature, which is currently active on the end user connection.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: removeQoSFeatureRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description requestID xsd:string No Contains the
unique request identifier generated by the Web Service, in response to the
invocation of the original **applyQoSFeature** operation .
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: removeQoSFeatureResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result xsd:boolean No Boolean flag
indicating whether the QoS Feature was successfully removed (True) or not
(False) from the end user connection.
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
SVC0342 -- End User is not online
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.1.5 Operation: getQoSStatus
This method falls in the category is a self-care and will be used to retrieve
the status of an end user connection. The response to this method will contain
information about the characteristics of the end user connection including
information about the temporary QoS features that are currently active on the
end user connection.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: getQoSStatusRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description endUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No
Identifies the end user in the network
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: getQoSStatusResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result QoSStatus No Returns the
status of an end user connection, including information about the temporary
QoS features that are currently activated
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced Faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.1.6 Operation: getQoSHistory
This method will return an historical list of all QoS transactions previously
requested against an end user's connection. The transactions to be returned
may be filtered by specifying a QoS Feature identifier, a maximum number of
transactions, a date / time limit, or additional filter criteria defined by
the service provider.
#### 8.1.6.1 Input message: getQoSHistoryRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description endUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No
Identifies the end user in the network qosFeatureIdentifier xsd:string Yes
Allows the transaction history to be filtered by QoS Feature Identifier date
xsd:dateTime Yes This part specifies the date and time from which the
transaction history should be returned. If this part is not present, the
current date and time will be used as defined by the service policy maxEntries
xsd:int Yes This part indicates the maximum number of entries that shall be
returned. If this part is not present, or a value of zero is specified, then
the maximum is determined according to the web service's policy.
additionalCriteria Property [0..unbounded] Yes Allows additional
criteria/filters to be applied, as specified by the service provider.
* * *
#### 8.1.6.2 Output message: getQoSHistoryResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result QoSHistory [0..unbounded] Yes
Returns the historical list (filtered by the supplied search criteria) of QoS
transactions applied to a specified end user connection.
* * *
#### 8.1.6.3 Referenced Faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
## 8.2 Interface: ApplicationQoSNotificationManager
This interface is used by the Applications to manage their registration for
notifications.
### 8.2.1 Operation: startQoSNotification
This method will be used by the Application to register their interest in
receiving notifications of a specific event type(s) in context of specific end
users.
The correlator provided in the reference must be unique for this Web Service
at the time the notification is initiated,
otherwise a ServiceException (SVC0005) will be returned to the application.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: startQoSNotificationRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | reference | common | No | Notification end | | | :SimpleReference | | point definition | | | | | at which the | | | | | Application | | | | | wishes to | | | | | receive the | | | | | event | | | | | notification | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | e | xsd:anyURI | No | The end user(s) | | ndUserIdentities | | | in the network | | | [1..unbounded] | | to monitor for | | | | | events | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | events | QoSEvent | No | The events to be | | | | | monitored | | | [1..unbounded] | | | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message : startQoSNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
SVC0005 -- Duplicate Correlator
SVC0008 -- Overlapping Criteria
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
### 8.2.2 Operation: stopQoSNotification
This method will be used by the Applications to stop receiving notifications
by cancelling an existing registration.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: stopQoSNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
identifying the original registration
* * *
#### 8.2.2.1 Output message: stopQoSNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
Service Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
SVC0001 -- Service error
SVC0002 -- Invalid input value
Policy Exception from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
POL0001 -- Policy error
## 8.3 Interface: ApplicationQoSNotification
This interface provides the methods for notifying the Application about the
impact of certain events on QoS features that were active on the end user
connection when these events occurred.
### 8.3.1 Operation: notifyQoSEvent
This notification will report a network event that has occurred against end
user(s) active QoS features.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: notifyQoSEventRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | correlator | xsd:string | No | Correlator | | | | | identifying the | | | | | original | | | | | registration | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | e | xsd:anyURI | No | The end user(s) | | ndUserIdentities | | | in the network | | | [1..unbounded] | | associated with | | | | | the event | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | eventType | QoSEvent | No | The event that | | | | | is being | | | | | reported | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message : notifyQoSEventResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
None
# 9 Fault definitions
The following faults are defined for this service.
## 9.1 ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0340: InsufficientConnectionResources
* * *
Part name Description messageId SVC0340 text Insufficient connection resources
to fulfil the request variables None
* * *
### 9.1.2 SVC0341: UnknownQoSFeatureIdentifier
* * *
Part name Description messageId SVC0341 text Unknown QoS Feature Identifier
variables None
* * *
### 9.1.3 SVC0342: EndUserIsNotOnline
* * *
Part name Description messageId SVC0342 text End user is not online variables
None
* * *
### 9.1.4 SVC0343: SpecifiedAndTemporaryQoSFeaturesConflict
* * *
Part name Description messageId SVC0343 text Specified and temporary QoS
features conflict variables None
* * *
### 9.1.5 SVC0344: SpecifiedQoSFeatureNotPermittableAsDefault
* * *
Part name Description messageId SVC0344 text Specified QoS Feature is not
permittable as a default QoS Feature variables None
* * *
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description DefaultTransactionHistoryTime Xsd:dateTime Default time
to be used when a date / time is not supplied in the getQoSHistory request
MaxHistoricalTransactions Xsd:int Maximum number of historical QoS
transactions to be returned by the getQoSHistory request.
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL of Application-driven QoS API
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files;
  * parlayx_adq_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_adq_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_adq_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_adq_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_adq_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_adq_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_adq_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 17_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 17_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 17:
Application-driven Quality of Service (QoS) for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL of Application-driven QoS API
There are no additions or exclusions.
#