# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 7 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
**Part 7: \"Account management\"**
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 7 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Service
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Account Management Web Service aspects of
the interface. All aspects of the Account Management Web Service are defined
here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services; Part
1: Common\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
Pre-paid subscribers, whether they have subscribed to pre-paid telephony, SMS,
or data service, have credits with their service providers; the consumption of
services will lead to reduction of their credit, or the credit may expire.
Therefore, from time to time, subscribers may have to recharge their accounts.
This occurs through an application that interfaces with the subscriber either
directly or indirectly. Examples of direct interaction are voice prompts and
WAP/web pages, or even SMS. Typically, such multi-modal applications either
request a currency amount and, e.g. credit card information, or a voucher
number plus credentials. The voucher number and credentials are then validated
and causes a pre-determined currency amount to be transferred.
The Parlay X Account Management API described in the present document supports
account querying, direct recharging and recharging through vouchers. As a side
effect, it may prevent subscribers from having their account balance credits
expire.
# 5 Namespaces
The AccountManagement interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/account_management/v4_0
The AccountManagementNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/ account_management /notification/v4_0
The AccountManagementNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/ account_management
/notification_manager/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/account_management/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
This subclause discusses three scenarios; one where a subscriber uses a
voucher, one where the subscriber directly recharges after the payment is
cleared, and one where the subscriber checks the recent transactions.
NOTE: Associated Account Management API messages are shown in \'bold\' format:
e.g. (**getBalance**).
## 6.1 Prepaid account recharge using a voucher
The prepaid subscriber wishes to recharge their account with a voucher and
query their account balance. The subscriber uses their mobile phone or other
wireline phone to interact with an IVR system. In order to recharge their
account, the subscriber must enter the voucher number, the MSISDN to be
recharged , and PIN(s). The IVR system accesses an external voucher database
to validate the voucher number. The subscriber\'s account balance is then
increased with the value of the voucher (**voucherUpdate**). The subscriber
queries their account balance (**getBalance**), before and/or after the
recharge.
{width="4.379861111111111in" height="5.590277777777778in"}
Figure 1
## 6.2 Prepaid account recharge using direct payment
Directly recharging (i.e. without a voucher) works much along the same way. In
this case, we assume the prepaid subscriber interacts with a web page. After
providing the MSISDN, along with the PIN, the user can query the account
balance (**getBalance**). For recharging, the subscriber must enter payment
details, for example credit card information, from which the payment will be
made. After clearing the payment details, the currency amount will be
transferred and the subscriber\'s prepaid account balance expiration date will
be reset (**balanceUpdate**). The subscriber also queries their account
balance expiration date (**getCreditExpiryDate**), after the recharge.
{width="4.375in" height="7.775in"}
Figure 2
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 DatedTransaction structure
This data structure represents a transaction record.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description TransactionDate xsd:dateTime No
The date the transaction occurred. TransactionDetails xsd:string No The
transaction details.
* * *
## 7.2 Balance structure
This data structure represents a balance record.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description BalanceType xsd:string No
Identifies the type of balance. End user accounts may have one or more
balances for different types of usage (e.g Voice, SMS, gaming etc) Amount
xsd:decimal No Amount of balance
* * *
## 7.3 BalanceExpireDetails structure
This data structure represents balance expiry details.
* * *
Element Name Element Type Optional Description BalanceType xsd:string No
Identifies the type of balance. End user accounts may have one or more
balances for different types of usage (e.g Voice, SMS, gaming etc) Date
xsd:dateTime Yes It is the date the identified balance will expire. Do not
specify if the balance does not expire
* * *
## 7.4 AccountChangedEvent enumeration
List of possible account changed event values.
* * *
Enumeration value Description Charge A balance associated with the account is
charged Recharge A balance associated with the account is recharged AccountLow
A balance associated with the account is below the balance threshold
* * *
# 8 Web Service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: AccountManagement
The Account Management interface provides access to account information for
update and query operations.
### 8.1.1 Operation: GetBalance
This message results in getting account balances indicated by the end user
identifier and associated end user PIN. The returned amount for each balance
is specified as a currency amount.
End users accounts may have a single balance for all usage, or may have
multiple balances for different uses. For example, an end user may have a
separate balance for voice calls, SMS messages, and GPRS usage.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: GetBalanceRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description EndUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No This
parameter identifies the end user\'s account. EndUserPin xsd:string Yes
Contains the end user\'s credentials for authorizing access to the account
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: GetBalanceResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result Balance [1...unbounded] No It
is a Balance array that consists of types with a string and a decimal field
i.e. the balance type and balance amount respectively.
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0250 - End user authentication failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.2 Operation: GetCreditExpiryDate
This message results in getting the expiration date of the credit indicated by
the end user identifier and associated end user PIN. The returned date is the
date the current balance will expire.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: GetCreditExpiryDateRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description EndUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No This
parameter identifies the end user\'s account. EndUserPin xsd:string Yes
Contains the end user\'s credentials for authorizing access to the account.
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: GetCreditExpiryDateResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result BalanceExpireDetails
[1...unbounded] No It is a BalanceExpireDetails array that consists of types
with a string and a date field. i.e. Balance type and date balance will expire
respectively
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0250 - End user authentication failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.3 Operation: BalanceUpdate
This message results in directly recharging the account indicated by the end
user identifier and optional associated end user PIN. The reference code is
used to uniquely identify the request; it is the application\'s responsibility
to provide a unique reference code within the scope of the application. The
balance type identifies an existing balance type in the account, or a new
balance type to be added to the account.
NOTE: getBalanceTypes operation is used to discover the set of allowed balance
types that can be associated with a specific end user's account.
The recharge is specified as a currency amount. The balance is requested to
expire in the number of days indicated by the period parameter. The
operator\'s policies may overrule this parameter. If the optional period
parameter is not present, the operator\'s policy on balance expiration is
always in effect.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: BalanceUpdateRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description EndUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No This
parameter identifies the end user\'s account. EndUserPin xsd:string Yes
Contains the end user\'s credentials for authorizing access to the account.
ReferenceCode xsd:string No Textual information to uniquely identify the
request, e.g. in case of disputes BalanceType xsd:string No Identifies the
type of balance to be recharged. An end user's account may have a balance for
each type of usage (e.g. Voice, SMS, gaming etc) Amount xsd:decimal No
Currency amount that should be added to the balance identified in the
BalanceType part. Period xsd:int Yes The balance is requested to expire in the
number of days indicated by this parameter. The operator\'s policies may
overrule this parameter. If this optional parameter is not present, the
operator\'s policy on balance expiration is always in effect.
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: BalanceUpdateResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0250 - End user authentication failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error
### 8.1.4 Operation: VoucherUpdate
This message results in directly recharging the account indicated by the end
user identifier and optional associated end user PIN. The reference code is
used to uniquely identify the request; it is the application\'s responsibility
to provide a unique reference code within the scope of the application. A
voucher identifier indirectly specifies the charge. The optional voucher PIN
code can be used to verify the voucher.
#### 8.1.4.1 Input message: VoucherUpdateRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description EndUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No This
parameter identifies the end user\'s account. EndUserPin xsd:string Yes
Contains the end user\'s credentials for authorizing access to the account.
ReferenceCode xsd:string No Textual information to uniquely identify the
request, e.g. in case of disputes VoucherIdentifier xsd:string No This
parameter identifies the voucher. VoucherPin xsd:string Yes Contains the
voucher\'s credentials for authentication.
* * *
#### 8.1.4.2 Output message: VoucherUpdateResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.1.4.3 Referenced Faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0250 - End user authentication failed.
  * SVC0251 - Unknown voucher.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
  * POL0220 - Vouchers not accepted.
### 8.1.5 Operation: GetHistory
This message results in returning the transaction history of the account
indicated by the end user identifier and associated optional end user PIN. The
maximum number of entries to return and the start date define the range of
transactions that are of interest to the requester.
If the total number of entries in the transaction history, starting at the
specified date, is larger than the specified maximum number of entries, only
the most recent events are returned. Note that the operator might limit the
maximum amount of entries to be returned or the period for which the entries
are to be returned.
#### 8.1.5.1 Input message: GetHistoryRequest
* * *
**Part name** **Part type** **Optional** **Description** EndUserIdentifier
xsd:anyURI No This parameter identifies the end user\'s account. EndUserPin
xsd:string Yes Contains the end user\'s credentials for authorizing access to
the account. Date xsd:dateTime Yes This parameter indicates the desired
starting date for the entries to be returned. If this parameter is not
present, it is up to the discretion of the service to decide this date.
MaxEntries xsd:int Yes This parameter indicates the maximum number of entries
that shall be returned. If this parameter is not present, it is up to the
discretion of the service to decide how many entries to return.
* * *
#### 8.1.5.2 Output message: GetHistoryResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description result DatedTransaction [0 ..
unbounded] Yes It is a DatedTransaction array that consists of types with a
date field and a string field: i.e. the date of the occurrence and the
transaction details, respectively.
* * *
#### 8.1.5.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.1.6 Operation: GetBalanceTypes
This operation is used to discover the set of all possible balance types that
are permitted for a specified end user's account.
#### 8.1.6.1 Input message: GetBalanceTypesRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description EndUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No This
parameter identifies the end user\'s account. EndUserPin xsd:string Yes
Contains the end user\'s credentials for authorizing access to the account
* * *
#### 8.1.6.2 Output message: GetBalanceTypesResponse
+-----------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +-----------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | result | xsd:string | No | Identifies all the | | | | | balance types that | | | [1...unbounded] | | are permitted for | | | | | this end user 's | | | | | account. An end | | | | | user's account may | | | | | have one or more | | | | | balances for | | | | | different types of | | | | | usage (e.g Voice, | | | | | SMS, gaming etc) | +-----------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.1.6.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0250 - End user authentication failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.2 Interface: AccountManagementNotificationManager
Set up notifications for account changes.
### 8.2.1 Operation: startNotification
Notifications of account changes are made available to applications. The
correlator provided in the reference must be unique for this Web Service at
the time the notification is initiated, otherwise a ServiceException (SVC0005)
will be returned to the application. The endUserIdentifier is the end user\'s
account to monitor. The criteria provide the filtering condition to make
notifications to the application. The balanceTypes part identifies balances
for different types of usage within an account (e.g. Voice, SMS, gaming etc).
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: startNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description reference common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition endUserIdentifier xsd:anyURI No Account to
monitor criteria AccountChangedEvent [0...unbounded] Yes List of account
changed event values for which to generate notifications. If not present,
notifications are enabled for all events. balanceTypes xsd:string
[0...unbounded] Yes Identifies the types of balance for which to generate
notifications. If not present, notifications are enabled for each balance
associated with the end user account.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: startNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
  * SVC0005- Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0250 - End user authentication failed.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
### 8.2.2 Operation: endNotification
The application may end a notification using this operation. Until this
operation returns, notifications may continue to be received by the
application.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: endNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: endNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001 - Service error.
  * SVC0002 - Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001 - Policy error.
## 8.3 Interface: AccountNotification
Notification interface to which notifications of account balance changes are
delivered.
### 8.3.1 Operation: accountCharged
When a monitored account balance is charged, a notification is delivered to
the application reporting the amount of the charge.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: accountChargedRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification Amount xsd: decimal No The
currency amount of the charge balanceType xsd:string No The balance type that
was charged
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: accountChargedResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
None
### 8.3.2 Operation: accountRecharged
When a monitored account balance is recharged, a notification is delivered to
the application reporting the amount of the recharge.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: accountRechargedRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification Amount xsd: decimal No The
currency amount of the recharge balanceType xsd:string No The balance type
that was recharged.
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: accountRechargedResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced faults
None
### 8.3.3 Operation: accountLow
When a monitored account balance falls below the low balance threshold, a
notification is delivered to the application with the currency amounts of all
balances associated with the account.
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: accountLowRequest
+------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Correlator | xsd:string | No | Correlator provided | | | | | in request to set | | | | | up this | | | | | notification | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+ | Balance | Balance | No | It is a set of | | | | | Balance records, | | | [1...unbounded] | | where each record | | | | | specifies an | | | | | account balance | | | | | type and the | | | | | associated currency | | | | | amount | +------------+-------------------+----------+---------------------+
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: accountLowResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
None
# 9 Fault definitions
## 9.1 Fault: ServiceException
### 9.1.1 End user authentication failed
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text End user authentication failed.
Variables None.
* * *
### 9.1.2 Unknown Voucher
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text Voucher %1 is not valid. Variables
%1 Voucher identifier.
* * *
## 9.2 Fault: PolicyException
### 9.2.1 Vouchers not accepted
* * *
Name Description Message Id \ Text Vouchers not accepted. Variables
None.
* * *
# 10 Service policies
The following service policies are defined for this service.
* * *
Name Type Description VouchersAccepted xsd:boolean Indicates whether vouchers
are accepted Currency xsd:string Currency used by service (per ISO 4217)
LowBalance xsd:decimal Threshold that triggers low balance notification
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for Account Management
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files:
  * parlayx_account_management_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_account_management_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_account_management_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_account_management_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_account_management_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_account_management_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_account_management_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 7_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 7_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 7:
Account management for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for Account Management
There are no additions or exclusions.
#