# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 9 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
Part 1: \"Common\"
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
**Part 9: \"Terminal location\"**
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: \"Content management\"
Part 22: \"Policy\"
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 9 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Terminal Location Web Service aspects of
the interface. All aspects of the Terminal Location Web Service are defined
here, these being:
  * Name spaces.
  * Sequence diagrams.
  * Data definitions.
  * Interface specification plus detailed method descriptions.
  * Fault definitions.
  * Service policies.
  * WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CN WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
Maintenance of up to 3GPP Rel-8 and new OSA Stage 1, 2 and 3 work beyond Rel-9
was moved to OMA in June 2008.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access (OSA);
Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] 3GPP TS 29.199-1: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X web services; Part
1: Common\".
[7] ISO 6709: \"Standard representation of latitude, longitude and altitude
for geographic point locations\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TS
29.199-1 [6] apply.
# 4 Detailed service description
Terminal Location provides access to the location of a terminal through:
  * Request for the location of a terminal.
  * Request for the location of a group of terminals.
  * Notification of a change in the location of a terminal.
  * Notification of terminal location on a periodic basis.
  * Location is expressed through a latitude, longitude, altitude and > accuracy.
When a request for a group of terminals is made, the response may contain a
full or partial set of results. This allows the service to provide results
based on a number of criteria including number of terminals for which the
request is made and amount of time required to retrieve the information. This
allows the requester to initiate additional requests for those terminals for
which information was not provided.
# 5 Namespaces
The Terminal Location interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/terminal_location/v4_0
The TerminalLocationNotificationManager interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/terminal_location/notification_manager/v4_0
The TerminalLocationNotification interface uses the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/terminal_location/notification/v4_0
The data types are defined in the namespace:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/terminal_location/v4_0
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 6 Sequence diagrams
## 6.1 Terminal location query
Pattern: Request / Response.
For an application to determine the location of a terminal device, it provides
a terminal device address and desired accuracy, and receives the location for
the device requested.
{width="3.203472222222222in" height="3.123611111111111in"}
Figure 1
## 6.2 Terminal location group query
Pattern: Request / Response.
When an application requires the locations of a set of terminal devices, it
may provide an array of terminal device addresses, including network managed
group addresses, and receive the location data for the set of devices
requested.
{width="3.2465277777777777in" height="3.9430555555555555in"}
Figure 2
## 6.3 Terminal location notification
Pattern: Application Correlated Multiple Notification.
An application can be notified of a terminal device entering or leaving a
geographical area. When a matching event occurs; a notification message will
be sent to the application.
{width="6.039583333333334in" height="4.989583333333333in"}
Figure 3
## 6.4 Terminal location notification with check immediate
In some applications, the terminal location notification will be used to watch
for a specific location change. An example is a \'call when present\' service,
where the terminal location is checked and determined to be outside the target
area, and a notification is set up to notify the application when the terminal
enters the target area. Between the time of the original location
determination and the time the notification is set up, the terminal could move
into the target area - thus the notification on entry into the target area
would not be sent.
Using the check immediate flag, after the notification is established, the
terminal location will be determined, and if the terminal is in the target
area, then a notification will be sent immediately. The following sequence
diagram shows this scenario.
{width="6.033333333333333in" height="6.101388888888889in"}
Figure 4
This sequence shows:
  * The Enterprise Application checks the location of a terminal, and > receives its location (in this scenario determining that the > terminal is outside the target area).
  * The Enterprise Application generates a correlator, and starts a > notification with criteria defined to notify the Enterprise Web > Service when the terminal enters the target area and the check > immediate flag set to true.
  * Sets up the notification to monitor terminal location.
  * Check the current location of the terminal, and determine if the > terminal lies inside the target area.
  * In this case, the terminal is in the target area, and a notification > is delivered to the Enterprise Web Service.
  * The count of notifications is incremented and compared to the > notification count limit.
  * In this case, a single notification was requested, and the end > notification message is sent.
  * The startGeographicalNotification operation completes.
This scenario includes the full set of interactions in one sequence, which
also shows that the notifications can be received concurrent with the creation
of the notification.
## 6.5 Terminal location periodic notification
Pattern: Application Correlated Multiple Notification.
An application can be notified of a terminal device location on a periodic
basis. At each interval, a notification message will be sent to the
application.
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.941666666666666in"}
Figure 5
## 6.6 Distance notification
An application may request to monitor locations for two or more terminal
devices and be notified either when those devices get within or beyond a
specified distance, depending on selected criteria for triggering
notifications. The application can be notified in the events such as:
  * when all monitored devices get within the specified distance or,
  * when any of the monitored devices gets within the specified distance or,
  * when all monitored devices are beyond the specified distance or,
  * when any of the monitored devices gets beyond the specified distance
{width="6.039583333333334in" height="4.989583333333333in"}
Figure 6
## 6.7 Distance notification with check immediate
For some applications, the distance notification could be used to watch for a
specific event; for example when two terminal devices get close to each other
within a specified distance. Using the check immediate flag, after the
notification is established, the terminal locations will be determined, and if
both terminals are within a specified distance, then a notification will be
sent immediately if the criteria is AllWithinDistance. The following sequence
diagram shows such scenario.
Figure 7
# 7 XML Schema data type definition
## 7.1 Latitude and Longitude values
Latitude and longitude values used in the present document follow the
conventions of the ISO 6709 [7] specification, as it applies to latitudes and
longitudes specified using decimal degrees.
Latitude values are expressed as floating point numbers in the range -90.0000
to +90.0000, using decimal degrees (as opposed to minutes and seconds).
Positive values indicate locations north of and on the equator. Negative
values indicate locations south of the equator.
Longitude values are expressed as floating point numbers in the range
-180.0000 to +180.0000, using decimal degrees (as opposed to minutes and
seconds). Positive values indicate locations east of and on the prime meridian
(Greenwich). Negative values indicate locations west of the prime meridian up
to the 180th meridian.
## 7.2 Accuracy values
Two accuracy values are used in some of the operations. These values express
the desire of the application for the location information to be provided by
the Web Service. The choice of values may influence the price that the Service
Provider charges.
The \'requested accuracy\' expresses the range in which the application wishes
to receive location information. This may influence the choice of location
technology to use (for instance, cell sector location may be suitable for
requests specifying 1 000 meters, but GPS technology may be required for
requests below 100 meters).
The \'acceptable accuracy\' expresses the range that the application considers
useful - if the location cannot be determined within this range, then the
application would prefer not to receive the information. For instance, a taxi
tracking service to determine the closest taxi to a person may not be useful
if the accuracy cannot be provided within 1 000 meters to provide prompt
service. This will also reduce customer satisfaction issues, since results
that are not useful can be handled appropriately for billing (e.g. Service
Provider may choose not to bill for these).
In triggered notifications, a tracking accuracy is defined. This accuracy
refers not to the accuracy for the area being checked against, but rather for
the accuracy of the technology used to track the terminal. For instance, a
fine grained tracking accuracy would be suitable for tracking the terminal
entering a specific location, like a person arriving at a destination
building. A coarse grained tracking accuracy would be appropriate for
determining when a person has arrived at a city after a plane trip or a truck
nearing the vicinity of a warehouse.
The 'maximum_age' expresses the maximum age that the application considers
useful. This can be used by the service provider to supply cached location
information rather than always do a direct network location request.
The 'response time' expresses the expected response time from an application
point of view. If the network is unable to respond within the desired time
frame the application would prefer not to have the information as it may no
longer be useful.
The 'tolerance' expresses the priority of response time versus accuracy. If
the application is delay tolerant the network is expected to return a location
with the requested accuracy even if this means not complying with the
requested response time. The application can also indicate that it is more
important that the location information is returned within the requested time
even if this implies that the requested accuracy can not be fulfilled. An
indication of 'no delay' which implies that the application expects the
service provider to return any current location estimate immediately.
## 7.3 EnteringLeavingCriteria enumeration
Indicator for whether the notification is related to entering an area or
leaving an area.
* * *
Enumeration Description Entering Terminal is entering an area Leaving Terminal
is leaving an area
* * *
## 7.4 LocationInfo structure
Location information represented as a coordinate.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description Latitude xsd:float No Location latitude
Longitude xsd:float No Location longitude Altitude xsd:float Yes Location
altitude Accuracy xsd:int No Accuracy of location provided in meters Timestamp
xsd:dateTime No Date and time that location was collected
* * *
## 7.5 Void
## 7.6 LocationData structure
Data structure containing device address, retrieval status and location
information. As this can be related to a query of a group of terminal devices,
the ReportStatus element is used to indicate whether the information for the
device was retrieved or not, or if an error occurred.
* * *
            Name               Type                     Optional                                                                   Description
Address xsd:anyURI No Address of the terminal device to which the location
information applies  
ReportStatus common:RetrievalStatus No Status of retrieval for this terminal
device address CurrentLocation LocationInfo Yes Location of terminal. It is
only provided if ReportStatus=Retrieved. ErrorInformation common:ServiceError
Yes If ReportStatus=Error, this is the reason for the error. Error due to
privacy verification will be expressed as POL0002 in the ServiceError.
* * *
## 7.7 DelayTolerance enumeration
**Enumeration of the delay tolerance items that forms part of the location
request.**
* * *
Enumeration Description NoDelay The server should immediately return any
location estimate that it currently has. If no estimate is available, the
server shall return the failure indication and may optionally initiate
procedures to obtain a location estimate (e.g. to be available for a later
request). LowDelay Fulfilment of the response time requirement takes
precedence over fulfilment of the accuracy requirement. The server shall
return any current location estimate with minimum delay. The server shall
attempt to fulfil any accuracy requirement, but in doing so shall not add any
additional delay (i.e. a quick response with lower accuracy is more desirable
than waiting for a more accurate response). DelayTolerant Fulfilment of the
accuracy requirement takes precedence over fulfilment of the response time
requirement. If necessary, the server should delay providing a response until
the accuracy requirement of the requesting application is met. The server
shall obtain a current location with regard to fulfilling the accuracy
requirement.
* * *
  1. DistanceCriteria enumeration
Indicates what events can trigger distance notification.
* * *
Enumeration Description AllWithinDistance All monitored devices are within the
specified distance AnyWithinDistance Any of monitored devices gets within the
specified distance AllBeyondDistance All monitored devices are beyond the
specified distance AnyBeyondDistance Any of monitored devices gets beyond the
specified distance
* * *
# 8 Web service interface definition
## 8.1 Interface: TerminalLocation
Request the location for a terminal.
### 8.1.1 Operation: GetLocation
This operation is intended to retrieve the location for a single terminal. The
accuracy requested is the desired accuracy for the response. The acceptable
accuracy is the limit acceptable to the requester. If the accuracy requested
cannot be supported, a PolicyException (POL0230) will be returned to the
application. If the accuracy of the location is not within the acceptable
accuracy limit, then the location will not be returned, instead a
ServiceException (SVC0200) will be returned. The URI provided is for a single
terminal, not a group URI. If a group URI is provided, a PolicyException will
be returned to the application. If the requester is not authorized to retrieve
location info, a PolicyException(POL0002) will be returned.
If tolerance is indicated this affects the priority of accuracy, response time
and maximum estimate age.
#### 8.1.1.1 Input message: GetLocationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description
Requester xsd:anyURI Yes It identifies the entity that is requesting the
information.\ The application invokes this operation on behalf of this entity.
However, it should NOT be assumed that the application has authenticated the
requester. If this part is not present, the requesting entity is the
application itself.
Address xsd:anyURI No Address of the terminal device for which the location
information is requested
RequestedAccuracy xsd:int No Accuracy of location information requested
AcceptableAccuracy xsd:int No Accuracy that is acceptable for a response
MaximumAge common:TimeMetric Yes Maximum acceptable age, in seconds, of the
location information that is returned
ResponseTime common:TimeMetric Yes Indicates the maximum time that the
application can accept to wait for a response
Tolerance DelayTolerance No Indicates the priority of response time versus
accuracy
* * *
#### 8.1.1.2 Output message: GetLocationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result LocationInfo No Location of
the terminal for which location information was requested
* * *
#### 8.1.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid address(es) -- if the requested terminal device > address does not exist.
  * SVC0200: Accuracy out of limit.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0230: Requested accuracy not supported.
### 8.1.2 Operation: GetTerminalDistance
This operation is intended to determine the distance of a terminal from a
location. The URI provided is for a single terminal, not a group URI. If a
group URI is provided, a PolicyException will be returned to the application.
#### 8.1.2.1 Input message: GetTerminalDistanceRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Requester xsd:anyURI Yes It
identifies the entity that is requesting the information. The application
invokes this operation on behalf of this entity. However, it should NOT be
assumed that the application has authenticated the requester. If this part is
not present, the requesting entity is the application itself. Address
xsd:anyURI No Address of terminal to check Latitude xsd:float No Latitude of
the location to measure from Longitude xsd:float No Longitude of the location
to measure from
* * *
#### 8.1.2.2 Output message: GetTerminalDistanceResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result xsd:int No Distance from
terminal to the location specified in meters
* * *
#### 8.1.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid address(es) -- if the requested terminal device > address does not exist.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
### 8.1.3 Operation: GetLocationForGroup
The getLocationForGroup operation initiates a retrieval activity, where one or
more terminals, or groups of terminals, may have their locations determined.
The accuracy requested is the desired accuracy for the response. If the
accuracy requested is not supported, a PolicyException (POL0230) will be
returned to the application. If the location retrieved is not within the
acceptable accuracy limit, then the location data will contain a ServiceError
(SVC0200).
If tolerance is indicated this affects the priority of accuracy, response time
and maximum estimate age.
The Web Service may return a result set that does not include complete
information, allowing the Web Service implementation to choose to deliver a
partial set of results to accommodate other conditions, such as avoiding
timeouts. In this case, the addresses for which no attempt was made to provide
data will be marked NotRetrieved in the result for each address for which a
location retrieved was not attempted.
#### 8.1.3.1 Input message: GetLocationForGroupRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Requester xsd:anyURI Yes It
identifies the entity that is requesting the information. The application
invokes this operation on behalf of this entity. However, it should NOT be
assumed that the application has authenticated the requester. If this part is
not present, the requesting entity is the application itself. Addresses
xsd:anyURI [1..unbounded] No List of URIs to get location for, including group
URIs RequestedAccuracy xsd:int No Accuracy of location requested in meters
AcceptableAccuracy xsd:int No Accuracy that is acceptable for a response in
meters MaximumAge common:TimeMetric Yes Maximum acceptable age, in seconds, of
the location information that is returned ResponseTime common:TimeMetric Yes
Indicates the maximum time that the application can accept to wait for a
response Tolerance DelayTolerance No Indicates the priority of response time
versus accuracy
* * *
#### 8.1.3.2 Output message: GetLocationForGroupResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Result LocationData [1..unbounded] No
Set of results for the request
* * *
#### 8.1.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication
  * POL0230: Requested accuracy not supported.
## 8.2 Interface: TerminalLocationNotificationManager
Set up notifications for terminal location events using geographical based
definitions.
### 8.2.1 Operation: StartGeographicalNotification
Notifications of location changes are made available to applications. The
number and duration of notifications may be requested as part of the setup of
the notification or may be governed by service policies, or a combination of
the two.
If CheckImmediate is set to true, then the notification will be set up, and
then the current value of the terminal location will be checked. If the
terminal location is within the radius provided and the criteria is Entering
or is outside the radius and the criteria is Leaving, a notification will be
sent to the application. This notification will count against the count
requested. This addresses the case where the location of the device changes
during the time the notification is being set up, which may be appropriate in
some applications.
The correlator provided in the reference must be unique for this Web Service
at the time the notification is initiated, otherwise a ServiceException
(SVC0005) will be returned to the application.
If the frequency requested is more often than allowed by the service policy,
then the value in the service policy will be used. If the duration requested
exceeds the time allowed in the service policy, then the value in the service
policy will be used. If the notification period (duration) ends before all of
the notifications (count) have been delivered, then the notification
terminates. In all cases, when the notifications have run their course (by
duration or count), an end of notifications message will be provided to the
application.
Service policies may govern what count values can be requested, including
maximum number of notifications allowed and whether unlimited notifications
can be requested (i.e. either by not specifying the optional Count message
part or by specifying it with a value of zero). If the count value requested
is not in policy, a PolicyException (POL0004 or POL0005 as appropriate) will
be returned.
The criteria will be met when the terminal enters the area defined as the
circle of the radius provided around the point provided (latitude, longitude).
The tracking accuracy provided will determine how fine grained the
determination of where the terminal is at is. A tracking accuracy with a high
value (coarse grained tracking) may result in more or less notifications
(false notifications or missed notifications) than actual entries and exits
from the area defined.
Service policies govern what values can be provided for tracking accuracy,
including a minimum number of meters for tracking accuracy that can be
requested. If the value provided is not within policy, a PolicyException
(POL0230) will be returned.
#### 8.2.1.1 Input message: StartGeographicalNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Reference common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition Requester xsd:anyURI Yes It identifies the
entity that is requesting location event notification. The application invokes
this operation on behalf of this entity. However, it should NOT be assumed
that the application has authenticated the requester. If this part is not
present, the requesting entity is the application itself. Addresses xsd:anyURI
[1..unbounded] No Addresses of terminals to monitor Latitude xsd:float No
Latitude of center point Longitude xsd:float No Longitude of center point
Radius xsd:float No Radius of circle around center point in meters
TrackingAccuracy xsd:float No Number of meters of acceptable error in tracking
distance Criteria EnteringLeavingCriteria No Indicates whether the
notification should occur when the terminal enters or leaves the target area
CheckImmediate xsd:boolean No Check location immediately after establishing
notification Frequency common:TimeMetric No Maximum frequency of notifications
(can also be considered minimum time between notifications) Duration
common:TimeMetric Yes Period of time notifications are provided for. If set to
"0" (zero), a default duration time, which is specified by the service policy,
will be used. If the parameter is omitted, the notifications will continue
until the maximum duration time, which is specified by the service policy,
unless the notifications are stopped by endNotificationRequest. Count xsd:int
Yes Maximum number of notifications. For no maximum, either do not specify
this part or specify a value of zero.
* * *
#### 8.2.1.2 Output message: StartGeographicalNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.1.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0004: Unlimited notifications not supported.
  * POL0005: Too many notifications requested.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0009: Invalid frequency requested.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication
  * POL0230: Requested accuracy not available.
  * POL0231: Geographic notification not available.
### 8.2.2 Operation: StartPeriodicNotification
Periodic notifications provide location information for a set of terminals at
an application defined interval. The accuracy requested is the desired
accuracy for the response. If the accuracy requested is not supported, a
PolicyException (POL0230) will be returned to the application.
#### 8.2.2.1 Input message: StartPeriodicNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Reference common:SimpleReference No
Notification endpoint definition Requester xsd:anyURI Yes It identifies the
entity that is requesting location event notification. The application invokes
this operation on behalf of this entity. However, it should NOT be assumed
that the application has authenticated the requester. If this part is not
present, the requesting entity is the application itself. Addresses xsd:anyURI
[1..unbounded] No Addresses of terminals to monitor RequestedAccuracy xsd:int
No Accuracy of location requested in meters Frequency common:TimeMetric No
Maximum frequency of notifications (can also be considered minimum time
between notifications) Duration common:TimeMetric Yes Length of time
notifications occur for, do not specify to use default notification time
defined by service policy
* * *
#### 8.2.2.2 Output message: StartPeriodicNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.2.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0009: Invalid frequency requested.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication
  * POL0230: Requested accuracy not available.
  * POL0232: Periodic notification not available.
### 8.2.3 Operation: EndNotification
The application may end a notification (either type) using this operation.
Until this operation returns, notifications may continue to be received by the
application.
An end of notification (endNotification) message will not be delivered to the
application for a notification ended using this operation.
#### 8.2.3.1 Input message: EndNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
of request to end
* * *
#### 8.2.3.2 Output message: EndNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.3.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
### 8.2.4 Operation: StartDistanceNotification
Notifications of distance changes between monitored devices are made available
to applications. The number and duration of notifications can requested as a
part of a setup of the notification or maybe governed by service policies, or
a combination of the two.
The correlator provided in the reference must be unique for this Web Service
at the time the notification is initiated, otherwise a ServiceException
(SVC0005) will be returned to the application.
When specified, the ReferenceAddresses indicates device(s) that will be used
as reference device(s) from which the distance towards each of monitored
devices specified in MonitoredAddresses will be considered when evaluating
criteria for triggering notifications.
When multiple devices are indicated in the ReferenceAddresses, then the
following applies:
  * Monitored device is considered to be 'within a distance', when it is 'within a distance' with at least one of the reference devices
  * Monitored device is considered to be 'beyond a distance', when it is 'beyond a distance' from all specified reference devices.
If the same device is indicated in the ReferenceAddresses and the
MonitoredAddresses then the distance between 'them' (that is zero) is not
counted for a criteria evaluation.
If the ReferenceAddresses is not specified, then the distance between each of
monitored devices will be considered when evaluating criteria to trigger
notifications.
The maximum number of device addresses that can be specified for
ReferenceAddresses and MonitoredAddresses is governed by the service policy.
If the values provided there are not within the policy, a PolicyException
(POL0003) will be returned.
If the CheckImmediate is set to true, then notifications will be set up. The
current value of the terminal device locations will be checked to determine
the distances, and the application will be notified in the following
situations:
  * if all monitored devices are within the distance provided and the criteria is AllWithinDistance
  * if any of monitored devices is within the distance provided and the criteria is AnyWithinDistance
  * if all monitored devices are beyond the specified distance and the criteria is AllBeyondDistance
  * if any of monitored devices is beyond the specified distance and the criteria is AnyBeyondDistance
If the frequency requested is more often than allowed by the service policy,
then the value in the service policy will be used. If the duration requested
exceeds the time allowed in the service policy, then the value in the service
policy will be used. If the notification period (duration) ends before all of
the notifications (count) have been delivered, then the notification
terminates. When the notifications have run their course (by duration or
count), an end of notifications message will be provided to the application.
Service policies may govern what count values can be requested, including
maximum number of notifications allowed and whether unlimited notifications
can be requested (i.e. either by not specifying the optional Count message
part or by specifying it with a value of zero). If the count value requested
is not in policy, a PolicyException (POL0004 or POL0005 as appropriate) will
be returned.
The tracking accuracy provided will determine how fine grained the
determination of where the terminal is at is. A tracking accuracy with a high
value (coarse grained tracking) may result in more or less notifications
(false notifications or missed notifications) than actual entries and exits
from the area defined.
Service policies govern what values can be provided for tracking accuracy,
including a minimum number of meters for tracking accuracy that can be
requested. If the value provided is not within policy, a PolicyException
(POL0230) will be returned.
#### 8.2.4.1 Input message: StartDistanceNotificationRequest
+------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Part name | Part type | Optional | Description | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Reference | common | No | Notification | | | :SimpleReference | | endpoint | | | | | definition | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Requester | xsd:anyURI | Yes | It identifies | | | | | the entity that | | | | | is requesting | | | | | distance event | | | | | notification. | | | | | The application | | | | | invokes this | | | | | operation on | | | | | behalf of this | | | | | entity. However, | | | | | it should NOT be | | | | | assumed that the | | | | | application has | | | | | authenticated | | | | | the requester. | | | | | If this part is | | | | | not present, the | | | | | requesting | | | | | entity is the | | | | | application | | | | | itself. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Re | xsd:anyURI | Yes | If specified, | | ferenceAddresses | [ | | indicates | | | 0...unbounded] | | address of each | | | | | device that will | | | | | be used as | | | | | reference | | | | | devices from | | | | | which the | | | | | distances | | | | | towards | | | | | monitored | | | | | devices | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | Addresses will | | | | | be monitored. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Mo | xsd:anyURI | No | Contains | | nitoredAddresses | \ | | addresses of | | | [1...unbounded] | | devices to | | | | | monitor. If the | | | | | ReferenceAddress | | | | | is specified, | | | | | then the | | | | | distance between | | | | | each monitored | | | | | device and | | | | | reference | | | | | device(s) will | | | | | be monitored. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | ReferenceAddress | | | | | is not present, | | | | | then the | | | | | distance between | | | | | each of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | devices will be | | | | | monitored. Note | | | | | that in that | | | | | case there must | | | | | be at least two | | | | | addresses | | | | | specified here. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Distance | xsd:float | No | Distance between | | | | | devices that | | | | | shall be | | | | | monitored | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | TrackingAccuracy | xsd:float | No | Number of meters | | | | | of acceptable | | | | | error in | | | | | tracking | | | | | distance. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Criteria | DistanceCriteria | No | Indicates when | | | | | the notification | | | | | should occur. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | CheckImmediate | xsd:boolean | No | Check location | | | | | immediately | | | | | after | | | | | establishing | | | | | notification | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Frequency | c | No | Maximum | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | frequency of | | | | | notifications | | | | | (can also be | | | | | considered | | | | | minimum time | | | | | between | | | | | notifications) | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Duration | c | Yes | Period of time | | | ommon:TimeMetric | | notifications | | | | | are provided | | | | | for. If set to | | | | | "0" (zero), a | | | | | default duration | | | | | time, which is | | | | | specified by the | | | | | service policy, | | | | | will be used. If | | | | | the parameter is | | | | | omitted, the | | | | | notifications | | | | | will continue | | | | | until the | | | | | maximum duration | | | | | time, which is | | | | | specified by the | | | | | service policy, | | | | | unless the | | | | | notifications | | | | | are stopped by | | | | | endNoti | | | | | ficationRequest. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+ | Count | xsd:int | Yes | Maximum number | | | | | of | | | | | notifications. | | | | | For unlimited | | | | | number of | | | | | notifications, | | | | | either do not | | | | | specify this | | | | | part or specify | | | | | a value of zero. | +------------------+------------------+----------+------------------+
#### 8.2.4.2 Output message: StartDistanceNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.2.4.3 Referenced faults
ServiceException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * SVC0001: Service error.
  * SVC0002: Invalid input value.
  * SVC0004: No valid addresses.
  * SVC0005: Duplicate correlator.
  * SVC0006: Invalid group.
PolicyException from 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6]:
  * POL0001: Policy error.
  * POL0002: Privacy error.
  * POL0003: Too many addresses.
  * [POL0004: Unlimited notifications]{.underline} not available.
  * [POL0005: Too many notifications]{.underline} > [requested.]{.underline}
  * POL0006: Groups not allowed.
  * POL0007: Nested groups not allowed.
  * POL0009: Invalid frequency requested.
  * POL0013: Addresses duplication
  * POL0230: Requested accuracy not available.
  * [POL0233: Distance notification not available.]{.underline}
## 8.3 Interface: TerminalLocationNotification
Notification interface to which notifications are delivered.
### 8.3.1 Operation: LocationNotification
When the location of a monitored device changes a notification is delivered to
the application with the new location information. If a group identifier was
used, the terminal device URI is provided, not the group URI.
#### 8.3.1.1 Input message: LocationNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification Data LocationData
[1..unbounded] No Location information for terminal Criteria
EnteringLeavingCriteria Yes Indicates whether the notification was caused by
the terminal entering or leaving the target area. (This part is provided for
geographical notifications, not for periodic notifications)
* * *
#### 8.3.1.2 Output message: LocationNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.1.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.2 Operation: LocationError
The location error message is sent to the application to indicate that the
notification for a terminal, or for the whole notification, is being cancelled
by the Web Service.
#### 8.3.2.1 Input message: LocationErrorRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification. Address xsd:anyURI Yes
Address of terminal if the error applies to an individual terminal, or not
specified if it applies to the whole notification. Reason common:ServiceError
No Reason notification is being discontinued.
* * *
#### 8.3.2.2 Output message: LocationErrorResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.3 Operation: LocationEnd
The notifications have completed for this correlator. This message will be
delivered when the duration or count for notifications have been completed.
This message will not be delivered in the case of an error ending the
notifications or deliberate ending of the notifications (using endNotification
operation).
#### 8.3.3.1 Input message: LocationEndRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification.
* * *
#### 8.3.3.2 Output message: LocationEndResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.3.3 Referenced faults
None.
### 8.3.4 Operation: DistanceNotification
When monitored terminal devices (all or any of them, depending on the selected
criteria) get(s) within a specified distance to the reference terminal device
(or to each other, in case no reference device address is specified) or when
the monitored devices (all or any of them, depending on the selected criteria)
get(s) beyond the specified distance from the reference terminal device(s) (or
beyond each other, in case no reference address is specified), a notification
is delivered to the application.
#### 8.3.4.1 Input message: DistanceNotificationRequest
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description Correlator xsd:string No Correlator
provided in request to set up this notification Data LocationData
[1..unbounded] No Location information for terminals Criteria DistanceCriteria
No Indicates criteria that triggered the notification
* * *
#### 8.3.4.2 Output message: DistanceNotificationResponse
* * *
Part name Part type Optional Description None
* * *
#### 8.3.4.3 Referenced faults
None.
# 9 Fault definitions
New fault definitions for this service.
## 9.1 Fault: ServiceException
### 9.1.1 SVC0200: Accuracy out of limit.
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0200 Text Accuracy of location is not within
acceptable limit. Variables None
* * *
## 9.2 Fault: PolicyException
### 9.2.1 POL0230: Requested accuracy not supported.
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0230 Text Requested accuracy is not supported.
Variables None
* * *
### 9.2.2 POL0231: Geographic notification not available
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0231 Text Geographic notification is not
available Variables None
* * *
### 9.2.3 POL0232: Periodic notification not available
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0232 Text Periodic notification is not
available Variables None
* * *
### 9.2.4 POL0233: Distance notification not available
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0233 Text Distance notification not available
Variables None
* * *
# 10 Service policies
* * *
Name Type Description MinimumAccuracy xsd:int Minimum value for requested
accuracy MinimumAcceptableAccuracy xsd:int Minimum value for acceptable
accuracy MinimumTrackingAccuracy xsd:int Minimum value for tracking accuracy
GeographicalNotificationAvailable xsd:boolean Can notifications be set on a
geography PeriodicNotificationAvailable xsd:boolean Can a periodic
notification be set up AltitudeAlwaysAvailable xsd:boolean Is altitude
available for all location responses AltitudeSometimesAvailable xsd:boolean Is
altitude available for some or all location responses (if
AltitudeAlwaysAvailable is true, this is also true)
MaximumNotificationAddresses xsd:int Maximum number of addresses for which a
notification can be set up MaxNumReferenceAddresses xsd:int Maximum number of
reference device addresses that can be specified for distance related
notifications MaxNumMonitoredAddresses xsd:int Maximum number of monitored
device addresses that can be specified for distance related notifications
MaximumNotificationFrequency common:TimeMetric Maximum rate of notification
delivery (also can be considered minimum time between notifications)
DefaultNotificationDuration common:TimeMetric Default amount of time a
notification will be set up for MaximumNotificationDuration common:TimeMetric
Maximum amount of time a notification may be set up for MaximumCount xsd:int
Maximum number of notifications that may be requested UnlimitedCountAllowed
xsd:boolean Allowed to specify unlimited notification count (i.e. either by
not specifying the optional Count message part in
StartGeographicalNotificationRequest or by specifying a value of zero)
GroupSupport xsd:boolean Groups URIs may be used NestedGroupSupport
xsd:boolean Are nested groups supported in group definitions
AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed xsd:boolean Is duplication addresses supported
for location operations
* * *
NOTE: For service policy -- \"AddressesDuplicationNotAllowed\" , If
alias/group is used,
  1. Parlay X GW with Identity Management Framework support can verify that indeed there is a duplicate.
  2. If network capability supports alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, then the policy exception of addresses duplication may not have effect fully.
  3. If network capability don\'t support alias/group and the Parlay-X GW without Identity Management Framework supporting, the Parlay-X GW should reject the alias/group.
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for terminal location
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to 3GPP TS 29.199-1 [6] and is contained in text files;
  * parlayx_terminal_location_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_location_notification_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_location_notification_manager_interface_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_location_notification_manager_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_location_notification_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_location_service_4_0.wsdl
  * parlayx_terminal_location_types_4_0.xsd
which accompany the present document.
The WSDL files have been verified using the following files:
  * 9_wsdl2Java_axis-1_4.bat
  * 9_wsdl2Java_axis2-1_4_1.bat
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 9:
Terminal location for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP specification.\ The information given here is to be used by developers in
3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Annex A (normative): WSDL for terminal location
There are no additions or exclusions.
#