# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
3GPP acknowledges the contribution of the Parlay X Web Services specifications
from The Parlay Group. The Parlay Group is pleased to see 3GPP acknowledge and
publish the present document, and the Parlay Group looks forward to working
with the 3GPP community to improve future versions of the present document.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part 1 of a multi-part TS covering the 3^rd^
Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Open Service Access (OSA); Parlay X Web Services, as identified
below:
**Part 1: \"Common\"**
Part 2: \"Third party call\"
Part 3: \"Call Notification\"
Part 4: \"Short Messaging\"
Part 5: \"Multimedia Messaging\"
Part 6: \"Payment\"
Part 7: \"Account management\"
Part 8: \"Terminal Status\"
Part 9: \"Terminal location\"
Part 10: \"Call handling\"
Part 11: \"Audio call\"
Part 12: \"Multimedia conference\"
Part 13: \"Address list management\"
Part 14: \"Presence\"
Part 15: \"Message Broadcast\"
Part 16: \"Geocoding\"
Part 17: \"Application driven Quality of Service (QoS)\"
Part 18: \"Device Capabilities and Configuration\"
Part 19: \"Multimedia streaming control\"
Part 20: \"Multimedia multicast session management\"
Part 21: **\"** Content management**\"**
Part 22: \"Policy\"
The Mapping specification of the Parlay X Web Services (3GPP TS 29.199) to the
Parlay/OSA APIs (3GPP TS 29.198) and, where applicable, to IMS, is also
structured as above. A mapping of the Parlay X Web Services is however not
applicable for all Parts (e.g. Part 13), but the numbering of Parts is kept.
Table: Overview of the Parlay X Web Services & OSA APIs mappings
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Parlay X Web | OSA APIs (& | | | | Services | IMS) mappings | | | | | | | | | (3GPP TS | (ETSI TR | | | | 29.199-family) | 1 | | | | | 02 397-family) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-01 | Common | ETSI TR 102 | Common mapping | | | | 397-01 | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-02 | Third party | ETSI TR 102 | Generic Call | | | call | 397-02-1 | Control | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Party | | | | 397-02-2 | Call Control | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-03 | Call | ETSI TR 102 | Generic Call | | | notification | 397-03-1 | Control | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Party | | | | 397-03-2 | Call Control | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-04 | Short | ETSI TR 102 | User | | | messaging | 397-04-1 | Interaction | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Media | | | | 397-04-2 | Messaging | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-05 | Multimedia | ETSI TR 102 | User | | | messaging | 397-05-1 | Interaction | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Media | | | | 397-05-2 | Messaging | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-06 | Payment | ETSI TR 102 | Charging | | | | 397-06 | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-07 | Account | ETSI TR 102 | Account | | | management | 397-07 | Management | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-08 | Terminal | ETSI TR 102 | Mobility User | | | status | 397-08 | Status mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-09 | Terminal | ETSI TR 102 | Mobility User | | | location | 397-09-1 | Location | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Mobility User | | | | 397-09-2 | Location CAMEL | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-10 | Call handling | ETSI TR 102 | Generic Call | | | | 397-10-1 | Control & User | | | | | Interaction | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Party | | | | 397-10-2 | Call Control & | | | | | User | | | | | Interaction | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Policy | | | | 397-10-3 | Management | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-11 | Audio call | ETSI TR 102 | Generic Call | | | | 397-11-1 | Control & User | | | | | Interaction | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Party | | | | 397-11-2 | Call Control & | | | | | User | | | | | Interaction | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-12 | Multimedia | ETSI TR 102 | Multi-Media | | | conference | 397-12 | Call Control | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _29.199-13_ | _Address list |_ ETSI TR 102 | _Not | | | management_ | 397-13 _| Applicable_ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-14 | Presence | ETSI TR 102 | Presence & | | | | 397-14-1 | Availability | | | | | Management | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | ETSI TR 102 | SIP/IMS | | | | 397-14-2 | Networks | | | | | mapping | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-15 | Message | | | | | Broadcast | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-16 | Geocoding | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-17 | Application | | | | | driven QoS | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-18 | Device | | | | | Capabilities | | | | | and | | | | | Configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-19 | Multimedia | | | | | streaming | | | | | control | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-20 | Multimedia | | | | | multicast | | | | | session | | | | | management | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-21 | Content | | | | | management | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 29.199-22 | Policy | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 1 Scope
The present document is Part 1 of the Stage 3 Parlay X Web Services
specification for Open Service Access (OSA).
The OSA specifications define an architecture that enables application
developers to make use of network functionality through an open standardized
interface, i.e. the OSA APIs. The concepts and the functional architecture for
the OSA are contained in 3GPP TS 23.198 [3]. The requirements for OSA are
contained in 3GPP TS 22.127 [2].
The present document specifies the Common aspects of the Parlay X Web
Services. The following are defined here:
Name spaces.
Data definitions.
Fault definitions.
WSDL Description of the interfaces.
The present document has been defined jointly between 3GPP TSG CT WG5, ETSI
TISPAN and The Parlay Group.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 22.127: \"Service Requirement for the Open Services Access
> (OSA); Stage 1\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 23.198: \"Open Service Access (OSA); Stage 2\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
>
> [5] W3C Recommendation (2 May 2001): \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
>
> NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-2-20010502/.
[6] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3966.txt.
> [7] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
>
> NOTE: Available at htpp://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3261.txt.
>
> [8] WS-I Basic Profile Version 1.0: \"Final Material\".
>
> NOTE: Available at
> http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.0-2004-04-16.html.
>
> [9] W3C Note (15 March 2001): \"Web Services Description Language (WSDL)
> 1.1\".
>
> NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-wsdl-20010315.
>
> [10] OASIS Standard 200401 (March 2004): \"Web Services Security: SOAP
> Message Security 1.0 (WS-Security 2004)\".
>
> NOTE: Available at http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-
> soap-message-security-1.0.pdf.
>
> [11] W3C Recommendation (12 February 2002): \"XML-Signature Syntax and
> Processing\".
>
> NOTE: Available at http://www.w3.org/TR/2002/REC-xmldsig-core-20020212/.
>
> [12] ISO 4217: \"Codes for the representation of currencies and funds\".
[13] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
NOTE: Available at http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3986.txt.
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**application:** computer program that accesses a Web Service
**SOAP:** not an acronym, protocol used for XML messaging
**Web Service:** software system designed to support interoperable machine-to-
machine interaction over a network
**Web Service Provider:** entity which provides Web Services interfaces to
capabilities offered
**Web Service Requester:** entity which operates Applications that access Web
Services
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
IP Internet Protocol
IT Information Technology
OASIS Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards
OSA Open Service Access
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
RFC Request For Comment
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SLA Service Level Agreement
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
W3C World Wide Web Consortium
WSDL Web Service Definition Language
WS-I Web Services-Interoperability Organization
XML Extensible Markup Language
# 4 Use of Web Services technologies
## 4.1 Web Service message content
### 4.1.1 SOAP
All Web Service messages SHALL send and accept messages that conform to the
SOAP use defined in the WS-I Basic Profile [8], using the document/literal
encoding style.
### 4.1.2 XML
All Web Service messages SHALL send and accept messages that conform to the
XML use defined in the WS-I Basic Profile [8].
### 4.1.3 HTTP
All Web Service messages SHALL send and accept messages that conform to the
HTTP use defined in the WS-I Basic Profile [8].
## 4.2 Web Service interface definitions
All Parlay X Web Services are defined according to the following.
### 4.2.1 WSDL
All Web Service interfaces SHALL be defined using WSDL 1.1 as defined in the
WSDL specification [9] and be conformant to the WSDL use defined in WS-I Basic
Profile [8].
See clause 12 for detailed information on the WSDL style to be followed by
Parlay X Web Services.
## 4.3 Security for Parlay X Web Services
If a message contains an identifier and/or credentials representing the sender
of the message then these SHALL be provided in a manner prescribed by WS-
Security [10].
Encryption of message content MAY be required by the Web Service Provider. If
this is required, then this SHALL be accomplished in one of the following
manners:
  * Use of a Virtual Private Network, to be administered independent of > the Web Service implementation.
  * Use of Transport Level Security using HTTP over TLS as specified in > the WS-I Basic Profile [8].
Integrity of the message content MAY be required by the Web Service Provider.
If this is required, then this SHALL be accomplished using XML Digital
Signature [11].
## 4.4 XML data types
Where possible standard XML Schema data types are used, as defined in section
3 (Built-in datatypes) in XML Schema [5].
# 5 Detailed service description
## 5.1 Address data items
Addresses, unless the specification provides specific additional instruction,
MUST conform to the address portion of the URI definition provided in RFC 3966
[6] for \'tel:\' addresses, RFC 3261 [7] for \'sip:\' addresses or the
definition given below for shortcodes or aliased addresses. Optional additions
to the address portion of these URI definitions MUST NOT be considered part of
the address accepted by the Parlay X Web Services interfaces, and an
implementation MAY choose to reject an address as invalid if it contains any
content other than the address portion.
When processing a \'tel:\' URI, as specified in RFC 3966 [6], Parlay X Web
Services MUST accept national addresses (those not starting with \'+\' and a
country code) and MUST accept international addresses (those starting with
\'+\' and a country code).
When specified in the definition of a service operation, the URI may contain
wildcard characters in accordance with the appropriate specification (i.e. RFC
3966 [6] or RFC 3261 [7]).
Shortcodes are short telephone numbers, usually 4 to 6 digits in length
reserved for telecom service providers\' own functionality. They shall be
differentiated from national addresses by the use of a \'short:\' rather than
\'tel:\' URI scheme. The short code defined in the URI consists of a string of
digits with no non-digit characters.
Support for aliases in addresses is provided by use of the URI defined in RFC
3986 [13]. This allows for arbitrary data to be submitted to the Parlay X Web
Service interface. The following is an example of how this could be applied:
> \:\
An alias is generally a relatively short character string that holds a
scrambled address such that only the application identified in the URI can
expand it.
## 5.2 Charging
Web Services may use a Web Service Provider to deliver content or function. In
some cases, the producer of the content or capability will wish to use a bill-
on-behalf-of capability offered by the Web Service Provider to charge for the
content/function provided. For those services where the charge is part of a
single activity, providing the charging related information as part of the
message is very efficient.
An example is a messaging service, where a sports business collects
information and distributes short messages with sports scores to its
subscribers. The sports business has an agreement with a Web Service Provider
where the charges for the messages are included in the bill provided by the
Web Service Provider (thus the Web Service Provider is billing on behalf of
the sports business.
To enable this capability to be provided across a variety of services in a
consistent manner, thus making implementation easy and efficient, the
information to be provided in the Web Service message for charging information
is defined as a common charging data type.
### 5.2.1 Charging data type
The charging information is provided in an XML data type, using the following
schema.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The application accessing the Web Service provides this information:
  * Description is an array of text. The first entry of a list will > often be used to provide billing text. This text does not have > specific required content, but would likely include information on > the business, the content or service provided, and a transaction > identifier. Credit card statements are a good example of > description text provided by different companies.
  * When more than one entry is provided, the rest should be references > to individual operations relevant to the charging. Reference > should be set to a value provided in a response message to the > operation as a unique identifier to correlate individual > operation. Examples of references are result of > sendMessageResponse and CallSessionIdentifier of > makeCallSessionResponse.
  * Currency in which the charge is to be applied. Values for the > currency field are defined by ISO 4217 [12].
  * Defines the amount to be charged.
  * Code specifies a charging code which references a contract under > which this charge is applied. The code identifier is provided by > the Web Service Provider.
The charging information provided may not be acceptable to the Web Service
Provider. For example, the Web Service Provider may limit the amount that may
be specified for a particular Web Service or for a particular Web Service
Requester. If the information provided is not acceptable, an appropriate fault
message may be returned to the Web Service Requester (SVC0007 and POL0012 are
defined as a generic charging fault).
Especially in case of charging operation such as ChargeAmountRequest,
RefundAmountRequest and ChargeSplitAmountRequest, it is strongly recommended
to convey a list of relevant operations related to charging over a description
part as described above.
This is useful especially when a charging operation is performed after a
certain set of operations.
Some of the services may be meaningful to the user only when a certain set of
operations is completed. In that case, service provider may want to charge a
user only upon a completion of the entire process, instead of charging per
operation. Also, service provider may want to control the actual amount of
charging depending on a certain condition, e.g., service usage volume,
independent of the volume control provided by the network operators. This is
also the case where it is preferable to perform charging operation after a
completion of certain set of operations. In these cases where a service
provider charges a user for the consumption of a certain service, the service
provider is recommended to provide the references to the individual operations
performed as evidences. This information can be referenced by the relevant
entities to ensure the validity of charging when necessary.
It should be noted that this is for a service provider to provide a list of
evidences of their direct use of operations. Any mapping of underlying
operations performed internally in the operator must be performed by the
operator if necessary. How to maintain the consistency between the information
kept at service provider and the operators is out of scope. Also, charging
aspects which do not relate to any operations are not covered..
## 5.3 Exception definition
Exceptions are defined with three data items.
The first data item is a unique identifier for the message. This allows the
receiver of the message to recognize the message easily in a language-neutral
manner. Thus applications and people seeing the message do not have to
understand the message text to be able to identify the message. This is very
useful for customer support as well, since it does not depend on the reader to
be able to read the language of the message.
The second data item is the message text, including placeholders (marked with
%) for additional information. This form is consistent with the form for
internationalization of messages used by many technologies (operating systems,
programming environments, etc.). Use of this form enables translation of
messages to different languages independent of program changes. This is well
suited for Web Services messages, as a programming language is not defined.
The third data item is a list of zero or more strings that represent the
content to put in each placeholder defined in the message in the second data
item.
## 5.4 Service exception
When a service is not able to process a request, and retrying the request with
the same information will also result in a failure, and the issue is not
related to a service policy issue, then the service will issue a fault using
the ServiceException fault message. A Service Exception uses the letters
\'SVC\' at the beginning of the message identifier.
Examples of service exceptions include invalid input, lack of availability of
a required resource or a processing error.
## 5.5 Policy exception
When a service is not able to complete because the request fails to meet a
policy criteria, then the service will issue a fault using the PolicyException
fault message. To clarify how a Policy Exception differs from a Service
Exception, consider that all the input to an operation may be valid as meeting
the required input for the operation (thus no Service Exception), but using
that input in the execution of the service may result in conditions that
require the service not to complete. A Policy Exception uses the letters
\'POL\' at the beginning of the message identifier.
Examples of policy exceptions include privacy violations, requests not
permitted under a governing service agreement or input content not acceptable
to the service provider.
# 6 Namespaces
The namespace for the common data types is:
http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx/common/ v4_0
The namespace for the common faults is,
http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx/common/v4_0/faults
The \'xsd\' namespace is used in the present document to refer to the XML
Schema data types defined in XML Schema [5]. The use of the name \'xsd\' is
not semantically significant.
# 7 Sequence diagrams
Not applicable.
# 8 XML Schema data type definition
## 8.1 TimeMetrics enumeration
List of time metric values.
* * *
Enumeration Description Millisecond Millisecond Second Second Minute Minute
Hour Hour Day Day Week Week Month Month Year Year
* * *
## 8.2 TimeMetric structure
For services that provide service based on a time interval or duration or
similar metric, this type is used to specify the time metric.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Metric TimeMetrics No Metric to
use for time measurement Units xsd:int No Number of units of TimeMetrics
* * *
## 8.3 ChargingInformation structure
For services that include charging as an inline message part, the charging
information is provided in this data structure.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Description xsd:string
[1..unbounded] No An array of description text to be use for information and
billing text Currency xsd:string Yes Currency identifier as defined in ISO
4217 [12] Amount xsd:decimal Yes Amount to be charged Code xsd:string Yes
Charging code, referencing a contract under which the charge is applied
* * *
## 8.4 ServiceError structure
Some services that process requests for both single addresses and group of
addresses return a fault message for the single request, and a data item for
the group response. This data structure allows the data item returned for a
group response to contain the same level of information as the fault message
response.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description MessageId xsd:string No Message
identifier (take from fault definitions) Text xsd:string No Message text, with
replacement variables marked with %# Variables xsd:string [0..unbounded] Yes
Variables to substitute into Text string
* * *
## 8.5 SimpleReference structure
For those services that require a reference to a Web Service, the information
required to create the endpoint information is contained in this type.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description Endpoint xsd:anyURI No Endpoint
address InterfaceName xsd:string No Name of interface Correlator xsd:string No
Correlation information
* * *
## 8.6 CallParticipantStatus enumeration
List of the status values associated with a call to a participant
* * *
Enumeration Description CallParticipantInitial The call is being established
to a participant CallParticipantConnected The participant is active in the
call CallParticipantTerminated The call to the participant was terminated
* * *
## 8.7 CallParticipantTerminationCause enumeration
List of the termination causes associated with a call to a participant
* * *
Enumeration Description CallParticipantNoAnswer The participant did not answer
the call CallParticipantBusy The participant was busy
CallParticipantNotReachable The participant was not reachable
CallParticipantHangUp The participant hung up thereby terminating the call for
that party CallParticipantAborted The call was aborted for the participant
(i.e. any other termination cause than hanging up)
* * *
## 8.8 CallParticipantInformation Structure
Information about a participant in a call
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description CallIParticipantIdentifier xsd:
anyURI No Identifies an individual call participant. CallParticipant Status
CallParticipantStatus No It indicates the current status of the participant in
the call CallParticipantStartTime xsd:dateTime Yes When applicable
(CallParticipantStatus \<> CallParticipant Initial), it indicates the time
when the call participant was added to the call CallParticipantDuration
xsd:int Yes When applicable (CallParticipantStatus =
CallParticipantTerminated), it indicates the duration of the call participants
involvement in the call expressed in seconds CallParticipantTerminationCause
CallParticipantTerminationCause Yes When applicable (CallParticipantStatus =
CallParticipantTerminated), it indicates the cause of the call participants
termination from the call. MediaInfo MediaInfo [0..unbounded] Yes When
applicable, it indicates the media currently used in the call for the
identified participant.
* * *
## 8.9 CallSession Structure
Call Session information for this call
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description CallSessionIdentifier
xsd:string No Identifies the call session with one or more participants. Note:
Parlay X call control related web services may use this identifier to interact
with call participants (e.g. PlayMedia) CallParticipantInformation
CallParticipantInformation [0..unbounded] Yes Identifies all information
related to an individual participant (or set of call participants) within a
call session.
* * *
## 8.10 MediaInfo structure
* * *
Element name Element Type Optional Description media Media No type of media
information mediaDirection MediaDirection No direction of media
* * *
## 8.11 Media enumeration
* * *
Element name Description Audio Audio media type Video Video media type Chat
Chat media type Data Other media type
* * *
## 8.12 MediaDirection enumeration
* * *
Element name Description In Incoming Out Outgoing InOut Bidirectional
* * *
## 8.13 RetrievalStatus enumeration
Enumeration of the items that are related to an individual retrieval in a set.
* * *
Enumeration Description Retrieved Item retrieved successfully NotRetrieved
Item not retrieved, Information is not provided (does not indicate an error,
no attempt may have been made). Error Error retrieving item.
* * *
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc242148029 .anchor}
## 8.14 NameValuePair structure
This data structure is used to deliver a variable name-value pair.
* * *
Name Type Optional Description name xsd:string No Name of the variable value
xsd:string No Value of the variable description xsd:string Yes Description of
the variable
* * *
# 9 Web Service interface definition
Not applicable.
# 10 Fault definitions
## 10.1 ServiceException
Faults related to the operation of the service, not including policy related
faults, result in the return of a ServiceException message. Service exception
messages use the reserved message identifier \'SVC\', and are defined with
numbers from 0001 to 0999, with numbers 0001 to 0199 reserved for common
exceptions and 0200 to 0999 for Parlay X Web Services specification use.
Numbers from \'1000\' to \'9999\' may be used by third parties.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description MessageId xsd:string No Message
identifier, with prefix SVC Text xsd:string No Message text, with replacement
variables marked with %# Variables xsd:string [0..unbounded] Yes Variables to
substitute into Text string
* * *
### 10.1.1 SVC0001: Service error
* * *
Element name Description MessageId SVC0001 Text A service error occurred.
Error code is %1 Variables %1 Error code from service - meaningful to support,
and may be documented in product documentation
* * *
### 10.1.2 SVC0002: Invalid input value
* * *
Element name Description MessageId SVC0002 Text Invalid input value for
message part %1 Variables %1 - message part
* * *
### 10.1.3 SVC0003: Invalid input value with list of valid values
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | Element name | Description | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | MessageId | SVC0003 | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | Text | Invalid input value for message part %1, valid values are %2 | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+ | Variables | %1 - message part | | | | | | %2 - list of valid values | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------------------+
### 10.1.4 SVC0004: No valid address(es)
* * *
Element name Description MessageId SVC0004 Text No valid addresses provided in
message part %1 Variables %1 - message part
* * *
### 10.1.5 SVC0005: Duplicate correlator
+--------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Element name | Description | +--------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | MessageId | SVC0005 | +--------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Text | Correlator %1 specified in message part %2 is a duplicate | +--------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | Variables | %1 - correlator | | | | | | %2 - message part | +--------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
### 10.1.6 SVC0006: Invalid group
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Element name | Description | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | MessageId | SVC0006 | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Text | Group %1 in message part %2 is not a valid group | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Variables | %1 - identifier for the invalid group | | | | | | %2 - message part | +--------------+--------------------------------------------------+
### 10.1.7 SVC0007: Invalid charging information
* * *
Element name Description MessageId SVC0007 Text Invalid charging information
Variables None
* * *
### 10.1.8 SVC0008: Overlapping Criteria
* * *
Name Description Message Id SVC0008 Text Overlapped Criteria %1 Variables %1
Message part with the overlapped criteria
* * *
## 10.2 PolicyException
Faults related to policies associated with the service, result in the return
of a PolicyException message. Policy exception messages use the reserved
message identifier \'POL\', and are defined with numbers from 0001 to 0999,
with numbers 0001 to 0199 reserved for common exceptions and 0200 to 0999 for
Parlay X Web Services specification use. Numbers from \'1000\' to \'9999\' may
be used by third parties.
* * *
Element name Element type Optional Description MessageId xsd:string No Message
identifier, with prefix POL Text xsd:string No Message text, with replacement
variables marked with %# Variables xsd:string [0..unbounded] Yes Variables to
substitute into Text string
* * *
### 10.2.1 POL0001: Policy error
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0001 Text A policy error occurred. Error
code is %1 Variables %1 Error code from service - meaningful to support, and
may be documented in product documentation
* * *
### 10.2.2 POL0002: Privacy error
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0002 Text Privacy verification failed
for address %1, request is refused Variables %1 - address privacy verification
failed for
* * *
### 10.2.3 POL0003: Too many addresses
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0003 Text Too many addresses specified
in message part %1 Variables %1 - message part
* * *
### 10.2.4 POL0004: Unlimited notifications not supported
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0004 Text Unlimited notification request
not supported Variables None
* * *
### 10.2.5 POL0005: Too many notifications requested
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0005 Text Too many notifications
requested Variables None
* * *
### 10.2.6 POL0006: Groups not allowed
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0006 Text Group specified in message
part %1 not allowed Variables %1 - message part
* * *
### 10.2.7 POL0007: Nested groups not allowed
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0007 Text Nested group specified in
message part %1 not allowed Variables %1 - message part
* * *
### 10.2.8 POL0008: Charging not supported
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0008 Text Charging is not supported
Variables None
* * *
### 10.2.9 POL0009: Invalid frequency requested
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0009 Text Invalid frequency requested
Variables None
* * *
### 10.2.10 POL0010: Retention time interval expired
* * *
Element name Description MessageId POL0010 Text Requested information
unavailable as the retention time interval has expired. Variables None
* * *
### 10.2.11 POL0011: Media Type not supported
* * *
Name Description Message Id POL0011 Text Media type not supported Variables
None
* * *
### 10.2.12 POL0012: Too many description entries specified
* * *
Name Description messageId POL0012 text Too many description entries specified
in message part %1 variables %1 -- message part
* * *
### 10.2.13 POL0013: Addresses duplication
* * *
Name Description messageId POL0013 text Duplicated addresses variables %1 --
duplicated addresses
* * *
**If aliases or group addresses are used:**
  1. **Parlay X Gateway with Identity Management Framework support can verify that indeed there is a duplicate.**
  2. **If network capability supports aliases or group addresses and the Parlay X Gateway without Identity Management Framework supporting, then the policy exception of addresses duplication may not have effect fully.**
  3. **If network capability does not support aliases or group addresses and the Parlay X Gateway without Identity Management Framework supporting, the Parlay-X Gateway should reject the aliases and group addresses.**
## 10.3 Fault number ranges by service
The following table includes fault number ranges that are reserved for use by
specific Parlay X Web Services.
* * *
Web Service SVC range POL range Third Party Call 0260 to 0264  
Multimedia Conference 0210 to 0214 0240 to 0244 Audio Call 0290 to 0294  
Messaging 0280 to 0284  
Multimedia Messaging 0230 to 0234  
Terminal Status 0200 to 0204 Terminal Location 0200 to 0204 0230 to 0234
Payment 0270 to 0274  
Account Management 0250 to 0254 0220 to 0224 Address List Management 0210 to
0214 Presence 0220 to 0224  
Message Broadcast 0300 to 0304 0330 to 0334 Geocoding 0370 to 0374 0350 to
0354 Application-driven QoS 0340 to 0344 0310 to 0314
* * *
# 11 Service policies
Not applicable.
# 12 WSDL usage and style
Parlay X Web Services definitions:
  * SHALL specify services using document forms as described in > subclause 12.1.
  * SHALL use namespaces as defined in subclause 12.2.
  * SHALL follow the authoring style as defined in subclause 12.3.
  * SHALL follow data type definitions as defined in subclause 12.4.
  * SHALL define messages and interfaces as defined in subclause 12.5 > using document/literal definitions.
  * SHALL define bindings and services as defined in subclause 12.6 > using document/literal definitions.
## 12.1 Service definition and documents
Service definitions are expressed using the facilities of WSDL. While it is
possible to produce a single document that represents an entire service
definition, this is not a desirable approach for any non-trivial Web Service.
Decomposition provides the following benefits:
  * XML Schema is used for data type definitions.
  * Faults that are shared across interfaces are defined independently.
  * Service interface definitions are defined independent of bindings.
  * Bindings are defined independently and consistent with UDDI best > practices.
Following these conventions improves the overall definition and maintenance
process and improves deployment by supporting separation of interface and
binding.
### 12.1.1 Interface sets
A Web Service definition may contain one or more interfaces (or portTypes in
WSDL 1.1 [9]). The characteristics of the Web Service being considered will
determine whether one interface or multiple interfaces are appropriate.
The term _Interface Set_ will be used to describe the group of interfaces that
comprise a Web Service. The _Interface Set_ provides a mechanism to group a
set of related interfaces using well defined conventions for document and
namespace naming.
For reference, other technologies group related interfaces using \'module\' or
\'package\' conventions, achieving a similar result for organizing related
interfaces.
### 12.1.2 Preparing for document definition
To provide a consistent use of naming within document sets, and across
document sets, a number of conventions are defined that rely on a small amount
of preparation to be done before creating the documents.
For each _Interface Set_ , a _Base Name_ is selected. For each interface
within the _Interface Set_ , a _Short Name_ is selected. These names will be
used as part of a common naming convention for the related set of documents
defined and for definition naming within the documents. This approach ensures
name consistency through Web Service evolution, whether it starts with one
interface or multiple interfaces.
An example will demonstrate the naming convention. A group of interfaces for a
short messaging service (SMS) are defined. This Web Service contains multiple
interfaces.
  * An _Interface Set_ is defined (SMS Interface Set).
  * The _Base Name_ for the _Interface Set_ is assigned the name > \'sms\'.
  * Each interface within the _Interface Set_ is assigned a _Short > Name_:
\- The SendSms interface is assigned the _Short Name_ \'send\'.
\- The RetrieveSms interface is assigned the _Short Name_ \'retrieve\'.
_Base Names_ and _Short Names_ are always defined using only lower case
letters, numbers or underscore characters. They must not start with a non-
alphabetic character. An underscore should be used to separate words when the
name consists of multiple words. These restrictions apply since these names
are used in the construction of file names and URI content.
With these preparations complete, the document set may be created.
### 12.1.3 Documents
There are four document types that can be utilized in a Web Service
definition. Each has a specific role, and contributes to the goal of
supporting a well organized and useful decomposition of the individual
elements of a Web Service definition.
#### 12.1.3.1 Types definition document
The _Type Definitions Document_ contains data type definitions within a schema
namespace.
When the document is related to a specific _Interface Set_ , it will use the
_Base Name_ with the suffix \'_types\' and the extension \'.xsd\'. When the
_Type Definitions Document_ is used across multiple _Interface Sets_ , it will
use an independent name with the suffix \'_types\' and the extension \'.xsd\'.
The present document is optional, since not all services will define new data
types.
#### 12.1.3.2 Shared faults document
The _Shared Faults Document_ contains fault definitions that are shared across
multiple interfaces in an _Interface Set_ , or across _Interface Sets_.
The faults are defined within their own namespace within the WSDL definition
namespace. The document name for the present document will use the suffix
\'_faults\' and the extension \'wsdl\'. The first part of the name of the
document is based on its usage, with the following guidance:
  * If it is used by multiple _Interface Sets_ , an independent name > reflective of the faults defined will be chosen by the author.
  * If it used only by multiple interfaces within an _Interface Set_ , > then the _Base Name_ will be used for the first part of the name.
The present document is optional, since not all WSDL definitions will define
faults that are shared with other WSDL definitions.
#### 12.1.3.3 Service interface document
The _Service Interface Document_ contains the message and interface (portTypes
in WSDL 1.1 [9]) definitions. One interface definition is included in each
document. The present document may import _Type Definition Documents_ and
_Shared Faults Documents_. The present document may be used for a variety of
_Service Bindings Documents_ without change.
The document name for the present document will use the suffix \'_interface\'
and the extension \'wsdl\'. The name of the document is determined as follows:
  * For each interface in an _Interface Set_ , the name is a combination > of the _Base Name_ followed by an underscore followed by the > _Short Name_ for the interface defined in the present document. > Thus multiple documents will have the same _Base Name_ as the > first portion of the name and the individual interface _Short > Name_ as the second portion.
#### 12.1.3.4 Service bindings document
The _Service Bindings Document_ contains both the binding to be used and the
service definition associated with the binding. One service definition is
defined in each document. The present document imports one _Service Interface
Document_.
The document name for the present document will use the suffix \'_service\'
with the extension \'wsdl\'. Optionally, text representing the specific
binding may be added immediately before the \'_service\' suffix. The name of
the document is determined as follows:
  * For each interface in an _Interface Set_ , the name is a combination > of the _Base Name_ followed by an underscore followed by the > _Short Name_ for the interface defined in the present document. > Thus multiple documents will have the same _Base Name_ as the > first portion of the name and the individual interface _Short > Name_ as the second portion.
### 12.1.4 Document separation rationale
The four document types approach satisfies a number of desirable goals for
WSDL creation, use and maintenance.
  * Types and shared faults are defined in common documents, eliminating > redundant definitions.
  * Interfaces are defined in individual documents, providing easier > reading (only relevant message definitions in same document), > while using a naming convention that group related interfaces > together.
  * Services are defined in individual documents, providing easy > consumption by service registries and easy creation of alternate > binding documents. Like the interface documents, the naming > conventions for these documents group related services together.
By following this approach, the document decomposition supports modularization
for reuse goals, in a manner that reflects a useful level of granularity, and
useful document form for use with tools and for deployment use.
### 12.1.5 Document version identifier
Just like namespaces may have naming conflicts, document names may also have
naming conflicts. It is not always predictable how documents will be stored
and used, or when multiple versions of a service may be co-deployed. For this
reason, documents may include version identifiers in their naming.
Documents may be assigned a version identifier, corresponding to version
information provided in the namespace (see next chapter for more information
on the version identifier).
If used, the identifier is added to the end of the name following an
underscore. For example, a namespace version of v2_0 would be expressed as
_2_0 added to the end of the document name and before its extension.
### 12.1.6 Document naming example
Using the SMS Interface Set described previously, the following document set
would be produced. Additional assumptions for this example are that there are
some data type definitions and that multiple interfaces in the _Interface Set_
use a common set of faults.
The names provided include the use of version identifiers, where this Web
Service is at the v1_0 level.
  * One _Type Definitions Document_ \- sms_types_1_0.xsd.
  * One _Shared Faults Document_ \- sms_faults_1_0.wsdl.
  * Two _Service Interface Documents_ \- sms_send_interface_1_0.wsdl > and sms_retrieve_interface_1_0.wsdl.
  * Two _Service Bindings Documents_ \- sms_send_service_1_0.wsdl and > sms_retrieve_service_1_0.wsdl.
The two _Service Interface Documents_ import the _Type Definition Document_
and _Shared Faults Document_. The two _Service Bindings Documents_ import
their respective _Service Interface Document_.
### 12.1.7 Service definitions for notification patterns
A _Service Interface Document_ provides the messages and interfaces for a Web
Service. It does not distinguish any deployment relationship, though there are
specific uses intended for some Web Services definitions.
A common message pattern is notification. The Web Service has a corresponding
facility, such as a Web page, that provides the information required to define
the notification, and a WSDL definition that represents the notification
definition.
For message patterns that include notifications, the Web Service definition
approach is the same, but the roles of the Web Service Provider and Web
Service Requestor become a peer-to-peer or a producer-consumer relationship
instead of a requestor-provider relationship.
To provide a practical example, the SMS Interface Set described previously
will be extended to include two additional interfaces - RegisterSms and
SmsNotify. The interfaces will use the _Short Names_ \'register\' and
\'notify\' respectively.
The RegisterSms interface will reuse the current _Type Definitions Document_
(sms_types.xsd) and _Shared Faults Document_ (sms_faults.wsdl), and adds its
own _Service Interface Document_ (sms_register_interface.wsdl) and _Service
Bindings Document_ (sms_register_service.wsdl).
The SmsNotify interface will reuse the current _Type Definitions Document_
(sms_types.xsd) and _Shared Faults Document_ (sms_faults.wsdl), and adds its
own _Service Interface Document_ (sms_notify_interface.wsdl) and _Service
Bindings Document_ (sms_notify_service.wsdl).
The RegisterSms interface is deployed in the same manner as the SendSms and
RetrieveSms services at the Web Service Provider. The Web Service Requestor
uses the RegisterSms interface to indicate the criteria to be used to
determine when a notification is appropriate to send.
Although the notification will be delivered to the entity that had been using
the SMS Interface Set in a requestor role, the definition of the SmsNotify
service is consistent with the other services in the _Interface Set_. The only
difference is that at the time of deployment, the SmsNotify implementation
will be deployed in the environment of the entity that deploys the requester
side of the other SMS Interface Set interfaces.
Following this approach, a consistent use of document conventions simplifies
the process of defining Web Services, regardless of the deployment
configurations or roles that deployed services may assume.
## 12.2 Namespaces
The definitions tag has a number of attributes for namespace definitions.
These definitions will include a set of common definitions and WSDL specific
definitions. The common definitions will be provided in all WSDL documents.
### 12.2.1 Namespaces for Parlay X Web Services
For Parlay X Web Services, the scheme is \'http\', domain is www.csapi.org,
and root is parlayx. Thus for XML Schema namespaces
\'http://www.csapi.org/schema/parlayx\' is the base name, and for WSDL
\'http://www.csapi.org/wsdl/parlayx\' is the base name.
### 12.2.2 Use of namespaces
Correct use of namespaces is essential for both creating WSDL that will be
usable by a variety of tools, and creating references that allow use of
reusable content across the set of documents for a Web Service.
The following are the key namespaces defined:
  * XML Schema namespaces for data type definitions.
  * Shared fault namespaces, for easy sharing of common fault > definitions.
  * WSDL interface namespace for Web Service interface definitions.
  * WSDL schema local interface namespace for XML Schema definitions > contained in the WSDL interface definition.
  * WSDL binding namespace for service bindings definitions.
Each namespace has a distinct role. Managing them in a consistent way provides
highly flexible definitions, while ensuring easy use by WSDL creators and
readers.
### 12.2.3 Namespace elements
The namespace definition includes three defined elements - the hierarchical
name element, the version element and the namespace type element.
The hierarchical name element provides a fully qualified name in a
hierarchical form for the namespace. This element is the Web Service specific
information.
If a namespace contains a version number it will be a separate namespace
element, immediately following the hierarchical name element, and preceding
the namespace type. Version numbers are recommended, and are used in the
examples.
A version number is based on release numbering, consisting of the lowercase
letter \'v\', followed by a number indicating major version number, followed
by an underscore \'_\', followed by a minor version number. Any numbering
beyond the minor version number follows the same convention with an underscore
separator. Numbers are not limited to single digits.
Following the version number is the namespace type, which is always the last
element in the namespace. The namespace type is one of \'faults\' for _Shared
Faults Documents_ , \'interface\' or \'local\' for _Service Interface
Documents_ , or \'service\' for _Service Bindings Documents_. The _Type
Definitions Document_ does not have a namespace type; since it does not share
its namespace \'schema\' (XML Schema definitions in the _Service Interface
Document_ use the \'local\' namespace type).
### 12.2.4 Namespace Usage
#### 12.2.4.1 Why namespace versions are used
Maintaining a version number as part of the namespace enables multiple
versions of a specification to be identified easily, both by human inspection
(reading namespace information) and by machine inspection (parsing namespace).
In addition to the version information being contained in the namespace, the
Parlay X Web Services WSDL documents also incorporate this same version number
in the document file name.
These two mechanisms enable each specification document version to be uniquely
identified, ensuring correct composition of documents even when multiple
versions are present in a system.
#### 12.2.4.2 When namespace versions are changed
When a specification document, or one of its dependent documents, changes then
the version for the specification document is incremented. Incrementing of the
major version or minor version number is dependent on the nature of the change
(typically major version number changes at a release cycle, minor version
number changes within a release cycle).
For example, if a specification has a types definition document and an
interface definition document, then,
If the types definitions document is updated, its version will be incremented.
Since the interface definition is dependent on the types definition document,
its version will be incremented as well.
If the interface definition document is updated, but there are no changes to
the types definition document, then only the interface definition document
version is incremented (since the types definition document is not dependent
on the interface definition document).
For common documents that are used across multiple specifications, a change in
the common document will require updating the specification documents that are
dependent on the common document (to update the reference to the common
document) and thus their document versions will be incremented as well.
#### 12.2.4.3 Benefit of managing namespace versions
Two primary benefits are realized by managing namespace versions.
  * Clearly identified specification documents for the specification reader, developer or machine (for discovery).
  * Possibility to have coexisting implementations of multiple versions of the same specification, since all artefacts are isolated and uniquely identifiable.
### 12.2.5 Common namespaces
Each document type has some common namespaces will be used in every instance
of that document type.
_Type Definition Documents_
xmlns:xsd=http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema
_Shared Faults Documents_ and _Service Interface Documents_
xmlns=\"http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/\"
xmlns:wsdl=\"http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/\"
xmlns:xsd=http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema
_Service Bindings Documents_ for SOAP over HTTP
xmlns=\"http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/\"
xmlns:wsdl=\"http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/\"
xmlns:soap=\"http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/\"
xmlns:xsd=http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema
Other bindings will have other namespace definitions that will be common to
all _Service Bindings Documents_ using that binding.
### 12.2.6 Target namespace
The target namespace defines the namespace that is the default namespace for
the elements within a document. A special case is the target namespace defined
for the schema section within the wsdl:types section of a _Service Interface
Document_ , where the target namespace applies specifically to the XML Schema
definitions within this section.
The base namespace for WSDL related elements is http://www.example.com/wsdl.
For sub-namespaces, they will extend this namespace. All elements defined
within the root namespace are defined within this base target namespace.
For example target namespaces may include,
  * Root namespace, http://www.example.com/wsdl/v1_0/service.
  * Sub-namespace, http://www.example.com/wsdl/accounts/v1_0/service.
  * Multi-level sub-namespace, > http://www.example.com/wsdl/accounts/payables/v1_0/service.
The target namespace is the same namespace that will be defined later as the
XML Schema or WSDL namespace.
### 12.2.7 WSDL and Schema namespaces
Namespaces are defined for the WSDL and Schema elements that are defined
within the present document, and for those that are referenced by elements in
the present document. For each instance, a pair of namespaces may be defined
(if applicable). The WSDL namespace is defined with its _Short Name_. The
Schema namespace is defined with the _Short Name_ plus the suffix \'_xsd\'.
For the WSDL reference used for the present document, the name space
definition is the same as the targetNamespace. For the Schema reference, the
base namespace is http://www.example.com/schema, with the same hierarchy
reference following the base namespace, but without an ending qualifier since
the schema namespace is not shared across documents.
Examples:
Base namespace
xmlns:example=\"http://www.example.com/wsdl/v1_0\"
xmlns:example_xsd=http://www.example.com/schema/v1_0
Sub-namespace
xmlns:accounts=\"http://www.example.com/wsdl/accounts/v1_0/service\"
xmlns:accounts_xsd=http://www.example.com/schema/accounts/v1_0
### 12.2.8 Local namespace use
Within the WSDL service definition, XML Schema is used to define messages.
These are defined within the wsdl:types section of the _Service Interface
Document_. Since namespaces must be unique across documents, and within
different sections of the same document, a local namespace is used for the XML
Schema types defined within the wsdl:types section.
The local namespace definition within a _Service Interface Document_ uses the
\'schema\' namespace, with the _Base Name_ and _Short Name_ elements followed
by the version element and \'/local\'. The namespace is defined as the _Short
Name_ plus \'_local_xsd\'. This approach guarantees unique and predictable
name use.
### 12.2.9 Examples
Base definitions:
\
Sub-namespace definitions:
\
## 12.3 Authoring style - Document content and names
### 12.3.1 General WSDL document information
The following are general guidelines for WSDL document information:
  * WSDL documents will use UTF-8 as their encoding. UTF-16 may also be > used if required.
  * A date in a comment at the top of the WSDL document will indicate > the last revision date of the definition.
### 12.3.2 Names
Names will be normal language names, without prefixes (e.g. type or interface
markers). The names will be meaningful, and not abbreviated in a way that
makes the name hard to understand for users of the WSDL that are not literate
in computer programming.
As a guideline, a person using the WSDL will be able to load the WSDL file
into an XML viewer and see the names displayed and have reasonable
understanding of the content.
This does not preclude the use of commonly understood acronyms within names
(e.g. ATM) or commonly used abbreviations (e.g. max). However, the resulting
name must still be meaningful.
### 12.3.3 Case usage for names
Two general cases are provided for, both using mixed case names; one with a
leading capital letter, the other with a leading lowercase letter.
Names for all elements (all cases where the text name=\'Name\' is used) will
start with a letter and be mixed case, with the leading letter of each word
capitalized. Words will not be separated by white space, underscore, hyphen or
other non-letter character.
The following elements will have a leading uppercase letter - simpleType name,
complexType name, interface (portType) name, binding name, service name, union
element name.
The following elements will have a leading lowercase letter - field names
(those names used for elements within other elements), message name (message
name portion, service prefix will have uppercase letter if used), message part
name, interface operation name, binding operation name.
For example, valid names include \'Name\', \'FirstName\', \'Name1\',
\'mixedCaseName\'. Invalid names include \'1Name\', \'NAME\', \'nAME\'.
### 12.3.4 Naming conventions for special names
Some names have special meaning, and are often recognized by a naming
convention. For example, in some conventions constants are identified by using
all upper case letters and underscores between words.
In WSDL, the case usage for names will be followed as described in the
previous clause. No other conventions for case usage will be used.
For faults, the fault name will be suffixed with the word \'Exception\'.
In many technologies, the return value of an operation is not named. However,
in WSDL the response message contains a named part. The part representing the
response message content will use the name \'result\'.
### 12.3.5 Document layout
To provide easy and consistent reading of WSDL files, the following layout
patterns are recommended.
Each tag level is indented one level relative to the previous tag indent
level. The xml tag, date comment and root tag are not indented, they are on
the left margin.
Indents of 3 spaces are used, and tabs are not used for storage (store files
with spaces).
Namespaces are defined one per line, single spaced, indented one indent level.
Import statements are defined one per line, single spaced, with attributes on
the same line.
Each primary element within the schema is separated by one blank line.
Each element within a primary element is single spaced.
Restrictions, extensions and elements are defined on a single line with their
attributes.
XML Schema types are laid out according to their respective sections in the
present document.
Messages are defined single spaced, with one blank line separating each
message definition. Messages with no parts are defined with one tag.
Interfaces (portTypes) are defined with its attributes on a single line, with
one blank line separating each interface definition. The first operation
starts on the line following the interface definition, with each operation
defined single spaced and with a blank line separating each operation
definition. Each element defined within an operation (input, output and fault)
is defined on a single line with its attributes within one tag.
Bindings will be laid out consistently with interfaces.
Each service is defined single spaced.
## 12.4 Data type definitions
All data type definition examples are shown using XML Schema.
At the start of each new release (during the development phase of a new
release, prior to the closure of the release to new functionality)
consideration should be given to consolidation of common data type
definitions, by moving those data types into the present document and deleting
them from every other part of the Parlay X Web services specifications where
they occur.
### 12.4.1 Types section declaration
All data types are defined using XML Schema in the _Type Definitions
Document_.
Base document definition:
\
targetNamespace=\"http://www.example.com/schema/v1_0\"
xmlns:xsd=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema\">
\
\
Sub-namespace document definition:
\
targetNamespace=\"http://www.example.com/schema/accounts/v1_0\"
xmlns:xsd=\"http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema\">
\
\
#### 12.4.1.1 Optional elements
XML Schema allows elements to be defined as optional, meaning that the element
may or may not be present within an XML document. Elements may be declared as
optional by use of the minOccurs attribute with a value of zero.
\
#### 12.4.1.2 Nillable elements
XML Schema allows elements to be declared as nillable, indicating that the
value may be nil (unspecified, not just a zero value).
\
#### 12.4.1.3 User defined simple data types
User defined simple data types are defined as XML Schema simpleType elements
with a name attribute and a restriction to the base XML Schema type. Simple
data types do not extend other simple data types.
\
\
\
#### 12.4.1.4 Data structures
Data structures are defined as complex types with a sequence of elements
within the complex type.
\
\
\
\
\
\
#### 12.4.1.5 Enumerations
Enumerations are defined using XML Schema enumerations. It is suggested that
the values listed in an enumeration follow the mixed case usage (Initial
capital, capital for each word, lowercase otherwise) and always start with a
letter. This will ensure compatibility with programming language usage, and
provide consistency in readability of enumerations.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Enumerations are assigned the literal values from the list provided, not a
generated integer representing each enumeration values.
#### 12.4.1.6 Unions
Unions allow a single data type to have one of a set of values. This is a
constructed data type, consisting of an enumeration element that indicates
which value is present and the value itself. The enumeration provides a list
of possible values, and the union element provides a value that corresponds
with each member of the enumeration.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#### 12.4.1.7 Web Service references
WSDL does not define a data type for a reference to a Web Service; however a
data type can be produced that will provide the information necessary for
another system to invoke a Web Service. This equivalent is a Web Service
reference. This is a precursor to the use of WS-Addressing to provide this
capability.
The Web Service reference consists of three parts:
  * The URI representing the end point, this is equivalent to the value > populated in the \ section of a WSDL definition.
  * The interface name in the reference allows the entity that will be > the Web Service Requester to determine which port type or client > stub to use.
  * To support stateful references, the additional data element, > correlator, is provided. The correlator is opaque to the service > receiving the reference; it is meaningful only to the system on > which the Web Service is invoked. If a service is stateless, this > item will be empty. A correlator should be unique for the service > receiving the reference. A means shall be used to guarantee that > correlators are unique, incorporating for example message based > identifiers or a means agreed between the application and service > instance. Note that when requests are retried after certain > failure responses that solicit an amendment to a request (for > example, a challenge for authentication), these retried requests > are not considered new requests, and therefore do not need a new > correlator. Implementations may use the form \"localid\@host\". > Correlators are case-sensitive and are simply compared > byte-by-byte. No provisioning or human interface is required for > the selection of the correlator.
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Any additional information necessary required to access the Web Service
referred to by a reference, e.g. security content, must be provided by the
implementation.
## 12.5 Messages and interfaces (PortTypes)
### 12.5.1 Message Parts
Messages are used in the operation elements of interfaces (portTypes),
providing the definition of the content that is exchanged on input, output and
faults.
It is suggested that the naming for message parts follows the mixed case usage
(Initial capital, capital for each word, lowercase otherwise) and always
starts with a letter. The initial letter for the first message part should be
lower case. This ensures compatibility with programming language usage, and
provides consistency in readability of messages.
#### 12.5.1.1 Document style Web Services
Document style Web Services define one input message and one output message,
each with one part that references an element defined with XML Schema. These
may be combined with fault messages in the definition of operations within an
interface.
The XML Schema elements that define the message parts are defined within the
wsdl:types section of the _Service Interface Document_. These parts may
include references to data types defined in _Type Definition Documents_.
Faults specific to the interface defined may also have their messages defined
in this manner.
### 12.5.2 Interfaces (PortTypes)
Interfaces make a set of operations available, and define the messages that
will be used for each.
For the request / response message pattern, an interface will have an
operation definition that contains a single input message, a single output
message and zero or more fault messages, in that order.
### 12.5.3 Faults (Exceptions)
There are four common types of faults that may be part of interface
definitions:
1\. SOAP faults, which occur before a message is received by the Web Service.
2\. Service faults, which are generated as a result of a system failure,
resource failure or rejection of the message (e.g. invalid message content).
3\. Policy faults, which are the result of the provider of the Web Service
rejecting the request, due to a reason other than those covered by a service
fault, and not specific to a service (e.g. privacy).
4\. Service specific faults, which represent a fault that is not common across
services.
In defining interfaces, these faults are represented using the following
approach:
  * SOAP faults are not defined in the WSDL, their content is defined > independently. Usually these faults are generated by > intermediaries or as part of the infrastructure (e.g. security > subsystem).
  * Every operation shall include a ServiceException, providing a common > manner in which these faults can be provided back to the > requester.
  * Every operation shall include a PolicyException, providing a common > manner in which these faults can be provided back to the > requester.
  * Only faults that fall outside the service and policy faults should > be provided additional fault definitions - in many cases, no > additional fault definitions are required.
By following these guidelines, the following desirable characteristics of Web
Services will be provided:
  * Applications, Web Services, and intermediaries can implement > consistent handling of classes of faults without specific > knowledge of the particular Web Service implementation.
  * Faults can be minimized, allowing service specific faults to be > clearly recognized, not cluttered amongst many other common > faults.
Even when a Web Service does not initially require a ServiceException or
PolicyException, many will be deployed in different places or with additional
requirements over time, and will likely require one or both of these over
time. Providing these initially reduces the impact of change over time and
use.
Also, combining the various service and policy faults into these common fault
definitions allows flexible use of the content of the two fault definitions,
allowing extensibility over time without impacting the service definition.
## 12.6 Bindings and service definitions
### 12.6.1 Binding
The binding defines how the WSDL definitions will be utilized in interacting
with the network. The binding defines the protocols and operational style of
the binding. For example, SOAP over HTTP or SOAP over SMTP for protocols, and
document or rpc for style.
While the binding is specific to a technology, unlike the other parts of the
WSDL documents, the binding does have influence on the overall service
definition. For instance, the choice of SOAP style affects how messages are
defined, and the binding choices may determine semantics related to the
implementation - for example, some bindings may have limitations in support
for asynchronous or reliable messaging.
The present document does not address bindings in detail, as the binding is
independent of the WSDL interface definitions. Specific information on use of
the SOAP/HTTP binding is covered in the WS-I Basic Profile [8].
### 12.6.2 Service definition
Services define an endpoint (port), though the address of the endpoint
specified in this definition is often replaced at runtime when the discovery
step determines that actual location that the service is hosted at.
During development, it is reasonable to use a location that corresponds to a
debugging location at which the service will be tested - often pointing to
localhost and containing default URL information for a development
configuration to be used for testing. For deployment, the location should be a
default location for service access.
\
\
\
\
\
At runtime, the Web Service Application can determine the soap:address
location information through local configuration or through a discovery
process, replacing the location information in the default service definition.
# 13 Backward Compatibility Guidelines
Consideration should be given to backward compatibility issues when changing
existing interfaces and data types. The necessity for ensuring backwards
compatibility is considered on a case per case basis.
The following types of changes can be made to specifications while preserving
backwards compatibility, everything beyond these changes should be carefully
considered.
Server side changes:
  * Addition of a new interface
  * Addition of a new operation to an existing or new interface
  * Addition of a new optional message part to an existing operation.
Client side changes:
  * Addition of a new interface
  * Addition of a new operation
  * Addition of a new optional message part to an existing operation.
Every change to the server or client side beyond the rules listed above should
be considered carefully in terms of impact on backward compatibility. In
particular, changes like the following should be avoided if possible:
  * Changing the order of enumerated types
  * Removing or renaming operations
  * Addition of a mandatory message part to an existing operation
## 13.1 Implementation Guidelines for Server Programmers
  * If operations are added at the client side, the server should call > them only if it can be sure that the client has implemented them. > Basically, this means the server needs to make sure that the > client supports the release, where the new operations have been > introduced, or a later one.
  * Servers could ensure that references to dynamically created objects > remain valid even after a server upgrade. An alternative method is > to be able to make so called graceful close of old versions and > running the new version in parallel. The old version will not > allow any new requests but will allow existing ones to execute > until they are finished.
## 13.2 Implementation Guidelines for Client Programmers
> The backwards compatibility guidelines allow for "smooth" upgrades to Web
> Services server releases. All existing functionality should still work
> without any changes in the client. Client programmers need to change code
> only to enhance it; they should never need to change code just to adopt it
> to the new release.\ Care should be taken when supporting features of a new
> release. The moment a client uses newer release features, it should then
> support all of the client side features for that newer release, otherwise
> the server may invoke newer release operations on the client and the client
> will not respond.
## 13.3 Removal of items from the specifications
The following guidelines should be applied:
  * At the start of each new release (during the development phase of a > new release, prior to the closure of the release to new > functionality) all redundant operations and other redundant items > should be deleted using change requests.
  * When deleting redundant operations, any unused data types can be > deleted using the CR process.
  * Names of deleted operations are never re-used.
###### ## Annex A (normative): WSDL for common data definitions
The document/literal WSDL representation of this interface specification is
compliant to the content requirements specified in the present document and is
contained in text files:
\- parlayx_common_types_4_0.xsd
\- parlayx_common_faults_4_0.wsdl
which accompany the present document.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description of Parlay X Web Services Part 1:
Common Definitions for 3GPP2 cdma2000 networks
This annex is intended to define the OSA Parlay X Web Services Stage 3
interface definitions and it provides the complete OSA specifications. It is
an extension of OSA Parlay X Web Services specifications capabilities to
enable operation in cdma2000 systems environment. They are in alignment with
3GPP2 Stage 1 requirements and Stage 2 architecture defined in:
[1] 3GPP2 X.S0011-D: "cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard \", Version 1.1
[2] 3GPP2 S.R0037-0: \"IP Network Architecture Model for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems\", Version 3.0
[3] 3GPP2 X.S0013-A: \"All-IP Core Network Multimedia Domain\"
These requirements are expressed as additions to and/or exclusions from the
3GPP Release 8 specification.\ The information given here is to be used by
developers in 3GPP2 cdma2000 network architecture to interpret the 3GPP OSA
specifications.
# B.1 General Exceptions
The terms 3GPP and UMTS are not applicable for the cdma2000 family of
standards. Nevertheless these terms are used (3GPP TR 21.905) mostly in the
broader sense of \"3G Wireless System\". If not stated otherwise there are no
additions or exclusions required.
CAMEL mappings are not applicable for cdma2000 systems.
# B.2 Specific Exceptions
## B.2.1 Clause 1: Scope
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.2 Clause 2: References
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.3 Clause 3: Definitions and abbreviations
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.4 Clause 4: Use of Web Services technologies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.5 Clause 5: Detailed service description
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.6 Clause 6: Namespaces
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.7 Clause 7: Sequence diagrams
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.8 Clause 8: XML Schema data type definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.9 Clause 9: Web Service interface definition
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.10 Clause 10: Fault definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.11 Clause 11: Service policies
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.12 Clause 12: WSDL usage and style
There are no additions or exclusions.
## B.2.13 Annex A (normative): WSDL for common data definitions
There are no additions or exclusions.
#