# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the protocol to be used on the Interconnection
Border Control Function (IBCF) -- Transition Gateway (TrGW) interface and the
CS-IBCF -- TrGW interface. The basis for this protocol is the H.248 protocol
as specified in ITU-T. Profile provides MG control function for IMS and CS
Border Control. The IMS architecture is described in 23.228. The underlying
reference model and stage 2 information is described in Annex I of TS 23.228.
The CS architecture is described in Annex A of TS 29.235.
This specification describes the application of H.248 on the Ix interface (see
Figure 1). Required extensions use the H.248 standard extension mechanism. In
addition certain aspects of the base protocol H.248 are not needed for this
interface and thus excluded by this profile.
Figure 1.1: Reference model for Border Control Functions
NOTE: the Ix interface includes both IMS and CS Ix interfaces
The present document is valid for a 3^rd^ generation PLMN (UMTS) complying
with Release 8 and later.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (05): \"Gateway Control Protocol: Version 3\"
[4] ETSI ES 283 018 V2.3.0 (2008-05): \"Telecommunications and Internet
converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Resource
and Admission Control: H.248 Profile for controlling Border Gateway Functions
(BGF) in the Resource and Admission Control Subsystem (RACS); Protocol
specification\"
Editor's note: reference [4] should be aligned with the latest version before
the publication of this specification.
[5] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.57 (06/2008): \"Gateway control protocol: RTP
Control Protocol Package\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.43 (2008): \"Gateway control protocol: Gate
Management and Gate Control packages\".
[7] IETF RFC 3605 (2003): \"Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in
Session Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[8] IETF RFC 4566 (2006): \" SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.49 (2008): \"Gateway control protocol: Session
description protocol RFC and capabilities packages\".
Editor\' Note: this reference needs confirming if needed as referencing text
appears to be informative.
[10] IETF RFC 4975 (2007): \"The Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[11] IETF RFC 3551 (2003): \" RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with
Minimal Control\".
[12] IETF RFC 4145 (2005): \" TCP-Based Media Transport in the Session
Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.52 (2008): \"Gateway control protocol: QoS
support packages \".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.53 (2008): \"Gateway control protocol: Traffic
management packages\".
[15] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.41 (2006) Amdendment 1 (2008): \"Gateway
control protocol: IP domain connection package\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.36 (2005): \"Gateway control protocol: Hanging
Termination Detection package\".
[17] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.11 (2002): \"Gateway control protocol: Media
gateway overload control package\".\ Inclusive Corrigendum 1 (2008) to
H.248.11 \" Gateway control protocol: Media gateway overload control package:
Clarifying MG-overload event relationship to ADD commands\".
[18] GPP TS 29.235: \"Interworking between SIP-I based circuit-switched core
network and other networks\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.162: \"Interworking between the IM CN subsystem and IP
networks\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Editor\'s Note: The following definitions need to be checked that they are a)
used and b) not defined elsewhere..if so they should be removed.
**Address:** term used for "network address" (a.k.a. IP address)
**TrGW:** packet-to-packet gateway for user plane media traffic. The TrGW
performs both policy enforcement functions and NA(P)T functions under the
control of the IBCF
NOTE: A Transition Gateway (TrGW) provides the interface between two IP-
transport domains. The TrGW has the \"H.248 MG\" role in the scope of this
Profile.
**GATE:** represents a transport plane function enabling or disabling the
unidirectional forwarding of IP packets under specified conditions (e.g. QoS)
NOTE: See TS 102 333 [**i.1**].
**IP-to-IP Interworking Modes:** available SDP information elements and values
in the signalled SDP \"media description\" (mainly \"m=\" and \"a=\" lines) by
the IBCF (MGC), may be used to categorize following interworking modes from
TrGW (MG) perspective (see also annex G):
(1) \"**Media-agnostic** \":
  * The \"m=\" line values of _media type_ (\) and _media format_ (\) are not allowing to conclude for the TrGW (MG) on the transported \"media\" information.
(2) \"**Media-aware** \":
  * The \"m=\" line values of _media type_ (\), _transport protocol_ (\) and _media format_ (\) are unambiguously defining the entire protocol stack of the H.248 IP termination, i.e. the TrGW (MG) knows transported \"media\" information and the underlying transport protocol type.
(3) \"**Transport protocol-agnostic** \" (or briefly \"**transport-agnostic**
\"):
  * The TrGW (MG) may not conclude from signalled SDP information elements on the transported IP payload information (see note).
(4) \"**Transport protocol-aware** \" (or briefly \"**transport-aware** \"):
  * The value of the IP _protocol_ field is indicated by the signalled SDP information elements, e.g. by the \"m=\" line value of the _transport protocol_ (\) field.
NOTE: The TrGW (MG) could principally derive the used transport protocol by
analyzing the protocol field (http://www.iana.org/assignments/protocol-
numbers) in the IP header, but such a function is beyond H.248. The TrGW (MG)
is still transport protocol-agnostic from H.248 point of view.
**PINHOLE:** configuration of two associated H.248 IP Terminations within the
same H.248 Context, which allows/prohibits unidirectional forwarding of IP
packets under specified conditions
NOTE 1: A pinhole may also be referred to as a \"gate\".
NOTE 2: E.g. address tuple.
NOTE 3: See ITU-T Recommendation H.248.37 [**9**].
NOTE 4: See annex A
**Port:** term used for "transport port" (a.k.a. L4 port).
**TRANSCODING:** transcoding in general is the translation from one type of
encoded media format to another different media format
EXAMPLE 1: G.711 A-law to μ-law or vice versa.
EXAMPLE 2: G.711 to G.726-40K.
EXAMPLE 3: G.729 to AMR with 4.75 rate.
EXAMPLE 4: G.711 to a broadband codec that operates at 256 kbps, etc.
NOTE 1: The definition of \"transcoding\" is according clause 3.10/ITU-T
Recommendation V.152 [i.5].
NOTE 2: Transcoding belongs to the category of \"media aware\" IP-to-IP
interworking (see above).
**Transport Address:** term used for the combination of a _Network Address_
and a _Transport Port._
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Ix Interface between IBCF and TrGW or CS-IBCF and CS-TrGW.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document the abbreviations defined in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] apply with, the following additions, . An abbreviation defined in
the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur FormBGF Border Gateway Function
DSCP Differentiated Services Code Point
GCP Gateway Control Protocol
IBCF Interconnect Border Control Function
LD Local Descriptor (H.248 protocol element)
> Local Destination (H.248 naming convention)
Editor\'s Note: in this specification we should use only 1 use of a definition
therefore Local Descriptor should always be written out in full.
LS Local Source (H.248 naming convention)
MG Media Gateway
MGC Media Gateway Controller
NA Not Applicable
NAPT Network Address and Port Translation
NAPT-PT NAPT and Protocol Translation
NAT Network Address Translation
PCI Protocol Control Information
RD Remote Descriptor (H.248 protocol element)\ Remote Destination (H.248
naming convention)
Editor\'s Note: in this specification we should use only 1 use of a definition
therefore Local Descriptor should always be written out in full.
RS Remote Source (H.248 naming convention)
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
TrGW Transition Gateway
TISPAN Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking
# 4 Applicability
The support of the IMS and CS Ix interfaces capability sets shall be
identified by the H.248 Ix profile and support of this profile shall be
indicated in H.248 ServiceChange procedure (during the (re-)registration
phase(s)).
## 4.1 Architecture
See Annex I of TS 23.228 and Annex A of TS 29.235
# 5 Profile Description
## 5.1 Profile Identification5.1 Profile Identification
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): identifier
value
Table 5.1.1: Profile Identification
* * *
Profile name: threegIx Version: 1
* * *
## 5.2 Summary
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): the
summary will be different due to the subset of Ix vs Ia
This profile supports the control of the following functionality (IP-to-IP)
Transition Gateways:
Editor's Note: the required functions for CS and IMS need to be included here.
In addition, optional settings and procedures are described which fulfil
optional features and where supported, the minimum mandatory settings within
the optional procedures and packages are identified that must be supported in
order to support that feature.
\"Optional\" or \"O\" means that it is optional for either the sender or the
receiver to implement an element. If the receiving entity receives an optional
element that it has not implemented it should send an Error Code (e.g. 445
\"Unsupported or Unknown Property\", 501\"Not Implemented\", etc.).
\"Mandatory\" or \"M\" means that it is mandatory for the receiver to
implement an element. Whether it is mandatory for the sender to implement
depends on specific functions; detail of whether elements of the core protocol
are mandatory to be sent are defined in the stage 2 procedures, stage 3
procedures and/or the descriptions of individual packages.
The setting or modification of elements described in the profile under the
heading \"Used in Command\" has the meaning that the property can be
set/modified with that command. The property may be present in other commands
(in order to preserve its value in accordance with ITU-T H.248.1[3]) when
those commands are used for other procedures that affect the same descriptor.
Editor\'s Note: the above text is copied directly from TS 29.333 and is agreed
it should be base text for a H.248.1 profile.
## 5.3 Gateway Control Protocol Version
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: not difference expected
TBD
## 5.4 Connection model
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: identical
Table 5.4.1: Connection Model
* * *
**Maximum number of contexts:** Provisioned **Maximum number of terminations
per context:** 2 **Allowed terminations type combinations:** (IP,IP)
* * *
## 5.5 Context attributes
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Ia got
table entries for the Ix 'FFS' settings
Table 5.5.1: Context Attributes
* * *
Context Attribute Supported Values Supported **Topology** No NA **Priority
Indicator** FFS  
**Emergency Indicator** FFS  
**IEPS Indicator** FFS NA **ContextAttribute Descriptor** No NA
**ContextIdList Parameter** No NA **AND/OR Context Attribute** No NA
* * *
## 5.6 Terminations
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Ix allows
the CHOOSE operator on field 'Group'; different ABNF grammar
### 5.6.1 Termination names
#### 5.6.1.1 IP Termination
##### 5.6.1.1.1 ABNF Coding Overview and prose specification
The Termination ID structure shall follow the guidelines of H.248 and shall be
based on four fields:
\- \"ip/\/\/\\".
The individual fields are described and defined in table 5.6.1.1.1.1.
Table 5.6.1.1.1.1: IP Termination Fields
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Name | Description | Values | CHOOSE | ALL | | | | | Wildcard | Wildcard | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ip | \"ip\" is a | \"ip\" | No | No | | | fixed | | | | | | prefix | | | | | | identifying | | | | | | the | | | | | | termination | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Group | Group of | Integer | Yes (NOTE | Yes | | | Interface | (0-65535) | 6) | | | | and Id | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Interface | Logical or | String of | Yes (NOTE | Yes | | | physical | max 51 | 5) | | | | interface | a | | | | | to a | lphanumeric | | | | | network | characters | | | | | to/from | | | | | | which the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | will be | | | | | | sendin | | | | | | g/receiving | | | | | | media. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1, | | | | | | NOTE 2). | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Id | Termination | Non-zero 32 | Yes (NOTE | Yes | | | specific | bit integer | 4) | | | | identifier | | | | | | | | | | | | (See note | | | | | | 3). | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: A | | | | | | specific | | | | | | \ | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | together | | | | | | with | | | | | | different | | | | | | groups. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | generic | | | | | | field | | | | | | \ | | | | | | may relate | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecifically | | | | | | to an \"IP | | | | | | i | | | | | | nterface\", | | | | | | \"protocol | | | | | | layer 2 | | | | | | interface\" | | | | | | or others. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | | combination | | | | | | of | | | | | | Interface | | | | | | and Id is | | | | | | unique. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: In | | | | | | version 1 | | | | | | of the Ia | | | | | | profile | | | | | | [3], | | | | | | there was a | | | | | | tacit | | | | | | assumption | | | | | | that the | | | | | | MGC used a | | | | | | CHOOSE | | | | | | wildcard in | | | | | | an ADD | | | | | | request | | | | | | command. In | | | | | | this | | | | | | version, | | | | | | the MGC | | | | | | shall | | | | | | always use | | | | | | CHOOSE in | | | | | | an ADD | | | | | | request | | | | | | command. If | | | | | | not, the MG | | | | | | shall reply | | | | | | with an | | | | | | error | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | | using error | | | | | | code #501 | | | | | | \"Not | | | | | | Imp | | | | | | lemented\". | | | | | | See also | | | | | | clause 5 | | | | | | .6.1.1.1.3. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: The | | | | | | MGC shall | | | | | | always use | | | | | | CHOOSE in | | | | | | an ADD | | | | | | request | | | | | | command. If | | | | | | not, the MG | | | | | | shall reply | | | | | | with an | | | | | | error | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | | using error | | | | | | code #501 | | | | | | \"Not | | | | | | Imp | | | | | | lemented\". | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: The | | | | | | CHOOSE | | | | | | wildcard on | | | | | | 'Group' is | | | | | | _not_ | | | | | | allowed in | | | | | | ETSI TISPAN | | | | | | "Ia | | | | | | Profiles". | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: The IBCF has the ability to choose the address space in which the TrGW
will allocate an IP address for the termination by using the _ipdc/realm_
property defined in the H.248.41 IP domain connection package.
H.248 wildcarding may be applied on IP Termination Identifiers. Wildcarding is
limited according the two columns on the right hand side.
##### 5.6.1.1.2 ASN.1 Coding Overview and prose specification
The following general structure of termination ID shall be used:
4 octets shall be used for the termination ID. The following defines the
general structure for the termination ID:
Table 5.6.1.1.2.1: ASN.1 coding
* * *
Termination type X
* * *
Termination type:
Length 3 bits
Values:
000 Reserved
001 Ephemeral termination
010 Reserved (in 3GPP Mc and Mn profile used for TDM termination)
011 - 110 Reserved
111 Reserved for ROOT termination Id (ROOT Termination ID = 0xFFFFFFFF)
X:
> Length 29 bits.
>
> For IP termination, its usage is un-specified.
### 5.6.2 Multiplexed terminations
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.6.2.1: Multiplexed Terminations
* * *
**Multiplex Terminations Supported?** \
* * *
_If yes then:_
Table 5.6.2.1: Multiplex Types
* * *
**Multiplex Types Supported** \ **Maximum
Number of Terminations Connected to Multiplex** \
* * *
## 5.7 Descriptors
### 5.7.1 TerminationState Descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: identical table settings; the Note in
the Ia profile concerning ServiceState property background was removed in Ix
Table 5.7.1.1: ServiceState property
* * *
**ServiceState property used:** No
* * *
Table 5.7.1.2: EventBufferControl property
* * *
**EventBufferControl property used:** No
* * *
### 5.7.2 Stream Descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Ia defines
'5' as a maximum, see below Ed. Note
Table 5.7.2.1: Stream descriptor
* * *
**Maximum number of streams per termination type:** IP TBD (NOTE) NOTE: At
least one stream for each media component (e.g. video+audio = 2 streams). If
only one stream is applicable, then the IBCF may omit the Stream Descriptor
and the TrGW shall assume that StreamID = 1.
* * *
> Editor's note: TISPAN has specified a maximum of five streams per
> termination. The number five was derived from the multimeda example of an
> application with three media components 'audio', 'video' and 'video
> control', and the assumption that RTCP control flows may use individual
> H.248 streams: i.e. 2 RTP media flows, 2 RTCP control flows and 1 RTSP
> control flow would use 5 H.248 streams.\ It is in the meanwhile clarified
> that RTP/RTCP may just use a single H.248 stream, i.e. above example could
> be mapped on a tri-stream-per-termination structure.\ It may be further
> noted that the maximum number of '5' was so far a safe estimate for
> applications served by TISPAN R1, R2 and R3.
Table 5.7.2.2: Stream configuration
* * *
**Stream Configuration:** ALL configurations are allowed
* * *
#### 5.7.2.1 LocalControl Descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.7.2.1.1: Reserve Group and Reserve Value
* * *
                            **Termination Type**   **Stream Type**
**Reserve group used:** \ \ \ **Reserve value used:**
\ \ \
* * *
_Table 5.7.2.1.2: Stream Mode_
* * *
**Termination Type** **Stream Type** **Allowed StreamMode Values** \
\ \
* * *
### 5.7.3 Events descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
_All events contained in this profile may be set on any termination/stream
[with the following exceptions]._
Table 5.7.3.1: Events Descriptor
* * *
**Events settable on termination types and stream types:** \  
_If yes_ **Event ID** **Termination Type** **Stream Type** \ \IP \
* * *
Table 5.7.3.2: Event Buffer Control
* * *
**Event Buffer Control used:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.3.3: Keep Active
* * *
**Keepactive used on events:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.3.4: Embedding in event
* * *
**Embedded events in an event descriptor:** \ **Embedded signals in an
event descriptor:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.3.5: Regulated Embedded Events
* * *
**Regulated Embedded events are triggered on:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.3.6: Reset Events Descriptor Flag
* * *
**ResetEventsDescriptor used with events:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.3.7: Notify Behaviour
* * *
**NotifyImmediate:** \
**NotifyRegulated:** \
**NeverNotify:** \
* * *
### 5.7.4 EventBuffer descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.7.4.1: Event Buffer
* * *
**Event Buffer descriptor used:** \  
_If yes_ **EventIDs** \
* * *
### 5.7.5 Signals descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
_All signals contained in this profile may be set on any termination/stream
[with the following exceptions]._
Table 5.7.5.1: Signals dependant on termination or streams
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **Signals | \  | | | | settable | | | | | dependant on | NOTE -- \"No" | | | | termination or | means that all | | | | streams | signals can be | | | | types:** | played on any | | | | | termination or | | | | | stream. If | | | | | \"Yes", any | | | | | signal not | | | | | listed below | | | | | may be played | | | | | on any | | | | | termination or | | | | | stream. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | _If yes_ | **Signal ID** | **Termination |** Stream Type | | | | Type**| / ID** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | \ | \ | | | 0x0001)>cg/* | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 5.7.5.2: Signal Lists
* * *
**Signals Lists supported:** \  
_If yes_ **Termination Type Supporting Lists** \ **Stream Type
Supporting lists** \ **Maximum number of signals per signal list**
\ **Intersignal delay parameter supported:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.5.3: Signal type and duration
* * *
**Signal type and duration supported?** \  
_If yes_ **Signal ID** **Type or duration override** \ \
* * *
_Table 5.7.5.4: Signal Direction_
* * *
**Signal Direction supported:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.5.5: Notify completion
* * *
**Notify completion supported:** \  
_If yes_ **Signal ID** **Type of completion supported** \ \
* * *
Table 5.7.5.6: RequestID Parameter
* * *
**RequestID Parameter Supported:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.5.7: Signals played simultaneously
* * *
**Signals played simultaneously:** \  
_If yes_ **Signal Ids that can be played simultaneously:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.5.8: Keep Active
* * *
**Keepactive used on signals:** \
* * *
### 5.7.6 DigitMap descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.7.6.1: DigitMap Descriptor
* * *
**DigitMaps supported:** \  
_If yes_ **DigitMap Name** **Structure** **Timers** \ \
\
* * *
### 5.7.7 Statistics descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
_Table 5.7.7.1: Statistics Descriptor_
* * *
**Statistics supported on:** \
* * *
Table 5.7.7.2: Statistics reported on Subtract
* * *
**Statistics reported on Subtract:** \  
_If yes_ **Statistic IDs Reported** **Termination Type** **Stream Type**
* * *
### 5.7.8 ObservedEvents descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.7.8.1: ObservedEvents Descriptor
* * *
**Event detection time supported:** \
* * *
### 5.7.9 Topology descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.7.9.1: Topology descriptor
* * *
Allowed triples: NA
* * *
### 5.7.10 Error descriptor
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.7.10.1: Error codes sent by the IBCF
* * *
**Supported H.248.8 Error Codes:** \
**Supported Error Codes defined in packages:** For a list of error codes see
clauses 5.14.x \
* * *
Table 5.7.10.2: Error codes sent by the TrGW
* * *
**Supported H.248.8 Error Codes:** \
**Supported Error Codes defined in packages:** For a list of error codes see
clauses 5.14.x \
* * *
## 5.8 Command API
NOTE: It is assumed that an Error Descriptor may be returned in any command
reply.
### 5.8.1 Add
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.1.1: Descriptors used by Add request
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Descriptors used by Add | > \ EventBuffer, Signals, | | | > DigitMap, Audit> | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table 5.8.1.2: Descriptors used by Add reply
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Descriptors used by Add | - \  | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.8.2 Modify
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.2.1: Descriptors used by Modify request
* * *
**Descriptors used by Modify request:** \
* * *
Table 5.8.2.2: Descriptors used by Modify reply
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Descriptors used by Modify | - \  | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.8.3 Subtract
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.3.1: Descriptors used in Subtract request
* * *
**Descriptors used by Subtract request:** \
* * *
Table 5.8.3.2: Descriptors used in Subtract reply
* * *
**Descriptors used by Subtract reply:** \
* * *
### 5.8.4 Move
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.4.1: Command Move
* * *
**Move command used:** \
* * *
Table 5.8.4.2: Descriptor used by Move command
* * *
**Descriptors used by Move Request:** \ **Descriptors used by Move Reply:**
\
* * *
### 5.8.5 AuditValue
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.5.1: Auditvalue
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Properties: | Property Name and | Descriptor | | | Identity | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | \ | | (Root/ | (Root/ | | | maxNumberOfContexts, | maxNumberOfContexts, | | | 0x0002/0x0001), ALL | 0x0002/0x0001), ALL | | | or None> | or None> | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Statistics: | Statistics name and | | | | Identity e.g. | | | | Packets Sent | | | | (rtp/ps, | | | | 0x00c/0x0004), ALL | | | | or None> | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Signals: | \ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Events: | \ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Package Audit | _Can the Package | | | possible: | Descriptor be | | | | audited?_ | | | | | | | | \ | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.8.6 AuditCapabilities
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.6.1: AuditCapabilities
* * *
**Audited Properties:** Property Name and Identity Descriptor \ \ **Audited Statistics:** \  
**Audited Signals:** \  
**Audited Events:** \
* * *
Table 5.8.6.2: Scoped Auditing
Is scoped auditing possible?
* * *
**Audited Properties / ContextAttributes used for a scoped audit :** \
* * *
### 5.8.7 Notify
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.7.1: Notify
* * *
**Descriptors used by Notify Request or Reply:** \
* * *
### 5.8.8 ServiceChange
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.8.1: Service Change Methods and Reason sent by IBCF
* * *
**Service Change Methods Supported:** **ServiceChange Reasons supported:** \ \
* * *
Table 5.8.8.2: Service Change Methods and Reason sent by TrGW
* * *
**Service Change Methods Supported:** **ServiceChange Reasons supported:** \ \
* * *
Table 5.8.8.3: Service Change Address
* * *
**ServiceChangeAddress used:** \
* * *
_Table 5.8.8.4: Service Change Delay_
* * *
**ServiceChangeDelay used:** \  
_If yes_ **Valid time period:** \ ms
* * *
Table 5.8.8.5: Service Change Incomplete Flag
* * *
**ServiceChange Incomplete Flag used:** \
* * *
Table 5.8.8.6: Service Change Version
* * *
**Version used in ServiceChangeVersion:** \
* * *
Table 5.8.8.7: Profile negotiation
* * *
**Profile negotiation as per H.248.18:** \
* * *
### 5.8.9 Manipulating and auditing context attributes
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.8.9.1: Manipulating and Auditing Context Attributes
* * *
**Context Attributes Manipulated:** \ **Context
Attributes Audited:** \
* * *
## 5.9 Generic command syntax and encoding
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): text-only
for IA
Table 5.9.1: Command Encoding
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Supported Encodings:** | Text (NOTE 1, NOTE 2, NOTE 3) | | | and Binary. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: The receiver shall be | | | capable of receiving both Short | | | Token Notation and Long Token | | | Notation on an H.248 control | | | association. | | | | | | NOTE 2: The transmitter may | | | select between long and short | | | token forms per H.248 control | | | association. | | | | | | NOTE 3: ETSI TISPAN \"Ia | | | Profile" uses only text | | | encoding. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.10 Transactions
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: ffs
Table 5.10.1: Transactions
* * *
**Maximum number of Transaction Requests / Replies / TransResponseAcks /
Segment Replies per message:** \
* * *
Table 5.10.2: Commands per Transaction Request
* * *
**Maximum number of commands per Transaction request:** \
* * *
Table 5.10.3: Commands per Transaction Reply
* * *
**Maximum number of commands per Transaction reply:** \
* * *
.
Table 5.10.4: Optional Commands
* * *
**Commands able to be marked \"Optional\":** \ NOTE: The meaning of
this table is that if one of the listed commands failed then the possibly
present subsequent command within the same transaction will be processed.
* * *
Table 5.10.5: Transaction Timers
* * *
**Transaction Timer:** **Value** **NormalMGExecutionTime** \ **NormalMGCExecutionTime** \
**MGOriginatedPendingLimit** \
**MGCOriginatedPendingLimit** \
**MGProvisionalResponseTimerValue** \
**MGCProvisionalResponseTimerValue** \
* * *
## 5.11 Messages
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): similar
semantic, but different description (Ix is based on 29.333 Mp profile text)
It is recommended that TrGW and IBCF names are in the form of fully qualified
domain name. For example the domain name of the IBCF may be of the form:
\"IBCF1.whatever.net.\" and the name of the TrGW may be of the form:
\"mg1.whatever.net.\".
The fully qualified domain name will be used by the TrGW and IBCF as part of
the \"Message Identifier\" in the H.248 messages which identifies the
originator of the message.
The IBCF domain name is provisioned in the TrGW or retrieved from the DNS
using SRV records.
The use of a domain name provides the following benefits:
  * TrGWs and IBCFs are identified by their domain name, not their network addresses. Several addresses can be associated with a domain name. If a command cannot be forwarded to one of the network addresses, implementations shall retry the transmission using another address.
NOTE: There are then e.g. multiple numerical address entries per single MGC
entity in the \"MG database of MGC entries\"; see Table 5 in ITU-T H.Sup7.
  * TrGWs and IBCFs may move to another platform. The association between a logical name (domain name) and the actual platform are kept in the Domain Name Service (DNS). TrGW and IBCF shall keep track of the record\'s time-to-live read from the DNS. They shall query the DNS to refresh the information if the time-to-live has expired.
The domain name may be used by IBCF/TrGW for authentication purposes.
## 5.12 Transport
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: identical
Table 5.12.1: Transport
+---------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | **Supported Transports:** | 1. IPv4-based network control plane: | | | | | | - SCTP/IPv4 (Recommended) | | | | | | - **UDP/IPv4** (Optional) | | | | | | 2. IPv6-based network control plane: | | | | | | - SCTP/IPv6 (Recommended) | | | | | | - **UDP/IPv6** (Optional) | +---------------------------+---------------------------------------+
Table 5.12.2: Segmentation
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | **Segmentation Supported:** | SCTP: Inherent in Transport | | | | | | UDP: Optional (dependent on support | | | of Segmentation Package, see | | | clause 5.14.2.12) | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
Table 5.12.3: Control Association
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Control Association Monitoring | Monitoring mechanism is | | Supported:** | dependent on used H.248 | | | transport (see above table 63): | | | | | | **SCTP:** \ | | | inherent capability of SCTP. | | | | | | **UDP:\ | | |** H.248.14 (MG-driven | | | monitoring).\ | | | Empty AuditValue on ROOT | | | (MGC-driven monitoring). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.13 Security
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): identical
semantic, but probably different description
Table 5.13.1: Security
* * *
**Supported Security:** None
* * *
> Editor's note: text, similar as in 29.232, should be added, e.g. like:
> \"...IPsec shall not be used by H.248 entities for the Ix interface.
> Normally the Ix interface lies within a single operator\'s secure domain. If
> this is not the case then a Za interface (Security Gateway deploying IPSec)
> may be required, however this is a separate logical function/entity and thus
> is not attributed to Ix profile, the MGC or the MGW; for further details see
> 3GPP TS 33.210 [38] . \"
## 5.14 Packages
### 5.14.1 Mandatory Packages
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Ia
mandatory: g, root, nt, ds, ipnapt\ Ix mandatory: hangterm
Table 5.14.1.1: Mandatory Packages
* * *
Mandatory Packages  
Package Name Package ID Version Gate management (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.43
[5], Appendix I; and ITU-T Recommendation H.248.57 [6]) gm 1 Traffic
management (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.53 [14]) tman 1 IP Domain Connection
(ITU-T Recommendation H.248.41 [15]) ipdc 1 **Hanging Termination Detection
(** ITU-T Recommendation **H.248.36 [** 16**])** hangterm 1
* * *
### 5.14.2 Optional Packages
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Ia
optional: mpls, vlan, mgcinfo, it, seg, adid, hangterm, scr, gm v2\ Ix
optional: -
Table 5.14.2.1: Optional Packages
* * *
Optional Packages  
Package Name Package ID Version Support dependent on ...  
Diffserv (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.52 [13]) ds 1 MG (TrGW) connected to a DS
domain or ToS-aware domain. Network (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [1], annex
E.11) nt 1 **Support of usage metering and statistics reporting.** RTP (ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 [1], annex E.12) rtp 1 Support of usage metering and
statistics reporting. Particular package capabilities are only applicable for
\"media-aware\" bearer connections. **Media Gateway Overload Control (ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.11 [17])** **ocp** **1** **Support of message throttling,
based on rate limitation, from MGC towards MG.**
* * *
### 5.14.3 Package usage information
Editor's note: aligned sub-clause numbering with Ia profile should be
targeted. Rapporteur\'s comment:as this profile will be standalone it is
questionable if this is desired given that any packages not used would then
need the relevant section to be set to void in this profile however the
numbering is kept as per the submitted contributions but a clean-up will then
be needed.
#### 5.14.3.3 Network (nt)
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: identical
####
Table 5.14.3.3.1: Network package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Maximum | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | YES | | jitter | | | | | | buffer | | | | | | (nt/jit) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Network | O | ADD, | | | | failure | | MODIFY, | | | | ( | | NOTIFY | | | | nt/netfail) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cause (cs) | O | For further | For further | | | | | studies. | studies | | | | | | (see note) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Quality | O | ADD, | | | | alert | | MODIFY, | | | | ( | | NOTIFY | | | | nt/qualert) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Threshold | O | ALL | Not | | | (th) | | | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Threshold | O | ALL | Not | | | (th) | | | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Duration | O | ADD, | ALL | | | (nt/dur) | | SUBTRACT, | | | | | | MODIFY, | | | | | | AUDITVALUE | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Octets sent | M | ADD, | ALL | | | (nt/os) | | SUBTRACT | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | O | MODIFY, | ALL | | | | | AUDITVALUE | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Octets | M | ADD, | ALL | | | received | | SUBTRACT | | | | (nt/or) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | O | MODIFY, | ALL | | | | | AUDITVALUE | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: This | | | | | | event may | | | | | | be | | | | | | overloaded | | | | | | in order to | | | | | | address | | | | | | multiple | | | | | | failure | | | | | | causes (see | | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.1 | | | | | | [3] | | | | | | Version 3, | | | | | | section E | | | | | | .11.5.1.2). | | | | | | An | | | | | | umambiguous | | | | | | distinction | | | | | | on MGC and | | | | | | MG side | | | | | | implies | | | | | | mutually | | | | | | agreed | | | | | | cause | | | | | | codepoints. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | p | | | | | | rovisioning | | | | | | activity. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.4 Differentiated Services (DS)
Table 5.14.3.4.1: Differentiated Services package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Dif | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Yes | | ferentiated | | | | (note 1) | | Services | | | | | | Code Point\ | | | | | | (ds/dscp) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: In | | | | | | accordance | | | | | | with ITU-T | | | | | | H.248.52 | | | | | | Dif | | | | | | ferentiated | | | | | | Services | | | | | | package | | | | | | version 1 | | | | | | the | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | value can | | | | | | be either: | | | | | | | | | | | | > Set to a | | | | | | > specific | | | | | | > _ds/dscp_ | | | | | | > value or, | | | | | | > | | | | | | > Set to a | | | | | | > value | | | | | | > r | | | | | | epresenting | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > H.248.52 | | | | | | > | | | | | | capability | | | | | | > to copy | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > _dscp_ | | | | | | > value | | | | | | > received | | | | | | > in the | | | | | | > ingress | | | | | | > packet to | | | | | | > the | | | | | | > egress | | | | | | > packets. | | | | | | > The copy | | | | | | > mechanism | | | | | | > is | | | | | | > defined | | | | | | > in ITU-T | | | | | | > Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | > H.248.52 | | | | | | > [13]. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
####
#### 5.14.3.5 Gate Management (gm)
Table 5.14.3.5.1: Gate Management Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source | | | | Applicable | | Address | | | | | | Filtering | | | | (NOTE 1) | | (gm/saf) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source | | | | Applicable | | Address | | | | | | Mask | | | | | | (gm/sam) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source Port | | | | Applicable | | Filtering | | | | | | (gm/spf) | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source Port | | | | Applicable | | (gm/spr) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Remote | not | - | - | - | | Source Port | supported\ | | | | | Range | (NOTE 3) | | | | | (gm/sprr) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Explicit | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | NOTE 1 | | Source | | | | | | Address | | | | | | Setting | | | | | | (gm/esas) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source | | | | Applicable | | Address | | | | | | (gm/lsa) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Explicit | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | NOTE 1 | | Source Port | | | | | | Setting | | | | | | (gm/esps) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Local | O | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | Source Port | | | | Applicable | | (gm/lsp) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RTP | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | OFF | | Specific | | | | | | Behaviour | | | | (NOTE 2) | | (gm/rsb) | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Discarded | O | ADD, | ALL | | | Packets\ | | MODIFY, | | | | gm/dp | | SUBTRACT, | | | | | | AUDITVALUE | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Default | | | | | | value is | | | | | | \'OFF\' in | | | | | | gm/1 (see | | | | | | ITU-Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.43 | | | | | | [6]). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Default | | | | | | value must | | | | | | be | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | in gm/1 | | | | | | (see | | | | | | ITU-Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.43 | | | | | | [6]). The | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | value in | | | | | | this | | | | | | profile | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | OFF. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | This | | | | | | property is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | gm/2, which | | | | | | is not | | | | | | supported | | | | | | by this | | | | | | profile | | | | | | version. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The | | | | | | _gm/rsb_ | | | | | | property is | | | | | | identical | | | | | | to the | | | | | | _rtcph/rsb_ | | | | | | property | | | | | | (see | | | | | | Figure II.1 | | | | | | in H.248.43 | | | | | | [6]) and | | | | | | defined by | | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.57 | | | | | | [5]. The | | | | | | _rtcph_ | | | | | | package | | | | | | defines | | | | | | _rsb_ | | | | | | property | | | | | | semantics | | | | | | for the SDP | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | according | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | RFC 3605 | | | | | | [7] (see | | | | | | in | | | | | | particular | | | | | | claus | | | | | | e 6.6.1.4.1 | | | | | | in H.248.57 | | | | | | [5]). | | | | | | There are | | | | | | following | | | | | | package | | | | | | usage | | | | | | details for | | | | | | this | | | | | | profile | | | | | | spe | | | | | | cification: | | | | | | the SDP | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | \"a=rtcp:\" | | | | | | may be used | | | | | | in the | | | | | | H.248 RD | | | | | | and shall | | | | | | be **not** | | | | | | used in the | | | | | | H.248 | | | | | | **LD** (see | | | | | | c | | | | | | lauses 5.16 | | | | | | and | | | | | | 5.17.1.7 | | | | | | for more | | | | | | in | | | | | | formation). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.6 Traffic management (tman)
Table 5.14.3.6.1: Traffic Management Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tman/pol | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tman/pdr | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | | | | | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tman/dvt | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tman/sdr | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Not | | | | | | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tman/mbs | M | ADD, MODIFY | ALL | Yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | **-** | **-** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **-** | **-** | - | **-** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.13 RTP Package
Table 5.14.3.13.1: RTP Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Packets | M | ADD, | ALL | | | Sent | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | (rtp/ps) | | SUBTRACT | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | O | MODIFY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Packets | M | ADD, | ALL | | | Received | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | (rtp/pr) | | SUBTRACT | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | O | MODIFY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Packet Loss | M | ADD, | ALL | | | (rtp/pl) | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | | | SUBTRACT | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | O | MODIFY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Jitter | O | ADD, | ALL | | | (rtp/jit) | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | | | SUBTRACT, | | | | | | MODIFY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Delay | O | ADD, | ALL | | | (rtp/delay) | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | | | SUBTRACT, | | | | | | MODIFY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Octets sent | O | ADD, | ALL | | | (rtp/os) | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | | | SUBTRACT, | | | | (see note | | MODIFY | | | | 1) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Octets | O | ADD, | ALL | | | received | | AUDITVALUE, | | | | (rtp/or) | | SUBTRACT, | | | | | | MODIFY | | | | (see note | | | | | | 2) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Inherited | | | | | | statistic | | | | | | from nt | | | | | | package. | | | | | | Value of | | | | | | rtp/os must | | | | | | be | | | | | | identical | | | | | | to nt/os | | | | | | (see | | | | | | claus | | | | | | e E.12.5.2, | | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.1 | | | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | Inherited | | | | | | statistic | | | | | | from nt | | | | | | package. | | | | | | Value of | | | | | | rtp/or must | | | | | | be | | | | | | identical | | | | | | to nt/or | | | | | | (see | | | | | | claus | | | | | | e E.12.5.2, | | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.1 | | | | | | [3]). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.15 IP Domain Connection (ipdc)
Table 5.14.3.15.1: IP domain connection package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IP Realm | M | ADD,\ | ALL\ | Yes | | Identifier | | MODIFY | (NOTE 1) | | | ( | | (NOTE 2) | | | | ipdc/realm) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | No | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.41 | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | package | | | | | | definition | | | | | | does not | | | | | | specify a | | | | | | length | | | | | | limit for | | | | | | the | | | | | | * | | | | | | ipdc/realm _| | | | | | string. The | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | length is | | | | | | given by | | | | | | RFC 1123 | | | | | | [29] in | | | | | | case of a | | | | | |_ domain | | | | | | name _| | | | | | format used | | | | | | for the | | | | | | property. | | | | | | If it is | | | | | | not a | | | | | | domain name | | | | | | format, | | | | | | then the | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | size should | | | | | | be up to | | | | | | 255. In | | | | | | case the | | | | | | MGC uses an | | | | | | * | | | | | | ipdc/realm_ | | | | | | property | | | | | | exceeding | | | | | | the above | | | | | | defined | | | | | | length | | | | | | limitation, | | | | | | the MG | | | | | | shall reply | | | | | | with an | | | | | | error | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | | using error | | | | | | code #410: | | | | | | \"Incorrect | | | | | | id | | | | | | entifier\". | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | | | MODIFY | | | | | | command is | | | | | | listed due | | | | | | to the "Ia | | | | | | profile" | | | | | | [3]: | | | | | | subsequent | | | | | | Streams may | | | | | | be "added" | | | | | | by MODIFY | | | | | | requests in | | | | | | case of | | | | | | multi- | | | | | | Stream-per- | | | | | | Termination | | | | | | structures. | | | | | | The | | | | | | subsequent | | | | | | Streams do | | | | | | then carry | | | | | | the same | | | | | | * | | | | | | ipdc/realm* | | | | | | property | | | | | | value as | | | | | | the very | | | | | | first | | | | | | Stream. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 5.14.3.16 Media Gateway Overload Control Package
Table 5.14.3.16.1: Media Gateway Overload Control Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | M | M | MODIFY, | | | | G_Overload | | NOTIFY | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | (ocp/mg | | | | | | _overload) | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Obs | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | ervedEvent\ | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1 When | | | | | | the MG is | | | | | | overloaded, | | | | | | overload | | | | | | Events may | | | | | | be sent | | | | | | **either** | | | | | | only | | | | | | following | | | | | | the **first | | | | | | AD | | | | | | D.request** | | | | | | which | | | | | | creates a | | | | | | new | | | | | | Context, | | | | | | **or** | | | | | | following | | | | | | **all | | | | | | AD | | | | | | D.request** | | | | | | commands | | | | | | (see ITU-T | | | | | | Rec | | | | | | ommendation | | | | | | H.248.11 | | | | | | [15] | | | | | | Corri | | | | | | gendum 1).\ | | | | | | These two | | | | | | options | | | | | | result in | | | | | | different | | | | | | nor | | | | | | malisations | | | | | | of the | | | | | | overload | | | | | | event rate | | | | | | as an | | | | | | indicator | | | | | | of the | | | | | | level of MG | | | | | | overload | | | | | | (see | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 5.17.2.3). | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
####
#### 5.14.3.17 Hanging Termination Detection (Hangterm)
Table 5.14.3.17.1: Hanging Termination Detection Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandato | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandato | Used in | Duration | | | | ry/Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandato | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandato | Used in | | | | | ry/Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Termination | M | ADD, | | | | Heartbeat | | MODIFY, | | | | (ha | | NOTIFY | | | | ngterm/thb, | | | | | | 0x0 | | | | | | 098/0x0001) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | ry/Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Timer X | M (NOTE) | ALL | 0 (no | | | | | | heartbeat | | | (tim | | | message) | | | erx,0x0001) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandato | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | ry/Optional | Values | Value | | | | | | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandato | Used in | Supported | | | | ry/Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | **-** | **-** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | No | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: Timer | | | | | | X is | | | | | | optional in | | | | | | the TISPAN | | | | | | Ia version | | | | | | 2 profile | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.15 Mandatory support of SDP and Annex C information elements
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Annex C
support due to binary encoding support by Ix
Table 5.15.1: Mandatory **Annex C and SDP information elements**
+------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | Information Element | Annex C Support | SDP Support | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | v-line | \"SDP_V \" | The value must always | | | | be equal to zero: v=0 | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | c-line | \"SDP_C \" | \ | | | | \ and | | | | \ | | | | are required. | | | | | | | | The network type shall | | | | be set to \"IN\". | | | | | | | | The address type may | | | | be IPv4 or IPv6. | | | | | | | | The MGC may apply | | | | parameter | | | | underspecification to | | | | the \ subfield. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | m-line | \"SDP_M \" | There are four fields | | | | (or SDP values) | | | | \, \, | | | | \ and \ | | | | in the \"m=\" line | | | | (see RFC 4566 | | | | [8];NOTE 3). | | | | | | | | The \"m=\" line may be | | | | omitted from SDP (NOTE | | | | 6) | | | | | | | | \, \, | | | | \ and | | | | \ are | | | | required if the \"m=\" | | | | line is included. | | | | | | | | Media type \ : | | | | | | | | \"-\" may be used for | | | | the _media_ value. The | | | | _media_ value shall be | | | | specified in case of | | | | media-aware | | | | interworking (NOTE 2). | | | | In case MG is media | | | | aware but does not | | | | support the requested | | | | media type the MG | | | | shall reject the | | | | command with error | | | | code 515. In case MG | | | | is media agnostic and | | | | MGC specifies any | | | | other media type than | | | | \"-\", the MG shall | | | | reject the command | | | | with error code 515. | | | | | | | | Transport port | | | | \ | | | | | | | | The _port_ value may | | | | be underspecified with | | | | CHOOSE wildcard. | | | | | | | | Transport protocol | | | | \ | | | | | | | | As in table 5.15.2. | | | | | | | | Media format \ | | | | | | | | \"-\" may be used for | | | | the _format list_ | | | | value, e.g. in case of | | | | media-agnostic | | | | interworking. Other | | | | values may be used for | | | | media-aware | | | | interworking (e.g. | | | | transcoding; see | | | | clause 5.17.1.14) | | | | (NOTE 2). In case MG | | | | is media aware but | | | | does not support the | | | | requested media format | | | | the MG shall reject | | | | the command with error | | | | code 449. In case MG | | | | is media agnostic and | | | | MGC specifies any | | | | other media format | | | | than \"-\", the MG | | | | shall reject the | | | | command with error | | | | code 449. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | b-line | \"SDP_B \" | Shall not be used | | | | without a \"m=\" line. | | | | | | | | The _modifier_ value | | | | shall always be | | | | \"AS\". | | | | | | | | This implies that the | | | | _bandwidth-value_ | | | | represents the | | | | \"\"maximum | | | | bandwidth\" (see | | | | clause 5.8/RFC 4566 | | | | [**#**]). The | | | | _bandwidth-value_ | | | | relates therefore to | | | | the _peak bitrate_ | | | | (NOTE 7). | | | | | | | | The _bandwidth-value_ | | | | value defines the IP | | | | layer bandwidth for | | | | the specific H.248 | | | | Stream (NOTE 4 and | | | | NOTE 5). | | | | | | | | For RTP flows, where | | | | RTCP resources are | | | | reserved together with | | | | the RTP resources | | | | using the \"RTP | | | | Specific Behaviour\" | | | | property of the Gate | | | | Management package | | | | (gm) property, the | | | | _bandwidth_ value will | | | | include the bandwidth | | | | used by RTP and RTCP | | | | together. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | o-line | \"SDP_O\" | The origin line | | | | consists of six | | | | fields: | | | | | | | | (\, | | | | \, | | | | \, | | | | \, | | | | \ and | | | | \). | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it (see | | | | clause 7.1.8/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.1[3]). | | | | | | | | The MG shall return | | | | the value received | | | | from the MGC or if | | | | there is no o-line | | | | sent by the MGC, the | | | | MG shall populate this | | | | line as follows: | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | should contain an | | | | hyphen | | | | | | | | - \ and | | | | \ should | | | | contain one or mode | | | | digits as described in | | | | RFC 4566 [8] | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | shall be set to IN | | | | | | | | - \ | | | | shall be set to IP4 or | | | | IP6 The Address Type | | | | shall be set to | | | | \"IP4\" or \"IP6" | | | | depending on the | | | | addressing scheme used | | | | by the network to | | | | which the MG is | | | | connected. | | | | | | | | - \ should | | | | contain the fully | | | | qualified domain name | | | | or IP address of the | | | | gateway. | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | s-line | \"SDP_S\" | The session name | | | | \"s=\" line contains a | | | | single field | | | | | | | | s= \. | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it | | | | ( | | | | see clause 7.1.8/ITU-T | | | | Recommnedation H.248.1 | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG shall return | | | | the value received | | | | from the MGC or if | | | | there is no s-line | | | | sent by the MGC, the | | | | MG shall populate this | | | | line as follows: | | | | | | | | - \"s=-\" | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | t-line | \"SDP_T\" | The time \"t=\" line | | | | consists of two fields | | | | | | | | _t=_ \ | | | | and \. | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it | | | | ( | | | | see clause 7.1.8/ITU-T | | | | Recommendation H.248.1 | | | | [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG shall return | | | | the value received | | | | from the MGC or if | | | | there is no t-line | | | | sent by the MGC, the | | | | MG shall populate this | | | | line as follows: | | | | | | | | \"t=0 0" | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Even if the | | | | transport value is | | | | RTP, the \"RTP | | | | Specific Behaviour\" | | | | property of the Gate | | | | Management package | | | | (gm) shall be used to | | | | indicate whether RTCP | | | | resource reservation | | | | is also requested. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For Ia profile | | | | versions 2 and higher | | | | RFC 4566 [**#**] | | | | shall be used as | | | | basis. RFC 4566 | | | | [**#**] enables | | | | \"-\" as a valid | | | | character (Ia profile | | | | version 1 uses RFC | | | | 2327 [**#**], which | | | | does not allow the | | | | \"-\" in place of | | | | media type, transport | | | | and media format | | | | fields. However in the | | | | scope of Ia profile | | | | version 1 this was | | | | considered as an | | | | admitted SDP | | | | extension). | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: RFC 4566 | | | | [**28**] obsoleted | | | | RFC 2327 [**i.3**], | | | | but the ABNF grammar | | | | did slightly change | | | | for the \"m=\" line:\ | | | | a) RFC 2327 | | | | [**i.3**]: | | | | m=\ \ | | | | \ \.\ | | | | b) RFC 4566 | | | | [**28**]: | | | | m=\ \ | | | | \ \ | | | | ...\ | | | | There is a syntactical | | | | change for the last | | | | two fields, but the | | | | semantical meaning is | | | | unchanged.\ | | | | See also ITU-T | | | | Recommendation | | | | H.248.49 [**23**], | | | | Appendix I | | | | \"Comparison of SDP | | | | variants between | | | | RFC 4566 [**28**] | | | | and RFC 2327 | | | | [**i.3**]\" and in | | | | particular: table | | | | I.7/H.248.49 \"RFC | | | | 4566 [**28**] versus | | | | RFC 2327 [**i.3**] - | | | | SDP specification - | | | | \"m=\" line\". | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: This semantic | | | | is consistent for RTP | | | | traffic (see | | | | clause 6.2/RFC 3550 | | | | [i.8]) and non-RTP | | | | traffic (see | | | | clause 5.8/RFC 4566 | | | | [**28**]). | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: It has to be | | | | noted that Ia profile | | | | version 1 defines a | | | | different semantic | | | | (see table 81 in | | | | ES 283 018 [4]) | | | | defined, which | | | | incorporates also | | | | layer 2 bitrate.\ | | | | A transformation | | | | between both \"b=\" | | | | line usages (in case | | | | of IP-over-L2) is not | | | | straightforward | | | | because the | | | | transformation | | | | parameters are based | | | | on L2-PCI and the IP | | | | packet rate. The | | | | L2-PCI is typically | | | | constant for a | | | | dedicated L2 | | | | technology (like | | | | IP-over-IEEE 802.3 | | | | [i.9]), but the | | | | packet rate is | | | | application-specific. | | | | E.g. the IP packet | | | | rate is usually | | | | unknown at Ia for | | | | media-agnostic | | | | IP-to-IP interworking. | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: The \"m=\" and | | | | \"b=\" lines may be | | | | omitted in certain | | | | procedures, which are | | | | further described in | | | | clause 5.18.x | | | | | | | | NOTE 7: The unit for | | | | the _bandwidth-value_ | | | | (peak bitrate) is | | | | \"kbit/s\". The unit | | | | for the _peak data | | | | rate_ (tman/pdr) is | | | | \"byte/s\". The \"b=\" | | | | line is not providing | | | | any information about | | | | the traffic | | | | characteristic, i.e. | | | | whether the traffic | | | | flow has a Constant | | | | BitRate (CBR) or | | | | Variable BitRate | | | | (VBR). The | | | | _bandwidth-value_ is | | | | thus independent of | | | | the traffic | | | | characteristic and | | | | relates to the peak | | | | bitrate for CBR and | | | | VBR traffic (see also | | | | clause 5.17.1.5). | | | +------------------------+-----------------+------------------------+
Editor\'s Note: The above notes need removing if they are purely informative,
for any that are kept the references need correcting.
Table 5.15.2: Transport Protocol
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Transport Protocol \  | If the MG is transport aware but | | in m-line:** | does not support the requested | | | transport protocol, it shall | | | reject the command with error | | | code 449. If the MG is transport | | | agnostic and MGC specifies any | | | other transport protocol than | | | \"-\", the MG shall reject the | | | command with error code 449. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Udp | Allow only L4 protocol = UDP | | | (NOTE 1). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | tcp or TCP | Allow only L4 protocol = TCP | | | (NOTE 2) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TCP/MSRP | Message service using IETF | | | RFC 4975 [10]. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | RTP/AVP | RTP profile according IETF | | | RFC 3551[11]. Allow only L4 | | | protocol = UDP (see NOTE 1) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | udptl | Allow only L4 protocol = UDP | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | - | No transport protocol specific | | | behaviour is required by the MG | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Parameter \"udp\" is | | | introduced by IETF RFC 4566 | | | [8] but not yet registered by | | | IANA (see | | | [http://www.iana.org/assignmen | | | ts/sdp-parameters]{.underline}). | | | | | | NOTE 2: Upper case TCP is | | | defined by IETF RFC 4145 [12] | | | and registered by IANA. Lower | | | case tcp was introduced by Ia v1 | | | and is allowed for backwards | | | compatibility. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.16 Optional support of SDP and Annex C information elements
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different\ ⇒ difference(s): Annex C
support due to binary encoding support by Ix
Table 5.16.1 summarises the \"optional\" SDP information elements, according
their specific usage according clause 7.1.8/ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3].
Their usage may depend on the direction from MGC towards MG or vice versa.
Details of which elements are included in each command are provided in clause
5.18.
Table 5.16.1: Optional SDP Information Elements
+---------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+ | Information Element | Annex C Support | SDP Support | +---------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+ | a-line | \"SDP_A \" | 1) Application \"RTCP | | | | transport address | | | | control\": | | | | | | | | The attribute \"a=rtcp\" | | | | line may either contain | | | | (a=rtcp: \) or | | | | (a=rtcp: \ | | | | \ \ \) when the \"a=\" | | | | line is used for RTCP | | | | transport port and | | | | optionally network address | | | | transmission. | | | | | | | | The MGC shall supply the | | | | \"a=rtcp\" line in the RD | | | | when non-default RTCP | | | | network address or | | | | transport port values are | | | | used by the peer media | | | | entity. | | | | | | | | \"RTCP transport address | | | | control\" should be | | | | supported by MG. | | | | | | | | 2) Application | | | | \"Media-aware interworking | | | | (transcoding)\": | | | | | | | | The \"a=\" line provides | | | | the complementary | | | | information for the \"m=\" | | | | line (see table 87) with | | | | regards to a specified | | | | media type/format (e.g. an | | | | optional SDP „a=ptime\" | | | | line for a particular | | | | media format). | | | | | | | | For a dynamic RTP payload | | | | type, for each media | | | | information on the codec | | | | type shall be provided in | | | | a separate SDP | | | | \"a=rtpmap\"line and | | | | possibly additional SDP | | | | \"a=fmtp\"-line(s). | +---------------------+-----------------+----------------------------+
## 5.17 Overview of Procedures
Details of Session Dependent Procedures are provided in clauses 5.18. Details
of Session Independent Procedures are provided in clauses 5.19 and 5.20.
### 5.17.1 Overview of Session Dependent Procedures
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: will be different\ ⇒ difference(s):
TISPAN Ia text is originating from the TIPHON gate control protocol spec (ETSI
TS 102 333), which was a very early H.248 profile spec (\"the ITU-T profile
template wasn't yet available then\") with stage 2 elements, but also
architectural background, mixed stage 2/3 type of procedures and even package
definitions. The package specification were transferred to ITU-T and are in
the meanwhile published under the H.248.x-series, but the Ia specification
style is still due to TS 102 333 background (\"TISPAN backward consistence
with TIPHON\").\ 3GPP Ix will use separate specs for stage 2.\ ⇒ all sub-
clauses in § 5.17.1 are thus expected to be different vs Ia.
The general procedures are related to session-dependent (also known as H.248
call-dependent) procedures. There are procedures in following categories:
#### 5.17.1.1 Gate control
The gate control concept is described in 3GPP TS 29.235 [18] for CS-Ix and
3GPP TS 29.162 [19] for Ix.
The gate concept, together with H.248 Stream/Termination handling, is further
illustrated in annex A.
#### 5.17.1.2 Allocation and translation of IP addresses, ports and versions
(NAPT-PT)
#### 5.17.1.4 QoS marking
The Differentiated Services package enables the MGC to control the setting of
the DSCP value for all packets leaving the MG.
##### 5.17.1.4.1 Copying DSCP/ToS values from the ingress to egress
The copy mechanism is specified in H.248.52 [13].
##### 5.17.1.4.2 Auditing the \"Per-Hop Behaviour\"
The _Differentiated Services package version 1_ does not allow to audit the
behaviour
#### 5.17.1.10 IP Realm/Domain Indication
### 5.17.2 Overview of Session Independent Procedures
## 5.18 Session Dependent Procedures (Command Level Details)
## 5.19 Non-Session Related Use Cases {#non-session-related-use-cases .list-
paragraph}
## 5.20 Session Independent Procedures (Command Level Details) {#session-
independent-procedures-command-level-details .list-paragraph}
###### ## Annex A (informative): Illustration of Gate/Pinhole Concept
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: identical
# A.1 General
The purpose of this informative annex is the illustration of the H.248
Stream/Termination model by showing exemplary realisations of gates for uni-
versus bidirectional media flows.
Only point-to-point sessions are in scope of this H.248 Profile (see clause
5.4). Interconnection of individual H.248 Streams is based on the basic
principle described in clause 7.1.6/H.248.1. The H.248 Multiplex Descriptor is
therefore not necessary (see clause 5.6.2). The H.248 Topology Descriptor
definition includes individual H.248 Streams, but is also not necessary (see
clause 5.7.8).
It has to be noted that all sessions have unicast media flows. Potential
multicast applications are transparent for MG point of view.
# A.2 Relationships between gates and H.248 Streams
The realization of a gate is illustrated in figure A.1. There is a
unidirectional media flow in that example, and there is a single H.248 Stream
per Termination. A **H.248 Stream** covers per definition a single
**bidirectional** media flow (clause 7.1.6/ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3]).
Media flows are interconnected by using the same **StreamID** (here: StreamID
equals to S1 for T1 and T2).
{width="2.7895833333333333in" height="1.35in"}
Figure A.2.1: H.248 Context - Illustration of Gate, Stream and Terminations
The uni- or bidirectional application of an H.248 Streams is controlled via
usage of Local Descriptor (LD) and Remote Descriptor (RD). Figure A.2 shows a
bidirectional session. There is again a single H.248 Stream per Termination.
Gates are direction-dependent, there are consequently two gates in this
example.
{width="2.8194444444444446in" height="1.35in"}
Figure A.2.2: H.248 Context Bidirectional Session using single H.248 Streams
###### ## Annex B (informative): Stage 2 Procedures and informative
descriptions
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different, new Ix specific Annex, see
editor's note in § 5.17.1
The following text is stored here temporarily until stage 2 specifications are
updated.
# B.1 Termination Names
##### 5.6.1.1.1.1 Combined usage of fields Group and Interface {#combined-
usage-of-fields-group-and-interface .H6}
There are two potential relationships between \ and \ within
the TerminationID structure:
  * **strictly hierarchical:** a single \"interface\" is completely > associated to a dedicated \"group\".
EXAMPLE 1: e.g. may be driven for instance by hardware architecture or
addressing schemes with the goal of minimizing ServiceChange command load by
using wildcards such as ip/\/* for potential HW failures that may lead
to issuing a single ServiceChange command rather than multiple ServiceChange
commands.
  * **partially hierarchical:** an \"interface\" is distributed over > multiple \"groups\".
EXAMPLE 2: e.g. a logical partition concept may be driven for instance for
selective auditing with the goal of minimizing the AuditReply to be of a
manageable size by having the MGC allocate an adequate number of terminations
within a \. Therefore Audits could be paced for example: ip/1/*,
ip/2/*, .., ip/n/*.
{width="5.147222222222222in" height="2.8444444444444446in"}
Figure 2: Group/Interface relationships for the structure of terminationIDs\
Potential use cases
The following examples depict the advantages that each group/interface
relationship may facilitate.
Table 5: Group/interface relationship
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Semantic of | ServiceChange | AuditValue Command | | Termination Name | Command | | | | | (e.g. Requesting a | | | (e.g. due to a HW | list of Context IDs | | | Failure) | present\ | | | | in the MG where | | | | n\ pathNAME = EphToken SLASH EPHsystem
>
> EphToken = \"ip\" ; prefix
>
> EPHsystem = WildcardALL
>
> / WildcardALL SLASH Interface
>
> / Group SLASH WildcardALL
>
> / (Group / WildcardCHOOSE) SLASH (Interface / WildcardCHOOSE) SLASH
> (Identifier / WildcardALL / WildcardCHOOSE)
>
> Group = %d0-65535 ; data type: INT16
>
> Interface = 1*51ALPHANUM
>
> Identifier = %d1-4294967295 ; data type: INT32
>
> ALPHANUM = ALPHA / DIGIT
>
> WildcardCHOOSE = \"\$\"
>
> WildcardALL = \"*\"
###### ## Annex C (informative): Comparison between ETSI ES 283 018 V2.x.y
(TISPAN Ia Profile Version 2) and TS 29.238 (3GPP Ix Profile Version 1)
Editor\'s Note -- Gap analysis between 3GPP H.248 Ix profile and TISPAN H.248
Ia profile (Ix V1 vs Ia V2):\ ⇒ clause: different, Ix v1 is estimated to be a
sub-set of Ia V2 plus CS-Ix specifics
Table C.1 provides an overview of the differences between both profiles.
Table C.1: Difference Between ETSI ES 283 018 V2.x.y and TS 29.238
* * *
Topic ETSI ES 283 018 V2.x.y\ TS 29.238\ (TISPAN Ia Profile Version 2) (3GPP
Ix Profile Version 1)
_### to be updated ###_
**Packages**
_### to be updated ###_
* * *
#