# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 3 of the Evolved Packet System S101
interface between the MME and the HRPD Access Network. The S101 interface
supports procedures for Pre-Registration, Session Maintenance and Active
handoffs between E-UTRAN and HRPD networks.
It also specifies the S103 interface between the Serving GW and HRPD PDSN.
This User Plane interface is used to forward DL data to minimize packet losses
in mobility from E-UTRAN to HRPD. Signalling procedures on the S101 interface
are used to set up tunnels on the S103 interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[3] IETF RFC 3232: \"Assigned Numbers\".
[4] IETF RFC 2784: \"Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)\".
[5] IETF RFC 2890: \"Key and Sequence Number Extensions to GRE\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"Evolved GPRS Tunnelling Protocol for Control Plane
(GTPv2-C); Stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP2 C.S0024-A v3.0: \"cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface
Specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[9] 3GPP2 C.S0087-0 v2.0: \"E-UTRAN - HRPD and CDMA2000 1x Connectivity and
Interworking: Air Interface Aspects\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution: Security
Architecture\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) ;
S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.008: \" Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.280: \"3GPP EPS Sv interface (MME to MSC) for SRVCC\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**HRPD Access:** Combination of the eAN - PCF of the cdma2000 access
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AN Access Network
eAN enhanced AN
eGTP enhanced Gateway Tunnelling Protocol
eNodeB enhanced Node B
E-UTRAN Enhanced UMTS Terrestial Radio Access Network
GRE Generic Routing Encapsulation
GW Gateway
HO HandOver
HRPD High Rate Packet Data
HSGW HRPD Serving GateWay
IMSI International Mobile Station Identity
IP Internet Protocol
MME Mobility Management Entity
PCF Packet Control Function
PDN Packet data Network
PDSN Packet Data Serving Node
PMIP Proxy Mobile IP
TEID Tunnel End Point Identifier
UDP User Datagram Protocol
VS Vendor Specific
# 4 General
The S101 reference point is defined between the MME and the HRPD access,
enabling interactions between E-UTRAN Access and cdma2000 HRPD Access. The
S101 interface is required to perform procedures related to optimise HO
between the E-UTRAN Access and cdma2000 HRPD Access to allow for pre-
registration and handover signalling with the target system.
The S103 interface is defined between the Serving GW and HRPD PDSN and
supports the forwarding of DL data during mobility from E-UTRAN to HRPD.
Signalling procedures on the S101 interface are used to set up tunnels on the
S103 interface.
The requirements for these interfaces are defined in 3GPP TS 23.402 [2].
The protocol stack used for the S101 interface shall be based on GTPv2-C, see
3GPP TS 29.274 [6] Figure 4.3.
The UDP header and port numbers definitions shall be as defined in GTPv2-C,
see 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] section 4.3.1.
The IP header and IP addresses definitions shall be as defined in GTPv2-C, see
3GPP TS 29.274 [6] section 4.3.2.
Layer 1 and Layer 2 requirements shall as defined in GTPv2-C, see 3GPP TS
29.274 [6] sections 4.3.3 and 4.3.4.
# 5 Transmission Order and Bit Definitions
Transmission Order and Bit Definitions shall be as defined in GTPv2-C, see
3GPP TS 29.274 [6] section 4.4.
# 6 S101 Message Header
## 6.1 Introduction
The S101 Message Header is conformant to the GTPv2-C Message Header, see 3GPP
TS 29.274 [6] section 5. All S101 messages shall have a header that includes
specific parameters. The following list of header parameters are defined for
the S101 interface:
  * Version
  * Flags (T = TEID Included)
  * Message Type
  * Length
## 6.2 S101 Message Header
The S101 header is a variable length header. The minimum length of the S101
header is eight octets. Space has been reserved for four flags that may be
used in the future to signal the presence of additional optional header fields
or utilities.
  * Bit 4 (the T bit) may be set to one to indicate that a TEID is present in the header, as per 3GPP TS 29.274 [6]. The T bit shall be set to zero to indicate that the TEID field shall not be present in any message sent on the S101 interface.
If the header fields do not occupy a full eight octets, then spare octets
shall be added after the last valid field in the S101 header to complete eight
octets. Spare octets and bits shall be set to zero.
**Always present fields:**
  * Version field: This field is used to determine the version of the S101 protocol. The version number shall be set to \'010\'.
  * Message Type: This field indicates the type of S101 message. The valid values of the message type are defined in clause 7.1. Note that values chosen for Message Type shall be coordinated with and shall not overlap the Message Type values chosen for GTPv2-C in 3GPP TS 29.274 [6].
  * Length: This field indicates the length in octets of the payload, i.e. the rest of the packet following the mandatory part of the S101 header (that is the first 4 octets).
  * Sequence Number: This field enables the target system to identify any missing receipt of messages and is used also for acknowledgement of messages.
* * *
              Bits
Octets 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 Version=010 (*) T=0 (*) (*) (*)  
2 Message Type  
3 Length (1^st^ Octet)  
4 Length (2^nd^ Octet)  
5 Sequence Number (1^st^ Octet)  
6 Sequence Number (2^nd^ Octet)  
7 Sequence Number (3^rd^ Octet)  
8 Spare
* * *
NOTE 0: (*) This bit is a spare bit. It shall be sent as \'0\'. The receiver
shall not evaluate this bit.
Figure 6.2-1: Layout of the S101 Message Header
# 7 S101 Messages and Message Formats
## 7.1 Introduction
This section is divided into path management which defines the general
messages for the pre-configured tunnel and a section for the specific messages
used for information transfer over the control plane.
Table 7.1 specifies GTPv2-C message types that are used across the S101
interface.
Table 7.1: Message types for S101
* * *
Message Type value (Decimal) Message Reference 0 Reserved 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] 1
Echo Request 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] 2 Echo Response 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] 3 Version
Not Supported Indication 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] 4 Direct Transfer Request message
7.3.2 5 Direct Transfer Response message 7.3.3 6 Notification Request message
7.3.4 7 Notification Response message 7.3.5 8-24 For future S101 interface use  
25-31 Reserved for Sv interface 3GPP TS 29.280 [14] 32-255 Reserved for
GTPv2-C spec 3GPP TS 29.274 [6]
* * *
### 7.2 Path Management Messages
### 7.2.1 Introduction
The path from the MME to the non-3GPP Access Network operationally requires
management capabilities. The following GTPv2-C messages support path
management for the S101 interface:
  * Echo Request
  * Echo Response
  * Version Not Supported
These messages are defined for GTPv2-C and the handling and definition shall
also be as defined in GTPv2-C, see 3GPP TS 29.274 [6].
### 7.2.2 Echo Request message
An MME or an HRPD access node may send an Echo Request to find out if the peer
HRPD access node or MME is alive (see section Path Failure). When and how
often an Echo Request message may be sent is implementation specific but an
Echo Request shall not be sent more often than every 60 s on each path.
An MME or an HRPD access node shall be prepared to receive an Echo Request at
any time and it shall reply with an Echo Response. The optional Private
Extension contains vendor or operator specific information.
3GPP TS 29.274 [6] specifies the information elements included in the Echo
Request message.
### 7.2.3 Echo Response message
The message shall be sent as a response to a received Echo Request.
3GPP TS 29.274 [6] specifies the information elements included in the Echo
Response message.
The Recovery information element contains the local Restart Counter (see
section Restoration and Recovery) value for the node that sends the Echo
Response message.
The MME or an HRPD access node that receives an Echo Response from a peer MME
or an HRPD access node shall compare the Restart Counter value received with
the previous Restart Counter value stored for that peer MME or HRPD access
node. If no previous value was stored, the Restart Counter value received in
the Echo Response shall be stored for the peer MME or HRPD access node.
The value of a Restart Counter previously stored for a peer MME or HRPD access
node may differ from the Restart Counter value received in the Echo Response
from that peer MME or HRPD access node. In this case, the MME or HRPD access
node that sent the Echo Response shall be considered as restarted by the MME
or HRPD access node that received the Echo Response. The new Restart Counter
value received shall be stored by the receiving entity, replacing the value
previously stored for the sending MME or HRPD access node.
The optional Private Extension contains vendor or operator specific
information.
### 7.2.4 Version Not Supported message
This message contains only the S101 header and indicates the latest S101
version that the MME or HRPD access node entity on the identified UDP/IP
address can support (see subclause 6.2).
3GPP TS 29.274 [6] specifies the detailed handling and information elements
included in the Version Not Supported message.
## 7.3 S101 Messages
### 7.3.1 Introduction
The following messages are used to support interworking between the MME and
the non-3GPP access network:
  * Direct Transfer Request
  * Direct Transfer Response
  * Notification Request
  * Notification Response
### 7.3.2 Direct Transfer Request message
A Direct Transfer Request shall be sent from an MME or HRPD access node to
transport an HRPD or an E-UTRAN message to the peer HRPD access node or MME.
Table 7.3.2-1 specifies the information elements included in the Direct
Transfer message.
Table 7.3.2-1: Information Elements in a Direct Transfer Request
* * *
Information elements Presence Requirement Reference Instance Session ID
Mandatory 7.5.2 0 HRPD Sector ID Conditional 7.5.5 0 S101 Transparent
Container Mandatory 7.5.6 0 PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info Conditional 7.5.9 0
S103 GRE Tunnel Info Conditional 7.5.10 0 S103 HSGW IP Address Conditional
7.5.11 0 Handover Indicator Conditional 7.5.7 0 Tracking Area Identity
Conditional 7.5.12 0 Recovery Conditional 7.5.4 0 Private Extension Optional
7.5.8 VS
* * *
The HRPD Sector ID parameter shall be included if this message is being sent
from the MME to the HRPD access node in case of handover from E-UTRAN to HRPD.
If an HRPD message is being tunnelled between an MME and an HRPD access node,
the S101 Transparent Container shall contain the HRPD message.
The Tracking Area Identity parameter shall be included if this message is
being sent from the HRPD access node to the MME in case of handover from HRPD
to E-UTRAN.
If an E-UTRAN message is being tunnelled between an MME and an HRPD access
node, the S101 Transparent Container shall contain the E-UTRAN message.
If the Direct Transfer Request message is sent from the MME to the HRPD AN and
the MME has the PDN GW IP Address and the PDN GW GRE Key for a PDN Connection,
the PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info IE shall be included when the MME receives
CDMA2000 HO Required Indication from the eNodeB, see 3GPP TS 36.413 [12]. The
PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info shall include the PDN Identity and the PDN GW GRE
Key for the PDN connection. The Handover Indicator shall indicate Handover
Required in this case. For each PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel of the UE, there shall
be a PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info Information Element included in the message.
If the Handover Indicator IE indicates HO Ready during optimized active
handover from E-UTRAN to HRPD, the S101 Transparent Container shall contain
the HRPD message (=HRPD TCA message). If data forwarding applies, the S103 GRE
Tunnel Info IE shall be included. The S103 GRE Tunnel Info IE shall include
the PDN Identity and the HSGW GRE Key for a PDN connection. The S103 HSGW IP
Address IE shall also be included in this case in the message but only one
occurrence. For each PDN connection of the UE which requires data forwarding
towards the HSGW, there shall be a S103 GRE Tunnel Info Information Element
included in the message.
The Handover Indicator parameter shall be included, if the encapsulated
message being carried will cause the UE to leave the source system and tune
its radio to the target system. It shall also be included for the case of LTE
to HRPD handover, if a Direct Transfer Request message is sent from the MME to
the HRPD AN, the MME shall include a Handover Required indication in the
Handover Indicator IE, if a Handover Required was received by the MME from the
eNodeB.
If the node is contacting its peer for the first time or if the node has
restarted recently and the new Restart Counter value has not yet been
indicated to the peer, the Recovery IE shall be included.
### 7.3.3 Direct Transfer Response message
The message shall be sent from an MME or HRPD access node to its peer HRPD
access node or MME as a response to a Direct Transfer Request.
Table 7.3.3-1 specifies the information elements included in the Direct
Transfer Response message.
Table 7.3.3-1: Information Elements in a Direct Transfer Response message
* * *
Information elements Presence Requirement Reference Instance Session ID
Mandatory 7.5.2 0 Cause Mandatory 7.5.3 0 Recovery Optional 7.5.4 0 Private
Extension Optional 7.5.8 VS
* * *
The Cause value indicates that the encapsulated message was received. Possible
Cause values are:
  * \"Request Accepted\".
  * \"System failure\".
  * \"Mandatory IE incorrect\".
  * \"Mandatory IE missing\".
  * \"Optional IE incorrect\".
  * \"Invalid message format\".
\'No resources available\' indicates that not enough resources are available
within the receiving system.
### 7.3.4 Notification Request message
A Notification Request message shall be sent from an MME or HRPD access node
to its peer HRPD access node or MME to notify its peer of a fact or event.
Table 7.3.4-1 specifies the information elements included in the Notification
Request message.
Table 7.3.4-1: Information Elements in a Notification Request
* * *
Information elements Presence Requirement Reference Instance Session ID
Mandatory 7.5.2 0 Handover Indicator Conditional 7.5.7 0 Recovery Conditional
7.5.4 0 Private Extension Optional 7.5.8 VS
* * *
The Handover Indicator information element (=HO Complete) shall be included if
the sending system needs to notify the receiving system of the completion of a
handover.
The Handover Indicator information element (=Redirection) shall be included if
the sending system needs to notify the receiving system of the S101 tunnel end
point redirection.
The optional Private Extension contains vendor or operator specific
information.
If the Handover Indicator IE (= Redirection) and the node is contacting its
peer for the first time or if the node has restarted recently and the new
Restart Counter value has not yet been indicated to the peer , the Recovery IE
shall be included.
### 7.3.5 Notification Response message
A Notification Response message shall be sent from an MME or HRPD access node
to its peer HRPD access node or MME to acknowledge receipt of a Notification
Request message.
Table 7.3.5-1 specifies the information elements included in the Notification
Response message.
Table 7.3.5-1: Information Elements in a Notification Response message
* * *
Information elements Presence Requirement Reference Instance Session ID
Mandatory 7.5.2 0 Cause Mandatory 7.5.3 0 Recovery Optional 7.5.4 0 Private
Extension Optional 7.5.8 VS
* * *
If the MME or HRPD access node receives a Notification Response with a Cause
value other than \'Notification Accepted\', it should note and log the event
and response.
Possible Cause values are:
  * \"Notification Accepted\".
  * \"System failure\".
  * \"Mandatory IE incorrect\".
  * \"Mandatory IE missing\".
  * \"Optional IE incorrect\".
  * \"Invalid message format\".
## 7.4 Reliable Delivery of Signalling Messages
For the S101 interface protocol, the reliable delivery of signalling messages
shall have the same handling as GTPv2-C. See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] but with S101
node replacing GTPv2-C node as appropriate.
For certain types of messages, i.e. Direct Transfer messages, retransmission
at this layer level would be harmful to the session so for Direct Transfer
messages retransmissions shall not be allowed and their N3-REQUESTS value
shall be set to one, i.e. message is only sent once.
## 7.5 Information Elements
### 7.5.1 Information Element Assignments
An S101 message may contain several information elements. The TLIV (Type,
Length, Instance, Value) encoding format shall be used for all S101
information elements. See TS 29.274 [6] subclause 8.2 for the general encoding
of the IEs.
Within information elements, certain fields may be described as spare. These
bits shall be transmitted with the value defined for them. To allow for future
features, the receiver shall not evaluate these bits.
Table 7.5-1: Information Elements
* * *
IE Type Value Information Element Comment / Reference 1 Session ID Variable
Length / 7.5.2 2 Cause Variable Length / 7.5.3 3 Recovery Variable Length /
7.5.4 4 HRPD Sector ID Fixed Length / 7.5.5 5 S101 Transparent Container
Variable Length / 7.5.6 6 Handover Indicator Fixed Length / 7.5.7 7 PDN GW
PMIP GRE Tunnel Info Variable Length / 7.5.9 8 S103 GRE Tunnel Info Variable
Length / 7.5.10 9 S103 HSGW IP Address Variable Length / 7.5.11 10 Tracking
Area Identity Variable Length / 7.5.12 11-50 For future use. Shall not be
sent. If received, shall be treated as an Unknown IE.  
51-70 Reserved for Sv interface. Shall not be sent. If received, shall be
treated as an Unknown IE. 3GPP TS 29.280 [14] 70-254 Reserved for GTPv2-C.
Shall not be sent. If received, shall be treated as an Unknown IE. 3GPP TS
29.274 [6] 255 Private Extension 7.5.8
* * *
### 7.5.2 Session ID
The IMSI is used for the parameter Session ID; see 3GPP TS 23.402 [2]; so for
S101 this Information Element is mandatory for all S101 messages apart from
the path management messages and shall always be the first IE following the
S101 Header. The Session ID IE shall be encoded as the International Mobile
Station Identity information element as defined in 3GPP TS 29.274 [6].
### 7.5.3 Cause
In a response, the Cause Value shall indicate the acceptance or the rejection
of the corresponding request. The Cause value shall be included in the
response message.
\"Request accepted\" shall be returned when an MME or an HRPD Access has
accepted a request.
\"Notification accepted\" shall be returned when an MME or an HRPD Access has
accepted a notification.
\"No memory available\" shall indicate that the MME or an HRPD Access does not
have enough memory to use.
\"System failure\" shall indicate that a generic permanent error condition has
occurred.
\"Invalid message format\", \"Mandatory IE incorrect\", \"Mandatory IE
missing\" and \"Optional IE incorrect\" shall indicate protocol errors as
described in the section on Error handling.
Refer to 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the encoding of this Information Element.
Table 7.5.3-1 Cause Values used on the S101 Interface
+---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | Message Type | Cause value | Meaning | | | | | | | (decimal) | | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 0 | Reserved. Shall not be sent | | | | and if received the Cause | | | | shall be treated as an invalid | | | | IE | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | Request | | | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 1-15 | Spare. This value range is | | | | reserved for Cause values in a | | | | request message | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | Acceptance Response | 16 | Request accepted | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 17 | Request accepted partially | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 18 | Notification accepted | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 19-63 | Spare. This value range is | | | | reserved for Cause values in | | | | acceptance response message | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | Rejection Response | 64 | Context Non Existent/Found | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 65 | Invalid Message Format | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 66 | Spare | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 67 | Invalid length | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 68 | Service not supported | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 69 | Mandatory IE incorrect | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 70 | Mandatory IE missing | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 71 | Optional IE incorrect | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 72 | System failure | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 73 | No resources available | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 74 | No memory available | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+ | | 75-255 | Spare. This value range is | | | | reserved for Cause values in | | | | rejection response message | +---------------------+-------------+--------------------------------+
NOTE: In the first release of the present document the value of the length
field of this IE is 1 for cause values without \"offending IE\", and 4 + the
length of the offending IE for those including it. In future releases of the
specification additional octets may be specified. The legacy receiving entity
simply ignores the unknown octets and values in the spare bits.
### 7.5.4 Recovery
The Recovery information element shall indicate if the peer MME or HRPD Access
has restarted. Refer to 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the encoding of this
Information Element.
### 7.5.5 HRPD Sector ID
The HRPD Sector ID information element shall provide a reference in the target
system that can be used to create a unique mapping to an HRPD Access or MME
that is appropriate to operate as the peer entity for an S101 interface
tunnel.
The HRPD Sector Identifier is defined in 3GPP2 C.S0024-A [7] section 14.9.2.
Also see 3GPP TS 36.413 [12] for the equivalent encoding of the cdma2000
Sector ID.
The E-UTRAN Access makes the HRPD Sector ID available by provisioning this in
the E-UTRAN Access equipment.
Table 7.5.5-1: HRPD Sector ID IE
* * *
               Bits                                                        
     Octets    8                        7          6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1         Type = 4                                                    
     2 to 3    Length = 16                                                 
     4         Spare                    Instance                           
     5 to 20   HRPD Sector Identifier
* * *
### 7.5.6 S101 Transparent Container
The S101 Transparent Container information element shall contain an
encapsulated HRPD message or an encapsulated E-UTRAN message that is either
generated by the UE and is being transferred to the MME or HRPD access, or is
generated by the MME or HRPD access and is being transferred to the UE. It is
variable in length and shall always be an integral number of octets. The
highest numbered octet shall be filled, if necessary, with extra bits set to
\'0\' in the low order bit positions to create an integral number of octets.
Table 7.5.6-1: S101 Transparent Container IE
* * *
                  Bits                                                            
     Octets       8                            7          6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1            Type = 5                                                        
     2 to 3       Length = n                                                      
     4            Spare                        Instance                           
     5 to (n+4)   S101 Transparent Container
* * *
The format of an encapsulated E-UTRAN message is defined in 3GPP TS 24.301
[10].
The format of the encapsulated HRPD messages is defined in 3GPP2 C.S0087-0
[9].
### 7.5.7 Handover Indicator
The Handover Indicator information element shall indicate the status of the
Handover to the receiving system as a result of the encapsulated message
carried in an S101 Transparent Container message.
Table 7.5.7-1: Handover Indicator IE
* * *
              Bits                                                    
     Octets   8                    7          6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1        Type = 6                                                
     2 to 3   Length = 1                                              
     4        Spare                Instance                           
     5        Handover Indicator
* * *
Table 7.5.7-2: Handover Indicator
* * *
Handover Indicator (Decimal) Meaning 0 Not Used 1 HO Ready 2 HO Failure 3 HO
Complete 4 Redirection 5 HO Required All Others Spare
* * *
### 7.5.8 Private Extension
The Private Extension information element shall contain vendor specific
information. Refer to 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the encoding of this Information
Element.
### 7.5.9 PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info
The PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info shall contain: the PDN Identity, i.e. APN, the
PDN GW Address and the PDN GW GRE Key, which identifies a PMIP GRE tunnel
towards a PDN GW.
Table 7.5.9-1: PDN GW PMIP GRE Tunnel Info IE
* * *
                           Bits                                                              
     Octets                8                              7          6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1                     Type = 7                                                          
     2 to 3                Length = n                                                        
     4                     Spare                          Instance                           
     5                     PDN Identity Length = m                                           
     6 to (m+5)            PDN Identity (=APN)                                               
     m+6                   PDN GW IP Address Length = k                                      
     (m+7) to (k+m+6)      PDN GW IP Address                                                 
     (k+m+7) to (k+m+10)   PDN GW GRE Key
* * *
### 7.5.10 S103 GRE Tunnel Info
The S103 GRE Tunnel Info IE shall contain the PDN Identity and HSGW GRE Key,
which identifies a GRE tunnel towards a HSGW.
Table 7.5.10-1: S103 GRE Tunnel Info IE
* * *
                      Bits                                                         
     Octets           8                         7          6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1                Type = 8                                                     
     2 to 3           Length = n                                                   
     4                Spare                     Instance                           
     5                PDN Identity Length = m                                      
     6 to (m+5)       PDN Identity (=APN)                                          
     (m+6) to (m+9)   HSGW GRE Key
* * *
### 7.5.11 S103 HSGW IP Address
The S103 HSGW IP Address IE shall contain S103 HSGW IP Address.
Table 7.5.11-1: S103 HSGW IP Address
* * *
                  Bits                                                      
     Octets       8                      7          6   5   4   3   2   1   
     1            Type = 9                                                  
     2 to 3       Length = n                                                
     4            Spare                  Instance                           
     5 to (n+4)   S103 HSGW IP Address
* * *
### 7.5.12 Tracking Area Identity
The Tracking Area Identity information element shall provide a reference in
the MME that can be used to assign a Tracking Area or list of Tracking Areas
to which the UE is registered.
The HRPD Access makes the E-UTRAN TAI available by provisioning this in the
HRPD equipment.
Table 7.5.12-1: Tracking Area Identity IE
|  | Bits |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Octets | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 |   
| 1 | Type = 10 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 2 to 3 | Length = n |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 4 | Spare | Instance |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 5 to (n+4) | Tracking Area Identity as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [10] |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 8 Path Protocols
Path handling is specified in 3GPP TS 29.274 [6].
# 9 Error Handling
## 9.1 Protocol Errors
See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] section 7.5 for the complete specification of protocol
error handling.
## 9.2 Path Failure
See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the complete specification of the path failure
procedures.
## 9.3 Restoration and Recovery
See 3GPP TS 23.007 [8] for the complete specification of the restoration and
recovery procedures.
# 10 Security provided to Communication over the S101 Interface
Protection of communication over the S101 interfaces shall be provided
according to security mechanisms defined in 3GPP TS 33.402 [11].
# 11 IP - The Networking Technology used by S101
## 11.1 IP Version
See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the complete specification of the IP versions
supported over the GTPv2-C like S101.
## 11.2 IP Fragmentation
See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the complete specification of the fragmentation
procedures used in S101.
# 12 S101 Parameters
## 12.1 General
The S101 interface system parameters defined and their recommended values
shall not be fixed but it shall be possible to configure them as described in
3GPP TS 29.274 [6].
## 12.2 Timers
See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the complete specification of the timers and their
recommended values used over S101, e.g. response time to wait for a request
message.
## 12.3 Others
See 3GPP TS 29.274 [6] for the complete specification of the maximum number of
retry attempts to resend a request message used over S101.
# 13 S103 Interface Specification
## 13.1 Introduction
The S103 interface is defined between the Serving GW and HRPD PDSN and
supports the forwarding of DL data during mobility between E-UTRAN and HRPD
access networks. Signalling procedures on the S101 interface, documented in
3GPP TS 23.402 [2], are used to set up tunnels on the S103 user plane
interface.
## 13.2 S103 Interface
The S103 interface protocol stack and signalling requirements are specified in
3GPP TS 23.402 [2]. The S103 interface shall use Generic Routing Encapsulation
as specified in IETF RFC 2784 [4] including the Key and Sequence Number
Extensions to GRE in IETF RFC 2890 [5]. The Key Field value of each GRE packet
header shall uniquely identify the UE-PDN connection.
#