# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI ES 283 024 [30].
It was transferred to the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in in
March 2008.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the profile of the Gateway Control Protocol
(ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3]), for controlling Trunking Media Gateways
(TMGW) for both the PSTN/ISDN Emulation and IMS Core Subsytems. Thus the scope
of this Profile is a subset of the 3GPP profile for the Mn interface defined
in TS 129 332 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (09/2005): \"Gateway control protocol:
Version 3\".
[2] ETSI TS 129 332: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS);
Media Gateway Control Function (MGCF) - IM Media Gateway (IM-MGW) Mn
interface; Stage 3 (3GPP TS 29.332 version 6.2.0 Release 6)\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (05/2002) and Corrigendum 1 for Version 2
(03/2004): \"Gateway Control Protocol: Version 2\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.4 (03/2002): \"Gateway control protocol:
Transport over Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.7 (11/2000): \"Gateway control protocol:
Generic announcement package\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.8 (09/2005): \"Gateway control protocol: Error
code and service change reason description \".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.10 (07/2001): \"Gateway control protocol: Media
gateway resource congestion handling package\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.11 (11/2002): \"Gateway control protocol: Media
gateway overload control package\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.14 (03/2002): \"Gateway control protocol:
Inactivity timer package\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.45 (05/2006): \"Gateway control protocol: MGC
information package\".
[11] IETF RFC 3551: \"RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal
Control\".
[12] IETF RFC 3555: \"MIME Type Registration of RTP Payload Formats\".
[13] IETF RFC 2833: \"RTP Payload for DTMF Digits, Telephony Tones and
Telephony Signals\".
[14] IETF RFC 3389: \"Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) Payload for Comfort
Noise (CN)\".
[15] IETF RFC 4040: \"RTP Payload Format for a 64 kbit/s Transparent Call\".
[16] IETF RFC 3556: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modifiers
for RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth\".
[17] IETF RFC 3332: \"Signalling System 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part 3 (MTP3)
- User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)\".
[18] IETF RFC 2960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[19] IETF RFC 768: \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[20] ETSI TS 129 202: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS);
Signalling System No. 7 (SS7) signalling transport in core network; Stage 3
(3GPP TS 29.202 version 6.0.0 Release 6)\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation V.152 (01/2005): \"Procedures for supporting voice-
band data over IP networks\".
[22] Corrigendum 1 to ITU-T Recommendation V.152 (09/2005) [21].
[23] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[24] ITU-T Recommendations Q.761 to Q.764 (12/1999): \"Specifications of
Signalling System No.7 ISDN User Part (ISUP)\".
[25] ETSI TS 129 232: \"Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS);
Media Gateway Controller (MGC) - Media Gateway (MGW) interface; Stage 3 (3GPP
TS 29.232) Release 6\".
[26] IETF RFC 4234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[27] ETSI TS 129 163: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS); Interworking between the IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks
(3GPP TS 29.163 Release 7)\".
[28] Corrigendum 1 to ITU-T Recommendation H.248.4 [4] (03/2004).
[29] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.33 (01/2005): \"Gateway control protocol: PCM
frame spare bit package\".
[30] ETSI ES 283 024 V1.1.4: \"Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN);
H.248 Profile for controlling Trunking Media Gateways; Protocol
specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**IP Port:** source and destination port numbers for UDP, SCTP and TCP traffic
(\"IMS/NGN\")
**Termination:** ephemeral H.248 Termination for RTP/UDP/IP-based media
transport
NOTE 1: The different Termination types denoting specific interworking with
different NGN subsystems (e.g. IMS, PES, BICN). All Termination types sharing
the common bearer technology with UDP/IP for transport and RTP as application
level framing protocol (see note 2). This is expressed in the present document
in some places by using the term \"IMS/NGN\" (Termination).
NOTE 2: The specific difference on application level framing protocol itself,
- RTP with 3GPP-specific framing protocols or RTP with native framing
according IETF RFCs, is not relevant in the scope of the present document.
**TMGW Port:** single physical interface at a Trunking Media GateWay
**(TMGW)**
NOTE 1: This may be a circuit-oriented interface (e.g. PDH, SDH, SONET), or a
packet-oriented interface (e.g. Ethernet) in the scope of this H.248 Profile.
There are therefore transmission technology dependent types: e.g. PDH Port,
SDH Port, SONET Port, Ethernet Port.
NOTE 2: A \"port\" relates to **multiple** \"H.248 Terminations\" in general.
**Trunk:** See clause 3.10 of ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [1].
**Trunking GateWay (TGW):** See clause 3.11 of ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1
[1].
**Trunking Media GateWay (TMGW): H.248 Media Gateway (MGW) part of the TGW**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3GPP 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project
CAS Channel Associated Signalling
CN Core Network
CS Circuit-Switched
CSN Circuit-Switched Network
DTMF Dual Tone Multi Frequency
FFS For Further Study
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IM IP Multimedia
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
ISUP ISDN User Part (SS7)
MG/MGW Media GateWay
MGC Media Gateway Controller
MGCF MGC Function
NGN New Generation Networks
PDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy
PES PSTN/ISDN Emulation Subsystem
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
PT Payload Type
R1 (ETSI TISPAN NGN) Release 1
RFC Request For Comment (IETF)
RTCP RTP Control Protocol
RTP Real-Time Transport Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SONET Synchronous Optical NETwork
SS Silence Suppression
SS7 Signalling System no. 7
TDM Time Division Multiplexing
TGW Trunking GateWay
TISPAN Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking
TMGW Trunking MGW
TS Technical Specification (3GPP, ETSI)
VBD VoiceBand Data
# 4 Applicability
## 4.1 Architecture
Figure 1 illustrates the architecture assumed in the present document. It is
assumed that call control signalling on the PSTN/ISDN side is ISUP [24], while
the call/session control signalling on the IP side is SIP. The SIP is defined
by RFC 3261 [23].
Figure 1: Reference architecture
The reference architecture applies to both PSTN/ISDN Simulation (IMS
Architecture; ETSI TISPAN IMS) and Emulation Subsystem (ETSI TISPAN PES).
# 5 Profile description
## 5.1 Profile identification
Table 1: Profile version
* * *
Profile name etsi_tgw Version 1
* * *
## 5.2 Summary
This Profile describes the minimum mandatory settings and procedures required
to fulfil the media gateway control requirements for the interworking scenario
between NGN subsystems and PSTN/ISDN (i.e. ETSI PES-PSTN/ISDN and ETSI IMS-
PSTN/ISDN).
## 5.3 Gateway control protocol version
ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3] shall be the minimum version supported.
Support of this version implies conformance to ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1
[3] and implementation of the corrections available in the latest version of
the H.248 Implementors\' Guide for Version 2.
The ETSI TISPAN Profile conforms to the Profile Template as specified in ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 [1] Appendix III. The value ALL specified in the
template is according to ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 [3].
## 5.4 Connection model
Table 2: Connection Model
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number of contexts | No restrictions | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number of Terminations | 2 | | per context | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Allowed Terminations type | TDM and IMS/NGN. | | combinations in a Context | | | | Allowed context configurations | | | are | | | | | | - Context [a] (IMS/NGN, TDM), | | | | | | - Context [b] (TDM, TDM) | | | | | | - Context [c] (TDM) | | | | | | - Context [d] (IMS/NGN) | | | | | | (see note) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE: Context configurations | | | with a single termination | | | (either IMS/NGN or TDM) | | | represent transient scenarios | | | that are in line with TS 129 163 | | | [27] procedures. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.5 Context attributes
Table 3a: Context Attributes
* * *
Context Attribute Supported Values Supported Topology Optional (see note) All
Priority Indicator Yes 0 to 15 Emergency Indicator Yes Not Applicable NOTE:
The \"Topology\" attribute is optional for example support of monitoring. If
requested and not supported error code 444 shall be returned.
* * *
Table 3b: AND/OR Context Attributes
* * *
AND/OR Context Attribute No Not applicable NOTE: This table is for ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 [1] only, so it does not apply to ETSI TISPAN Profile
but the entry is kept to maintain the template layout.
* * *
## 5.6 Terminations
### 5.6.1 Termination names
The Termination ID structure is provisioned in the MGC and MG and is known by
the MG and the MGC at or before start up.
The following general structure of TerminationID shall be used:
  * ABNF coding:
TerminationID = \"ROOT\" / pathName / \"\$\" / \"*\" ; according to H.248.1
annex B.
#### 5.6.1.1 Termination naming convention for TDM terminations
A hierarchical naming structure is recommended for physical Terminations.
  * ABNF coding:
The PCMsystem is recommended to follow the following physical and digital
signal hierarchy:
PCMsytem = \_\/\_\/...
The \ identifies the particular hierarchy level.
Some example values of \ are:
  * \"s\", \"su\", \"stm4\", \"stm1\", \"oc3\", \"ds3\", \"e3\", \"ds2\", \"e2\", \"ds1\", \"e1\"\ where \"s\" indicates a slot number and \"su\" indicates a sub-unit within a slot.
Leading zeroes MUST NOT be used in any of the numbers (\"#\") above.
The \ is a decimal number which is used to reference a particular
instance of a \ at that level of the hierarchy. Value ranges always
starting with one.
The number of levels and naming of those levels is based on the physical
hierarchy within the Media Gateway.
Here are some examples of the Termination structure:
1) TDM Terminations at SDH STM-1 ports:
  * tdm/s_\/stm1_\/e1_\/\
  * e.g. tdm/s_2/stm1_3/e1_17/25
2) TDM Terminations at PDH E1 ports (e.g. for \"PCM system\" only
applications):
  * tdm/s_\/e1_\/\
  * e.g. tdm/s_2/e1_17/25
NOTE 1: This Termination naming convention may be used to align with 3GPP TDM
Termination names as defined by TS 129 332 [2] and TS 129 232 [25]. The
alignment takes into account the numbering scheme of \"\\" with the
3GPP \"PCM system\" field, and the upper level(s) are regarded as prefix
(\"tdm/s-\\" versus 3GPP \"s\" 3-bit codepoint for \"TDM\").
NOTE 2: See also clause 3 of ITU-T Recommendation H.248.33 [29] concerning
\"PCM system\" definition.
3) TDM Terminations at SONET OC-3 ports:
  * tdm/s_\/oc3_\/ds1_\/\
  * e.g. tdm/s_2/oc3_3/ds1_17/22
##### 5.6.1.1.1 Syntactical specification
The syntax specification may be used for the population of valid TDM
TerminationID structures for the present document and TS 129 332 [2].
##### 5.6.1.1.1.1 ABNF Grammar for H.248 Text Encoding Mode {#abnf-grammar-
for-h.248-text-encoding-mode .H6}
ABNF (RFC 4234 [26]) is used for the syntax specification.
ABNF coding:
pathName = TDMToken SLASH (PCMsystem / \"*\")
TDMToken = \"tdm\"
PCMsystem = 0*(HierarchyLevelHIGHToken SLASH) HierarchyLevelLOWToken
HierarchyLevelHIGHToken = (UnitTypeToken \"_\" UnitNumber)
HierarchyLevelLOWToken = (UnitTypeToken \"_\" Wildcard) / Channel / Wildcard
UnitTypeToken = \"ChassisToken\" / \"SDHToken\" / \"SONETToken\" /
\"PDHToken\"
ChassisToken = \"s\" / \"su\" ; slot, sub-unit within slot
SDHToken = \"stm4\" / \"stm1\" ; relevant is capacity, but not\ electrical or
optical interface type
SONETToken = \"oc12\" / \"oc3\"
PDHToken = \"ds3\" / \"e3\" / \"ds2\" / \"e2\" /\"ds1\" / \"e1\" ; ANSI & ETSI
UnitNumber = 1*DIGIT
Channel = %d0-31 / %d0-23 ; value range E1/T1 system
Wildcard = \"*\"
##### 5.6.1.1.2 Wildcarding
Wildcarding (CHOOSE, ALL) is allowed for number fields (\"**\ **\").
Examples for wildcarding:
1) TDM Terminations at SDH STM-1 ports:
  * e.g. wildcarding on top level: **tdm/***
  * e.g. wildcarding on slot level: **tdm/s_3/***
  * e.g. wildcarding on STM-1 level: **tdm/s_3/stm1_4/***
  * e.g. wildcarding on E1 level: **tdm/s_2/stm1_4/e1_49/***
4) TDM Terminations at PDH E1 ports:
  * e.g. wildcarding on E1 level: **tdm/s_1/e1_2/***
##### 5.6.1.1.3 Heterogeneous TMGW port configurations
A homogeneous TMGW port configuration relates to an MG with a single port type
for physical Terminations. There is therefore a single TDM Termination name
structure in use.
Heterogeneous TMGWs may support different port types, either by different
signal hierarchies, like SDH/STM-1 and SDH/STM-4, and/or a mix of SDH and PDH
interfaces. The number of port types in use is determining the number of TDM
Termination name structures. In a heterogeneous TMGW the TDM Termination name
structure may be aligned, for instance, by using the \"highest common digital
signal hierarchy\" as highest Termination name hierarchical level. There is
consequently a single TDM Termination name structure with a \"flatted\"
hierarchy.
EXAMPLE: TMGW with SDH/STM-1 and PDH/E1 ports. Common denominator is \"e1\", a
selected TDM Termination name might be therefore a common two-level structure
with \"**tdm/e1_\ /\**\". The unit types \"s\", \"su\" or
\"stm1\" are not used here.
NOTE: This concept is followed in 3GPP Release 6 for TDM Terminations (see
clause 5.2.2 of TS 129 332 [2]).
#### 5.6.1.2 Termination naming convention for IMS/NGN terminations
ABNF coding:
  * ephemeral/\
```{=html}
``` \- e.g. Ephemeral/1/0/40000
##### 5.6.1.2.1 Syntactical specification
The syntax rules may be used for the population of valid ephemeral
TerminationID structures for the present document and TS 129 332 [2].
##### 5.6.1.2.1.1 ABNF Grammar for H.248 text encoding mode {#abnf-grammar-
for-h.248-text-encoding-mode-1 .H6}
ABNF (RFC 4234 [26]) is used for the syntax specification.
ABNF coding:
pathName = EphToken SLASH EPHsystem
EphToken = \"Ephemeral\" ; so called prefix
The maximum length of \"pathname\" is defined in annex B.2 of ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 [3].
EPHsystem = 0*(HierarchyLevelHIGHToken SLASH) HierarchyLevelLOWToken
HierarchyLevelHIGHToken = 1*alphanum
HierarchyLevelLOWToken = Individual / Wildcard
alphanum = ALPHA / DIGIT
Individual = 1*DIGIT
Wildcard = \"\$\" / \"*\"
### 5.6.2 Multiplexed Terminations
Table 4: Multiplexed Terminations
* * *
Multiplex Terminations supported No
* * *
## 5.7 Descriptors
### 5.7.1 Stream Descriptor
Table 5: Stream Descriptors
* * *
Maximum number of streams per Termination type 1
* * *
#### 5.7.1.1 LocalControl Descriptor
Table 6: LocalControl Descriptor
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Termination Type   Stream Type
Reserve group used No  
Reserve value used Yes (see note) Terminations Toward IMS/NGN Not Applicable
NOTE: The \"Reserve value\" parameter is, among others, required for
negotiation of multiple payload types, for instance ITU-T Recommendation G.711
(see bibliography), comfort noise (according ITU-T Recommendation G.711
Appendix II), DTMF tone relay (see RFC 2833 [13]).
* * *
Table 7: Stream Mode
* * *
Termination Type Stream Type Allowed StreamMode Values TDM Not Applicable
SendOnly, RecvOnly, SendRecv, Inactive IMS/NGN; (see note) Not Applicable
SendOnly, RecvOnly, SendRecv, Inactive NOTE: Covers both 3GPP IMS and non-3GPP
IMS.
* * *
### 5.7.2 Events Descriptor
Table 8: Events Descriptor
* * *
Events settable on Termination Types and Stream Types Yes  
Event ID Termination Type Stream Type g/sc TDM Not Applicable ct/cmp TDM Not
Applicable chp/mgcon ROOT Not Applicable ocp/mg_overload ROOT Not Applicable
it/ito ROOT Not Applicable
* * *
Table 9: EventBuffer Control
* * *
EventBuffer Control used No
* * *
Table 10: Keep active
* * *
Keepactive used on events No
* * *
Table 11: Embedded events
* * *
Embedded events in an EventsDescriptor No
* * *
Table 12: Embedded signals
* * *
Embedded signals in an EventsDescriptor No
* * *
### 5.7.3 EventBuffer Descriptor
_Table 13: Event Buffer Descriptor_
* * *
Event Buffer descriptor used No
* * *
### 5.7.4 Signals Descriptor
Table 14: Signals Descriptor
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Yes | | | | | settable | | | | | | dependant | Signals on | | | | | on | ROOT | | | | | Termination | Termination | | | | | or streams | shall not | | | | | types | be | | | | | | supported | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | If yes | | **Signal | ** |** Stream | | | | ID**| Termination | Type / ID** | | | | | Type** | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | cg/rt | TDM | Not | | | | | | Applicable | | | | cg/bt | | | | | | | | | | | | cg/ct | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | an/apf | ALL except | Not | | | | | ROOT | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ct/* | TDM | Not | | | | | | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | an/apf | TDM | Not | | | | | | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 15: Signal lists
* * *
Signals Lists supported No
* * *
Table 16: Signal type and duration
* * *
Signal type and duration supported No
* * *
Table 17: Notify completion
* * *
Notify completion supported Yes  
If yes Signal ID Type of completion supported an/apf TO, EV, SD and NC
RequestID Parameter Supported No
* * *
Table 18: Signals played simultaneously
* * *
Signals played simultaneously No
* * *
Table 19: Keep active
* * *
Keepactive used on signals No
* * *
### 5.7.5 DigitMap Descriptor
_Table 20: DigitMap Descriptor_
* * *
DigitMaps supported No
* * *
### 5.7.6 Statistics Descriptor
_Table 21: Statistics Descriptor_
+---------------------------------+--------------------------------+ | Statistics reported on subtract | No (for TDM Terminations) | | | | | | Yes (for IMS/NGN Terminations) | +---------------------------------+--------------------------------+
### 5.7.7 ObservedEvents Descriptor
_Table 22: Observed Events Descriptor_
* * *
Event detection time supported No
* * *
### 5.7.8 Topology Descriptor
_Table 23: Topology Descriptor_
* * *
Allowed triples Optional (All) (see note) NOTE: If not supported then error
code 444 shall be returned.
* * *
### 5.7.9 Error Descriptor
Table 24: MGC Supported Error Codes sent by MGC
* * *
Supported ITU-T Recommendation H.248.8 [6] Error Codes FFS Supported Error
Codes defined in packages FFS
* * *
Table 25: TMGW Supported Error Codes sent by TMGW
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Supported | ALL with exception of· | | ITU-T Recommendation H.248.8 | | | [6] Error Codes | #460 \"Unable to set statistic | | | on stream\" | | | | | | #518 \"Event buffer full\" | | | | | | #519 \"Out of space to store | | | digit map\" | | | | | | #520 \"Digit Map undefined in | | | the MG\" | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Supported Error Codes defined in | All error codes defined in | | packages | supported packages need to be | | | supported. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.8 Command API
NOTE: It is assumed that an Error Descriptor may be returned in any command
reply.
### 5.8.1 Add
Table 26: Descriptors used by Command Add Request
* * *
Descriptors used by Add Request Events, Signals, Media (LocalControl, Local
and Remote), Audit, Topology.
* * *
Table 27: Descriptors used by Command Add Reply
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+ | Descriptors used by Add Reply | Events, Signals, Media | | | (LocalControl, Local and Remote), | | | Audit, Topology. | | | | | | When command request excludes an | | | Audit Descriptor, the MGW response | | | shall only include descriptors | | | which contained underspecified or | | | overspecified properties in the | | | command request, with the exception | | | of the Error Descriptor. | | | Furthermore, only those properties | | | that were underspecified or | | | overspecified in the request shall | | | be sent in the reply. | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------------+
### 5.8.2 Modify
Table 28: Descriptors used by Command Modify Request
* * *
Descriptors used by Modify Request Events, Signals, Media (LocalControl, Local
and Remote), Audit, Topology.
* * *
Table 29: Descriptors used by Command Modify Reply
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Descriptors used by Modify Reply | Events, Signals, Media | | | (LocalControl, Local and | | | Remote), Audit, Topology. | | | | | | When command request excludes an | | | Audit Descriptor, the MGW | | | response shall only include | | | descriptors which contained | | | underspecified or overspecified | | | properties in the command | | | request, with the exception of | | | the Error Descriptor. | | | Furthermore, only those | | | properties that were | | | underspecified or overspecified | | | in the request shall be sent in | | | the reply. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.8.3 Subtract
Table 30: **Descriptors used by** Command Subtract Request
* * *
Descriptors used by Subtract Request Audit (empty) or NONE
* * *
Table 31: **Descriptors used by** Command Subtract Reply
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Descriptors used by Subtract | None or Statistics | | Reply | | | | When command request contains | | | \"Audit(empty)\", then no | | | statistics are returned. | | | Otherwise, connection statistics | | | are returned in the Subtract | | | reply dependent on the supported | | | packages (see clause 5.14). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 5.8.4 Move
Table 32: Command Move
* * *
Move Command used No
* * *
### 5.8.5 AuditValue
Table 33: AuditValue
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Properties | Property Name and | Descriptor | | | Identity | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Termination ID | TerminationState | TerminationState | | | | Descriptor | | | -TDM ALL or | | | | individual | | | | Termination (see | | | | note) | | | | | | | | - Ephemeral | | | | individual | | | | Termination | | | | | | | | The ServiceState | | | | property within the | | | | TerminationState | | | | descriptor shall not | | | | take the value | | | | \"Test\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | - MGC information | LocalControl | | | (mgcinfo) | Descriptor | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Termination ID | For Packages | Packages Descriptor | | | | | | | - Root | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Statistics | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Signals | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audited Events | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Packages Audit | Yes | | | Possible | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: The purpose is | | | | to audit an | | | | individual | | | | Termination is to | | | | retrieve MGC | | | | Information if | | | | supported. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.8.6 AuditCapabilities
AuditCapabilities command is not supported by the ETSI TISPAN Profile.
_Table 34: AuditCapabilities_
* * *
Audited Properties Property Name and Identity Descriptor None None Audited
Statistics None  
Audited Signals None  
Audited Events None
* * *
### 5.8.7 Notify
Table 35: Descriptors Used By Notify
* * *
Descriptors used by Notify Request ObservedEvents
* * *
Table 36: Descriptors Used By Notify
* * *
Descriptors used by Notify Reply None
* * *
### 5.8.8 ServiceChange
Table 37: Service Change Methods and Reasons sent by MGC
+-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | ServiceChange Methods supported | ServiceChange Reasons supported | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Methods (see note) | 900-907, | | | | | - Graceful | 915 | | | | | - Forced | | | | | | - Restart | | | | | | When a Service Change command on | | | the Root Termination with a | | | method other than Graceful is | | | sent, the command shall always be | | | sent as the only command in a | | | message. The sending node shall | | | always wait for the reply to a | | | Service Change command on the | | | Root Termination with a method | | | other than Graceful before | | | sending further command requests. | | | A Service Change command on the | | | Root Termination with method | | | Graceful may be combined with | | | other commands in a single | | | message. | | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | NOTE: No support of handoff | | | relates to a network deployment | | | scenario with \"primary H.248 | | | systems only\", which translates | | | to no geographic redundancy of | | | the MGC. | | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+
Table 38: ServiceChange Methods and Reasons sent by MGW
+-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | ServiceChange Methods supported | ServiceChange Reasons supported | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | Methods (see note) | 900-908, | | | | | - Graceful | 910-917 | | | | | - Forced | | | | | | - Restart | | | | | | - Disconnected | | | | | | When a Service Change command on | | | the Root Termination with a | | | method other than Graceful is | | | sent, the command shall always be | | | sent as the only command in a | | | message. The sending node shall | | | always wait for the reply to a | | | Service Change command on the | | | Root Termination with a method | | | other than Graceful before | | | sending further command requests. | | | A Service Change command on the | | | Root Termination with method | | | Graceful may be combined with | | | other commands in a single | | | message. | | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+ | NOTE: No support of handoff | | | relates to a network deployment | | | scenario with \"primary H.248 | | | systems only\", which translates | | | to no geographic redundancy of | | | the MGC. | | +-----------------------------------+---------------------------------+
Table 39: Service Change Address
* * *
ServiceChangeAddress used No
* * *
Table 40: Service Change Delay
* * *
ServiceChangeDelay used No
* * *
Table 41: Service Change Incomplete Flag
* * *
ServiceChange Incomplete Flag used No NOTE: This parameter is for ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.1 [3] only, so it does not apply to ETSI TISPAN Profile
but the entry is kept to maintain the profile template sequence.
* * *
Table 42: Service Change Version
* * *
Version used in ServiceChangeVersion 2
* * *
_Table 42a: ServiceChangeProfile Parameter_
* * *
ServiceChangeProfile parameter Yes, with ProfileID according to clause 5.1.
* * *
Table 43: Profile negotiation
* * *
Profile negotiation as per\ No ITU-T Recommendation H.248.8 [6]
* * *
### 5.8.9 Manipulating and auditing context attributes
_Table 44: Manipulating and auditing context attributes_
* * *
Context Attributes Manipulated Topology (Optional) Context Attributes Audited
None
* * *
## 5.9 Generic command syntax and encoding
_Table 45: Encodings_
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | Supported Encodings | Text (see note) | | | | | | The receiver shall support | | | | | | Short Token Notation | | | | | | Long Token Notation | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+ | NOTE: Binary encoding is not supported | | | by ETSI TISPAN NGN R1. | | +----------------------------------------+----------------------------+
## 5.10 Transactions
Table 46: Transactions per Message
* * *
Maximum number of TransactionRequests / TransactionReplies / TransResponseAcks
/ Segment Replies per message 2 (see note) NOTE: When two elements are
conveyed in one message, it is recommended that this message comprises a
Transaction Request / Transaction Reply / Transaction Pending plus a
Transaction Response Ack.
* * *
Table 47: Commands per Transaction Requests
* * *
Maximum number of commands per Transaction request 2 NOTE: The limit of 2
commands is per action and only one action will be included per transaction.
The only exception is AuditValue command which may be in multiple actions in
one transaction.
* * *
Table 48: Commands per Transaction Reply
* * *
Maximum number of commands per Transaction reply 2 NOTE: The limit of 2
commands is per action and only one action will be included per transaction.
The only exception is AuditValue command which may be in multiple actions in
one transaction.
* * *
Table 49: Optional Commands
* * *
Commands able to be marked \"Optional\" AuditValue
* * *
Table 50: Transaction Timers
* * *
Transaction Timer Value NormalMGExecutionTime Provisioned, changeable with
Base Root Package (clause 5.14.1) NormalMGCExecutionTime Provisioned,
changeable with Base Root Package (clause 5.14.1) MGOriginatedPendingLimit
Provisioned, changeable with Base Root Package (clause 5.14.1)
MGCOriginatedPendingLimit Provisioned, changeable with Base Root Package
(clause 5.14.1) MGProvisionalResponseTimerValue Provisioned, changeable with
Base Root Package (clause 5.14.1) MGCProvisionalResponseTimerValue
Provisioned, changeable with Base Root Package (clause 5.14.1)
* * *
## 5.11 Messages
_It is recommended that MGC and MG names are in the form of fully qualified
domain names. For example the domain name of the MGC may be of the form
mgc1.whatever.net and the name of the MG may be of the form
mg1.whatever.net.The fully qualified domain name will be used by the MGC and
MG as part of the \"Message Identifier\" in the H.248 messages which
identifies the originator of the message._
## 5.12 Transport
Table 51: Transport
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Supported Transports | SCTP (recommended - as defined | | | in RFC 2960 [18] and ITU-T | | | Recommendation H.248.4 [4] and | | | Corrigendum 1 to H.248.4 [28]; | | | see note 1), | | | | | | SCTP/M3UA (optional - as defined | | | in RFC 3332 [17] with options | | | detailed in TS 129 202 [20]; | | | see note 2), | | | | | | UDP (optional - as defined in | | | RFC 768 [19] optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: H.248 is \"SCTP user\" | | | in this case of H.248/SCTP/IP | | | based transport according\ | | | ITU-T Recommendation H.248.4 | | | [4]. The number of used SCTP | | | Streams for traffic of the H.248 | | | Control Association must be | | | defined, see clause 8 of ITU-T | | | Recommendation H.248.4 [4]. A | | | single SCTP Stream is the | | | default assumption | | | (\"Single-Stream Mode\") in this | | | Profile. The Single-Stream Mode | | | does correspond to the UDP based | | | (ITU-T Recommendation | | | H.248.1 [3] annex D.1), TCP | | | based\ | | | (ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 | | | [1], annex D.2) and M3UA/SCTP | | | based (TS 129 202 [20], | | | annex A and\ | | | ITU-T Recommendation H.248.4 | | | Corrigendum 1 [28];) from | | | multiplexing point of view. | | | There is a 1:1-relation between | | | the ITU‑T Recommendation H.248 | | | Control Association and the | | | underlying transport connection. | | | | | | NOTE 2: This is slightly | | | different with regards to SCTP | | | encapsulation. H.248 is \"M3UA | | | user\" in this case of | | | H.248/M3UA/SCTP/IP based | | | transport. H.248 Messages are | | | corresponding to M3UA user | | | protocol data units. \"SCTP | | | multistreaming\" may be also | | | applied (see clause 1.4.7 of | | | RFC 3332 [17]). If not then | | | the complete M3UA traffic is | | | mapped on a single SCTP Stream, | | | i.e. the Single-Stream Mode. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
SCTP Stream Mapping for SCTP based transport: Support of SCTP multistreaming
implies an agreed assignment scheme between MGC and MG, for the mapping of
H.248 signalling traffic into SCTP Streams within an SCTP association. There
is no recommended assignment scheme provided by ITU-T Recommendation H.248.4
[4], and there is no recommended assignment scheme by this Profile version.
This is therefore for further study.
Table 52: Transport Segmentation
* * *
Segmentation Supported No
* * *
Table 53: Support of Control Association Monitoring
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Control Association Monitoring | Monitoring mechanism is | | Supported | dependent on used H.248 | | | transport (see table 5.12/1): | | | | | | SCTP:\ | | | inherent capability of SCTP | | | | | | SCTP/M3UA:\ | | | inherent capability of SCTP | | | | | | UDP: | | | | | | H.248.14 (MG-driven monitoring) | | | | | | Empty AuditValue on ROOT | | | (MGC-driven monitoring) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 5.13 Security
_Table 54: Security_
* * *
Supported Security None
* * *
## 5.14 Packages
Table 55: Mandatory packages
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Package Name | Package ID | Version | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Base Root Package (see | root | v2 | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3], annex E.2); | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | TDM Circuit Package (see | tdmc | v1 | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3], annex E.13) | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Basic Continuity Package\ | ct | v1 | | (see ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3], annex E.10) | Only required for TDM | | | | Terminations. | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
Table 56: Optional packages
+---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Package Name | Package ID | Version | Support dependent | | | | | on | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Generic v1 (see | g | v1 | Required for signal | | ITU-T | | | completion of | | Recommendation | | | announcements. | | H.248.1 [3], | | | | | annex E.1) | | | | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Generic | an | v1 | | | Announcement | | | | | Package\ | | | | | (see I | | | | | TU-T Recommendation | | | | | H.248.7 [5]) | | | | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Tone Generator | tongen | v1 | This package is | | Package\ | | | \"extension only\". | | (see ITU-T | | | It must be | | Recommendation | | | supported if | | H.248.1 [3], | | | extended but shall | | annex E.3). | | | not be published | | | | | over the protocol. | | | | | It is here for | | | | | information only. | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Call Progress Tones | cg | v1 | | | Generator Package\ | | | | | (see I | | | | | TU-T Recommendation | | | | | H.248.1 [3] annex | | | | | E.7). | | | | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Media Gateway | chp | v1 | ITU-T | | Resource Congestion | | | Recommendation | | Handling Package | | | H.248.10 [7] | | (see ITU-T | | | support is supposed | | Recommendation | | | for NGN | | H.248.10 [7]). | | | environments with | | | | | backward | | | | | compatibility to TS | | | | | 129 332 [2] | | | | | Release 6 | | | | | equipment. | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Media Gateway | ocp | v1 | ITU-T | | Overload Control | | | Recommendation | | Package\ | | | H.248.11 [8] is | | (see I | | | recommend for all | | TU-T Recommendation | | | other NGN scenarios | | H.248.11 [8]). | | | (without above\ | | | | | ITU-T | | | | | Recommendation | | | | | H.248.10 [7] | | | | | support condition). | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | Inactivity Timer\ | it | v1 | Only applicable for | | (se | | | UDP transport. | | e ITU-T Recommendat | | | | | ion H.248.14 [9]) | | | | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | MGC Information\ | mgcinfo | v1 | This package may be | | (see I | | | supported as an | | TU-T Recommendation | | | operator option. | | H.248.45 [10]) | | | | | | | | For this Profile | | | | | the information | | | | | string shall be | | | | | limited to 32 | | | | | octets in length. | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | RTP | rtp | v1 | Used by the MG for | | (ITU-T Rec | | | connections | | ommendation H.248.1 | | | statistics. | | [3], annex E.12) | | | | | (see note) | | | | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+ | NOTE: Support of | | | | | RTP Package does | | | | | not require support | | | | | of Network Package | | | | | for the ETSI TISPAN | | | | | TGW Profile. | | | | +---------------------+------------+---------+---------------------+
Table 57: Package Provisioning Information
* * *
Package Provisioning Information
Package Name Property, Parameter, Signal, Event ID Provisioned Value
Generic Announcement\ Fixed Announcement Play, AV Provisioned (ITU-T
Recommendation H.248.7 [5])
* * *
### 5.14.1 Base root package
Table 58: Base root Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ro | O | AUDITVALUE | 1 and up | - | | ot/maxNumbe | | | | | | rOfContexts | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | root/ma | O | AUDITVALUE | 2 | - | | xTerminatio | | | | | | nPerContext | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | root | O | MOD | Any | Not | | /normalMGEx | | | | | | ecutionTime | | | integer | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | root/ | O | MOD | Any | Not | | normalMGCEx | | | | | | ecutionTime | | | integer | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | roo | O | MOD | Any | Not | | t/MGProvisi | | | | | | onalRespons | | | integer | Applicable | | eTimerValue | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | root | O | MOD | Any | Not | | /MGCProvisi | | | | | | onalRespons | | | integer | Applicable | | eTimerValue | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | root/MGC | O | MOD | Any | Not | | OriginatedP | | | | | | endingLimit | | | integer | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | root/MG | O | MOD | Any | Not | | OriginatedP | | | | | | endingLimit | | | integer | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.2 TDM circuit package
Table 59: TDM circuit Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Echo | M | ADD, MOD | ALL | - | | Ca | | | | | | ncellation, | | | | | | tdmc/ec | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.3 Media gateway resource congestion handling package
Table 60: Media gateway resource congestion handling package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MGCon, | M | MOD, NOTIFY | | | | chp/mgcon | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Reduction, | M | 0-100 | Not | | | | | | Applicable | | | ** | | | | | | reduction** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.4 Media gateway overload control package
Table 61: Media gateway overload control package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/\ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | Optional | command | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/\ | Used in | Duration | | | | Optional | command | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/\ | Supported | Duration\ | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/\ | Used in | | | | | Optional | command | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | M | M | MOD, NOTIFY | | | | G_Overload | | | | | | | | | | | | ocp/m | | | | | | g_overload | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event\ | Mandatory/\ | Supported\ | Provisioned | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Obs | Mandatory/\ | Supported\ | Provisioned | | | ervedEvent\ | Optional | Values | Value | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/\ | Used in | Supported | | | | Optional | command | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.5 Basic continuity package
Table 62: Basic continuity package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Continuity | M | ADD, MOD | Default | | | Test, ct/ct | | | | | | | | | | | | Respond, | | | | | | ct/rsp | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Completion, | M/ | NOTIFY | | | | ct/cmp | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Result, res | M | success, | Not | | | | | failure | Applicable | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.6 Call progress tones generator package
Table 63: Call progress tones generator package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ringing | M | MOD | Not | | | Tone, | | | Applicable | | | | | | | | | cg/rt | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Busy Tone, | O | MOD | Not | | | | | | Applicable | | | cg/bt | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Congestion | O | MOD | Not | | | Tone, | | | Applicable | | | | | | | | | cg/ct | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.7 Inactivity timer package
Table 64: Inactivity timer package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | vents | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Inactivity | M | MOD, NOTIFY | | | | Timeout, | | | | | | it/ito | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Maximum | O | Any integer | Unspecified | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Time, | | | | | | | | | | | | mit | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.8 MGC information package
Table 65: MGC information package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Data Block, | M | ADD, MOD, | A range of | An empty | | MGCInfo/db | | AUDITVALUE | 0 to 32 | string | | | | | octets | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Signals** | **M |** Used in | **Duration | | | | andatory/** | command**| Provisioned | | | | | | Value** | | | | * | | | | | | _Optional_ * | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.9 Generic package
Table 66: Generic package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signal | M | NOTIFY | | | | Completion, | | | | | | g/sc | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | None | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | M | String | - | | | Identity | | indicating | | | | | | the signal | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Termination | M | \"TO\" | - | | | Method | | Signal | | | | | | | | | | | | timed out | | | | | | or | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | completed | | | | | | on its own | | | | | | | | | | | | \"EV\" | | | | | | Interrupted | | | | | | by event | | | | | | | | | | | | \"SD\" | | | | | | Halted by | | | | | | new Signals | | | | | | descriptor | | | | | | | | | | | | \"NC\" Not | | | | | | completed, | | | | | | other cause | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.10 Generic announcement package
Table 67: Generic announcement package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Fixed | M | ADD, MOD | - | | | A | | | | | | nnouncement | | | | | | play, | | | | | | an/apf | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/\ | Supported | Provisioned | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | A | M | Enumeration | Default | | | nnouncement | | of | duration | | | name, an | | an | provisioned | | | | | nouncements | in the TMGW | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Number of | O | Any integer | Default | | | cycles, noc | | | number of | | | | | | cycles | | | | | | provisioned | | | | | | in the TMGW | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | A | O | One of the | - | | | nnouncement | | language | | | | Variant, av | | tags | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | RFC 3066 | | | | | | (bi | | | | | | bliography) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | A | O | Values | External | | | nnouncement | | | | | | Direction, | | E | | | | di | | xternal,ext | | | | | | | | | | | | Internal, | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | | | | Both, both | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Event | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | | | | Value | | | Parameters | Optional | Values | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Ob | Mandatory/ | Supported | Provisioned | | | servedEvent | | | Value | | | | Optional | Values | | | | Parameters | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 5.14.11 RTP Package
Table 68: RTP Package
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Properties | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | Provisioned | | | | command | Values | Value | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Signals | Mandatory/ | Used in | Duration | | | | | command | Provisioned | | | | Optional | | Value | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | - | - | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Signal | Mandatory/ | Supported | Duration | | | Parameters | | | Provisioned | | | | Optional | Values | Value | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | - | - | - | - | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Events | Mandatory/ | Used in | | | | | | command | | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **None** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Statistics | Mandatory/ | Used in | Supported | | | | | command | Values | | | | Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Packets | M | SUBTRACT | ALL | | | Sent, | | REPLY | | | | rtp/ps | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Packets | M | SUBTRACT | ALL | | | Received, | | REPLY | | | | rtp/pr | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Packet | M | SUBTRACT | ALL | | | Loss, | | REPLY | | | | rtp/pl | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Jitter, | M | SUBTRACT | ALL | | | rtp/jit | | REPLY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Delay, | M | SUBTRACT | ALL | | | rtp/delay | | REPLY | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Error Codes | Mandato | | | | | | ry/Optional | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | None | - | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 5.15 Mandatory support of SDP and annex C information elements
**Table 69:** Supported Annex C and SDP information elements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Information element | Annex C support | SDP support | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Protocol Version | Not Applicable (see | The value must | | | note 1) | always be equal to | | \"v=\" line | | zero: | | | | | | | | v=0 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Media | Not Applicable (see | Fields (or SDP | | | note 1) | values) \, | | \"m=\" line | | \, | | | | \ and | | | | \ are | | | | required. Both | | | | static and dynamic | | | | RTP payload types | | | | shall be supported. | | | | | | | | The MGC may | | | | underspecify the | | | | \ | | | | subfield in place of | | | | a single dynamic RTP | | | | payload type. In | | | | this case the | | | | mapping between the | | | | underspecified RTP | | | | payload type and the | | | | \/\ shall be | | | | provided in the | | | | rtpmap attribute, | | | | e.g. | | | | | | | | m=audio \ RTP/AVP \$ | | | | | | | | a=rtpmap: \$ | | | | CLEARMODE/8000 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Connection | Not Applicable (see | Fields \, \ and | | \"c=\" line | | \ are | | | | required. | | | | | | | | The network type | | | | shall be \"IN\" for | | | | IP-based ephemeral | | | | Terminations. | | | | | | | | The address type may | | | | be IPv4 (value | | | | \"IP4\") or IPv6 | | | | (value \"IP6\"). The | | | | MGC will fully | | | | specify the IP | | | | version. | | | | | | | | The MGC may apply | | | | parameter | | | | underspecification | | | | to the \ sub-field | | | | (see note 2) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute(s) | Not Applicable (see | For a dynamic RTP | | | note 1) | payload type, for | | \"a=\" line | | each codec | | | | information on the | | | | codec type shall be | | | | provided in a | | | | separate SDP | | | | \"a=rtpmap\" line | | | | and possibly | | | | additional SDP | | | | \"a=fmtp\"-line(s) | | | | (see note 3). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bandwidth | Not Applicable (see | Bandwidth | | | note 1) | information shall be | | \"b=\" line | | supplied by the MGC | | | | if the required | | | | bandwidth cannot be | | | | immediately derived | | | | from the information | | | | contained in the m= | | | | line. If the MGC is | | | | using parameter | | | | underspecification, | | | | the MG shall assume | | | | a reasonable default | | | | bandwidth value for | | | | well-known codecs | | | | and shall provide | | | | this value in the | | | | reply sent to the | | | | MGC. The | | | | \ field | | | | shall be set to | | | | \"AS\". The | | | | \field | | | | shall be set to the | | | | maximum bandwidth | | | | requirement of the | | | | media stream in | | | | kilobits per seconds | | | | (kbit/s) and shall | | | | take into account | | | | all protocol headers | | | | down to and | | | | including the IP | | | | layer. | | | | | | | | The MGC may also | | | | supply additional | | | | RTCP bandwidth | | | | modifiers | | | | (i.e., \"RR\" and | | | | \"RS\") as defined | | | | in RFC 3556 [16]. | | | | If the RTCP | | | | modifiers are not | | | | supplied, the | | | | bandwidth value for | | | | the \"AS\" modifier | | | | shall take into | | | | account an extra 5 % | | | | bandwidth for RTCP | | | | packets. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Origin | Not Applicable (see | The origin line | | | note 1) | consists of six | | \"o=\" line | | fields | | | | (\, | | | | \, | | | | \, | | | | \, | | | | \ and | | | | \). | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it (see | | | | clause 7.1.8 of | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG should | | | | populate this line | | | | as follows, e.g. | | | | | | | | o=- 0 0 IN IP4 | | | | 11.9.19.65 | | | | | | | | or use the value | | | | received from the | | | | MGC. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Session Name | Not Applicable (see | The session name | | | note 1) | \"s=\" line contains | | \"s=\" line | | a single field | | | | (\). | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it | | | | (see clause 7.1.8 of | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG should | | | | populate this line | | | | as follows, e.g. | | | | | | | | s=- | | | | | | | | or use the value | | | | received from the | | | | MGC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time | Not Applicable (see | The time \"t=\" line | | | note 1) | consists of two | | \"t=\" line | | fields(\ and \). | | | | | | | | The MGC is not | | | | required to supply | | | | this line but shall | | | | accept it | | | | (see clause 7.1.8 of | | | | ITU-T Recommendation | | | | H.248.1 [3]). | | | | | | | | The MG should | | | | populate this line | | | | as follows, e.g. | | | | | | | | t=0 0 | | | | | | | | or use the value | | | | received from the | | | | MGC. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Binary | | | | encoding is not | | | | supported by ETSI | | | | TISPAN NGN R1. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The address | | | | type may be IPv4 or | | | | IPv6. The default IP | | | | version (i.e. IPv4 | | | | or IPv6) may be | | | | provisioned in the | | | | H.248 MG. The MGC | | | | may apply H.248 | | | | parameter | | | | underspecification. | | | | If the MGC does | | | | require a different | | | | IP version than the | | | | provisioned default, | | | | then the MGC applies | | | | complete H.248 | | | | parameter | | | | specification. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: How to | | | | specify different | | | | ptime values for | | | | different codecs | | | | when the m= line | | | | specifies multiple | | | | payload formats is | | | | outside the scope of | | | | the present | | | | document. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.15.1 Codec parameters
#### 5.15.1.1 AMR Codec
See the description in TS 129 332 [2], clause 10.2.1.
#### 5.15.1.2 G.711 Codec
On IMS/NGN Terminations, G.711 codec is transported according to RFC 3551
[11].
#### 5.15.1.3 DTMF codec
See the description in TS 129 332 [2], clause 10.2.2.
#### 5.15.1.4 Clearmode codec
On IMS/NGN Terminations, Clearmode codec is transported according to RFC 4040
[15].
When the MGC determines that a 64 kbit/s unrestricted bearer service is
requested, the clearmode codec shall be used. A Dynamic Payload type with
CLEARMODE as encoding name shall be included in both the local and remote
descriptor.
The behaviour of the TMGW shall then conform to RFC 4040 [15]. All voice and
signal processing functions such as silence suppression, comfort noise
insertion and gain adjustment shall be automatically turned off. The MG shall
inherit the same QoS objectives as the ISDN bearer service.
#### 5.15.1.5 Silence suppression and comfort noise
Silence Suppression (SS) mode is direction-independent and shall be supported
call/bearer individually. Silence suppression mode must be explicitly enabled
and disabled. Default shall be a disabled SS mode.
If a codec has built-in support for silence suppression and comfort noise
insertion, the activation or deactivation of these features shall be indicated
using the a= line according to RFC 3551 [11] and RFC 3555 [12].
If the selected codec does not have built in support for silence suppression
and comfort noise (CN) insertion, the CN payload code defined in RFC 3389 [14]
may be included in the media description.
E.g. (for ITU-T Recommendation G.711 A-law codec):
v=0
c=IN \ \
m=audio \ RTP/AVP 8 13
a=ptime: 10
If the CN payload is included in the Local Descriptor, the TMGW shall be
prepared to receive CN packets during silence periods. This action corresponds
to an implicit enabling of the SS mode in receiving direction.
If the CN payload is included in the Remote Descriptor, the TMGW shall send CN
packets during silence periods. This action corresponds to an implicit
enabling of the SS mode in sending direction.
Comfort noise generation, voice activity detection and discontinuous
transmission algorithms are outside the scope of the present document.
#### 5.15.1.6 VBD codec
Voiceband data refers to traffic from facsimile, modem or text telephony
applications.
On IMS/NGN Terminations, voiceband data traffic is transported according to
ITU-T Recommendation V.152 [21] and [22]. ITU-T Recommendation G.711
(bibliography) must be used as VBD codec. The RTP Payload Type (PT) codepoint,
\"0\" or \"8\" or a value from the dynamic PT range , is used in the MG.
NOTE 1: Use of \"0\" or \"8\" is indicating to the MG that only inband-based
VBD stimuli is detected. Both peering MGs are consequently not directly
synchronized in their state transitions between \"voice\" and \"VBD\" modes.
NOTE 2: Use of \"a value from the dynamic PT range\" is indicating a VBD RTP
packet according to\ ITU-T Recommendation V.152 [21]. The MG may offer then an
enhanced VBD service.
Upon detection of voiceband data traffic, the Media Gateway shall autonomously
switch from Audio mode to VBD mode with VBD codec.
Transitioning between Audio mode and VBD mode is possible in both directions.
The procedures for transitioning between these two operation modes are
described in clause 10 of ITU-T Recommendation V.152 [21]. Any state
transition requires the detection of a \"VBD stimuli\" (see clause 9 of ITU-T
Recommendation V.152 [21]).
## 5.16 Procedures
### 5.16.1 Call Independent procedures
Call Independent Procedures defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause 14 apply to the
ETSI TISPAN Profile.
### 5.16.2 Call Dependent procedures
#### 5.16.2.1 Procedures for IMS/NGN terminations
##### 5.16.2.1.1 Reserve IMS Connection Point
This procedure is the same as the one defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause 15.1.1
with the addition that connection statistics may be inhibited via the
inclusion of an empty Statistics Descriptor.
##### 5.16.2.1.2 Configure IMS/NGN resources
This procedure is the same as the one defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause
15.1.2.
##### 5.16.2.1.3 Reserve IMS/NGN connection point and configure remote
resources
This procedure is the same as the one defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause 15.1.3
with the addition that connection statistics may be inhibited via the
inclusion of an empty Statistics Descriptor.
##### 5.16.2.1.4 Change IMS/NGN ThroughConnection
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 15.1.1.
##### 5.16.2.1.5 Release IMS/NGN termination
This procedure is the same as the one defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause 15.1.4
with the addition that connection statistics may be obtained from the MG. In
order to not obtain the statistics, the MGC will implicitly inhibit them via
the inclusion of an empty Audit descriptor in a SUBTRACT request. The
connection statistics are applicable to the RTP package. This package is
optional and thus the MGC shall be tolerant of the absence of statistics in
the reply to a SUBTRACT command.
##### 5.16.2.1.6 Detect IMS/NGN RTP Tel Event
Not Required by the ETSI TISPAN Profile.
##### 5.16.2.1.7 Notify IMS/NGN RTP Tel Event
Not Required by the ETSI TISPAN Profile.
##### 5.16.2.1.8 Send IMS/NGN RTP Tel Event
Not Required by the ETSI TISPAN Profile.
##### 5.16.2.1.9 Stop IMS/NGN RTP Tel Event
Not Required by the ETSI TISPAN Profile.
#### 5.16.2.2 Procedures for TDM Terminations
The procedures defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause 16 apply to the ETSI TISPAN
Profile.
##### 5.16.2.2.1 Reserve TDM circuit
This procedure is the same as the one defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause
16.1.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.2 Change TDM Through-connection
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.3 Activate TDM voice processing function
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.4 Send TDM Tone
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.5 Stop TDM Tone
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.6 Play TDM announcement
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.7 TDM announcement completed
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.8 Stop TDM announcement
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.9 Continuity check
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.10 Continuity check verify
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.11 Continuity check response
This procedure is the same as the one listed in TS 129 332 [2], table 16.1.
##### 5.16.2.2.12 Release TDM termination
This procedure is the same as the one defined in TS 129 332 [2], clause
16.1.2.
###### ## Annex A (informative): TGW Interconnection on CSN side with non-SS7
equipment
There may be the requirement to interconnect in the PSTN/ISDN domain with
network elements, without a SS7-based circuit-switched interface. For
instance, CAS based trunking interfaces. The support of non-SS7-based circuit-
switched interfaces is for further studies.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Bibliography
ITU-T Recommendation H.248.2: \"Facsimile, text conversation and call
discrimination packages\".
ETSI ES 283 012 (V1.1.1): \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services
and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Interworking; Trunking Gateway
Control Procedures for interworking between NGN and external CS networks\".
IETF RFC 3066: \"Tags for the Identification of Languages\".
ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse code modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
#