# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) was been produced by ETSI Technical
Committee Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking (TISPAN) and originally published as ETSI TS 183 033 [7].
It was transferred to the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) in
December 2007.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the ETSI TISPAN endorsement of the 3GPP TS
29.228 [1] \" Cx and Dx interfaces; Signalling flows and messages contents\"
and the 3GPP TS 29.229 [2] \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx interfaces
based on the DIAMETER protocol; Protocol details\".
The present document provides the necessary adaptations to the above
specifications, in order to comply with the requirements of NGN Release 2.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
Referenced documents which are not found to be publicly available in the
expected location might be found at
[http://docbox.etsi.org/Reference]{.underline}.
For online referenced documents, information sufficient to identify and locate
the source shall be provided. Preferably, the primary source of the referenced
document should be cited, in order to ensure traceability. Furthermore, the
reference should, as far as possible, remain valid for the expected life of
the document. The reference shall include the method of access to the
referenced document and the full network address, with the same punctuation
and use of upper case and lower case letters.
NOTE: While any hyperlinks included in this clause were valid at the time of
publication ETSI cannot guarantee their long term validity.
## 2.1 Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of
the present document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies.
For non-specific references, the latest edition of the referenced document
(including any amendments) applies.
[1] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem
Cx and Dx interfaces; Signalling flows and message contents\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Cx and Dx interfaces based on
the Diameter protocol; Protocol details\".
[3] Void.
[4] IETF RFC 2617: \"HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access
Authentication\".
[5] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[6] draft-ietf-aaa-diameter-sip-app-10: \"Diameter Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) Application\".
[7] ETSI TS 183 033 V1.2.0: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); IP Multimedia;
Diameter based protocol for the interfaces between the Call Session Control
Function and the User Profile Server Function/Subscription Locator Function;
Signalling flows and protocol details [3GPP TS 29.228 V6.8.0 and 3GPP TS
29.229 V6.6.0, modified]\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AVP Attribute-Value Pair
CSCF Call Session Control Function
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
HTTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
RFC Request For Comments
S-CSCF Serving-CSCF
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
UPSF User Profile Server Function
# 4 Endorsement notice
The elements of 3GPP TS 29.228 [1] and 3GPP TS 29.229 [2] apply, with the
following modifications.
NOTE: Underlining and/or strike-out are used to highlight detailed
modifications where necessary.
# 5 Global modifications to 3GPP TS 29.228
Replace the clauses \"Scope\", \"References\" and \"Definitions, symbols and
abbreviations\" with the following three clauses (Scope, References and
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations).
##### 1 Scope {#scope-1 .H6}
The scope is endorsed with the replacement of the \"HSS\" by the \"UPSF\".
##### 2 References {#references-1 .H6}
Replace the references in [1] as shown in table 1.
Table 1: Replacement of references in 3GPP TS 29.228
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Reference in 3GPP TS | Replaced references | | | 29.228 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP | ETSI TS 182 006: | | | Multimedia (IM) | \"Telecommunications | | | Subsystem - Stage 2 | and Internet | | | \". | converged Services | | | | and Protocols for | | | | Advanced Networking | | | | (TISPAN); IP | | | | Multimedia Subsystem | | | | (IMS); Stage 2 | | | | description [3GPP | | | | TS 23.228 v7.2.0, | | | | modified]\" (note | | | | 1). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | 3GPP TS 24.228: | (note 2). | | | \"Signalling flows | | | | for the IP | | | | multimedia call | | | | control based on SIP | | | | and SDP\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | 3GPP TS 33.203: | (note 2). | | | \"Access security | | | | for IP-based | | | | services\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4 | 3GPP TS 23.002 | ETSI ES 282 001: | | | \"Network | \"Telecommunications | | | architecture\". | and Internet | | | | converged Services | | | | and Protocols for | | | | Advanced Networking | | | | (TISPAN); NGN | | | | Functional | | | | Architecture Release | | | | 1\" (note 1). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | 3GPP TS 29.229 | The present document | | | [2]: \"Cx | (note 1). | | | Interface based on | | | | Diameter - Protocol | | | | details\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 8 | 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP | ETSI ES 283 003: | | | Multimedia Call | \"Telecommunications | | | Control Protocol | and Internet | | | based on SIP and | converged Services | | | SDP\" - stage 3. | and Protocols for | | | | Advanced Networking | | | | (TISPAN); IP | | | | Multimedia Call | | | | Control Protocol | | | | based on Session | | | | Initiation Protocol | | | | (SIP) and Session | | | | Description Protocol | | | | (SDP) Stage 3 [3GPP | | | | TS 24.229 (Release | | | | 7), modified]\" | | | | (note 1). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | 3GPP TS 23.141: | ETSI TS 182 008: | | | \"Presence Service; | \"Telecommunications | | | Architecture and | and Internet | | | Functional | converged Services | | | Description\". | and Protocols for | | | | Advanced Networking | | | | (TISPAN); Presence | | | | Service; | | | | Architecture and | | | | functional | | | | description | | | | [Endorsement of | | | | 3GPP\ | | | | TS 23.141 and | | | | OMA-AD-Presen | | | | ce_SIMPLE-V1_0]\" | | | | (note 1). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | reference in [1] | | | | is replaced by the | | | | document listed on | | | | the right column. | | | | This replacement is | | | | applicable to all | | | | occurrences of the | | | | reference throughout | | | | the present | | | | document. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | reference in [1] | | | | contains 3GPP | | | | specific | | | | requirements and is | | | | not generally | | | | applicable to the | | | | present document. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
##### 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations {#definitions-symbols-and-
abbreviations .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 3.1 Definitions {#definitions .H6}
Endorsed with the replacement of the \"HSS\" by the \"UPSF\".
##### 3.2 Abbreviations {#abbreviations-1 .H6}
Replace:
HSS Home Subscriber Server
By:
UPSF User Profile Server Function
Add the following abbreviation:
NASS Network Attachment SubSystem
NOTE: Throughout the present document, all occurrences of \"HSS\" are replaced
by \"UPSF\".
##### **Throughout the text of 3GPP TS 29.228** [1] {#throughout-the-text-
of-3gpp-ts-29.228-1 .H6}
##### 4.0 Main concept {#main-concept .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 5 General Architecture {#general-architecture .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 6 Procedure Descriptions {#procedure-descriptions .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 6.3 Authentication procedures {#authentication-procedures .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
Modify as follows:
This procedure is used between the S-CSCF and the HSS to exchange information
to support the authentication between the end user and the home IMS network.
The procedure is invoked by the S-CSCF, corresponds to the combination of the
operations Cx-AV-Req and Cx-AV-Req-Resp (see 3GPP TS 33.203 [3]) and is used:
\- To retrieve authentication vectors from the HSS [for IMS-AKA
authentication.]{.underline}
\- To resolve synchronization failures between the sequence numbers in the UE
and the HSS [for IMS-AKA authentication.]{.underline}
**-** [To promote the result of the NASS-level authentication to the IMS
level.]{.underline}
Table 6.3.1 is endorsed with the following addition:
[When the S-CSCF performs the operation Cx-AV-Req, if it may not know the
authentication scheme at this point\ (e.g. in the non IMS-AKA cases), it can
set SIP-Number-Auth-Items to any positive value.]{.underline}
Table 6.3.2 is endorsed with the following change:
[When the S-CSCF performs the operation Cx-AV-Req, if it may not know the
authentication scheme at this point\ (e.g. in the non IMS-AKA case), it should
set the SIP-Authentication-scheme field to \"unknown\". Later the HSS changes
this value based on the actual authentication scheme stored in the user
authentication data.]{.underline}
Table 6.3.3 is endorsed with the following clarification:
[Table 6.3.3 is applicable to IMS-AKA only.]{.underline}
Table 6.3.4 is modified as follows:
Table 6.3.4: Authentication Request Response
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | Public-Identity | C | Public User | | | | | Identity. It | | (See 7.2) | | | shall be present | | | | | when the result | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Private User | User-Name | C | Private User | | Identity | | | Identity. It | | | | | shall be present | | (See 7.3) | | | when the result | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Number | SIP- | C | This AVP | | Authentication | Number-Auth-Items | | indicates the | | Items | | | number of | | | | | authentication | | (See 7.10) | | | vectors delivered | | | | | in the | | | | | Authentication | | | | | Data information | | | | | element. It shall | | | | | be present when | | | | | the result is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Authentication | S | C | If the | | Data | IP-Auth-Data-Item | | SIP- | | | | | Number-Auth-Items | | (See 7.9) | | | AVP is equal to | | | | | zero or it is not | | | | | present, then | | | | | this AVP shall | | | | | not be present. | | | | | | | | | | See table 6.3.5 | | | | | [and table | | | | | 6 | | | | | .3.A]{.underline} | | | | | for the contents | | | | | of this | | | | | information | | | | | element. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | operation. | | (See 7.6) | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for Cx/Dx errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.3.5 is endorsed with the following clarification:
[Table 6.3.5 is applicable to IMS-AKA only.]{.underline}
Add the following table:
Table 6.3.A: Authentication Data content - Response for NASS-Bundled
Authentication
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Authentication | SIP-Auth | M | Authentication | | Scheme | entication-Scheme | | scheme. It shall | | | | | contain | | (See 7.9.2) | | | \"NASS-Bundled\". | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Line Identifier | Line-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element contains | | (See 7.9.8) | | | a fixed broadband | | | | | access line | | | | | identifier | | | | | associated to the | | | | | user. This | | | | | information | | | | | element can be | | | | | repeated. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
##### 6.3.1 Detailed behaviour {#detailed-behaviour .H6}
Clause 6.3.1 is endorsed with the following clarifications:
  * [between step 2 and step 3, the HSS checks the user authentication data for the authentication scheme stored in HSS,]{.underline}
  * [step 4 is only applicable to authentication schemes that support synchronization.]{.underline}
##### 7 Information Element Contents {#information-element-contents .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
Modify clause 7.9.2 as follows:
##### 7.9.2 Authentication Scheme {#authentication-scheme .H6}
This information element contains the authentication scheme, which is used to
encode the authentication parameters.
~~The scheme is \"Digest-AKAv1-MD5\".~~
Add the following clause:
##### 7.9.8 Line Identifier {#line-identifier .H6}
[This information element contains the line identifier of the user\'s network
termination.]{.underline}
##### 8 Error Handling procedures {#error-handling-procedures .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 9 Protocol version identification {#protocol-version-identification .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 10 Operational aspects {#operational-aspects .H6}
Endorsed.
##### Annex A (normative) {#annex-a-normative .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### A.3 Cx message parameters to Diameter AVP mapping {#a.3-cx-message-
parameters-to-diameter-avp-mapping .H6}
Table A.3.1 is endorsed with the following addition:
Table A.3.1: Cx message parameters to Diameter AVP mapping
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | Cx parameter | AVP Name | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | ... | ... | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+ | [Line Identifier]{.underline} | [Line-Identifier]{.underline} | | | | | | []{.underline} | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
##### A.4 Message flows {#a.4-message-flows .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### A.4.1 Registration - user not registered {#a.4.1-registration---user-
not-registered .H6}
Endorsed with the following changes:
[Figure A.4.1.1 is applicable to IMS-AKA.]{.underline}
Add the following figure:
{width="5.759722222222222in" height="6.90625in"}
Figure A.4.1.1A: Registrati**o** n - user not registered (NASS-Bundled
authentication)
##### Annex E (normative) {#annex-e-normative .H6}
Endorsed.
##### Annex F (normative) {#annex-f-normative .H6}
Endorsed.
# 6 Global modifications to 3GPP TS 29.229
Replace the clauses \"Scope\", \"References\" and \"Definitions, symbols and
abbreviations\" with the following three clauses (Scope, References, and
Definitions, symbols and abbreviations).
##### 1 Scope {#scope-2 .H6}
The scope is endorsed with the replacement of the \"HSS\" by the \"UPSF\".
##### 2 References {#references-2 .H6}
Replace the references in [2] as shown in table 2
Table 2: Replacement of references in 3GPP TS 29.229
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Reference in 3GPP TS | Replaced references | | | 29.229 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [1] | 3GPP TS 29.228 [1] | The present document | | | \"IP Multimedia (IM) | (note 1). | | | Subsystem Cx and Dx | | | | interface; | | | | signalling flows and | | | | message contents\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | [11] | 3GPP TS 29.329 \"Sh | ETSI TS 183 037: | | | Interface based on | \"Endorsement of the | | | the Diameter | Sh Interface based | | | protocol; protocol | on the Diameter | | | details\". | protocol; Protocol | | | | details (Release 6), | | | | NGN Release 1\" | | | | (note 1). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | reference in [2] | | | | is replaced by the | | | | document listed on | | | | the right column. | | | | This replacement is | | | | applicable to all | | | | occurrences of the | | | | reference throughout | | | | the present | | | | document. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The | | | | reference in [2] | | | | contains 3GPP | | | | specific | | | | requirements and is | | | | not generally | | | | applicable to the | | | | present document. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
##### 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations {#definitions-symbols-and-
abbreviations-1 .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 3.1 Definitions {#definitions-1 .H6}
Endorsed with the replacement of the \"HSS\" by the \"UPSF\".
##### 3.2 Abbreviations {#abbreviations-2 .H6}
Replace:
HSS Home Subscriber Server
By:
UPSF User Profile Server Function
Add the following abbreviation:
NASS Network Attachment SubSystem
NOTE: Throughout the present document, all occurrences of \"HSS\" are replaced
by \"UPSF\".
##### **Throughout the text of 3GPP TS 29.229 [2]** {#throughout-the-text-
of-3gpp-ts-29.229-2 .H6}
##### 4 General {#general .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 5 User of the Diameter Base Protocol {#user-of-the-diameter-base-
protocol .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 5.6 Advertising Application Support {#advertising-application-support
.H6}
Endorsed with the following changes:
The HSS, S-CSCF and I-CSCF shall advertise support of the Diameter Multimedia
Application by including the value of the application identifier (see clause
6) in the Auth-Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id
grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-
Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value[s]{.underline} of 3GPP (10415) [and ETSI
(13019)]{.underline} shall be included in the Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the
Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands, and
in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of
the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
NOTE: The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-
Specific-Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the
manufacturer of the Diameter node as per RFC 3588 [6].
##### 6 Diameter application for Cx interface {#diameter-application-for-cx-
interface .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 6.1 Command-Code values {#command-code-values .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 6.2 Result-Code AVP values {#result-code-avp-values .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 6.3 AVPs {#avps .H6}
Endorsed with the following changes:
Add the following text at the end of the paragraph before table 6.3.1:
[The Line-Identifier AVP has a Vendor-Id header set to ETSI
(13019).]{.underline}
[Table 6.3.1 is endorsed with the following addition:]{.underline}
Table 6.3.1: Diameter Multimedia Application AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | Se | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | ction | Type | | | hould | not | encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | ... | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | [Lin | [5 | [6.3. | [Octe | [V]{. | []{. | []{. | [M]{. | [ | | e-Ide | 00]{. | 34]{. | tStri | under | under | under | under | No]{. | | ntifi | under | under | ng]{. | line} | line} | line} | line} | under | | er]{. | line} | line} | under | | | | | line} | | under | | | line} | | | | | | | line} | | | | | | | | []{. | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | line} | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"M\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | | | | | RFC | | | | | | | | | | 3588 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [6]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Depe | | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | crete | | | | | | | | | | com | | | | | | | | | | mand. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 6.3.13 SIP-Auth-Data-Item AVP {#sip-auth-data-item-avp .H6}
Endorsed with the following change:
> SIP-Auth-Data-Item :: = \
>
> [ SIP-Item-Number ]
>
> [ SIP-Authentication-Scheme ]
>
> [ SIP-Authenticate ]
>
> [ SIP-Authorization ]
>
> [ SIP-Authentication-Context ]
>
> [Confidentiality-Key]
>
> [Integrity-Key]
>
> [*[Line-Identifier]]{.underline}
>
> * [AVP]
Add the following clause:
##### [6.3.34 Line-Identifier AVP]{.underline} {#line-identifier-avp .H6}
[The Line-Identifier AVP is of type OctetString. This AVP contains a fixed
broadband access line identifier associated to the user.]{.underline}
##### 6.4 Use of namespaces {#use-of-namespaces .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 7 Special Requirements {#special-requirements .H6}
##### 7.1 Version Control {#version-control .H6}
Endorsed with changes.
##### 7.1.1 Defining a new feature {#defining-a-new-feature .H6}
Endorsed with the following change:
[Table 7.1.1 is endorsed with the following addition:]{.underline}
Table 7.1.1: Features of Feature-List-ID 1 used in Cx
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Feature bit | Feature | M/O | Description | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | ... | ... | ... | ... | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [ | [NASS_BUNDLE | [ | [NGN | | 0]{.underline} | D]{.underline} | O]{.underline} | extensions for | | | | | NASS Bundled | | | | | authentication | | | | | .]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | [This feature | | | | | is applicable | | | | | for any | | | | | command pair | | | | | affected by | | | | | NGN extensions | | | | | for NASS | | | | | Bundled | | | | | authentication | | | | | .]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | [When the | | | | | S-CSCF and the | | | | | UPSF support | | | | | this feature, | | | | | both nodes are | | | | | able to handle | | | | | Cx messages | | | | | with the | | | | | extensions | | | | | and/or | | | | | modifications | | | | | for NASS | | | | | Bundled | | | | | authentication | | | | | .]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | [ | [HT | [ | [NGN | | 1]{.underline} | TP_DIGEST_MD | O]{.underline} | extensions for | | | 5]{.underline} | | HTTP Digest | | | | | authentication | | | []{.underline} | | .]{.underline} | | | | | | | | | | []{.underline} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Feature bit: | | | | | The order | | | | | number of the | | | | | bit within the | | | | | **Supp | | | | | orted-Features | | | | | AVP, e.g. | | | | | \'1\'.** | | | | | | | | | | **Feature: A | | | | | short name | | | | | that can be | | | | | used to refer | | | | | to the bit and | | | | | to the | | | | | feature, e.g. | | | | | \'MOM\'.** | | | | | | | | | | **M/O: Defines | | | | | if the | | | | | implementation | | | | | of the feature | | | | | is mandatory | | | | | (\'M\') or | | | | | optional | | | | | (\'O\').** | | | | | | | | | | Description: A | | | | | clear textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the feature. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Supp | | | | | orted-Features | | | | | AVP used to | | | | | identify | | | | | features added | | | | | to this table | | | | | by the present | | | | | endorsement | | | | | document shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | vendor ID of | | | | | ETSI (13019). | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 7.2 Supported features {#supported-features .H6}
Endorsed.
##### 7.3 Interface versions {#interface-versions .H6}
Endorsed.
###### ## Annex ZA (informative): Void
# ZA.3 Additional Cx feature in support of HTTP Digest authentication
This feature is applicable for any command pair affected by NGN extensions for
HTTP Digest authentication.
When the S-CSCF and the UPSF support this feature, both nodes are able to
handle Cx messages with the extensions and/or modifications for HTTP Digest
authentication.
See table 7.1.1 in the present endorsement of 3GPP TS 29.229 [2].
#