# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes a general description of the physical layer of
the UTRA radio interface. The present document also describes the document
structure of the 3GPP physical layer specifications, i.e. TS 25.200 series.
The TS 25.200 series specifies the Uu point for the 3G mobile system, and
defines the minimum level of specifications required for basic connections in
terms of mutual connectivity and compatibility.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (FDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (TDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TR 25.833: \"Physical layer items not for inclusion in Release
'99\".
[12] 3GPP TR 25.944: \"Channel coding and multiplexing examples\".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.302: \"Services provided by the physical layer\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio transmission and reception (FDD)\".
[16] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UE Radio transmission and reception (TDD)\".
[17] 3GPP TS 25.104: \"BTS Radio transmission and reception (FDD)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.105: \"BTS Radio transmission and reception (TDD)\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
16QAM 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
64QAM 64 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
BER Bit Error Rate
CCTrCH Coded Composite Transport Channel
DCA Dynamic channel allocation
DCH Dedicated Channel
DS-CDMA Direct-Sequence Code Division Multiple Access
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
DwPCH Downlink Pilot Channel
DwPTS Downlink Pilot Time Slot
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
E-HICH E-DCH Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
E-RGCH E-DCH Relative Grant Channel
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FEC Forward Error Correction
FER Frame Error Rate
GSM Global System for Mobile Communication
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared channel
HS-SCCH HS-DSCH Shared Control Channel
L1 Layer 1 (physical layer)
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
LAC Link Access Control
MAC Medium Access Control
MBSFN MBMS over a Single Frequency Network
Mcps Mega Chip Per Second
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
QPSK Quaternary Phase Shift Keying
RACH Random Access Channel
RF Radio Frequency
RLC Radio Link Control
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SCH Synchronisation Channel
SIR Signal-to-Interference Ratio
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
TFCI Transport-Format Combination Indicator
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UpPTS Uplink Pilot Time Slot
UpPCH Uplink Pilot Channel
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
WCDMA Wide-band Code Division Multiple Access
# 4 General description of Layer 1 {#general-description-of-layer-1 .list-
paragraph}
## 4.1 Relation to other layers
### 4.1.1 General Protocol Architecture
Radio interface which is prescribed by this specification means the Uu point
between User Equipment (UE) and network. The radio interface is composed of
Layers 1, 2 and 3. Layer 1 is based on WCDMA/TD-SCDMA technology and the TS
25.200 series describes the Layer-1 specification. Layers 2 and 3 of the radio
interface are described in the TS 25.300 series.
{width="5.291666666666667in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 1: Radio interface protocol architecture around the physical layer
Figure 1 shows the UTRA radio interface protocol architecture around the
physical layer (Layer 1). The physical layer interfaces the Medium Access
Control (MAC) sub-layer of Layer 2 and the Radio Resource Control (RRC) Layer
of Layer 3. The circles between different layer/sub-layers indicate Service
Access Points (SAPs). The physical layer offers different Transport channels
to MAC. A transport channel is characterized by how the information is
transferred over the radio interface. MAC offers different Logical channels to
the Radio Link Control (RLC) sub-layer of Layer 2. A logical channel is
characterized by the type of information transferred. Physical channels are
defined in the physical layer. There are two duplex modes: Frequency Division
Duplex (FDD) and Time Division Duplex (TDD). In the FDD mode a physical
channel is characterized by the code, frequency and in the uplink the relative
phase (I/Q); in addition E-HICH and E-RGCH are also defined by a specific
orthogonal signature sequence. In the TDD mode the physical channels are also
characterized by the timeslot and additionally, the E-HICH is further defined
by a specific orthogonal signature sequence. For 1.28Mcps TDD, the E-HICH can
be also further defined by a group of orthogonal signature sequences. The
physical layer is controlled by RRC.
### 4.1.2 Service provided to higher layers
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of transport channels via the MAC sub-
layer. The physical layer is expected to perform the following functions in
order to provide the data transport service. See also TS 25.302:
\- Macrodiversity distribution/combining and soft handover execution.
\- Error detection on transport channels and indication to higher layers.
\- FEC encoding/decoding of transport channels.
\- Multiplexing of transport channels and demultiplexing of coded composite
transport channels (CCTrCHs).
\- Rate matching of coded transport channels to physical channels.
\- Mapping of coded composite transport channels on physical channels.
\- Power weighting and combining of physical channels.
\- Modulation and spreading/demodulation and despreading of physical channels.
\- Frequency and time (chip, bit, slot, frame) synchronisation.
\- Radio characteristics measurements including FER, SIR, Interference Power,
etc., and indication to higher layers.
\- Inner - loop power control.
\- RF processing. (Note: RF processing is defined in TS 25.100 series).
\- synchronization shift control
\- Beamforming
\- MIMO transmission
\- Hybrid ARQ soft-combining for HS-DSCH and E-DCH
When network elements (UEs and network) provide compatible service bearers
(for example support a speech bearer) they should be assured of successful
interworking. Moreover, different implementation options of the same
(optional) feature would lead to incompatibility between UE and network.
Therefore, this shall be avoided.
## 4.2 General description of Layer 1
### 4.2.1 Multiple Access
The access scheme is Direct-Sequence Code Division Multiple Access (DS-CDMA)
with information either spread over approximately 5 MHz (FDD and 3.84 Mcps
TDD) bandwidth, thus also often denoted as Wideband CDMA (WCDMA) due that
nature, 10MHz (7.68 Mcps TDD) bandwidth, or 1.6MHz (1.28Mcps TDD), thus also
often denoted as Narrowband CDMA. UTRA has two modes, FDD (Frequency Division
Duplex) & TDD (Time Division Duplex), for operating with paired and unpaired
bands respectively. The possibility to operate in either FDD or TDD mode
allows for efficient utilisation of the available spectrum according to the
frequency allocation in different regions. FDD and TDD modes are defined as
follows:
FDD: A duplex method whereby uplink and downlink transmissions use two
separated radio frequencies. In the FDD, each uplink and downlink uses the
different frequency band. A pair of frequency bands which have specified
separation shall be assigned for the system.
TDD: A duplex method whereby uplink and downlink transmissions are carried
over same radio frequency by using synchronised time intervals. In the TDD,
time slots in a physical channel are divided into transmission and reception
part. Information on uplink and downlink are transmitted reciprocally.
UTRA TDD has three options, the 3.84Mcps option and the 1.28Mcps option, the
7.68Mcps TDD option. In UTRA TDD there is TDMA component in the multiple
access in addition to DS-CDMA. Thus the multiple access has been also often
denoted as TDMA/CDMA due to the added TDMA nature.
A 10 ms radio frame is divided into 15 slots (2560 chip/slot at the chip rate
3.84 Mcps). A physical channel is therefore defined as a code (or number of
codes) and additionally in TDD mode the sequence of time slots completes the
definition of a physical channel. In FDD, for HS-DSCH, E-DCH and associated
signalling channels, 2ms sub-frames consisting of 3 slots are defined.
The information rate of the channel varies with the symbol rate being derived
from the 3.84 Mcps chip rate and the spreading factor. Spreading factors are
from 256 to 2 with FDD uplink, from 512 to 4 with FDD downlink, and from 16 to
1 for TDD uplink and downlink. Thus the respective modulation symbol rates
vary from 1920 k symbols/s to 15 k symbols/s (7.5 k symbols/s) for FDD uplink
(downlink), and for TDD the momentary modulation symbol rates shall vary from
3.84 M symbols/s to 240 k symbols/s.
For the 7.68Mcps TDD option, a 10 ms radio frame is divided into 15 slots
(5120 chip/slot). A physical channel is therefore defined as a code (or number
of codes) and the sequence of time slots.
The information rate of the channel varies with the symbol rate being derived
from the 7.68 Mcps chip rate and the spreading factor. Spreading factors are
from 32 to 1 for both uplink and downlink. Thus the respective modulation
symbol rates vary from 7.68 M symbols/s to 240 k symbols/s.
For 1.28Mcps TDD option, a 10 ms radio frame is divided into two 5ms sub-
frames. In each sub-frame, there are 7 normal time slots and 3 special time
slots. Note that in case of entire carrier dedicated to MBSFN there are 7
normal MBSFN Traffic time slots and 1 short MBSFN Special time slot in each
sub-frame. A basic physical channel is therefore characterised by the
frequency, code and time slot.
The information rate of the channel varies with the symbol rate being derived
from the 1.28 Mcps chiprate and the spreading factor. Spreading factors is
from 16 to 1 for both uplink and downlink. Thus the respective modulation
symbol rates shall vary from 80.0K symbols/s to 1.28M symbols/s.
### 4.2.2 Channel coding and interleaving
For the channel coding in UTRA two options are supported for FDD and three
options are supported for TDD:
\- Convolutional coding.
\- Turbo coding.
\- No coding (only TDD).
> Channel coding selection is indicated by higher layers. In order to
> randomise transmission errors, bit interleaving is performed further.
### 4.2.3 Modulation and spreading
The UTRA modulation scheme is QPSK (8PSK is also used for 1.28Mcps TDD
option). For HS-DSCH transmission, 16QAM and 64QAM can also be used. 16QAM and
64QAM are further supported for E-DCH transmission, and 16QAM is supported for
MBSFN[^1] FACH transmissions. Pulse shaping is specified in the TS 25.100
series.
With CDMA nature the spreading (& scrambling) process is closely associated
with modulation. In UTRA different families of spreading codes are used to
spread the signal:
\- For separating channels from same source, channelisation codes derived with
the code tree structure as given in TS 25.213 and 25.223 are used.
\- For separating different cells the following solutions are supported.
\- FDD mode: Gold codes with 10 ms period (38400 chips at 3.84 Mcps) used,
with the actual code itself length 218-1 chips, as defined in TS 25.213.
\- TDD mode: for the 3.84Mcps and 1.28Mcps TDD options, scrambling codes with
the length 16 are used as defined in TS 25.223; for the 7.68Mcps TDD option,
scrambling codes with length 32 are used.
\- For separating different UEs the following code families are defined.
\- FDD mode: Gold codes with 10 ms period, or alternatively S(2) codes 256
chip period.
\- TDD mode: for the 3.84Mcps and 1.28Mcps TDD options, codes with period of
16 chips and midamble sequences of different length depending on the
environment; for the 7.68Mcps TDD option, codes with period of 32 chips and
midamble sequences of different length depending on the environment.
### 4.2.4 Physical layer procedures
There are several physical layer procedures involved with UTRA operation. Such
procedures covered by physical layer description are:
1) The power control, inner loop for FDD mode, and for the 3.84Mcps TDD and
7.68Mcps TDD options open loop in uplink and inner loop in downlink, for
1.28Mcps TDD option, open loop in uplink and inner loop in both uplink and
downlink.
2) Cell search operation.
3) Uplink synchronization control with open and closed loop.
4) Random access
5) Procedures related to HS-DSCH transmission, including HS-SCCH less
operation and MIMO transmission.
6) Procedures related to E-DCH transmission, including MIMO transmission.
7) Procedures related to discontinuous transmission and reception.
### 4.2.5 Physical layer measurements
Radio characteristics including FER, SIR, Interference power, etc., are
measured and reported to higher layers and network. Such measurements are:
1) Handover measurements for handover within UTRA. Specific features being
determined in addition to the relative strength of the cell, for the FDD mode
the timing relation between for cells for support of asynchronous soft
handover.
2) The measurement procedures for preparation for handover to GSM900/GSM1800.
3) The measurement procedures for UE before random access process.
4) The measurement procedures for Dynamic Channel Allocation (DCA) of TDD
mode.
5) UTRAN measurements.
### 4.2.6 Relationship of the physical layer functions
The functionality of the layer 1 is split over several specifications each for
FDD and TDD. The following figures, although not categorical, show as an
introduction the relationship of layer 1 functions by specification in terms
of users plane information flow.
Figure 2 - FDD layer 1 functions relationships by specification
Figure 3 - TDD layer 1 functions relationships by specification
# 5 Document structure of physical layer specification
## 5.1 Overview
The physical layer specification consists of a general document (TS 25.201),
five FDD mode documents (TS 25.211 through 25.215), five TDD mode documents
(TS 25.221 through 25.225). In addition, there are two technical reports (TR
25.833 and 25.944).
## 5.2 TS 25.201: Physical layer -- General description
The scope is to describe:
\- the contents of the Layer 1documents (TS 25.200 series);
\- where to find information;
\- a general description of Layer 1.
## 5.3 TS 25.211: Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the Layer-1 transport
channels and physical channels in the FDD mode, and to specify:
\- the different transport channels that exist;
\- which physical channels exist;
\- what is the structure of each physical channel, slot format etc.;
\- relative timing between different physical channels in the same link, and
relative timing between uplink and downlink;
\- mapping of transport channels onto the physical channels.
## 5.4 TS 25.212: Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)
The scope is to describe multiplexing, channel coding and interleaving in the
FDD mode, and to specify:
\- coding and multiplexing of transport channels into CCTrCHs;
\- channel coding alternatives;
\- coding for Layer 1 control information, such as TFCI;
\- the different interleavers;
\- how is rate matching done;
\- physical channel segmentation and mapping.
## 5.5 TS 25.213: Spreading and modulation (FDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the spreading and modulation
in the FDD mode, and to specify:
\- the spreading (channelisation plus scrambling);
\- generation of channelisation and scrambling codes;
\- generation of RACH preamble codes;
\- generation of SCH synchronisation codes;
\- modulation.
RF channel arrangements and Pulse shaping are specified in TS 25.101 for UE
and in TS 25.104 for Node-B.
## 5.6 TS 25.214: Physical layer procedures (FDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer procedures
in the FDD mode, and to specify:
\- cell search procedures;
\- power control procedures;
\- random access procedure.
## 5.7 TS 25.215: Physical layer -- Measurements (FDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer
measurements in the FDD mode, and to specify:
\- the measurements that Layer 1 is to perform;
\- reporting of measurements to higher layers and network;
\- handover measurements, idle-mode measurements etc.
## 5.8 TS 25.221: Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the Layer-1 transport
channels and physical channels in the TDD mode, and to specify:
\- transport channels;
\- physical channels, structure and contents;
\- mapping of transport channels onto the physical channels.
## 5.9 TS 25.222: Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)
The scope is to describe multiplexing, channel coding and interleaving in the
TDD mode, and to specify:
\- channel coding and multiplexing of transport channels into CCTrCHs;
\- channel coding alternatives;
\- coding for Layer 1 control information, such as TFCI;
\- interleaving;
\- rate matching;
\- physical channel segmentation and mapping.
## 5.10 TS 25.223: Spreading and modulation (TDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the spreading and modulation
in the TDD mode, and to specify:
\- data modulation;
\- spreading;
\- generation of synchronisation codes.
RF channel arrangements and Pulse shaping are specified in TS 25.102 for UE
and in TS 25.105 for Node-B.
## 5.11 TS 25.224: Physical layer procedures (TDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer procedures
in the TDD mode, and to specify:
\- cell synchronisation;
\- timing advance;
\- power control procedures;
\- idle mode tasks.
## 5.12 TS 25.225: Physical layer -- Measurements (TDD)
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer
measurements in the TDD mode, and to specify:
\- the measurements that Layer 1 is to perform;
\- reporting of measurements to higher layers and network;
\- handover measurements, idle-mode measurements etc.
## 5.13 TR 25.833: Physical layer items not for inclusion in Release '99
The scope is to collect materials on UTRA physical layer items not included in
the Release '99 specification documents, such as DSCH control channel, FAUSCH,
Hybrid ARQ, 4-state SCCC turbo coding and ODMA.
## 5.14 TR 25.944: Channel coding and multiplexing examples
The scope is to describe examples of channel coding and multiplexing for
transport channels of various types and cases.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Preferred mathematical notations
The following table contains the preferred mathematical notations used in L1
documentation.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Item | Notation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | multiply product | cross sign, e.g. _a_ × _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix product | dot sign, e.g. _a_ ⋅ _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | scalar product (product of a | dot sign, scalar should precede | | matrix by a scalar) | matrix | | | e.g. {width="0.7777777777777778in" | | | height="0.5in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix dimensioning | number of rows × number of | | | column, e.g.: | | | | | | _R_ × _C_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Kronecker product | _a_ ⊗ _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of sets (all elements | curly brackets {}, e.g. | | of same type, not ordered | | | elements) | {a~1~, a~2~, ...,a~p~}, | | | or{width="1.0395833333333333in" | | | height="0.3736111111111111in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of lists (all | round brackets (), e.g. (A, u, | | elements not necessary of same | x) | | type, ordered elements) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of sequences (all | angle brackets, e.g. \ or | | elements) | {width="1.0770833333333334in" | | | height="0.41041666666666665in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of function argument | round brackets, e.g. f(_x_) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of array index | square brackets, e.g. a[_x_] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of matrix or vector | square brackets [], e.g. | | | {width="0.2916666666666667in" | | | height="0.5in"}, | | | {width="0.4722222222222222in" | | | height="0.2361111111111111in"}, | | | or | | | {width="0.5833333333333334in" | | | height="0.5in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Separation of indexes | use a comma : e.g. _N~i~_ ~,_j_ ~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | use of italic for symbols | a symbol should be either in | | | italic or in normal font, but | | | mixing up should be avoided. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of arithmetic | round brackets : e.g. | | expression to force precedence | {width="0.69375in" | | | height="0.2361111111111111in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | necessity of bracketing | When only + and × bracketing is | | arithmetic expressions | not necessary. When the mod | | | operator is used explicit | | | bracketing of mod operands and | | | possibly result should be done. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | number type | in a context of non negative | | | integer numbers, some notes | | | should stress when a number is | | | signed, or possibly fractional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | binary xor and and | respectively use + or ⋅. If no | | | \"mod 2\" is explicitly in the | | | expression some text should | | | stress that the operation is | | | modulo 2. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix or vector transpose | v^T^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1×1 matrices | implicitly cast to its unique | | | element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | vector dot product | u^T^⋅v for column vectors, and | | | u⋅v^T^ for line vectors | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | complex conjugate | v^*^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix or vector Hermitian | v^H^ | | transpose | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | real part and imaginary part of | Re(x) and Im(x) | | complex numbers. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#