# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document shall provide a specification of the UTRAN RNC-RNC (Iur)
interface Data Transport and Transport Signalling for Common Transport Channel
data streams.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (1995-11): \"B-ISDN ATM Layer Specification\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.2 (2000-11): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation Layer type
2\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 (1998-06): \"Segmentation and Re-assembly
Service Specific Convergence Sublayer for the AAL type 2\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 (1999-12): \"AAL Type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 1)\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation E.191 (2000-03): \"B-ISDN addressing\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.426: \"UTRAN Iur and Iub interface data transport & transport
signalling for DCH data streams\".
[7] Void
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 (2000-12): \"AAL Type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 2)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.213 (1995-11): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Network Service Definition\".
[10] IETF RFC 1661 (1994-07): \"The Point-To-Point Protocol (PPP)\".
[11] IETF RFC 1662 (1994-07): \"PPP in HDLC-like Framing\".
[12] IETF RFC 2507 (1999-02): \"IP header compression\".
[13] IETF RFC 1990 (1996-08): \"The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)\".
[14] IETF RFC 2686 (1999-09): \"The Multi-Class Extension to Multi-Link PPP\".
[15] IETF RFC 2509 (1999-02): \"IP Header Compression over PPP\".
[16] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (Ipv6)
Specification\".
[17] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[18] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[19] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[20] IETF RFC 3153 (2001-08): \"PPP Multiplexing\".
[21] IETF RFC 2364 (1998-07): \"PPP over AAL5\".
[22] IETF RFC 3031 (2001-01):\"Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture\".
[23] ITU-T Recommendation E.164 (1997-05): \" The international public
telecommunication numbering plan \".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Common Transport Channels are defined as transport channels that are shared by
several users i.e. RACH, FACH, DSCH [TDD], USCH [TDD] and HS-DSCH.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL2 ATM Adaptation Layer type 2
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
AESA ATM End System Address
ALCAP Access Link Control Application Part
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CPS Common Part Sublayer
DiffServ Differentiated Services
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
FACH Forward Access Channel
HDLC High level Data Link Control
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
IP Internet Protocol
IPv4 Internet Protocol, version 4
IPv6 Internet Protocol, version 6
IWF Interworking Function
IWU Interworking Unit
LC Link Characteristics
ML/MC PPP Multilink-Multiclass PPP
MPLS Multiprotocol Label Switching
MTP Message Transfer Part
NNI Network-Node Interface
NSAP Network Service Access Point
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
PPPMux PPP Multiplexing
PT Path Type
QoS Quality of Service
RACH Random Access Channel
SAAL Signalling ATM Adaptation Layer
SDU Service Data Unit
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSCF Service Specific Co-ordination Function
SSCS Service Specific Convergence Sublayer
SSSAR Service Specific Segmentation and Re-assembly sublayer
STC Signalling Transport Converter
TNL Transport Network Layer
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UNI User-Network Interface
USCH Uplink Shared Channel
## 3.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
[FDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
\"[FDD]\" applies only to FDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the
heading preceding the tag \"[FDD]\" and the section following the heading
applies only to FDD.
[TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
\"[TDD]\" applies only to TDD, including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and
1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the heading preceding
the tag \"[TDD]\" and the section following the heading applies only to TDD,
including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps TDD.
[3.84Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD.
[1.28Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD.
[7.68Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD.
[FDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the \"[FDD
- \" applies only to FDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to FDD
are enclosed separately to enable insertion of TDD specific (or common)
paragraphs between the FDD specific paragraphs.
[TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the \"[TDD
- \" applies only to TDD including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps
TDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to TDD are enclosed
separately to enable insertion of FDD specific (or common) paragraphs between
the TDD specific paragraphs.
[3.84Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[3.84Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 3.84Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 3.84Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
[1.28Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[1.28Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 1.28Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
[7.68Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[7.68Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 7.68Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 7.68Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
# 4 Data Link Layer
## 4.1 ATM Transport Option
ATM shall be used in the transport network user plane and the transport
network control plane according to ITU‑T Recommendation I.361 [1]. The
structure of the cell header used in the UTRAN Iur interface is the cell
header format and encoding at NNI (see Figure 3/I.361 [1]).
## 4.2 IP Transport Option
A UTRAN Node supporting IP transport option shall support PPP protocol with
HDLC framing (IETF RFC 1661 [10], IETF RFC 1662 [11]).
Note: This does not preclude the single implementation and use of any other
data link layer protocols (e.g. PPPMux/AAL5/ATM (IETF RFC 3153 [20], IETF RFC
2364 [21]), PPP/AAL2/ATM, Ethernet, MPLS/ATM (IETF RFC 3031 [22]), etc.)
fulfilling the UTRAN requirements toward the upper layers.
An RNC using IP transport option having interfaces connected via slow
bandwidth PPP links like E1/T1/J1 shall also support IP Header Compression
(IETF RFC 2507 [12]) and the PPP extensions ML/MC-PPP (IETF RFC 1990 [13]),
(IETF RFC 2686 [14]). In this case, negotiation of header compression (IETF
RFC 2507 [12]) over PPP shall be performed via IETF RFC 2509 [15].
# 5 I~ur~ Data Transport for Common Transport Channel Data Streams
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the transport layers that support Common Channels (FACH,
RACH, DSCH [TDD], USCH [TDD], HS-DSCH) Iur data streams.
There are two options for the transport layer of the Common Channels data
streams in Iur and Iub:
1) ATM based Transport (ATM transport option)
2) IP based Transport (IP transport option)
The following figure shows the protocol stacks of the two options.
{width="5.830555555555556in" height="1.770138888888889in"}
> Protocol stack for ATM transport option Protocol stack for IP transport
> option
Figure 1: Transport network layer for DCH data streams over Iur and Iub
interfaces
## 5.2 ATM Transport Option
ATM (ITU-T Rec. I.361 [1]), AAL type 2 (ITU-T Recommendations I.363.2 [2] and
ITU-T Rec. I.366.1 [3]) is used as the standard transport layer for RACH,
FACH, USCH [TDD], DSCH [TDD] and HS-DSCH Iur data streams.
These AAL2 connections are established via the transport signalling protocol
described in clause 5.
Figure 1 shows the protocol stack for the transport of RACH, FACH, USCH [TDD],
DSCH [TDD] and HS-DSCH Iur data streams using the ATM Transport Option.
Service Specific Segmentation and Re-assembly (SSSAR) is used for the
segmentation and re-assembly of AAL2 SDUs (i.e. SSSAR is only considered from
ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 [3]).
## 5.3 IP Option
UDP (IETF RFC 768 [19]) over IP shall be used as the transport for RACH, FACH,
USCH [TDD], DSCH [TDD] and HS-DSCH data streams on Iur. The data link layer is
as specified in subclause 4.2.
An IP UTRAN Node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [16]). The support of IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 [17]) is optional.
Note: This does not preclude single implementation of IPv4.
IP dual stack support is recommended for the potential transition period from
IPv4 to IPv6 in the transport network.
The transport bearer is identified by the UDP port number and the IP address
(source UDP port number, destination UDP port number, source IP address,
destination IP address).
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [18]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M. Traffic categories are implementation-specific
and may be determined from the application parameters.
# 6 I ~ur~ Transport Signalling Application for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the transport signalling protocol(s) used to establish
the user plane transport bearers. The protocol stack is shown in TS 25.426
[6].
## 6.2 Transport Signalling in case of ATM option
AAL2 signalling protocol Capability Set 2, ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 [8],
is the signalling protocol to control the AAL2 connections on Iur interfaces.
ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [8] adds new optional capabilities to ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.1
[4].
AAL2 transport layer addressing is based on embedded E.164 or other AESA
variants of the NSAP addressing format ITU-T Rec. E.191 [5], ITU-T Rec. X.213
[9]. Native E.164 (ITU-T Rec. E.164 [23]) addressing shall not be used.
Binding ID provided by the radio network layer shall be copied in SUGR
parameter of ESTABLISH.request primitive of ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [8]. The
binding identifier shall already be assigned and tied to a radio application
procedure when the Establish Request message is received over the Iur
interface in the Drift RNC.
User Plane Transport bearers are established by the ALCAP in Serving RNC, and
in all normal cases released by the ALCAP in the RNC which established the
AAL2 connection.
The Link Characteristics parameter (LC) shall be included in the Establish
Request message and in the Modification Request message of AAL2 signalling
protocol.
If there is an AAL2 switching function in the transport network layer of the
interface, the Path Type parameter (PT) may be included in the Establish
Request message of AAL2 signalling protocol for prioritisation at ATM level.
If the value in either the Maximum CPS-SDU Bit Rate or the Average CPS-SDU Bit
Rate of the Link Characteristics(LC) in AAL 2 signalling messages as specified
in reference ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [8] is 2048 Kbit/s, it shall be interpreted
as bit rate 2048 Kbit/s or higher.
NOTE: Separation of traffic (e.g. HS-DSCH) that is using this modified
interpretation of Link Characteristics in ref. ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [8] from
other traffic is highly recommended. Otherwise the potential bursty nature of
this specific traffic in combination with its unknown bit rate may decrease
the QoS of all traffic within the same AAL type 2 path.
## 6.3 Transport Signalling in case of IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case both RNCs are using the IP transport
option.
# 7 Signalling Bearer for ALCAP on I~ur~ Interface
## 7.1 ATM Transport Option
The signalling bearer for the ALCAP on the Iur interface for common transport
channels data streams is the same as the signalling bearer for the ALCAP on
the Iur interface for DCH data streams, defined in TS 25.426 [6].
## 7.2 IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case both RNCs are using the IP transport
option.
# 8 Interworking between ATM and IP Transport Options
An RNC supporting IP transport option shall provide interworking to an RNC
supporting only ATM transport option. The interworking alternatives are
defined in TS 25.426 [6].
#