# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Data scheduling on multi-carrier has been deployed to achieve higher data
rates and load balancing. With the introduction of intra/inter-band features
like DB-DC-HSPA/DC-HSPA, downlink and uplink data can be scheduled across two
carriers for 2ms TTI. However the uplink coverage of cells deployed in
different carriers may be different and in some areas, especially at the cell
edge, the 2ms TTI cannot be configured.
In order to deploy multi-carrier features in these scenarios, 10ms TTI can be
configured for multi-carrier deployments. In this way 10ms TTI can be
configured on one carrier or two carriers when DB-DC-HSUPA/DC-HSUPA is
configured to obtain higher data rates.
This Technical Report (TR) contains the investigations performed by the TSG
RAN Working Groups involved in the study of multi-carrier enhancements for
UMTS.
# 1 Scope
The study on multi-carrier enhancements is to investigate the potential gains
obtained by enabling 10ms TTI configuration in one of the carriers or both of
the carriers in the DB-DC-HSUPA and DC-HSUPA scenarios. It is also targeted to
investigate the potential solutions for multi-carrier enhancements in both DB-
DC-HSUPA and DC-HSUPA [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] **RP-152290,** New SID: Study on Multi-Carrier Enhancements for UMTS
[3] R1-160340, Considerations on UL coverage with 2/10ms EUL TTI, Qualcomm
Inc.
[4] R1-165084, Further evaluation results for 2+10ms TTI in DB-DC-HSUPA,
Huawei, HiSilicon
[5] R1-165085, Further evaluation results for 10+10ms TTI in DB-DC-HSUPA and
DC-HSUPA, Huawei, HiSilicon
[6] R1-160953, Evaluation methodology and results for Multi-Carrier
enhancements, Huawei, HiSilicon
[7] R1-163193, Evaluation of Multicarrier Enhancements for DB-DC HSUPA,
Ericsson
[8] R1-165325, Further Evaluation of Multicarrier Enhancements for DC HSUPA,
Ericsson
[9] R1-165326, Further Evaluation of Multicarrier Enhancements for DB-DC
HSUPA, Ericsson
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
DB Dual Band
DC Dual Carrier
SC Single Carrier
UPH UE transmission power headroom
# 4 Objective of multi-carrier enhancements for UMTS
The objective of the study item is the following:
\- Identify the scenarios for DB-DC-HSUPA/DC-HSUPA features and investigate
mechanisms to improve coverage/capacity.
\- Study the potential deployment scenarios, e.g. scheduling 2ms+10ms TTI or
10ms+10ms TTI for uplink transmission with dual carrier.(RAN1, RAN2)
\- Investigate the performance for the enhanced scenarios and the impact on
current mechanism, e.g. E-TFC selection, 2ms and 10ms switch, RRC measurement
and handover.(RAN1, RAN2)
**The study shall include considerations to minimize the impact on legacy
terminals.**
# 5 Target scenarios
## 5.1 Dual band dual carrier scenario
In this scenario, the path loss in the two bands can be very different. Assume
one band is on 900MHz and the other is on 2GHz. According to Section 5.1.4.2
in TR 25.942, the path loss for these two bands can be calculated as follows:
900MHz: PL(R) = 120.9 + 37.6log10(R)
2GHz: PL(R) = 128.1 + 37.6log10(R)
where R is the distance between the UE and the NodeB in km. It can be seen
that at the same distance, the path loss difference for 900MHz and 2GHz is
7.2dB. This means that in order for the NodeB to receive the signal at the
same power level on 900MHz and 2GHz bands, the UE needs to transmit with 7.2dB
more power on 2GHz than on 900MHz.
Although more power is needed for transmission on the 2GHz band respect to 900
MHz band to compensate for the path loss, it may still be beneficial for the
UE to be scheduled on the two carriers rather than on 900MHz alone for better
UL load balancing. Rel-13 DB-DC-HSUPA feature enables the UE to be scheduled
on both carriers and allows the UE to achieve a higher throughput with respect
to single carrier transmission.
In the current specifications, only 2ms TTI is allowed to be scheduled in the
DB-DC scenario. As illustrated in Figure 5.1-1, the region for DB-DC-HSUPA is
determined by the region for 2ms TTI on the 2GHz band. At point A, which is
the limit for the 2ms TTI on 2GHz, the UE can obtain some throughput
improvements by being scheduled at 2GHz with DB-DC-HSUPA. Between A and B,
however, using 2ms TTI at 2GHz may not be a good option because this region
may be better suitable for 10ms TTI deployment. One of the scenarios of
interests is the region AB, where 2ms (at 900MHz) + 10ms (at 2GHz)
configuration can be used. The gains from using the 2ms + 10ms configuration
instead of the 2ms + 2ms configuration in this region need to be studied.
{width="3.5680555555555555in" height="1.5756944444444445in"}
Figure 5.1-1: Scenarios for 2ms + 10ms and 10ms + 10ms
It is also shown in Figure 5.1-1 that there may be a region BC, where 10ms (at
900MHz) + 10ms (at 2GHz) is beneficial. How much benefit can be obtained by
allowing the 10ms + 10ms configuration needs to be studied.
## 5.2 Dual carrier scenario
In this scenario, the two carriers are deployed within the same band, and the
path loss on each carrier is almost the same. There is no coverage difference
for 2ms TTI between the two carriers. As a result, the use case for 2ms + 10ms
configuration does not exist in this scenario.
Since the 10ms TTI coverage is better than 2ms TTI, it is possible to extend
the coverage of a certain throughput on both carriers with 10ms TTI. The
scenario of 10ms + 10ms is illustrated in Figure 5.2-1. The benefits of using
10ms + 10ms in region AB in Figure 5.2-1 needs to be studied.
{width="3.561111111111111in" height="1.575in"}
Figure 5.2-1 Scenario for 10ms + 10ms
## 5.3 Summary of target scenarios
In summary, there are three scenarios that are of interest for this study on
multi-carrier enhancements:
**Scenario 1** : 2ms + 10ms configuration for DB-DC scenario
**Scenario 2** : 10ms + 10ms configuration for DB-DC scenario
**Scenario 3** : 10ms + 10ms configuration for DC scenario
## 5.4 Performance of 2 ms vs 10 ms TTI EUL
In this Study Item, we take an experimental approach to understanding the
benefits of using 10 ms TTI compared to 2 ms TTI under differential pathloss
increase in 2.1 GHz as compared to 900 MHz. The study setup and the results
are also available in [3].
# 6 Evaluation methodology
**Regarding the evaluation methodology for multi-carrier enhancements, the
following aspects are considered:**
\- The baseline for evaluation is 2+2 ms TTI configuration.
\- Evaluations for the uplink throughput should be done for 2+10 ms TTI
configuration and 10+10 ms TTI configuration.
\- Carrier frequency: for uplink transmission in the dual band dual carrier
scenario, the carrier frequencies are 900MHz and 2GHz.
\- The total transmission power shared between the two carriers is fixed to
23dBm. In practice, how the transmit power is shared between the two carriers
depends on the uplink scheduling used by the network. To take into account
this fact, various configurations for power sharing between the two carriers
are used in the evaluations.
\- Several values for the distance between UE and NodeB are assumed in the
evaluation in order to emulate the far field UE position. In the dual band
dual carrier scenario, the path loss difference between two bands shall be
reflected in the **Attenuation Factor defined as below:**
_Attenuation Factor = Tx power -- Effective noise power -- received Ec/N0 (dB)
(x1)_
> where _Effective noise power = Thermal noise density + Receiver noise figure
> + Interference margin + 10*log(Occupied channel bandwidth) + Uplink RoT_
\- For the E-DPDCHs, the data rate can be different for each of the carriers
and a desired BLER level of 10% for the initial transmission is targeted for
each of the carriers.
\- ILPC and OLPC are turned off.
Simulation assumptions are shown in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1: Simulation assumptions for multi-carrier enhancements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Node B Rx receiver type | RAKE | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UE antennas | 1 antenna | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of Node B antennas | 2 antennas (uncorrelated) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency for dual band | Lower band: 900MHz | | dual carrier scenario | | | | Higher band: 2 GHz | | | | | | The formula of the Path Loss: | | | | | | 900MHz：PL(R) = 120.9 + | | | 37.6log10(R) | | | | | | 2GHz: PL(R) = 128.1 + | | | 37.6log10(R) | | | | | | R (km) is the distance between | | | UE and Node B. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Total transmission power | The total transmit power shared | | | between the two carriers is 23 | | | dBm at antenna connector | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmit power at the lower band | 13dBm, 16dBm, 19dBm, other | | | values are optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Node B receiver noise figure | 5 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Thermal noise density (dBm/Hz) | -174 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Interference margin (dB) | 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Soft/softer handover | No soft/softer handover | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink rise-over-thermal (RoT) | 10 dB | | operation point | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model | PA3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BLER target | 10% BLER for the initial | | | transmission | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power control | ILPC: OFF | | | | | | OLPC: OFF | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## 6.1 Evaluation of 2 ms vs 10 ms TTI
To evaluate the efficiency of usage of 10 ms TTI and 2 ms TTI for the study
item in 5.4 [3], we use the test setup illustrated below.
{width="6.46875in" height="2.313888888888889in"}
Figure 6.1-1: Test setup
The experimental test set up is as follows:
\- Setup SC-EUL call on two UEs with UL Tx power at maximum while being able
to transmit max full buffer UL data transfer.
\- EUL 2 ms and 10 ms TTI are configured on each of the UEs respectively.
\- Increase UL attenuation in steps of 1 dB.
\- Continue to increase the attenuation in steps of 1 dB leading to reduction
in UL power headroom available for E-DPDCH channels.
\- Record average UL DPCCH transmission power in dBm and EUL throughput for
each UL attenuation step.
# 7 Study areas
## 7.1 Potential solutions for TTI switching and power scaling
### 7.1.1 TTI switching
The current specification of TS 25.212 has provisions for TTI switching for a
given cell, if the order is transmitted from the serving HS-DSCH cell or a
secondary serving HS-DSCH cell. The order is encoded under the (extended)
order type "11 011". For this Order type, the meaning of the orders is listed
in Table 14B.3A inTS25.212 (shown below in Table 7.1.1-1).
The current interpretation is that the cell transmitting HS-SCCH in the
Downlink is sending an order for the duplex cell in the uplink i.e. the
serving cell HS-SCCH order will apply to the primary uplink frequency and the
secondary serving cell HS-SCCH order will apply to the secondary uplink
frequency. It is thus possible to switch TTIs independently for each carrier.
**Observation: It is possible to reuse the legacy orders reconfiguring primary
and secondary TTI lengths independently. In this case, the HS-SCCH order
transmitted from either the serving or secondary HS-DSCH cells would be
respectively controlling which carrier in uplink (i.e., either the primary or
secondary uplink frequency) would be changing its TTI configuration.**
However, it may also be worth investigating whether introducing new orders to
switch to a specific TTI combination for both carriers, from the primary
carrier only. As Table 7.1.1-1 shows, 6 reserved slots remain unused in the
Order type and could be used to assign them to TTI combinations.
**Observation: It is possible to design a single order reconfiguring both
primary and secondary TTI lengths at once. Available HS-SCCH orders in the TTI
switching order types can be used.**
Table 7.1.1-1: Orders for switching the E-DCH TTI
* * *
Extended\ Order Type Order Mapping Interpretation  
Order Type
x~eodt,1~, x~eodt,2~ x~odt,1~, x~odt,2~, x~odt,3~ x~ord,1~ x~ord,2~ x~ord,3~
11 011 0 0 0 TTI switch order from 2ms to 10ms
                                                        0               0                1          TTI switch order from 10ms to 2ms
                                                        0               1                0          Unused (Reserved)
                                                        0               1                1          Unused (Reserved)
                                                        1               0                0          Unused (Reserved)
                                                        1               0                1          Unused (Reserved)
                                                        1               1                0          Unused (Reserved)
                                                        1               1                1          Unused (Reserved)
* * *
### 7.1.2 Power scaling
A UE is given transmit power update by the NodeB every slot, via the TPC
command. When the UE total transmit power is within the maximum transmit
power, the UE has to scale (i.e. reduce) its power between the carriers and
among the channels on each carrier.
The DPCCH power levels on both carrier are always updated, each carrier
independently according to the respective received TPC command. Thereafter,
when there is insufficient power to satisfy the E-TFC on each carrier the
following procedure is applied:
\- The EDPDCH level on the cell with the larger DPCCH level is scaled down, so
that either the required power no longer exceeds the maximum transmittable
power or the E-DPDCH power reaches the minimum specified power
level$\beta_{\text{ed},k,\text{reduced}\text{,min}}$, as specified via higher
layer configuration.
\- If the EDPDCH power level has reached
$\beta_{\text{ed},k,\text{reduced}\text{,min}}$ and there still is a shortage
of transmitted power, then the power on the cell with the weakest DPCCH level
is also scaled down until either the required power no longer exceeds the
maximum transmittable power or the E-DPDCH power reaches the minimum specified
power level$\beta_{\text{ed},k,\text{reduced}\text{,min}}$.
\- Finally if the total transmitted power still exceeds the maximum transmit
power after the first two stages, the UE scales down all the channels on both
cells equally.
The process is also called sequential scaling, as it sequentially reduces
power between the carriers, starting with the carrier with the largest DPCCH
level (i.e. the weakest link quality). Scaling can be applied every slot, in
line with TPC command frequency.This procedure aims at preserving DPCCH and
other signaling channels power, at the expense of EDPDCH. E-DPDCH is protected
by HARQ retransmission and data can still be recovered at low power. However,
the procedure also results with an unbalanced performance over the two
carriers -- one of the carriers is basically preferred at the expense of the
other.
The procedure is expected to hold for DC-HSUPA. However for DB-DC-HSUPA the
results should be verified as the imbalance in power between the carriers may
break the algorithm. For example, in DB-DC-HSPA, the higher band requires more
transmit power for equal performance and therefore the algorithm will most
likely always target the higher band in power limited case. For that reason,
power scaling is very sensitive in DB-DC HSPA.
One way to avoid the issue of power scaling for DB-DC HSPA would be to fall
back to single carrier when DB-DC-HSUPA is power limited. The performance at
the cell edge for DB-DC HSUPA has been shown that fall back to single carrier
HSUPA will not harm performance.
**Observation: In the case of DB-DC HSUPA consider fall back to single carrier
EUL in case of power limitation.**
Another power scaling related issue concerns SRB. When power scaling is
applied, the procedure must make sure that the SRB channel is not scaled
before the other carriers and channels have been scaled, to maintain
signalling performance. For DC HSUPA it is possible by always applying SRB to
the primary carrier. However for DB-DC HSUPA the primary carrier may not be
the best suited for SRB (for example for UEs whose primary carrier is in the
higher band).
**Observation: Consider allocating SRB and other non-scheduled flows to the
carrier with the best coverage, i.e. the lower band DPCCH.**
## 7.2 Evaluations
In this section, the performance of 2ms+10ms in DB-DC HSUPA, 10ms+10ms in both
DB-DC HSUPA and DC HSUPA has been studied.
### 7.2.1 Evaluations for 2ms+10ms TTI in DB-DC HSUPA [4]
In dual carrier HSUPA, one way to show the performance is to find best
throughput without any grant limitation. As it is well known that 900MHz band
suffers much smaller path loss than 2.1GHz band, it is straightforward to find
the optimum grant configuration by allocating all available power in the
900MHz band. **However, this is only a special case considering actual load
balance (especially DB-DC), scheduling strategy, etc. In a practical 900MHz
deployment, 2.1GHz band is used to offload traffics, and 2ms+2ms DB-DC HSUPA
was introduced in Rel-13 to enable the offloading. So on each band, there is
grant limitation. It is important to compare the performance differences of
2ms+10ms and 2ms+2ms DB-DC HSUPA with the same grant assignments (a.k.a. power
splitting as we call in the rest of the contribution).**
#### 7.2.1.1 Evaluations of single carrier
**Figure 7.2.1.1-1 shows the performance of** **single carrier with 2ms TTI
and 10ms TTI. The performance can be analyzed considering different Ec/N0
regions. Performance of 2ms TTI is better than that of 10ms TTI when the
received Ec/N0 is larger than -5dB, because the TB size for 10ms TTI becomes
limited; 10ms TTI** **becomes slightly better than 2ms TTI when Ec/N0 is
smaller than -5dB, and becomes obviously better than 2ms TTI when the received
Ec/N0 is smaller than -16dB. One reason is that, in order to reach the same
throughput,** **the DPCCH power consumption with 2ms TTI is about 1.5dB larger
than that with 10ms TTI. This is also shown by lab experiments in [3].**
{width="3.525in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1-1: Throughput of single carrier of 2ms TTI and 10ms TTI
**Observation 1: The performance of 10ms TTI becomes better than that of 2ms
TTI when the received Ec/N0 is smaller than about -5dB.**
#### 7.2.1.2 Evaluations of 2ms+10ms DB-DC HSUPA
The path loss model is mentioned in [6] and [7]. Based on [7], the received
Ec/N0 can be calculated as shown in Figure 7.2.1.1-2. The red curve in Figure
7.2.1.1-2 refers to the case when the full Tx power is utilized by the 2.1GHz
band. It is observed that the Ec/N0 would be less than -5dB when the distance
between UE and NodeB exceeds about 180m. Consequently, according to
**Observation 1** , for any power splitting, the Ec/N0 would be smaller than
-5dB, and 10ms TTI would perform better than 2ms TTI on the 2.1GHz band. If we
assume that the Tx power utilized on 2.1GHz band is 10mW, then the received
Ec/N0 would be -9dB when the distance between UE and NodeB is about 180m. So,
for all power splitting, 2ms+10ms TTI outperforms 2ms+2ms TTI when the
distance is beyond 180m.
{width="3.9291666666666667in" height="2.365972222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.1.1-2: The received Ec/N0 vs. the distance between UE and NodeB
**In DB-DC HSUPA, the performance of DB-DC 2ms+2ms TTI (baseline) and the
performance of 2ms +10ms TTI would be provided. T** he gains of 2ms+10ms
configuration respect to 2ms+2ms configuration are computed as follows. Table
7.2.1.2-1 and Table 7.2.1.2-2 show the gains of 2ms+10ms TTI for different
distances between UE and NodeB.
_DC Gain (%) = ((Total throughput for 2ms+10ms TTI) -- (Total throughput for
2ms+2ms TTI)) / (Total throughput for 2ms+2ms TTI) (1)_
Table 7.2.1.2-1: Gains of 2ms+10ms TTI for DB-DC HSUPA (Distance: 380m)
* * *
Tx power on 900MHz band(mW) Gains 60 25.1% 70 2.5% 80 14.7% 90 11.3% 100 8.6%
110 6.7% 120 5.1% 130 3.7% 140 2.5% 150 2.5% 160 1.7% 170 0.3%
* * *
Table 7.2.1.2-2: Gains of 2ms+10ms TTI for DB-DC HSUPA (Distance: 400m)
* * *
Tx power on 900MHz band(mW) Gains 70 17.8% 80 13.3% 90 10.1% 100 7.7% 110 5.8%
120 4.1% 130 3.0% 140 3.0% 150 2.2% 160 0.8% 170 0.2%
* * *
In Table 7.2.1.2-1 and Table 7.2.1.2-2, the gains of 2ms +10ms TTI respect to
2ms +2ms TTI in DB-DC HSUPA are about 0.3%\~25.1% and 0.2%\~17.8%
respectively. It is also observed that the gains are decreasing when the Tx
power on 900MHz band is increasing; this is because the throughput on 900MHz
band is the dominant part if most of the Tx power is applied in the 900MHz
band.
**Observation 2: The performance of 2ms+10ms TTI is better than that of
2ms+2ms TTI for any grant configurations on both bands when the distance
between UE and the NodeB is over 180m.**
**Observation 3: The performance gain of 2ms+10ms TTI over 2ms+2ms TTI depends
on the distance between the UE and the NodeB and the grant configurations on
both bands.**
### 7.2.2 Evaluations for 10ms+10ms TTI [5]
#### 7.2.2.1 Evaluations for 10ms+10ms TTI in DB-DC HSUPA
Based on [4], the received Ec/N0 can be calculated and shown in Figure
7.2.2.1-1. In Figure 7.2.2.1-1, a special case is that full Tx power of 23dBm
is utilized by 900MHz band. It is observed that the Ec/N0 would be less than
-5dB when the distance between UE and NodeB exceeds about 280m. As mentioned
in [7], **the throughput of 10ms TTI becomes better than that of 2ms TTI when
the received Ec/No is less than about -5dB.** Moreover, about a 7.2dB larger
**Attenuation Factor** is needed at 2GHz carrier than 900MHz carrier to
compensate for the path loss difference between them, that is to say, the
received Ec/N0 at 2.1GHz band would be smaller than that at 900MHz band.
Consequently, for all kinds of power splitting, when the distance is beyond
280m, the Ec/N0 at both the band would be smaller than -5dB, and 10ms +10ms
TTI would perform better than 2ms + 2ms TTI. However, when the distance is
less than 280m, the throughput gains cannot be achieved for all kinds of power
splitting. This is because the throughput of 2ms TTI can be easily higher than
that of 10ms TTI if the Ec/N0 at any of the bands is above -5dB.
{width="3.9652777777777777in" height="2.3625in"}
**Figure 7.2.2.1-1: T** he received Ec/N0 vs. the distance between UE and
NodeB
**In DB-DC HSUPA, the performance of DB-DC 2ms+2ms TTI (baseline) and the
performance of 2ms +10ms TTI would be provided. T** he gains of 2ms+10ms
configuration respect to 2ms+2ms configuration are computed as follows. Table
7.2.2.1-1 and Table 7.2.2.1-2 show the gains of 2ms+10ms TTI with different
distance between the UE and NodeB.
Table 7.2.2.1-1: The Gains of 10ms+10ms TTI for DB-DC HSUPA (Distance: 250m)
* * *
Tx power on 900MHz band(mW) Gains 20 1.5% 30 0.2% 40 2.7% 50 9.9% 60 15.1% 70
10.8% 80 7.3% 90 6.2% 100 5.1% 110 3.3% 120 1.6% 130 -2.1% 140 -5.0% 150 -7.0%
160 -8.1% 170 -9.5% 180 -11.8%
* * *
Table 7.2.2.1-2: The Gains of 10ms+10ms TTI for DB-DC HSUPA (Distance: 350m)
* * *
Tx power on 900MHz band(mW) Gains 40 8.6% 50 17.1% 60 19.9% 70 20.2% 80 19.7%
90 17.7% 100 16.6% 110 12.5% 120 9.3% 130 6.4% 140 9.5% 150 11.8% 160 14.0%
170 16.1% 180 17.1% 190 18.8%
* * *
In Table 7.2.2.1-1 and Table 7.2.2.1-2, the gains of 10ms +10ms TTI with
respect to 2ms +2ms TTI in DB-DC HSUPA can be achieved about -11.8%\~15.1% and
18.8%\~6.4% respectively. It is observed that when the distance is less than
280m, the throughput gain of 10ms +10ms TTI is sometimes negative for some
power splitting configurations.
#### 7.2.2.2 Evaluations for 10+10ms TTI in DC HSUPA
In the evaluations for DC HSUPA, the carrier frequency for the uplink
transmissions is set to 2.1GHz. As mentioned in [4], **the throughput of 10ms
TTI becomes better than that of 2ms TTI when the received Ec/No is less than
about -5dB.** The Ec/N0 at both the band would be smaller than -5dB, and 10ms
+10ms TTI in DC HSUPA would perform better than 2ms \+ 2ms TTI.
Table 7.2.2.2-1: Gains of 10ms+10ms TTI for DB-DC HSUPA (Distance: 150m)
* * *
Tx power on 900MHz band(mW) Gains 10 -24.0% 20 -21.6 30 -21.3 40 -18.1% 50
-13.8% 60 -13.9 70 -12.1% 80 -10.1% 90 -8.1% 100 -7.1%
* * *
Table 7.2.2.2-2: Gains of 10ms+10ms TTI for DB-DC HSUPA (Distance: 300m)
* * *
Tx power on 900MHz band(mW) Gains 30 5.9% 40 10.4% 50 16.9% 60 19.1% 70 14.8%
80 13.0%
* * *
In Table 7.2.2.2-1 and Table 7.2.2.2-2, the gains of 10ms +10ms TTI with
respect to 2ms +2ms TTI in DC HSUPA can be achieved about -7.1%\~-24% and
5.9%\~19.1% respectively. It is observed that when the distance is less than
300m, the throughput gains of 10ms +10ms TTI is not always positive for all
kinds of power splitting.
### 7.2.3 Evaluation of DC-HSUPA [8]
Figure 7.2.3-1a, b, c and d show the throughput for each of the scenario
depending on the transmitted power in each carrier and the distance between
the UE and the NodeB. The plot only mentions the serving carrier power as the
second carrier power can be deduced using equation 6. Note that the total
transmitted power is always the maximum, i.e. 23dBm.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.4895833333333335in" | | height="2.3784722222222223in"} | height="2.3069444444444445in"} | | | | | Baseline | 2ms 10ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.4895833333333335in" | | height="2.3784722222222223in"} | height="2.3930555555555557in"} | | | | | 10ms 2ms | 10ms 10ms | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Figure 7.2.3-1: Scenario evaluation for DC-HSUPA
#### 7.2.3.1 Maximum available throughput
Figure 7.2.3.1-1 shows the maximum achievable throughput for each evaluated
scenario. This is obtained by looking for the maximum throughput at a given
UE-nodeB distance in Figure 7.2.3-1, over all possible transmitted power
pairs. Thus figure 7.2.3.1-1 is the derivative of 7.2.3-1 with respect of the
transmitted power pair.
{width="6.661111111111111in" height="4.995833333333334in"}
Figure 7.2.3.1-1: Highest achievable throughputs for each evaluated DC-HSUPA
scenarios.
#### 7.2.3.2 Trend analysis
Figure 7.2.3-1 shows the benefit of optimizing the transmitted power between
the two carriers as the UE approaches the cell boundary. One can notice that
the plots are symmetrical for cases where both carriers have the same TTI
length. When the UE becomes power limited at the cell edge, coverage always
improves by favouring one carrier only. This is true for all proposed cases as
well as the baseline.
In order to assess where in the UE distance and transmit power dimension are
the new proposal positioned, one has to look at the maximum throughput
available for each case for all possible combinations of power and distance.
This is shown in 7.2.3.1-1. It can clearly be seen that as long as the UE is
not power limited, legacy 2ms DC HSUPA dominates. When power becomes an issue,
10ms TTI single carrier HSUPA dominates the performance. Mixed TTI cases do
not provide valuable gains versus legacy.
It should also be noted that the merging of single and dual carrier
performance occur in the discussed scenario because the simulation assumptions
are rather idealistic. Moreover, it is assumed that the network is able to
tune the power between the carriers in order to achieve the best overall
throughput. In the evaluation of the maximum achievable data rate, compared to
single carrier, control channel overhead was not taken into consideration in
the evaluation in the dual carrier cases. With more realistic settings such as
inner loop power control on and realistic detection of optimal power settings,
dual carrier would actually be below the single carrier throughput where it is
now merged with single carrier.
When analysing the different results associated with different power settings
as shown in the appendix, it can be seen that for some power settings the
proposed scheme are beneficial in the power limited region, compared to the
legacy 2ms TTI DC-HSUPA. They are, however, outperformed by legacy 10ms EUL.
It is thus possible to identify two possible deployments depending on where
the UE is located within the nodeB coverage area. First 2ms +2ms legacy DC-
HSUPA, then, when dual carrier legacy becomes power limited, single carrier
10ms EUL.
**Observation: For DC-HSUPA, power limited UEs can maintain performance by
using 10ms EUL (SC-HSUPA).**
#### 7.2.3.3 Further evaluation for DC-HSUPA
{width="6.622916666666667in" height="4.967361111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-1: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 13dBm
{width="6.159027777777778in" height="4.6194444444444445in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-2: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 14.5dBm
{width="6.361111111111111in" height="4.761111111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-3: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 16dBm
{width="6.43125in" height="4.822916666666667in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-4: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 18dBm
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="5.0152777777777775in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-5: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 19dBm
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="5.0152777777777775in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-6: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 20dBm
{width="6.479166666666667in" height="4.8590277777777775in"}
Figure 7.2.3.3-7: Performance for DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 21dBm
### 7.2.4 Evaluation of DB-DC HSUPA [9]
Figure 7.2.4-1a, b, c and d show the throughput for each of the scenario
depending on the transmitted power in each carrier and the distance between
the UE and the NodeB. The plot only mentions the serving carrier power as the
second carrier power can be deduced using equation 6. Note that the total
transmitted power is always the maximum, i.e. 23dBm.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.4895833333333335in" | | height="2.464583333333333in"} | height="2.3930555555555557in"} | | | | | Baseline | 2ms TTI with 900MHz carrier, | | | 10ms TTI with 2100 MHz carrier, | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.4895833333333335in" | | height="2.1277777777777778in"} | height="2.142361111111111in"} | | | | | 10ms TTI with 900MHz carrier, | 10ms 10ms | | 2ms TTI with 2100 MHz carrier, | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Figure 7.2.4-1: Scenario evaluation for DB- DC-HSUPA
#### 7.2.4.1 Maximum available throughput
Figure 7.2.4.1-1 shows the maximum achievable throughput for each evaluated
scenario. This is obtained by looking for the maximum throughput at a given
UE-nodeB distance in Figure 7.2.4-1, over all possible transmitted power pairs
Thus Figure 7.2.4.1-1 is the derivative of Figure 7.2.4-1 with respect of the
transmitted power pair.
{width="5.886805555555555in" height="4.6194444444444445in"}
Figure 7.2.4.1-1: Highest achievable throughputs for each evaluated DB-DC-
HSUPA scenarios.
In the legend, the first TTI duration is given for the carrier in the lower
band, and the second TTI duration is given for the carrier in the higher band;
e.g. 10ms 2ms means 10ms TTI used for the 900MHz carrier and 2ms TTI used for
the 2100MHz carrier.
#### 7.2.4.2 Trend analysis
Figure 7.2.4.1-1 shows the benefit of optimizing the transmitted power between
the two carriers as the UE approaches the cell boundary. Contrary to DC-HSUPA,
the performance is not symmetrical with respect to the transmitted power. This
is expected as each carrier is assigned to a different band. The coverage
performance always favours increasing the power towards the lower band at the
expense of the carrier in the higher band. When the UE becomes power limited
at the cell edge, performance always improves by favouring one carrier only.
This is true for all proposed cases as well as the baseline.
In order to assess at which UE distance and transmit power dimension are the
new proposal positioned, one has to look at the maximum throughput available
for each case for all possible combinations of power and distance. This is
shown in Figure 7.2.4.1-1. It can clearly be seen that as long as the UE is
not power limited, legacy 2ms DB-DC HSUPA dominates, before merging with
single carrier 2ms EUL. When power becomes an issue, 10ms TTI EUL provides the
best performance. It should be noted that at the cell edge, DC HSUPA 10ms +
10ms merges with 10ms + 2ms and EUL 10ms. Thus mixed TTI cases do not provide
valuable gains versus legacy, since performance can be optimized by adequate
power sharing.
It should also be noted that the merging of the performance curves occur in
the discussed scenario because the simulation assumptions are rather
idealistic. Moreover, it is assumed the network is able to tune the power
between the carriers to achieve the best overall throughput. In the evaluation
of the maximum achievable data rate, compared to single carrier, control
channel overhead was not taken into consideration in the evaluation in the
dual carrier cases. With more realistic settings such as inner loop power
control on and realistic detection of optimal power settings, dual carrier
would actually be below the single carrier throughput.
When analysing the different results associated with different power settings
as shown in the appendix, it can be seen that for some power settings the
proposed scheme are beneficial in the power limited region, compared to the
legacy 2ms TTI DB-DC-HSUPA. They are, however, outperformed by legacy 10ms
EUL.
It is thus possible to identify two possible deployments based on coverage:
2ms legacy (rel-13) DB-DC-HSUPA, then single carrier 10ms EUL when entering
the power-limited range.
**Observation: For DB-DC-HSUPA, power limited UEs can maintain performance by
using 10ms EUL (SC-HSUPA) in the lower band.**
#### 7.2.4.3 Further evaluation for DB DC-HSUPA
{width="6.447222222222222in" height="4.835416666666666in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-1: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 13dBm
{width="6.174305555555556in" height="4.639583333333333in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-2: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 14.5dBm
{width="6.623611111111111in" height="4.967361111111111in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-3: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 16dBm
{width="6.454861111111111in" height="4.840972222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-4: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 18dBm
{width="6.454861111111111in" height="4.840972222222222in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-5: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 19dBm
{width="6.336111111111111in" height="4.752083333333333in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-6: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 20dBm
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="5.0152777777777775in"}
Figure 7.2.4.3-7: Performance for DB-DC-HSUPA with tx power in primary 21dBm
### 7.2.5 Evaluation of 2 ms vs 10 ms TTI [3]
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Figure 7.2.5-1: Evaluation results according to the methodology in Section 6.1
The evaluation results according to the methodology presented in Section 6.1
is shown in Figure 7.2.5-1. We present below the analysis of the results of
the evaluation in 6.1 [3]
\- We plot the difference in the UL DPCCH power that is needed to support
equivalent throughputs on both the TTI configurations for the same uplink
attenuation factor.
\- As can be seen from the plot above, 2 ms EUL TTI configuration needs 1 -- 2
dB more power for the UL DPCCH channel as compared to the 10 ms EUL TTI for
the same average throughput.
\- Seen in the context of bursty transmissions on uplink, using 10 ms TTI is
advantageous for overall NW capacity in the uplink and in terms of RoT.
\- Based on the study results above, we believe that there is a case for
enabling simultaneous usage of 2 ms and 10 ms TTI in DB-DC-HSUPA. In a
deployment where one of the carriers is in 900 MHz band while the other is in
2100 MHz, a mixed configuration of 2 ms EUL TTI and 10 ms EUL TTI respectively
is optimal.
## 7.3 RAN2 aspects of Multi-Carrier Enhancements
In current specification, only 2ms+2ms configuration is supported for DC-HSUPA
and DB-DC-HSUPA. According to RAN1 evaluation, dual carrier configurations
2ms+10ms and 10ms+10ms (including both DC-HSUPA and DB-DC-HSUPA) provide
benefits and may outperform 2ms +2ms configuration depending on path loss and
how much power is allocated to the primary carrier.
When a UE configured with 2ms+2ms (DC-HSUPA or DB-DC-HSUPA) moves around the
cell area, it may end up to the edge of primary or secondary uplink frequency.
Since the UE may have low performance with for 2ms TTI, it is better to use
10ms TTI, for which the network will need to re-configure the UE.
### 7.3.1 RRC configuration
#### 7.3.1.1 Analysis
In order to support new DC-HSUPA combinations, TTI reconfiguration on either
primary frequency or secondary frequency should be supported. In general, it
should be possible for the RNC to configure or reconfigure new DC-HSUPA
combinations via RRC procedures after the UE accesses a cell. Figure 7.3.1.1-1
shows possible cases for RRC configuration by considering all possible DC-
HSUPA combinations.
{width="6.497916666666667in" height="2.7895833333333333in"}
Figure 7.3.1.1-1: Possible cases for RRC configuration
#### 7.3.1.2 Solutions
Currently, if the RNC would like to configure 2ms+2ms DC-HSUPA for the UE, it
needs to trigger configuration of 2ms+2ms DC-HSUPA towards the Node B and the
UE. In order to support new DC-HSUPA combinations, the existing procedures
could be extended by including the corresponding configuration parameters.
Here is an example on how to configure 10ms+10ms DC-HSUPA. The 10ms TTI
configurations on both primary and secondary uplink frequency need to be added
in the related RRC configuration/reconfiguration messages. Figure 7.3.1.2-1
shows the signaling procedures.
{width="5.998611111111111in" height="3.341666666666667in"}
Figure 7.3.1.2-1: RRC procedure for configuration of 10ms+10ms DC-HSUPA
Here is a description for the steps mentioned in the above figure.
Step 1: The RNC decides to configure 10ms+10ms DC-HSUPA.
Step 2\~4: The RNC triggers Radio link Setup procedure to the Node B. The RNC
can also initiate the Reconfiguration procedure to the UE to configure
10ms+10ms DC-HSUPA.
For 2ms+10ms DC-HSUPA, the difference is that the RNC could trigger
configuration of 2ms+10ms DC-HSUPA towards the Node B and the UE.
#### 7.3.1.3 Conclusions
In order to support configuring new DC-HSUPA combinations, RRC configuration
solution is a baseline.
### 7.3.2 Enhanced TTI switching
#### 7.3.2.1 Analysis
In Rel-12, enhanced TTI switching feature was introduced, but it can be only
used for single frequency case. For DC-HSUPA cases, the enhanced TTI switching
procedure can be also considered because it may be faster than RRC
reconfiguration procedures. Figure 7.3.2.1-1 shows possible cases for enhanced
TTI switching by considering all possible DC-HSUPA combinations.
{width="6.0125in" height="2.5631944444444446in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1-1: Possible cases for enhanced TTI switching
In current specification, a Scheduling Information including UPH is reported
independently on each of the Activated Uplink Frequencies. When the secondary
uplink frequency is activated, the UE can perform the UPH measurement on this
carrier. Then the Filtered UPH measurement result can be achieved on this
frequency. Currently, an UL MAC Control information (includes the filtered UPH
report) is reported on the Primary Uplink frequency.
In current specification, an activation time can be included in DL RRC
messages. When the UE receives the activation time, it will use the new
parameters from that time.
In legacy enhanced TTI switching procedure, if the UE receives the HS-SCCH
order, it will calculate the activation time T as the activation time of the
new TTI (as specified in TS 25.331):
> _If the UE receives a TTI switch HS-SCCH Order, the UE shall:_
>
> _1 > calculate the activation time T, by adding the value of the IE
> \"Activation delay\" in the variable OTHER_TTI_EDCH_CONFIGURATION to the CFN
> as specified in [29];_
>
> _1 > at the activation time T:_
Currently the activation time is set and used per UE. In enhanced TTI
switching in DC-HSUPA, if the TTI switching is performed on primary and
secondary uplink separately and the CFN handling may need further study.
#### 7.3.2.2 Solutions on enhanced TTI switching in DC-HSUPA
For enhanced TTI switching in DC-HSUPA, the UE is required to store the pre-
configured TTI configuration considering both primary and secondary uplink
frequency. There may be two solutions as shown in Table 7.3.2.2-1.
Table 7.3.2.2-1: Pre-configured TTI for enhanced TTI switching in DC-HSUPA
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre-configured TTI | 1 | 2 | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Method | Stored as a group | Stored separately | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Analysis | The configuration | Pre-configured TTI on | | | parameters are more | primary frequency is | | | flexible for | re-used (from the | | | different | existing TTI | | | combination. | switching mechanism) | | | | | | | The legacy variable | Pre-configured TTI on | | | for the primary | the secondary uplink | | | frequency may not be | frequency needs to be | | | used. | added | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
After the network receives indications, the network may decide to perform TTI
switching on primary or secondary uplink frequency or both, and thus HS-SCCH
order may be considered. There may be two methods of HS-SCCH order
transmission as shown in Table 7.3.2.2-2.
Table 7.3.2.2-2: HS-SCCH order for enhanced TTI switching in DC-HSUPA
* * *
HS-SCCH order A B Method The network can send the HS-SCCH order only on
primary frequency, and the scope is both frequencies. The network can send the
HS-SCCH order on either primary or secondary uplink frequency, and the scope
is per frequency, i.e. the UE only performs TTI switching on the frequency
where the UE receives a TTI switching HS-SCCH order Analysis New orders may be
needed Some minor clarifications
* * *
With combining pre-configured TTI and HS-SCCH order options, here is a summary
as shown in Table 7.3.2.2-3.
Table 7.3.2.2-3: Solutions regarding pre-configured TTI and HS-SCCH order
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Solutions | 1+A | 1+B | 2+A | 2+B | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Analysis | 4 new | There may | 4 new | The UE | | | HS-SCCH | be logic | HS-SCCH | needs to | | | orders may | issues on | orders may | store | | | be needed, | UE to | be needed, | pre | | | i.e. | retrieve | i.e. | -configured | | | 2ms+2ms, | TTI. | 2ms+2ms, | TTI on the | | | 2ms+10ms, | | 2ms+10ms, | secondary | | | 10ms+2ms | For | 10ms+2ms | uplink | | | and | example, | and | frequency. | | | 10ms+10ms. | the UE is | 10ms+10ms. | | | | | in 2ms+2ms | | | | | The UE | DC-HSUPA, | The UE | | | | needs to | and stores | needs to | | | | store at | 4 | store | | | | most 4 | pre | pre | | | | pre | -configured | -configured | | | | -configured | TTIs. On | TTI on the | | | | TTIs. | primary | secondary | | | | | frequency, | uplink | | | | | there is a | frequency. | | | | | switch from | | | | | | 2ms to | | | | | | 10ms, it is | | | | | | reasonable | | | | | | for the UE | | | | | | to use | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "10ms+2ms\" | | | | | | to update | | | | | | TTI on | | | | | | primary | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | However, | | | | | | the TTI | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | on | | | | | | secondary | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | may be | | | | | | different | | | | | | between | | | | | | \"2ms+2ms\" | | | | | | and | | | | | | \" | | | | | | 10ms+2ms\". | | | | | | In this | | | | | | case, the | | | | | | UE has to | | | | | | update TTI | | | | | | con | | | | | | figurations | | | | | | on both | | | | | | primary and | | | | | | secondary | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | In this | | | | | | case, it is | | | | | | conflict | | | | | | with the | | | | | | HS-SCCH | | | | | | order | | | | | | method B | | | | | | logic (i.e. | | | | | | the UE only | | | | | | performs | | | | | | TTI | | | | | | switching | | | | | | on the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | where the | | | | | | UE receives | | | | | | a TTI | | | | | | switching | | | | | | HS-SCCH | | | | | | order. | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
If only 2ms+2ms and 10ms+10ms cases are considered, 1+A is sufficient. In this
case, the UE needs to store at most 2 pre-configured TTIs, i.e. 2ms+2ms and
10ms+10ms. There may be a need to define two new orders, i.e. from 2ms+2ms to
10ms+10ms or vice verse, or some clarifications may be needed to existing HS-
SCCH orders for Rel-12 TTI switching.
If only 2ms+2ms and 2ms+10ms cases are considered, 1+A, 2+A and 2+B are
possible solutions.
If only 10ms+10ms and 2ms+10ms cases are considered, 1+A, 2+A and 2+B are
possible solutions.
If all cases are considered, 1+A, 2+A and 2+B are possible solutions.
In general, 2+B may have least impacts to the existing specifications.
Regarding basic enhanced TTI switching procedures, here is an example of
enhanced TTI switching on secondary uplink frequency as shown in Figure
7.3.2.2-1.
{width="6.009027777777778in" height="3.60625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.2-1: An example of enhanced TTI switching procedure
Step 1: The RNC pre-configures TTI to the UE.
Step 2: The UE reports filtered UPH measurements through MAC PDU to trigger
TTI switching on the secondary uplink frequency.
Step 3: The Node B forwards UPH to the RNC.
Step 4\~6: The RNC decides to perform enhanced TTI switching on the secondary
uplink frequency and reconfigures the Node Bs.
Step7: The serving Node B sends HS-SCCH order for TTI switching.
Step8\~9: The serving Node B informs the RNC to trigger TTI switching for non-
serving Node B.
It is noted that the above procedure is only for TTI switching on the
secondary uplink frequency. For the primary frequency, the existing TTI
switching can be reused with some minor changes.
#### 7.3.2.3 Solutions on filtered UPH reporting on the secondary uplink
frequency
As a possible solution, the filtered UPH can be used on the secondary uplink
frequency in order for a potential enhanced TTI switching.
#### 7.3.2.4 Solutions on CFN handling
As analyzed in section 7.3.1.2, for HS-SCCH order method A, per UE activation
time setting can work, i.e. for a 10ms+10ms configuration the existing
handling is sufficient.
For HS-SCCH order method B, the TTI switching procedures are separate on the
primary and secondary uplink frequency. As shown in Figure 7.3.2.4-1, if TTI
switching happens on the secondary uplink frequency, the UE calculate the
activation time, and this activation time can be applied on both frequencies
(similar as the existing activation time usage).
Figure 7.3.2.4-1: Receiving order on the secondary uplink frequency
As another example as shown in Figure 7.3.2.4-2, if TTI switching happens on
both frequencies (but not at the same time), since the UE may receive the HS-
SCCH order at different times on both frequencies (CFN=230 on the primary
frequency and CFN=231 on the secondary uplink frequency in this example), the
UE may not know how to determine the final activation time.
Figure 7.3.2.4-2: Receiving order on both frequencies
One possible solution is that the UE calculates and uses the calculated
activation time on each activated uplink frequency.
#### 7.3.2.5 Conclusions
Regarding enhanced TTI switching in DC-HSUPA, it is in principle feasible to
switch TTI on primary or secondary uplink frequency or both. Regarding pre-
configured TTI and HS-SCCH order, some solutions are identified. One solution
on filtered UPH reporting on the secondary uplink frequency is identified. For
HS-SCCH order method B, one solution on CFN handling is identified.
# 8 Impact on legacy terminals
The following features that would be part of a mixed TTI (2ms + 10ms)
configuration in DB-DC HSUPA and 10ms + 10ms TTI configuration in both DB/DC-
HSUPA are expected to affect UE implementation:
\- TTI switching
\- Activation / Deactivation of the secondary uplink frequency
\- Power Scaling
\- Maximum Power Reduction
Additionally the following aspects in UE implementation are expected to be
modified or affected:
\- Transmit power computation
\- Encoding timelines
\- Battery power in (DB/)DC-HSUPA mode
# 9 Impact on specifications
**Impact on RAN1 specifications**
\- TTI switching:
\- The mechanism to switch between different TTI lengths is specified in
25.212. The specification is defined for single carrier EUL and the use of TTI
switching for dual carrier configuration would have impact to 25.212 (see
section 7.1.1).
\- Activation / Deactivation of the secondary uplink frequency
\- Similarly, activation/deactivation procedure via HS-SCCH order is defined
for the secondary uplink frequency in 25.212 and 25.214, independently of the
TTI length and therefore there might be no impact to the specifications.
\- Power Scaling
\- The power scaling description in 24.214 would need to be updated to reflect
the required scaling procedure to support DC-HSUPA and DB-DC HSUPA with
different TTI length (see section 7.1.2).
**Impact on RAN2 specifications**
TS 25.300: Reference to the Functional description of the new feature is
needed.
TS 25.306: New UE capability related to the support of the new features.
TS 25.319: Stage 2 Functional description of the new feature is needed.
[For Solutions of RRC configuration:]{.underline}
TS 25.331:
\- Update RRC configuration procedures to support possible new types of DC-
HSUPA combinations.
[For Solutions of enhanced TTI switching:]{.underline}
TS 25.331:
\- Update RRC pre-configuration of TTI parameters for the enhanced TTI
switching procedure.
\- Some changes to the activation time handling may be needed due to the
enhanced TTI switching procedures.
**Impact on RAN3 specifications**
RAN3 signalling in TS 25.433 and TS 25.423 may be impacted by introduction of
the multi-carrier enhancements.
**Impact on RAN4 specifications**
In 25.101 and 25.133 the requirements on DC-HSUPA and DB-DC-HSUPA may be
impacted due to the introduction of new TTI configurations. Potentially, new
power scaling and MPR rules would have impact to the aforementioned
specifications.
# 10 Conclusions
In summary, among the new proposed dual carrier solutions (including the DB-
DC-HSUPA) 2ms+10ms or 10ms+10ms overall provide benefits depending on how much
path loss is present and how much power is allocated to the primary carrier,
and may outperform 2ms+2ms DC- and DB-DC HSUPA. However the performance of
single carrier is better than the proposed dual carrier configurations when
the allocated power for single carrier is above the primary uplink frequency
power and up to the maximum available UE power.
**Simulations and scenarios:** Scenarios discussions spanned multiple DC-HSUPA
and DB-DC-HSUPA scenarios, and also single carrier HSUPA. The scenarios vary
in terms of TTI lengths in each subcarrier, power setting per subcarrier and
maximum transmitted UE power. Control channel overhead was not taken into
consideration in the evaluation (see Section 7.2.3). Several companies
presented link simulations. In the evaluation the macro urban path loss model
was used.
**\- In good coverage,** when the UE is near the base station (\<180m), legacy
dual carrier 2ms+2ms TTI outperforms both for DB-DC-HSUPA and DC-HSUPA. It is
also observed that 10ms+10ms in DC-HSUPA and 2ms+10ms in DB-DC-HSUPA
outperform single carrier HSUPA.
**\- In medium coverage** (from 180m to 280m), dual carrier configurations
(i.e., 2ms+2ms and 10ms+10ms DC-HSUPA, as well as 2ms+2ms, 2ms+10ms and
10ms+10ms DB DC-HSUPA) are outperformed by single carrier 2 or 10 ms TTI only
when it is possible to allocate the power of the single carrier with a value
above the power allocated to the primary uplink frequency of the DC or DB-DC
cases and up to the maximum UE power. Among the new proposed dual carrier
solutions (including the DB-DC-HSUPA) 2ms+10ms or 10ms+10ms overall provide
similar benefits depending on how much path loss is present and how much power
is allocated to the primary carrier, and outperforms 2ms+2ms DC- and DB-DC
HSUPA. The UE-NodeB distance where the legacy 2ms DC-HSUPA (DB-DC-HSUPA) is
outperformed by either the single carrier or the proposed dual carrier (i.e.
DC or DB-DC HSUPA) configurations depends on the power configuration.
**\- In poor coverage** (from 280m to the cell boundary)**,** single carrier
configuration with 10ms TTI dominates the overall performance.
\- Based on the evaluations between the legacy dual carrier 2ms+2ms solutions
(including DB-DC-HSUPA and DC-HSUPA) and the new proposed dual carrier
2ms+10ms or 10ms+10ms solutions (including the DB-DC-HSUPA and DC-HSUPA), it
has been observed the following:
\- In DB-DC HSUPA:
1\. The performance of 2ms+10ms TTI is better than that of 2ms+2ms TTI when
the distance between UE and the NodeB is over 180m.
2\. The performance of 10ms+10ms TTI is better than that of 2ms+2ms TTI when
the distance between UE and the NodeB is over 280m.
3\. The performance of 10ms+10ms TTI compared to that of 2ms+10ms TTI depends
on the power configurations on each carriers between 180m and 280m. Above a
given lower band power threshold, the performance of 2ms+10ms can be better
than 10ms+10ms.
\- In DC HSUPA:
1\. The performance of 10ms+10ms TTI is better than that of 2ms+2ms TTI when
the distance between UE and the NodeB is over 300m.
\- In Single Carrier HSUPA:
1\. Between 100m and 180m, the overall performance is dominated by single
carrier 2ms (lower band), when the allocated power for single carrier is above
the primary uplink frequency power and up to the maximum available UE power.
2\. Beyond 180m, the overall performance is dominated by single carrier 10ms
(lower band), when the allocated power for single carrier is above the primary
uplink frequency power and up to the maximum available UE power.
#