# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 2 description of the call transfer
supplementary services.
Only one call transfer supplementary service has been defined, this is the
Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary service, and is described in the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols - Stage 3\".
[4] EN 300 368: \"Integrated Services Digital network (ISDN); Explicit Call
Transfer (ECT) supplementary service; Functional capabilities and information
flows\".
[5] EN 300 356-14: \"Integrated Services Digital network (ISDN); Signalling
System No. 7; ISDN User Part (ISUP) version 3 for the international interface;
Part 14: Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary service \".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.011: "Technical realization of Supplementary Services".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.018: "Basic Call Handling".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**First call:** One of the subscriber A calls (answered).
**Notification Indicator (NI):** Indicates to each remote party in which state
of the other remote party ECT was performed (active, alerting).
**Redirection Number (Rdn):** Includes the presentation indicator and the
directory number of the other remote party.
**Second call:** The other subscriber A call (answered or alerting).
**Subscriber A (PARTY A):** The served mobile subscriber - the one who has
subscribed to, and invokes the ECT Supplementary Service.
**Subscriber B (PARTY B):** The other party in the subscriber A first call.
**Subscriber C (PARTY C):** The other party in the subscriber A second call.
**Subscriber D (PARTY D):** The forwarded-to party when the call is forwarded
by the subscriber C.
**Transferred call:** The resulting call after successful explicit call
transfer between B and C.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
In addition to those below, abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ECT: Explicit Call Transfer supplementary service
LI: Line Identity
NI: Notification Indicator
Rdn: Redirection number
RdnB: Redirection number of party B
RdnD: Redirection number of party D
# 4 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
## 4.1 Functions
The following function has been identified for the explicit call transfer
service:
[MAF027]{.underline}
Explicit Call Transfer related authorizations examination
The ability of a PLMN component to determine the authorizations relating to
explicit call transfer. See figure 1.
Location: VLR
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 1: Explicit Call Transfer related authorizations examination (VLR)
## 4.2 SDL diagrams and information flows
### 4.2.1 General description
The procedures Handle_ECT_Active and Handle_ECT_Alerting show the behaviour of
the service as perceived by the served mobile subscriber and by any of the
other parties involved in the transfer. These procedures and the macro
Check_ECT show the actions to be taken by the network and the information
provided by the network to the users.
The following states for the invocation of the ECT supplementary service are
defined:
a) First Call (Active, Held), Second Call (Active, Idle);
b) First Call (Active, Held), Second Call (Call Delivered, Idle).
NOTE: The call state \"call delivered\" means that an ALERTING message has
been sent to the MS, but no ANSWER Message (ANM) has been received.
In the information flows it is assumed that the served subscriber is a mobile
subscriber and that the other parties are mobile or fixed subscribers.
Party A is the subscriber controlling the Explicit Call Transfer Call (served
mobile subscriber). Party B is the first remote party called. Party C is the
second remote party called.
The served party is disconnected by the generic disconnect/release procedure
after a successful transfer request. The connection of the remote parties in a
new call (transferred call) is located in the served subscriber's MSC.
The information flows in figures 4 and 7 show the unsuccessful case (i.e. the
check in the VLR or in the MSC fails).
The information flows in figures 5 and 8 show the successful case.
### 4.2.2 ECT (both calls answered)
The SDL for the procedure Handle_ECT_Active (Explicit Call Transfer - both
calls have been answered) is shown in figure 2.
The checks of whether Explicit Call Transfer is barred or not are shown in
figure 3.
The corresponding information flows are given in figure 4 and figure 5.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 2: Procedure Handle_ECT_Active
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="8.09375in"}
Figure 3: Macro Check_ECT
MSa MSCa VLRa MSCb MSb LEc TEcá
┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐
│ A-B (active, held) / A-C (active, idle) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ ───────────────────────────────────────── │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ ECT request │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ ─────────────> │ │info request│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │MAF027 │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ \ │ │info request│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │MAF027 │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ \ │ │notification (retr)│ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ ─────────────> │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ───────────────────────> │ │notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │ ─────────────> │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────> │ │
notification(ECT)│
│ │ │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │ │ │ │ │ ────────────> │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │
│ │ ECT ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ \ │ │info request│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │MAF027 │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ \ │ │info request│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │MAF027 │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ \ │ │notification (retr)│ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ ─────────────> │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ───────────────────────> │ │notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ (alerting) │ │ ─────────────> │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (alerting) │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────> │ │
notification(ECT)│
│ │ ECT ack │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │ │ │ │ │ ────────────> │ │
│ │ \ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ───────────────────────> │ │notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │ ─────────────> │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (active, Rdn) │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ B-C active, idle │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ ─────────────────── │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
NOTE: OR1: Checks in VLR and MSC ok? (Y: yes N: no).
Figure 8: Information flow for successful explicit call transfer\ (one call
answered, the other alerting)
## 4.3 Interaction with other supplementary services
### 4.3.1 Line Identification services
Tables 1 to 4 indicate the information to be provided in the Notification
Indicator (NI) and the Redirection Number (Rdn) when the subscribers B and C
are notified. Call states refer to the situation before ECT invocation. At
that time one of the calls is on hold.
If user B was the called subscriber in the call A-B, table 1 applies to the
information supplied to subscriber C. If user B was the calling subscriber in
the call A-B, table 2 applies to the information supplied to subscriber C.
Mobile subscriber A has an active call to subscriber B and:
\- puts the active call on hold and calls subscriber C, table 3 applies to the
information supplied to subscriber B;
\- receives and accepts a call from subscriber C (by putting B on Hold), table
4 applies to the information supplied to subscriber B.
Table 1: Mobile subscriber A was calling subscriber B, puts B on hold and
calls subscriber C
* * *
**Call states** **COLR indication received from** **Information provided to
C** **subscribers B\'s network**  
A-B Active Indicated \"allowed\" At time of transfer: A-C Active / Alerting
NI: \"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = allowed, LI of B A-B Active
Indicated \"restricted\" At time of transfer: A-C Active / Alerting NI: \"call
transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = restricted (note 1) A-B Active No indication
received At time of transfer: A-C Active / Alerting (e.g. interworking) NI:
\"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = not available
* * *
Table 2: Mobile subscriber A was called by subscriber B, puts B on hold and
calls subscriber C
* * *
**Call states** **CLIR indication received from** **Information provided to
C** **subscribers B\'s network**  
A-B Active Indicated \"allowed\" At time of transfer: A-C Active / Alerting
NI: \"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = allowed, LI of B A-B Active
Indicated \"restricted\" At time of transfer: A-C Active / Alerting NI: \"call
transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = restricted (note 1) A-B Active No indication
received At time of transfer: A-C Active / Alerting (e.g. interworking) NI:
\"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = not available
* * *
NOTE 1: If the subscriber C has CLIP Override Category then the following
information is carried in the Redirection number: PI = restricted, LI of B.
Table 3: Mobile subscriber A puts the call to B on hold and calls subscriber C
* * *
**Call states** **COLR indication received from** **Information provided to
B** **subscribers C\'s network**  
A-B Active Indicated \"allowed\" At time of transfer: A-C Active NI: \"call
transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = allowed, LI of C A-B Active Indicated
\"restricted\" At time of transfer: A-C Active\' NI: \"call transferred,
active\" Rdn: PI = restricted (note 2) A-B Active No indication received At
time of transfer: A-C Active (e.g. interworking) NI: \"call transferred,
active\" Rdn: PI = not available A-B Active Indicated \"allowed\" at receipt
of At time of transfer: A-C Alerting CONNECT by subscriber C NI: \"call
transferred, alerting\" At subscribers C CONNECT: NI: \"call transferred,
active\" Rdn: PI = allowed, LI of C A-B Active Indicated \"restricted\" at
receipt of At time of transfer: A-C Alerting CONNECT by subscriber C NI:
\"call transferred, alerting\" At subscribers C CONNECT: NI: \"call
transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = restricted (note 2) A-B Active No indication
received at receipt of At time of transfer: A-C Alerting CONNECT by subscriber
C NI: \"call transferred, alerting\" (e.g. interworking) At subscribers C
CONNECT: NI: \"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = not available
* * *
Table 4: Mobile subscriber A was called by subscriber C and accepts the call
by putting subscriber B on hold
* * *
**Call states** **CLIR indication received from** **Information provided to
B** **subscriber C\'s network**  
A-B Active Indicated \"allowed\" At time of transfer: A-C Active NI: \"call
transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = allowed, LI of C A-B Active Indicated
\"restricted\" At time of transfer: A-C Active NI: \"call transferred,
active\" Rdn: PI = restricted (note 2) A-B Active No indication received At
time of transfer: A-C Active (e.g. interworking) NI: \"call transferred,
active\" Rdn: PI = not available
* * *
NOTE 2: If the subscriber B was called by subscriber A and has CLIP Override
Category, or if subscriber B called subscriber A and has COLP Override
Category then the following information is carried in the Redirection number:
PI = restricted, LI of C
### 4.3.2 Call Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
No impact.
### 4.3.3 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy (CFB)
#### 4.3.3.1 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy due to Network
Determined User Busy (NDUB)
No impact.
#### 4.3.3.2 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy due to User Determined
User Busy (UDUB)
When subscriber A transfers the forwarded call there is no impact.
When subscriber C forwards the transferred call to the forwarded-to subscriber
D due to UDUB the line identity information of the subscriber B that was
received by the subscriber C in the ECT invocation notification shall be sent
as calling line identity to the forwarded-to subscriber D instead of the line
identity of the subscriber A. The corresponding information flow is given in
figure 9. For the line identity information sent to the subscriber B after the
call is answered by the forwarded-to subscriber D the table 5 applies.
MSa MSCa VLRa MSCb MSb MSCc MSc MSCd MSd
┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐ ┌──┐
│ A-B (active, held) / A-C (call delivered, idle) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ ──────────────────────────────────────────────── │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ ECT request │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ ─────────────> │ │info request│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │MAF027 │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ info ack │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ \ │ │ notification │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ ───────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ (retrieve) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────────────────> │ notification (ECT)│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ (alerting) │ │ ───────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ (alerting) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ ──────────────────────────────────────────────> │ notification (ECT)│
│ │ │ │
│ │ ECT ack │ │ (active, RdnB) │ │ │ │ │ │ ──────────> │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ \ │ setup │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │──>│ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ connect │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ ANSWER(LI=D) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │\│ │
│ │ │ │ ─────────────────────> │ notification (ECT) │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ (active, RdnD) │ │ ───────────> │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │(active, RdnD)│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
│ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │ │
NOTE: OR1: Checks in VLR and MSC ok? (Y: yes N: no)
**Figure 9: Information flow for interaction of explicit call transfer (one
call answered, the other alerting) with call forwarding**
Table 5: Subscriber C forwards the transferred call to the subscriber D
* * *
**Call states** **COLR indication received from** **Information provided to
B** **subscribers D\'s network**  
A-B Active Indicated \"allowed\" at receipt of At time of transfer: A-C
Alerting, CONNECT by subscriber D NI: \"call transferred, alerting\" forwarded
to D At subscribers D CONNECT: NI: \"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI =
allowed, LI of D A-B Active Indicated \"restricted\" at receipt of At time of
transfer: A-C Alerting, CONNECT by subscriber D NI: \"call transferred,
alerting\" forwarded to D At subscribers D CONNECT: NI: \"call transferred,
active\" Rdn: PI = restricted (note 1) A-B Active No indication received at
receipt of At time of transfer: A-C Alerting, CONNECT by subscriber D NI:
\"call transferred, alerting\" forwarded to D (e.g. interworking) At
subscribers D CONNECT: NI: \"call transferred, active\" Rdn: PI = not
available
* * *
NOTE 1: If the subscriber B was called by subscriber A and has CLIP Override
Category, or if subscriber B called subscriber A and has COLP Override
Category then the following information is carried in the Redirection number:
PI = restricted, LI of D.
### 4.3.4 Call Forwarding on No Reply (CFNRy)
Same as the interaction between call forwarding on mobile subscriber busy due
to UDUB and explicit call transfer as described in subclause 4.3.3.2.
Figure 9 applies except that call forwarding is invoked by the CFNRy timer
expiry instead of reception of reject (UDUB) message.
For the line identity information sent to the subscriber B after the call is
answered by the forwarded-to subscriber D the table 5 applies.
### 4.3.5 Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
No impact.
### 4.3.6 Call Waiting (CW)
No impact.
### 4.3.7 Call Hold (HOLD)
No impact.
### 4.3.8 Multi Party (MPTY)
The MSC/VLR shall reject any ECT request from the served subscriber of a MPTY
call.
### 4.3.9 Closed User Group (CUG)
Closed user group restrictions shall be met between users when the first call
is set up.
Similarly, closed user group restrictions shall also be met between users when
setting up the second call.
Finally, for successful explicit call transfer the served mobile subscriber
must use the same CUG-Interlock code for both calls. The same rule shall
applied regardless of being two MO calls, two MT calls or one MO and one MT
call.
### 4.3.10 Advice of Charge (AoC) services
No impact.
### 4.3.11 Call Barring services
No impact
### 4.3.12 Explicit Call Transfer (ECT)
It is required as a network option that the establishment of endless loops
between subscriber A and subscriber B, both of them transferring the call to
the other one, is prevented. The same loop prevention mechanism as in ISDN
shall be used.
## 4.4 Information stored in the HLR
The following logical states are applicable for the Explicit Call Transfer
service (refer to 3GPP TS 23.011 [6] for an explanation of the notation):
**[Provisioning State]{.underline} [Registration State]{.underline}
[Activation State]{.underline} [HLR Induction State]{.underline}**
(Not Provisioned, Not Applicable, Not Active, Not Induced)
(Provisioned, Not Applicable, Active and Operative, Not Induced)
The HLR shall store the logical state of the Explicit Call Transfer service
(which shall be one of the valid states listed above) on a per subscriber
basis.
## 4.5 State transition model
Figure 10 shows the successful cases of transition between the applicable
logical states of the Explicit Call Transfer service. The state changes are
caused by actions of the service provider.
Note that error cases are not shown in the diagram as they normally do not
cause a state change. Additionally, some successful requests may not cause a
state change and are therefore not shown in the diagram.
{width="6.481944444444444in" height="1.9076388888888889in"}
Figure 10: State transition model
## 4.6 Transfer of information from the HLR to the VLR
If the provisioning state for the Explicit Call Transfer service is
\"Provisioned\" then when the subscriber registers on a VLR the HLR shall send
that VLR information about the logical state of the Explicit Call Transfer
service.
If the logical state of the Explicit Call Transfer service is changed while a
subscriber is registered on a VLR then the HLR shall inform the VLR of the new
logical state of the Explicit Call Transfer service.
## 4.7 Information stored in the VLR
For the supplementary service Explicit Call Transfer the VLR shall store the
service state information received from the HLR.
## 4.8 Handover
Handover will have no impact on the control procedures and the operation of
the service.
#