# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
IMS based services can be provided with use of PS bearers and CS bearers for
the media. When using CS bearer for media transport of IMS sessions,
interworking solutions for IMS Centralized Services as specified in TS 23.292
[5] are used. **ICS allows** IMS sessions using CS bearers to be treated as
standard IMS sessions for the purpose of IMS Service Continuity. ICS defines
signalling mechanisms between the UE and IMS for transport of information as
needed for service continuity when using CS access for media transport.
Both IMS Centralized Services and IMS Service Continuity specify functions
which are provided by a SIP application server.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the architectural requirements and procedures
for delivery of IMS Service Continuity.
TS 23.206 [3] is migrated to this specification.
The scope of the specification includes:
\- Access Transfer related functionality:
\- PS-CS Access Transfer;
\- PS-PS Access Transfer;
\- PS-PS Access Transfer in conjunction with PS-CS Access Transfer;
\- Adding and/or removing media flows to support service;
\- SRVCC session transfer of IMS emergency session.
\- Inter‑UE transfer related functionality:
\- Establishment and release of a Collaborative Session;
\- Addition of media flows to, modification of media flows in, and release of
media flows from a Collaborative Session;
\- Transfer of media flows to a target UE whilst keeping Collaborative Session
control in the Controller UE;
\- Transfer of all media flows to a target UE without establishing a
Collaborative Session.
The solution is restricted to service continuity using IMS procedures, i.e.
mobility mechanisms on the IP-CAN level are not within the scope of this
specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.258: \"Service requirements for the AIPN\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.206: \"Voice Call Continuity between CS and IMS\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.292: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) centralized services;
Stage 2\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[7] OMA-ERELD-DM-V1_2-20060602-C: \"Enabler Release Definition for OMA Device
Management, Candidate Version 1.2\".
[8] IETF RFC 3261 (June 2002): \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.216: \" Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC); Stage 2\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G security; Security architecture\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access security for IP-based services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.218: \"IP Multimedia (IM) session handling; IM call model;
Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[16] 3GPP TS 24.610: \"Communication HOLD (HOLD) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.605: \"Conference (CONF) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 24.629: \"Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.647: \"Advice Of Charge (AOC) using IP Multimedia (IM)Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.616: \"Malicious Communication Identification (MCDI) using IP
Multimedia (IM)Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.604: \"Communication Diversion (CDIV) using IP Multimedia
(IM)Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.615: \"Communication Waiting (CW) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[26] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[27] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[28] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions in TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.
**Access Leg:** This is the call control leg between the UE and the SCC AS;
also see TS 23.292 [5] for the definition of Access Leg for IMS sessions which
use the CS media.
**Access Transfer:** Transfer at the IMS-level of one or more media paths of
an ongoing IMS session on one UE between PS to CS access; or transfer at the
IMS-level of both the signalling and the media path of an ongoing IMS session
on a UE between different IP-CANs.
**Collaborative Session:** A set of two or more Access Legs and related media
on two or more UEs sharing the same IMS subscription that are presented as one
Remote Leg by the SCC AS.
**Controllee UE:** A UE that provides media flows for a Collaborative Session,
and is subordinate to the Controller UE for session control.
**Controller UE:** The UE that controls a Collaborative Session, and whose
service profile determines the services on the remote leg. The Controller UE
may also provide media flows for a Collaborative Session.
**Correlation MSISDN:** An MSISDN used for correlation of sessions. See TS
23.003 [14] for more information.
**IMS Service Continuity:** A service of the IMS which supports the use of
Session Transfer mechanisms to maintain service continuity in the event of
terminal mobility and/or mobility between terminals for the case when such
events are not hidden from the IMS session layer and thus service continuity
could not otherwise be maintained.
**Inter-UE Transfer:** Transfer at the IMS-level of some or all of the media
flows and/or service control across a set of UEs sharing the same IMS
subscription.
NOTE: The transfer of all media flows and the control signalling from one UE
to another is also known as Session Mobility as defined in TS 22.258 [2].
**IP Multimedia Routing Number (IMRN):** An IP Multimedia Routeing Number
(IMRN) is a routable number that points to an SCC AS in the IM CN subsystem.
See TS 23.003 [14] for more information.
_**Local Operating Environment Information:** This is a set of parameters,
which can include access network(s) conditions and other parameters
implementation specific, which describe the local environment in which the UE
is operating._
**Remote Leg:** This is the call control leg between the SCC AS and the remote
party from the subscriber\'s perspective; also see TS 23.292 [5] for the
definition of Remote Leg for IMS sessions which use the CS media.
**Service Control Signalling Path:** As defined in TS 23.292 [5].
**Session Transfer:** Transfer at the IMS-level of one or more of the session
signalling paths and/or associated media flow paths of an ongoing IMS session
while maintaining service continuity. Session Transfer incorporates Access
Transfer and / or Inter-UE Transfer.
**Session Transfer Identifier (STI):** An identifier used by the UE to request
the SCC AS to perform Session Transfer. The STI is either statically
configured on the UE or dynamically assigned. See TS 23.003 [14] for more
information.
**Session Transfer Number (STN)** : A number used by the UE to request the SCC
AS to perform Session Transfer from PS to CS access. The STN is statically
configured on the UE. See TS 23.003 [14] for more information.
**Session Transfer Number for SRVCC (STN-SR)** : A STN used for SRVCC
procedures as specified in TS 23.216 [10]. STN-SR is a subscription
information provided to HSS provided to HSS for each subscriber if SRVCC
service is allowed by hPLMN. STN-SR is a routing number indicating the SCC-AS.
See TS 23.003 [14] for more information.
**Source Access Leg:** The Access Leg that exists in the transferred-out
access before executing Access Transfer procedures.
**Target Access Leg:** The Access Leg that is established in the transferred-
in access during Access Transfer procedures.
**Emergency Session Transfer Number for SRVCC:** A number used in the session
transfer procedure for emergency calls, pointing toward the serving (visited
if roaming) IMS EATF which handles the IMS emergency session transfer from PS
to CS access.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
3pcc 3rd party call control
C-MSISDN Correlation MSISDN
EATF Emergency Access Transfer Function
iFC Initial Filter Criteria
IMRN **IP Multimedia Routing Number.**
IUT Inter-UE Transfer
OCS Online Charging System
SC Service Continuity
SCC AS Service Centralization and Continuity Application Server
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
STI Session Transfer Identifier
STN Session Transfer Number
STN-SR Session Transfer Number - Single Radio
E-STN-SR Emergency Session Transfer Number for SRVCC
# 4 High level principles and architectural requirements
## 4.1 Basic Assumptions
### 4.1.0 General
It is assumed that the UE may be capable of transmitting and receiving
simultaneously in multiple Access Networks or it may be capable of
transmitting and receiving in only one Access Network at a time.
### 4.1.1 PS-CS Access Transfer
The following assumptions apply for PS-CS Access Transfer:
\- **Functions of IMS Centralized Services and IMS Service Continuity are
collocated in a single SCC AS**. Not all functions are always required.
\- IMS Centralized Services specifies functions and procedures for use of CS
bearer for the media of the IMS sessions.
\- If both UE and network supports the ICS UE capabilities described in TS
23.292 [5], these capabilities are used for communication of required
information if needed for enablement of PS-CS Access Transfer of IMS
multimedia sessions. During Access Transfer, the UE may decide to retain the
use of the Gm reference point for service control of the real time media
flow(s) in the old PS access (if available) or may decide to transfer the Gm
service control for the real time media flow(s) to a new PS access. Support
and use of the I1 interface in both the UE and SCC AS are subject to the
requirements specified in clause 4.8 of TS 23.292 [5].
\- When using the CS bearer for the media of the IMS session(s), multiple
sessions can exist, but only one active session can be transferred over the CS
bearer; one or more inactive sessions can be transferred.
\- PS-CS Access Transfer with UE-based conferencing is not specified in this
release.
### 4.1.2 PS-PS Access Transfer
If a UE has an ongoing multimedia session over an access system and moves to a
different access system but its IMS contact address and its serving P‑CSCF
remains the same, then there is no need to activate any IMS Service Continuity
mechanisms to transfer its multimedia session. The UE may update the session
(e.g. remove media type(s) not supported by the target access system) based on
the normal IMS procedures specified in TS 23.228 [4].
When the Evolved Packet System mobility with IP address preservation is used,
the assumption above also applies.
NOTE: If an ICS UE has an ongoing session using CS bearer and Gm reference
point over an IP‑CAN and performs an Access Transfer to a different IP‑CAN,
the Service Control Signalling Path can be transferred from the old IP‑CAN to
the new IP‑CAN while retaining the media flow(s) in the CS access network, so
that service continuity of the session is maintained.
### 4.1.3 Inter-UE Transfer
The following assumptions apply for Inter-UE Transfer:
\- The UEs involved in Inter-UE Transfer share the same IMS subscription.
\- The Collaborative Session control cannot be transferred between UEs.
\- There is only one Controller UE within a Collaborative Session.
\- A Controllee UE is not aware of its role within a Collaborative session and
it is not aware of the Controller UE. In that respect any UE can undertake the
role of Controllee UE.
\- The Collaborative Session is transparent to the remote end, to which it
appears that the session is with the Controller UE.
\- The UEs involved in Inter-UE Transfer without establishing a Collaborative
Session use Public User identities that share the same service profile.
NOTE: This Release does not provide a solution to enforce this assumption.
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
### 4.2.1 General Requirements
\- It shall be possible to perform multimedia session transfer between access
systems regardless of whether network layer mobility is deployed or not.
NOTE: The mechanism to avoid potential conflict between PS-PS Access Transfer
and underlying network layer mobility (e.g. Evolved Packet System mobility,
etc.) is not specified within this Release of the specification.
\- The service disruption when session transfer occurs shall be minimized.
\- There shall be no impact on the radio and transport layers and on the PS
core network.
\- UEs that do not support the functionality described in this specification
shall not be impacted.
\- All media flow(s) within a multimedia session or a subset of media flow(s)
within a multimedia session could be subject to session transfer procedures.
\- It shall be possible to register a Public User Identity with multiple
contact addresses (at the same or via separate UEs) via IMS registration
procedures as defined in TS 23.228 [4], clause 5.2.1. The number of allowed
simultaneous registrations is defined by home operator policy.
\- It shall be possible to perform correlation of charging data from different
access networks when service continuity between these networks is performed.
\- The UE shall be IMS registered before invoking any Session Transfer
procedures.
\- The filter criteria shall contain a condition that a 3rd-party registration
is performed via the ISC interface for the SCC AS.
\- It shall be possible to provide SR-VCC support for IMS emergency call.
### 4.2.2 Access Transfer Requirements
\- It shall be possible to provide Access Transfer when the user is moving
between 3GPP access systems.
\- It shall be possible to provide Access Transfer when the user is moving
between 3GPP and non-3GPP access systems.
\- It shall be possible to provide Access Transfer when the user is moving
between non-3GPP access systems.
\- It shall be possible to provide Access Transfer between an Access Network
that supports real-time media on the CS domain and non-real-time media on the
PS domain, and an IP‑CAN that supports transport of all media types.
\- If it is not possible or not desired (e.g. due to user preferences and/or
operator policies) to transfer all the media flow(s), then a subset of the
media flow(s) shall be transferred (if possible) and the remaining flow(s)
will be released or kept in the transferred out access.
\- It shall be possible for the UE to add or remove one or more media flow(s)
to/from an ongoing multimedia session that it controls during Access Transfer.
\- It shall be possible to provide Access Transfer when the P‑CSCF changes.
\- It shall be possible for the UE to use IMS mechanisms to transfer its
ongoing multimedia sessions to a target Access Network without requiring any
new functionality on the remote party.
\- It shall be possible for the UE to initiate an Access Transfer procedure
based on operator policy provided by the network which may include
restrictions of Access Transfer.
\- It shall be possible for the SCC AS to update the operator policy in the
UE.
### 4.2.3 IUT Requirements
\- IUT shall apply only for sessions that are already established.
\- It shall be possible for the Controller UE to apply IUT when a remote end
adds media to an existing session.
\- IUT shall be able to coexist with Access Transfer as specified in this
specification and TS 23.292 [5].
\- If the Collaborative Session control is lost for an active Collaborative
Session, the SCC AS shall release all the Access Legs participating in that
Collaborative Session.
\- It shall be possible for the Controller UE to determine all other UEs under
the same subscription that are currently available for IUT procedures.
\- It shall be possible for the Controller UE to determine the media and
service capabilities of each available UE.
\- The network shall reject IUT between UEs that are not under same
subscription.
\- The SCC AS shall maintain the end-to-end session service state of a UE
engaged in IUT.
\- It shall be possible to execute IUT in any order, and any number of times,
for a given session.
\- The Controller UE shall maintain the Collaborative Session control for the
session until the Collaborative Session is released.
\- The media flow(s) on the target UE shall be established using IMS session
setup procedures as specified in TS 23.228 [4].
\- The Controller UE may transfer one or more media flow(s) to one or more
target UEs (including itself).
\- The selection of the media flows to be transferred may be based on the
target UE(s) capabilities.
\- The Controller UE shall have information about a Collaborative Session,
which describes all media components currently existing in this session and
the UEs associated with these media components.
\- The Collaborative Session procedures for a Controllee UE shall not have any
impact to the UE. Therefore any IMS UE shall be able to act a Controllee UE
within a Collaborative Session.
\- The SCC AS shall prevent the Controllee UE to perform actions that are not
allowed for its role (e.g. to add media to an existing session).
\- UEs using CS access interworked with IMS by an interworking node shall be
provided with limited Controllee UE functionality based on the constraints of
the interworking node.
\- After the local end changes due to an IUT procedure without establishing a
Collaborative Session, the SCC AS shall update the remote end that the session
is continuing with a new local end.
## 4.3 Service Continuity
### 4.3.1 Session Transfer concepts
#### 4.3.1.1 General
When an UE is active in an IMS session, the Session Transfer procedures
provide service continuity between Access Networks and between UEs under the
same subscription.
The initial and all subsequent Session Transfer procedures are initiated by
the UE and are executed and controlled by the same SCC AS.
The SCC AS generates charging information for all Session Transfers for an IMS
session for the purpose of billing and charging.
The UE sends information required by the SCC AS in order to execute Session
Transfer procedures.
#### 4.3.1.2 Access Transfer concepts
##### 4.3.1.2.1 General Access Transfer concepts
IMS sessions from and to an UE are anchored at the SCC AS in the home IMS to
provide service continuity for the user during transition between two Access
Networks. Sessions are anchored at the SCC AS in the home IMS, based on iFC. A
3pcc (3rd party call control) function is employed at the SCC AS to facilitate
inter-Access Network mobility through the use of Access Transfers between the
two Access Networks. Access Transfers may be enabled in one or both directions
as per network configuration requirements. The SCC AS has the capability to
perform Access Transfers for a UE\'s sessions multiple times.
Initiation of Access Transfer procedures for ongoing multimedia session may be
based on the operator policy received from the SCC AS.
##### 4.3.1.2.2 Access Transfer (PS -- CS) concepts
IMS sessions established in CS or PS Access Networks are anchored at the SCC
AS. IMS sessions using CS bearer are established at session setup or upon
Access Transfer using procedures specified in TS 23.292 [5].
PS-CS Access Transfer shall be provided according to the requirements
specified in clause 22.3, Service Continuity, of TS 22.101 [9].
When using a UE that does not have, or that is unable to use, ICS UE
capabilities as specified in TS 23.292 [5], Access Transfer of one active bi-
directional speech or speech and video session and zero or one inactive bi-
directional speech session shall be provided when transferring speech and/or
video media flow between CS and PS access. For PS to CS (not CS to PS) access
transfer, if the UE has more than one anchored active bi-directional session,
the session that was most recently made active shall be transferred.
When using a UE that is able to use ICS capabilities as specified in TS 23.292
[5], Access Transfer of one active bi-directional speech or speech and video
session and zero or more inactive bi-directional speech sessions shall be
provided using the Gm reference point, or optionally the I1 reference point,
of ICS to transport required information, as specified in TS 23.292 [5], when
transferring speech and/or video media flow between CS and PS access. For PS
to CS (not CS to PS) access transfer, if the UE has more than one anchored
active bi-directional sessions, then the UE shall first request transfer of
one of the active bi-directional sessions, put the remaining active sessions
on hold and then request the transfer of one of the remaining inactive bi-
directional sessions. Access Transfer shall also be provided for one or more
inactive bi-directional sessions if the UE has no active bi-directional
sessions.
##### 4.3.1.2.3 Void
#### 4.3.1.3 Inter‑UE Transfer concepts
##### 4.3.1.3.1 General
IMS sessions from and to a UE are anchored at the SCC AS in the home IMS to
provide service continuity for the user when one or more media flows of an
ongoing IMS multimedia session are transferred, added or deleted among
different UEs under the same subscription.
A Collaborative Session, which is split on the local end across two or more
UEs and anchored in the SCC AS, is established due to the Inter-UE transfer
procedures. The UE which initiates the Inter-UE Transfer procedures to
establish the Collaborative Session becomes the Controller UE of the
Collaborative Session and the other UE(s) involved in the Collaborative
Session become the Controllee UE(s). Subsequent Inter-UE Transfer procedures,
initiated by the Controller UE, can also be performed within the Collaborative
Session. The SCC AS provides the coordination of the Collaborative Session
procedures which may involve both the Controller UE and the Controllee UE(s).
Inter-UE Transfer procedures can also be executed without establishing a
Collaborative Session. In this case, the whole IMS multi-media session is
transferred from one UE to the other UE, and the roles of the Controller and
Controllee UEs are not applicable.
Inter-UE Transfer procedures may be initiated by the UE based on the
information it gets from Target UE discovery.
##### 4.3.1.3.2 Controller UE and Controllee UE operations
##### 4.3.1.3.2.1 Overview
The operations of Controller UE and Controllee UE are described respectively
in clauses 5.3.2.2.2 and 5.3.2.2.3.
### 4.3.2 Void
### 4.3.3 Information used for IMS Service Continuity
The following information may be provided between SCC AS and the UE.
Depending on the IMS Service Continuity scenario, the Access Transfer request
may contain the following:
\- session transfer indicator;
\- details about the access and the media flow(s) being transferred / kept /
released;
\- optionally, an IMS Communication Service Identifier defined in TS 23.228
[4];
\- which session is required to be replaced or updated;
\- whether to merge the session(s).
The above addressed information are carried in various SIP/SDP and CS call
control messages (specified in the applicable information flows), which
provides the necessary details to enable IMS Service Continuity. The SCC AS
and the UE analyze the included information and determine if and how a Session
Transfer operation needs to be performed.
# 5 Architecture model and reference points
## 5.1 Overview
IMS Service Continuity is a home network based IMS application which provides
intra-UE transfers of one or more components of IMS multi media sessions
across different Access Networks. In addition, Service Continuity enables
adding, deleting, and transferring media flows of IMS multi-media sessions or
transferring whole IMS multi-media sessions across multiple UEs belonging to
the same IMS subscription.
NOTE: For IMS emergency service, IMS Service Continuity is a serving network
(visited if roaming) based IMS application.
The UE shall not invoke Inter-UE Transfer procedures while engaged in an
emergency call.
## 5.2 Reference Architecture for non emergency session
**IMS Service Continuity requires a Service Centralization and Continuity
(SCC) AS, which is an Application Server as described in TS 23.228 [4], and a
UE with SC capabilities. For the support of IMS sessions with CS media, refer
to the reference architecture in TS 23.292 [5], clause 5.2; the functions of
ICS and SC are specified as optional functions co-located in the SCC AS in
this release.**
OMA Device Management [7] is used between the SCC AS and the UE for
provisioning of operator policy for Access Transfer.
## 5.3 Functional Entities
### 5.3.1 SCC AS
The SCC AS provides IMS-based mechanisms for enabling service continuity of
multimedia sessions.
For IMS Service Continuity, the SCC AS implements the following
functionalities:
\- **Access Transfer** : The SCC AS uses the ISC reference point towards the
S-CSCF for execution of the Access Transfer. The SCC AS performs the following
for enablement and execution of Access Transfers:
\- analyzes the information required for Access Transfer as described in the
procedure section and decides which Access Transfer scenario should be
executed; it rejects the Access Transfer request if it is not aligned with the
operator policy;
\- may retrieve from the HSS after third party registration the C‑MSISDN bound
to the IMS Private User Identity stored in the user profile in the HSS;
\- correlates the Access Transfer request with the anchored session, using
information provided in the incoming SIP INVITE;
\- executes the transfer of the IMS session between different access networks;
\- implements 3rd party call control (3pcc) upon session establishment;
\- provides Access Transfer specific charging data;
\- decides based on analysis of the various service continuity related input
factors, whether to update provisioned operator policy for Access Transfer;
\- generates and updates operator policy by sending operator policy to the UE
via OMA DM [7] including the priority between the operator policy and user
preferences that could be used also to initiate Access Transfer procedure for
ongoing sessions.
\- **Inter-UE Transfer:** The SCC AS performs the functions for enablement and
execution of Inter-UE Transfer procedures:
\- executes the IMS Inter-UE Transfer related procedures between different UEs
belonging to the same IMS subscription connected via the same or different
access networks;
\- provides Inter-UE Transfer specific charging data.
\- **Terminating Access Domain Selection (T-ADS):** In addition to T‑ADS
specified in TS 23.292 [5].
For a terminating session, the SCC AS may select more than one contact amongst
multiple registered contacts for each selected UE of the SC User and may split
the session into sessions directed to the selected contacts.
For multiple contacts in the PS domain, the SCC AS shall be able to select one
or more types of access networks through which the session shall be
terminated. In this case, the SCC AS includes additional information within
the session request(s) to ensure that the corresponding session is terminated
via the selected access network type(s).
For Inter-UE Transfer procedures to a target UE, the SCC AS shall execute
T-ADS to select one or more contacts to establish one or more access legs or
to reuse one or more access legs belonging to the same Collaborative Session
towards the target UE for the transferred media flow(s).
T-ADS in SCC AS may be used in order to enforce user preferences between 3GPP
and non-3GPP access networks.
UE assisted T-ADS (UE T-ADS) may be used in order to enforce user preferences
for CS bearer or PS bearer for voice/video on 3GPP accesses.
\- **Handling of multiple media flows:** The SCC AS provides functionality to
combine and/or split media flows over one or more Access Networks as needed
for Session Transfers, session termination, or upon request by the UE to add
media flows over an additional Access Network during the setup of a session,
or upon request by the UE to add and/or delete media flows over one or more
Access Networks to existing sessions.
When handling media flows of an IMS session, the SCC AS takes into account the
services associated with the session.
### 5.3.2 IMS Service Continuity UE
#### 5.3.2.1 Access Transfer Functions
For supporting Access Transfer, the UE provides the following functions:
\- Stores and applies operator policy for Access Transfer.
\- Initiates Access Transfer procedure based on trigger criteria including the
current operator policy, user preferences and the Local Operating Environment
Information, providing the necessary details for conducting an Access Transfer
operation to the SCC AS.
#### 5.3.2.2 IUT Functions and Roles
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Functions
For supporting Inter-UE Transfer, the UE may provide the following functions:
\- Discovers the target UE(s) for Inter-UE Transfer;
\- Initiates Inter-UE Transfer procedures based on user input.
\- Takes the role of a Controller UE within a Collaborative Session.
Any IMS UE can take the role of a Controllee UE.
##### 5.3.2.2.2 Controller UE Role
\- The Controller UE can initiate the addition of a media flow to a
Collaborative Session, on any of the Controllee UEs already involved in the
collaborative session.
\- The Controller UE can initiate the modification of a media flow that is
part of a Collaborative Session it controls.
\- The Controller UE can initiate the release of a media flow that is part of
a Collaborative Session it controls.
\- The Controller UE keeps track of all the UEs and about the state of the
media flows which are part of a Collaborative Session it controls. That means
it remains aware about the media flows that are established, as well as about
the media used for those.
\- The Controller UE is the one to accept or refuse requests for media
additions initiated by the remote party for a Collaborative Session it
controls. In case it accepts a remote party initiated media addition, the
controller decides on which terminal the media shall be added.
\- The Controller UE for a Collaborative Session can initiate Inter-UE
transfer of one or more of the media flows of the Collaborative Session.
\- The Controller UE can initiate the release of a Collaborative Session.
\- The Controller UE can add into a Collaborative Session it controls a UE not
yet involved in this Collaborative Session.
##### 5.3.2.2.3 Controllee UE
Any IMS UE can take the role of a Controllee UE. In this role the Controllee
UE can:
\- initiate the modification of a media flow which terminates on it.
\- initiate the release of a media flow which terminates on it.
\- accept or refuse:
\- media modifications initiated by the remote party or by the Controller UE,
for media flow(s) it terminates;
\- media additions initiated by the Controller UE or by a remote party (in the
latter case, this assumes that the Controller UE has accepted the addition and
selected the Controllee UE);
\- media transfers initiated by the Controller UE, for which the Controllee UE
is the target.
### 5.3.3 Emergency Access Transfer Function (EATF)
The Emergency Access Transfer Function (EATF) provides IMS-based mechanisms
for enabling service continuity of IMS emergency sessions. It is a function in
the serving (visited if roaming) IMS network, providing the procedures for IMS
emergency session anchoring and PS to CS Access Transfer. The EATF acts as a
routing B2BUA which invokes third party call control (3pcc) for enablement of
Access Transfer.
The EATF performs the session continuity when the Access Transfer request
indicated by the E-STN-SR is received.
## 5.4 Signalling and bearer paths for IMS Service Continuity
### 5.4.1 General
**The SCC AS is inserted in the signalling path of all the IMS user\'s
sessions; the SCC AS** behaves as a SIP-AS as described in TS 23.228 [4] to
set up a 3pcc to control the bearer path of the session for enablement and
execution of Session Transfer.
### 5.4.2 Sessions with PS media flow(s)
Figure 5.4.2-1 shows 3pcc at the SCC AS, for enablement and execution of
Session Transfers, when the media flow(s) for the Access Leg is established
via IP‑CAN.
The figure is for illustration of the 3pcc at the SCC AS and its use for
Session Transfer; hence it only shows the signalling and bearer components
relevant to the enablement and execution of Session Transfers.
Figure 5.4.2-1: Signalling and bearer paths for sessions with PS media
### 5.4.3 Sessions with CS media
For details of signalling and bearer paths when the media for the Access Leg
is established via the CS access, see TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.1.1. For
illustration of 3pcc at the SCC AS, for enablement and execution of Session
Transfers, with use of the Gm reference point, the I1 reference point and when
not using Gm or I1 for service control signalling respectively, refer to
figures 7.1.1-1, 7.1.1-2 and 7.1.2-1, in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.1.
## 5.5 IUT Collaborative Sessions
IUT for service continuity allows a multi media session to be split on the
local end across two or more UEs that are part of a Collaborative Session.
Figure 5.5-1: Collaborative Session Signalling and Bearer architecture
provides signalling and bearer architecture for a Collaborative Session.
Figure 5.5-1: Collaborative Session Signalling and Bearer architecture
NOTE: The media in Controller UE is optional.
The Controller UE provides the control for a Collaborative Session using IMS
signalling on an Access Leg between Controller UE and the SCC AS. The
Controller UE may transfer one or more media flow(s) to one or more target UEs
(including itself), by using Collaborative Session control (e.g. in the SDP).
Controllee UE provides the control for the media established on the Controllee
UE using IMS signalling on the Access Leg associated for the media. For
simplicity only one Controllee UE is shown but there can be multiple
Controllee UEs.
The SCC AS combines the media descriptions and Collaborative Session control
on the Access Legs and presents one Remote Leg towards the remote end.
## 5.6 Reference Architecture for SRVCC emergency session
To allow SRVCC for IMS emergency session, an EATF is used for emergency
sessions anchoring and transferring. For the overall IMS emergency reference
architecture with EATF, refer to the reference architecture in TS 23.167 [23].
# 6 Procedures and flows for Access Transfer
## 6.0 Introduction
Some of the following figures contain a box labelled CS/IMS Intermediate
Nodes. This is abstraction for CS/IMS functional elements that exist between
the UE and the SCC AS which could include amongst others MSC Server enhanced
for ICS, MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC or an MGCF and an MSC Server not
enhanced for ICS.
## 6.1 Registration
Whenever the UE acquires IP connectivity via an IP‑CAN, the UE registers in
the IMS as defined in TS 23.228 [4]. The user profile contains a C‑MSISDN
which is bound to the IMS Private User Identity. The S-CSCF follows the
procedures defined in TS 23.218 [13] for performing 3rd party registration
towards the SCC AS.
When using CS access for media, the UE may be registered in IMS as specified
in TS 23.292 [5].
When the SCC AS receives a 3rd party registration per procedures defined in TS
23.218 [13], the SCC AS shall obtain the C-MSISDN from the HSS. If the
C-MSISDN is associated with any ongoing session(s), the SCC AS shall bind all
the unique identities associated with the SIP Registration e.g. GRUUs, contact
address, etc with the session identifier of the ongoing session.
## 6.2 Origination and Termination
### 6.2.1 Origination
#### 6.2.1.1 Origination Procedures
UE initiated multimedia sessions are anchored at the SCC AS in order to enable
IMS Service Continuity. Originating iFC for the SC subscriber results in
routing of the session to the SCC AS in the home IMS network, where the SCC AS
uses 3rd party call control as per TS 23.228 [4] to initiate a session to the
remote party on behalf of the subscriber.
The SCC AS shall be the first Application Server of any Application Servers
that need to remain in the path of the call after Session Origination.
#### 6.2.1.2 Originating sessions that use CS media
The UE originates sessions that use CS media by following the procedures
specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2 Originating sessions that use CS
media.
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: Originating session that uses CS media
1\. UE‑1 initiates a multimedia session to UE‑2 and makes use of CS media.
UE‑1 sends the request to the SCC AS following the procedures specified in TS
23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2 Originating sessions that use CS media, for setting
up CS bearer, anchoring the session at the SCC AS, merging multiples legs if
necessary, and forwarding the combined session request to UE‑2.
2\. The SCC AS anchors the session. A dynamic STI is assigned for the anchored
session.
3\. The SCC AS completes session setup to UE‑2 and sends a response to UE‑1
based on the procedures specified in TS 23.292 [5]. The dynamic STI is
communicated between the SCC AS and UE-1 if possible.
The session is set up with CS media. The session may also include PS media
flow(s).
#### 6.2.1.3 Originating sessions that use only PS media flow(s)
Existing Mobile Origination procedures described in TS 23.228 [4] are used to
establish a session.
Figure 6.2.1.3-1: Originating session that uses only PS media
1\. UE-1 initiates an IMS multimedia session to UE-2 and uses only PS media
flow(s). The request is forwarded to S-CSCF following normal IMS session set
up procedures.
2\~3. The service logic with iFC causes the request to be forwarded to the SCC
AS for anchoring the sessions to enable Session Transfer.
4\. The SCC AS anchors the session. An STI is assigned for the anchored
session.
5\. The SCC AS completes the session setup to UE-2 and sends a response to
UE-1.
### 6.2.2 Termination
#### 6.2.2.1 Termination Procedures
IMS multimedia sessions towards SC subscribers in the PS or in the CS domain
are anchored at the SCC AS to enable IMS Service Continuity. The execution of
terminating iFC results in routing of the sessions to the SCC AS in the home
IMS network, where the SCC AS uses 3rd party call control as per TS 23.228 [4]
to terminate the session to the SC subscriber. The sessions may be delivered
to the UE via the PS or CS access.
The SCC AS shall be the last Application Server of any Application Servers
that need to remain in the path of the call after Session Termination.
#### 6.2.2.2 Terminating sessions that use CS media
The procedures specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.4.2 Terminating sessions
that use CS media shall be followed to terminate sessions that use CS media to
the SC subscriber.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: Terminating session that uses CS media
1\. A request is received at S‑CSCF serving UE‑1 following standard IMS
session set up procedures.
2 \~ 3. The service logic with iFC causes the request to be forwarded to the
SCC AS so that the session is anchored for enabling Session Transfer.
4\. The SCC AS anchors the incoming session. A dynamic STI is assigned for the
anchored session.
5\. The SCC AS forwards the request to UE-1 based on the procedures specified
in TS 23.292 [5] for setting up CS bearer and splitting the media flow(s) if
necessary. The dynamic STI is communicated between the SCC AS and the UE if
possible. If the SCC AS decided to split the non‑speech media and speech media
for a certain UE, the T‑ADS in the SCC AS delivers the split session only to
this particular UE. The SCC AS uses the C‑MSISDN for correlation.
The session is set up with CS media. The session may also include PS media
flow(s).
#### 6.2.2.3 Terminating sessions that use only PS media flow(s)
Existing Mobile Termination procedures described in TS 23.228 [4] are used to
establish a session towards a SC subscriber.
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: Terminating session that uses only PS media
1\. The request is received at S‑CSCF following normal IMS session set up
procedures.
2 \~ 3. The service logic with iFC causes the request to be forwarded to the
SCC AS so that the session can be anchored for potential session transfer.
4\. The SCC AS anchors the session. An STI is assigned for the anchored
session.
5\. The SCC AS determines that the session is terminated to UE‑1 with PS media
flow(s) only and routes the request to UE‑1.
#### 6.2.2.4 Terminating sessions over Gm where speech media is not accepted
by the UE
If the SCC AS includes only bi-directional speech media, the procedures
specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.4.3 shall be followed.
If the SCC AS includes non-speech media in the request, in addition to bi-
directional speech or CS media and if the UE decides to only accept the non-
speech media, the UE returns a response to IMS that only bi-directional speech
or CS media is rejected. The SCC AS, upon reception of the response, splits
the non speech media from the bi-directional speech or CS media for this UE.
The T‑ADS in the SCC AS re-attempts the terminating call setup directly
towards the same UE over CS domain if possible. The SCC AS uses the C‑MSISDN
for correlation.
## 6.3 Access Transfer
### 6.3.1 Access Transfer Procedure
#### 6.3.1.1 Introduction
Access Transfer procedures enable service continuity between Access Networks.
All Access Transfer procedures associated with a session, including initial
and subsequent transfers, are executed and controlled in the user\'s home IMS
network by the SCC AS upon the UE\'s request.
NOTE: In order to support Access Transfer and Media Adding/Deleting procedures
that involve the use of the Gm reference point on two IP-CANs, the UE and IMS
network both have to support multiple simultaneous registrations of the UE and
the UE has to be able to establish and maintain simultaneous connections to
both IP-CANs at least for the duration of the Access Transfers or Media
Adding/Deleting procedures.
The STN and STI are used during the execution of Access Transfers. The STN and
STI are stored in the UE.
#### 6.3.1.2 Access Transfer Procedures
When the UE determines that Access Transfer is desirable and possible, a
registration in IMS is performed by the UE via the transferring-in Access
Network if the user is not already registered via that network.
If the UE does not have or is unable to use its ICS capabilities, then prior
to dual-radio Access Transfer:
\- If the MSC assisted mid-call feature is not used then the UE releases all
but the most recently active bi-directional sessions.
\- If the MSC assisted mid-call feature is used then:
\- if the UE has more than one active bi-directional session, selects the
second most recently active bidirectional session and it releases all
remaining sessions except for the two most recently active bi-directional
sessions;
\- if the UE has one active bi-directional session and more than one inactive
bi-directional session, it releases all sessions except for the active session
and the inactive session which became inactive most recently.
NOTE: For the single-radio case the above applies but the UE locally releases
the sessions based on the aforementioned priority.
A new Access Leg is established by the UE toward the SCC AS, if needed.
Signalling and bearer resources are allocated in the transferring-in Access
Network and the user\'s sessions are transferred from the transferring-out
Access Network. The SCC AS executes Access Transfer procedures. Resources in
the transferring-out Access Network are subsequently released.
When the UE wants to perform Access Transfer and determines that there is a PS
Access Leg in the transferring-in Access Network for the same session, the UE
can use the existing PS Access Leg in the transferring-in Access Network,
instead of establishing a new Target Access Leg, to execute Access Transfer.
No new signalling resources need to be allocated in the transferring-in Access
Network.
Based on UE and Access Network capabilities, the UE may also maintain some of
the media flows in the transferring-out Access Network while transferring the
other media flows to the transferring-in Access Network.
#### 6.3.1.3 Enablement of Access Transfer procedures
A 3pcc (3rd party call control) function is employed to anchor IMS sessions at
the SCC AS upon session establishment for enablement of Access Transfer. The
SCC AS is invoked as part of originating or terminating iFC execution at the
subscriber\'s S-CSCF. The SCC AS inserts itself in the signalling path of the
SC subscriber\'s IMS sessions by implementing a 3pcc (3rd party call control)
function. For an originating IMS session, the SCC AS terminates an Access Leg
from the user and establishes a Remote Leg toward the remote end. For a
terminating IMS session, the SCC AS terminates a Remote Leg from the remote
end and establishes an Access Leg toward the user. The SCC AS subsequently
coordinates the session control signalling exchange between the Access Leg and
the Remote Leg associated with the anchored IMS session.
For 3pcc at the SCC AS when the Access Leg is established with CS media, refer
to clause 5.4.3. For 3pcc at the SCC AS when the Access Leg is established
with media flow over IP-CAN to illustrate its use as preparation for Access
Transfer procedures, refer to clause 5.4.2.
An STI and STN for Access Transfer between CS and PS access shall be
statically configured on the UE regardless of its ICS capabilities.
If the Gm or I1 reference point is used for the originating or terminating
session, an STI is dynamically assigned for the Access Leg. An STI shall also
be dynamically assigned for each new Access Leg established during Access
Transfer.
NOTE: The dynamically assigned STI needs to be different from the STI and STN
that are statically configured on the UE.
The statically configured STI shall be used for CS to PS Access Transfers only
when no dynamically assigned STI was provided to the UE.
The STN is used for PS to CS Access Transfers when no Gm or I1 reference point
is available.
The STN-SR as specified in TS 23.216 [10] is used for PS to CS Access Transfer
using Single Radio VCC.
#### 6.3.1.4 Execution of Access Transfer procedures
Upon detection of conditions requiring Access Transfer, the UE establishes a
Target Access Leg with the SCC AS via the transferred-in Access Network to
request Access Transfer to the transferred-in Access Network. When the UE
initiates a Access Transfer request, it includes the STI and/or the STN.
The SCC AS executes the Access Transfer procedure by replacing the Source
Access Leg currently communicating to the Remote Leg with the Target Access
Leg. If no media flow is retained in the transferred-out access, the Source
Access Leg is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6. If the UE chooses to
retain some media flow(s) in the transferred-out access, the Source Access Leg
is updated to indicate which media flow(s) is retained in the transferred-out
access. If such update is not done, the SCC AS releases the Source Access Leg
as specified in clause 6.3.1.6 and updates the Remote Leg if necessary. When
the switch of the Source Access Leg to the Target Access Leg is executed, the
Remote Leg is also updated in order to forward the media flow(s) to the
transferred-in Access Network.
#### 6.3.1.5 Remote Leg Update
Upon receiving a request for execution of Access Transfer, the SCC AS performs
the Remote Leg Update by switching the Access Leg communicating with the
Remote Leg from Source Access Leg to Target Access Leg.
Figure 6.3.1.5-1: Remote Leg Update
The remote end in figure 6.3.1.5-1 represents a UE supporting terminations per
TS 23.228 [4] (i.e. including NI-T).
1-2. The SCC AS updates the Remote Leg by communicating the SDP of the Target
Access Leg established to the remote end via the user\'s S-CSCF. Remote Leg
Update happens according to SIP session modification procedures (see RFC 3261
[8]).
The remote end in figure 6.3.1.5-2 represents an MGCF for CS/PSTN Remote
Party.
Figure 6.3.1.5-2: Remote Leg Update
1-2. These steps are the same procedures described in figure 6.3.1.5-1.
3\. MGCF instructs MGW to update a termination towards the Target Access Leg
to the context, and to release the termination for the Source Access Leg from
the context.
#### 6.3.1.6 Source Access Leg Release
When the session modification procedures are complete, the Source Access Leg
Release is executed by initiating a session release. This is done for the
Source Access Leg using the AS/UE session release procedures per TS 23.228
[4]. The UE and the SCC AS shall initiate the Session Release procedure when
the switch to the Target Access Leg is complete.
### 6.3.2 Access Transfer Information flows
#### 6.3.2.0 General
This clause details the procedures and flows for Access Transfers. In the
flows that pertain to I1, the assumptions specified in clause 7.0 of TS 23.292
[5] apply.
#### 6.3.2.1 PS -- CS Access Transfer
##### 6.3.2.1.1 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS - Dual Radio
Figure 6.3.2.1.1-1 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS - Dual Radio, provides
an information flow for Access Transfer of an IMS session in PS to CS
direction. The flow requires that the user has an IMS originating or
terminating session using PS media flow(s) at the time of initiation of Access
Transfer to CS.
NOTE 1: This flow assumes the PS domain does not have any non real time media
flow(s). If the PS domain has other non real time media flow(s), then the call
flow in clause 6.3.2.3.1 applies.
Figure 6.3.2.1.1-1: PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS - Dual Radio
1\. If the user is not attached to the CS domain at the time when the UE
determines a need for Access Transfer to CS, the UE performs a CS Attach as
specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.2.1. It subsequently originates a session
that uses CS media using the STN to establish an Access Leg via the CS access
and requests Access Transfer of the IMS session to CS access using the
procedures described in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2 Originating Sessions that
use CS media.
2\. Standard procedures as specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2
Originating Sessions that use CS media are used in CS and IMS intermediate
nodes which results in routing of the INVITE with the STN or an IMRN to the
I/S‑CSCF. The MSC Server enhanced for ICS includes the GRUU into the Access
Transfer request if the user is registered in the IMS by the MSC Server
enhanced for ICS as specified in TS 23.292 [5]. If the user is not registered
in IMS then CS/IMS Interworking Nodes includes the C‑MSISDN as calling party
number into the Access Transfer request.
3\. Standard procedures are used at I/S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
4\. The SCC AS completes the establishment of the Access Leg via the CS
access. The SCC AS is able to identify the correct anchored session using
either the C‑MSISDN or the GRUU for session identification. The SCC AS
determines if the state of the session to be transferred is active or inactive
based on the session state information in the source Access Leg. The SCC AS
performs the Access Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with the connection
information of the newly established Access Leg using the Remote Leg Update
procedure as specified in clause 6.3.1.5. The SCC AS completes the session
setup towards UE according to procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
5\. The Source Access Leg (which is the Access Leg previously established over
PS access) is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6
NOTE 2: Steps 4 and 5 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may
occur in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.1.1a Void
##### 6.3.2.1.2 PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS - Dual Radio
Figure 6.3.2.1.2-1 PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS - Dual Radio, provides
an information flow for Access Transfer of an IMS session in the CS to PS
direction. The flow requires that the user has an IMS originating or
terminating session that uses CS media at the time of initiation of Access
Transfer to PS.
Figure 6.3.2.1.2-1: PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS - Dual Radio
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS (if not already registered in IMS) as specified in
clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates an IMS originated session toward the SCC
AS using a STI to establish an Access Leg via PS access and requests Access
Transfer of the IMS session that is using CS media to PS access. The
statically configured STI is used if no dynamically assigned STI has been
provided to the UE during session establishment. Please refer to clause 6.2.1
- IMS Originating Sessions for details on IMS origination procedure.
2\. Standard procedures are used at S‑CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS performs the Access Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with
the session information, including session state and connection information,
of the newly established Access Leg (see the Remote Leg Update procedure,
clause 6.3.1.5). The SCC AS completes the establishment of the Access Leg
according to procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
4\. The source Access Leg which is the Access leg previously established over
CS is subsequently released (see clause 6.3.1.6).
NOTE: Steps 3 and 4 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may occur
in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.1.2a Void
##### 6.3.2.1.3 Subsequent Access Transfers
Procedures for subsequent Access Transfers to CS and PS access are the same as
procedures for initial Access Transfers specified in clause 6.3.2.1.1 for PS
to CS access and clause 6.3.2.1.2 for CS to PS access.
##### 6.3.2.1.4 PS - CS Access Transfer: PS to CS - Single Radio
Figure 6.3.2.1.4-1 PS-CS: PS to CS - Single Radio, provides an information
flow for Access Transfer of media flow(s) of an IMS session in PS to CS
direction for Access Transfers within 3GPP access networks as specified in TS
23.216 [10].
The flow requires that the user is active or inactive in an IMS originating or
terminating session; procedures and capabilities specified in TS 23.216 [10],
clause 6.2.1 are used for the switching of access networks at the transport
layer.
NOTE 1: See TS 23.216 [10] for initiation of handover of only one voice PS
bearer at EPC.
NOTE 2: The UE capable of procedures as specified in TS 23.216 [10] does not
need to support session and access transfer procedures as specified in clauses
6.3.2.1.1 and 6.3.2.3 to support PS to CS Access Transfer.
Figure 6.3.2.1.4-1: PS-CS: PS to CS - Single Radio
1\. Procedures specified in TS 23.216 [10], clause 6.2.2.1 result in an INVITE
to be sent with an STN-SR indicating use of SRVCC procedures for Access
Transfer to CS access. The MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC includes the C MSISDN
as calling party number.
2\. Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS uses the STN-SR to determine that Access Transfer using SRVCC
is requested. The SCC AS may retrieve the C MSISDN from the HSS. The SCC AS is
able to identify the correct anchored session. The SCC AS determines if the
state of the session to be transferred is active or inactive based on the
session state information in the source Access Leg. The SCC AS proceeds with
the Access Transfer of the session with bi-directional speech for the UE by
updating the Remote Leg with the media description and other information using
the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6.3.1.5.
NOTE 3: Please refer to clause 4.3.1.2.2 for the behaviour of the SCC AS when
the SCC AS finds multiple active sessions with bi-directional speech anchored
for the UE.
4a. If the Gm reference point is retained upon PS handover procedure then
4a-1. The UE sends a Re-INVITE via the PS access to update the remaining non-
voice media flow(s) associated with the recently added active session. If the
UE is using ICS capabilities, this Re-INVITE also adds Gm service control to
the active session and the UE subsequently sends Re-INVITEs for any remaining
inactive bi-directional speech sessions that are to be transferred.
4a-2. Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the Re-INVITE(s)
to the SCC AS.
4a-3. The SCC AS processes the Re-INVITE(s) and updates the Remote Leg if
needed.
4b. If the Gm reference point is not retained upon PS handover procedure, or
if there was no other non-voice media flow(s) in the IMS session than the
voice which was transferred to the target access, then the Source Access Leg
is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
NOTE 4: Some or all of the steps between steps 3 and 4b may consist of a
sequence of messages, some of which may occur in parallel.
If the MSC Server above (located in the box labelled \"CS/IMS Intermediate
Nodes\") is enhanced for ICS as defined in TS 23.292 [5], then it performs IMS
registration after the transfer of the session is completed successfully i.e.
after step 3. Registration is performed only if the ICS flag is received via
the Sv reference point as specified in TS 23.216 [10] or as determined to by
the procedure specified in clause 7.2.1.1 in TS 23.292 [5].
##### 6.3.2.1.4a Void
##### 6.3.2.1.4b PS to CS Access Transfer: PS to CS -- Single Radio; using I1
reference point
Figure 6.3.2.1.4b PS-CS: PS to CS -- Single Radio; using I1 reference point,
provides an information flow for Access Transfer of media flow(s) of an IMS
session in the PS to CS direction for Access Transfers within 3GPP access
networks as specified in TS 23.216 [10], and with the use of I1 reference
point for service control post transfer to CS.
The flow requires that the UE has indicated ICS capabilities and that the user
is active in an IMS originating or terminating session; procedures specified
in TS 23.216 [10], clause 6.2.1 are used for the switching of access networks
at the transport layer. The I1 reference point of ICS is used for control of
IMS sessions established using CS media and a dynamically assigned STI is
associated with each session.
NOTE 1: See TS 23.216 [10] for initiation of handover of only one voice PS
bearer at EPC.
NOTE 2: The UE capable of procedures as specified in TS 23.216 [10] does not
need to support session and access transfer procedures as specified in clauses
6.3.2.1.1 and 6.3.2.3 to support PS to CS Access Transfer.
Figure 6.3.2.1.4b-1: PS-CS: PS to CS -- Single Radio; using I1 reference point
1\. Access Transfer of the active session with bi-directional speech is
performed as defined in clause 6.3.2.1.4, steps 1-3.
2\. The UE sends an I1: ICS Call Initiation via the CS access as specified in
TS 23.292 [5] including an STI for continuation of establishment of the Access
Leg using Single Radio VCC for the active session.
3\. The SCC AS uses the STI to correlate the Access Transfer request received
via the PS access with the Access Transfer request for the active session
received via the CS access.
4\. If there are any held sessions present at the time of Access Transfer, the
UE proceeds with the Access Transfer of the first held session by sending an
I1: ICS Call Initiation via the CS access (as described in TS 23.292 [5])
including an STI that identifies the held session.
5\. The SCC AS uses the STI to identify the held session and updates the
session information on the Access Leg.
NOTE 3: CS media is not established for the held session. The media
established upon the transfer of the currently active session is reused for
the held session when it is resumed.
Steps 4 and 5 are repeated for the remaining held sessions.
6\. The Source Access Leg is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
##### 6.3.2.1.5 PS -- CS Access Transfer for voice and video
Figure 6.3.2.1.5-1 describes the information flows for transferring voice and
video from PS to CS access.
In this flow, the SCC AS waits for the H245 negotiation completion before
updating Remote Leg.
Figure 6.3.2.1.5-1: Information flow for voice and video transfer from PS to
CS
1-3. UE-1 starts Access Transfer of multimedia session from PS to CS as
specified in steps 1-3 of clause 6.3.2.1.1. The media types of voice and
video, included in the INVITE message with STN in step 3, instruct the SCC AS
to wait for H.245 negotiation complete to perform the Remote Leg update in
step 8.
4\. The SCC AS completes the CS leg establishment with UE-1.
5\. UE-1 and CS/IMS intermediate node starts in band H.245 negotiation.
6-7. After the H.245 negotiation is done, CS/IMS intermediate node sends H.245
negotiation completion indication towards SCC AS.
8\. On receipt of the H.245 negotiation complete indication, the SCC AS
updates the Remote Leg as specified in step 4 of clause 6.3.2.1.1
9\. The SCC AS may release the Source Access Leg as specified in step 5 of
clause 6.3.2.1.1.
NOTE 1: If the non voice and video media flow is retained, the Source Access
Leg may be updated by session re-negotiation.
NOTE 2: When using the MSC server enhanced for ICS, the H.245 negotiation with
UE-1 shall be executed by the MSC server enhanced for ICS, and the H.245
negotiation complete indication shall be sent by the MSC server enhanced for
ICS towards SCC AS.
##### 6.3.2.1.6 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS -- Dual Radio, mid-call
service with an active speech and video session
Figure 6.3.2.1.6-1 PS to CS with one active speech and video session, using
SCUDIF, provides an information flow for Access Transfer of multiple IMS
sessions in PS to CS direction. The flow requires that the user is active in
an IMS originating or terminating speech and video session using PS media at
the time of initiation of Access Transfer to CS and that the use of network
capabilities to support mid-call services during session transfer is possible.
It further requires that the MSC Server supports I2 reference point. It also
requires that SCUDIF feature is supported by the UE and the CS network.
Figure 6.3.2.1.6-1: PS to CS with one active speech and video session, using
SCUDIF
1\. Standard procedure as specified in clause 6.3.2.1.5 PS -- CS Access
Transfer for voice and video is used for transferring the active speech and
video session. The UE indicates SCUDIF support and provides two bearer
capabilities (voice and multimedia) with multimedia preferred when initiating
the transfer. Also, the SCC AS provides session state information on the
inactive voice session including needed STI on the transferring-in leg to the
MSC Server.
2\. The MSC Server enhanced for ICS initiates session transfer towards SCC AS
for the additional inactive voice session on behalf the UE.
3\. The Source Access Leg associated with the inactive voice session is
released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
Subsequently, the UE can switch between the speech and video session and the
voice session with different bearer capabilities activated using SCUDIF
feature as specified in TS 23.292 [5].
If SCUDIF is not supported, the transfer can be performed as Figure
6.3.2.1.6-1 with the differences that in step 1 the UE initiates Access
Transfer not using SCUDIF, and after the transfer video channel is closed via
H.245 negotiation if the voice session is to be activated.
##### 6.3.2.1.7 PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS -- Dual Radio, mid-call
service with one inactive speech and video session
Figure 6.3.2.1.7-1 PS to CS with one inactive speech and video session, using
SCUDIF, provides an information flow for Access Transfer of multiple IMS
sessions in PS to CS direction. The flow requires that the user is inactive in
an IMS originating or terminating speech and video session using PS media at
the time of initiation of Access Transfer to CS and that the use of network
capabilities to support mid-call services during session transfer is possible.
It further requires that the MSC Server supports I2 reference point. It also
requires that SCUDIF feature is supported by the UE and the CS network.
Figure 6.3.2.1.7-1: PS to CS with one inactive speech and video session, using
SCUDIF
1\. Standard procedure as specified in clause 6.3.2.1.1 PS -- CS Access
Transfer: PS to CS is used for transferring the active voice session. The UE
indicates SCUDIF support and provides two bearer capabilities (voice and
multimedia) with voice preferred when initiating the transfer. Also, the SCC
AS provides session state information on the inactive speech and video session
including needed STI on the transferring-in leg to the MSC Server.
2\. The MSC Server enhanced for ICS initiates session transfer towards SCC AS
for the additional inactive speech and video session on behalf the UE.
3\. The Source Access Leg associated with the inactive speech and video
session is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
Subsequently, the UE can switch between the speech and video session and the
voice session with different bearer capabilities activated using SCUDIF
feature as specified in TS 23.292 [5].
If SCUDIF is not supported, the transfer can be performed as Figure
6.3.2.1.7-1 with the differences that in step 1 the UE initiates Access
Transfer not using SCUDIF, and after the transfer redial mechanism can be used
to switch between the speech and video call and the voice call as specified in
TS 23.292 [5].
##### 6.3.2.1.8 Void
#### 6.3.2.2 PS -- PS Access Transfer
NOTE: If a PS-PS session transfer occurs and there is a change in IP address,
TCP-based media flow(s) using transferring-out access will break. Recovery
procedures from broken TCP connections are application specific.
##### 6.3.2.2.1 PS-PS Access Transfer with full media transfer
UE‑1 is attached to one IP-CAN and it registers to the S-CSCF. UE-1
establishes an active multimedia session with UE-2 via this IP‑CAN. After
changing to a new IP‑CAN, obtaining new signalling and media addresses, and
completing the Access Transfer procedures, UE‑1 continues the multimedia
session with UE‑2 via the new IP‑CAN.
Figure 6.3.2.2.1-1: Information flow for PS-PS Access Transfer
1\. UE‑1 connects to a new IP‑CAN and receives new IP address(es). UE‑1
decides to perform PS to PS Access Transfer based on SC policy information.
2\. UE‑1 registers to the S‑CSCF via the new IP‑CAN. This registration may go
through the same P‑CSCF or a different P‑CSCF.
3 \~ 5. UE‑1 sends an INVITE message on the new IP-CAN towards the SCC AS. The
INVITE message includes the STI identifying the session to be transferred. The
INVITE message also indicates to the SCC AS that it performs Access Transfer
with full media transfer.
6\. The SCC AS identifies the session based on STI and updates the session
over the remote access leg (see clause 6.3.1.5).
7\. The SCC AS completes session setup with UE-1 on the new access leg and
releases old session based on the standard IMS procedures.
##### 6.3.2.2.2 PS-PS Access Transfer with partial media transfer
UE‑1 is on an active multimedia session with UE‑2 via one IP‑CAN. After
changing to a new IP‑CAN and obtaining new signalling and media addresses,
UE‑1 transfers part of the multimedia session with UE‑2 to the new IP‑CAN and
keeps the remaining part on the original IP‑CAN. UE‑1 is attached to both the
new and old IP‑CANs after the Access Transfer procedures. The call flow is the
same as shown in clause 6.3.2.2.1. The only difference is that in Step 3, the
INVITE needs to indicate that the request is for a partial transfer and
instead of releasing the old session in step 7, the UE updates session
information over the old access leg. In this case, the INVITE message sent in
step 3 shall indicate the media flow(s) which need to be transferred to the
new IP‑CAN.
#### 6.3.2.3 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer
##### 6.3.2.3.1 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for UEs not using ICS capabilities
It is required that the UE has a single ongoing IMS session containing speech
or speech and video and other media with the remote end. After the Access
Transfer, the two sessions are treated as independent sessions on the
transferring-in Access Legs for mid-call service (e.g. hold of PS or CS
media).
Figure 6.3.2.3.1-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE attaches to CS
(if not already attached). It subsequently initiates the PS--CS Access
Transfer by sending a CS call setup including the STN to establish the Access
Leg via the CS access. A static STN preconfigured to the UE is used.
2\. An INVITE is routed to the S-CSCF.
3\. An INVITE is routed to the SCC AS.
4\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg update by using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5. The SCC AS updates the speech or speech and video media being
transferred in the session towards the Remote Leg.
5\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
6\. The UE initiates registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not
already registered) as specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the
PS--PS Access Transfer by sending an INVITE including the SDP for the non-
real-time media flow(s) and STI to establish the Access Leg via the PS access.
A dynamic STI allocated at the time of IMS session creation is used.
7\. An INVITE is routed to the SCC AS.
8\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI. The SCC
AS performs the Remote Leg update by using procedures defined in clause
6.3.1.5. The SCC AS updates the non-real-time media flow(s) in the session
towards the Remote Leg.
9\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
10\. Source Access Leg Release is performed according to the procedures
defined in clause 6.3.1.6.
NOTE: Steps 1-5 can be performed in reversed order with steps 6‑8.
##### 6.3.2.3.2 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
for UEs not using ICS capabilities
It is required that the UE has an ongoing CS call and a related IMS session
with the remote end.
Figure 6.3.2.3.2-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access transfer: CS to PS
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not already registered) as
specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the Access Transfer **by
sending an INVITE to establish the Access Leg via the PS access. The INVITE
includes** the SDP for speech or speech and video and non-real-time media
flow(s) and STI-1 and STI-2 respectively for the IMS session using CS and the
IMS session using PS to be transferred**.** For STI-1 a static STI
preconfigured to the UE is used. For STI-2 a dynamic STI allocated at the time
of IMS session creation is used. STI-1 and STI-2 are never the same.
**2.** Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI-1 and
STI-2. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update by using procedures defined
in clause 6.3.1.5. The SCC AS updates the combined session towards the Remote
Leg.
4\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
5\. Source Access Leg Release is performed according to the procedures defined
in clause 6.3.1.6.
##### 6.3.2.3.3 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for UEs with ICS capabilities - Using Gm reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.3-1 PS-PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for UEs with ICS capabilities, provides an information flow for Access
Transfer of real time media flow(s) of an IMS session in PS to CS direction
and zero or more non real time media flow(s) in PS to PS direction. The UE may
choose to retain some of the non real time media flow(s) in the original PS
access.
The flow requires that the user is in an active or inactive IMS originating or
terminating session; the Gm reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media.
Figure 6.3.2.3.3-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access transfer: PS to CS
for UEs with ICS capabilities
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not already registered) as
specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the \"**Originations with
CS media using the Gm reference point\" procedure** as specified in TS 23.292
[5], clause 7.3.2.2.4 **by sending an INVITE including** the STI **to
establish the Access Leg via the PS access.** The INVITE also includes an
indication to use a CS bearer for the real time media and a description of non
real time media flow(s) that are to be transferred to the new PS access if any
non real time media is present at the time of initiation of Access
Transfer**.**
**2.** Standard procedures are used at S-CSCF for routing of the INVITE to the
SCC AS.
3\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI and the
media flow(s), and continues the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm
reference point\" procedure for completion of the setup of CS media for the
Access Leg by allocating a SCC AS PSI DN and sending it in a reliable
provisional response to the S-CSCF (see TS 23.292 [5] for SCC AS PSI DN).
4\. The S-CSCF forwards the provisional response (containing the SCC AS PSI
DN) to the UE.
5\. The UE continues the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm reference
point\" procedure by sending a Setup message including the SCC AS PSI DN to
establish the CS media for the Access Leg.
6\. The \"Originations with CS media using Gm reference point procedure\" is
used at the CS and IMS intermediate nodes, resulting in routing of an INVITE
to the I/S-CSCF.
7\. The I/S-CSCF extends the INVITE with the SCC AS PSI and SDP of the MGW as
part of the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm reference point\"
procedure.
8\. The SCC AS uses the SCC AS PSI to correlate the incoming session via the
CS access with the Access Transfer request previously received via the PS
access.
The SCC AS completes the establishment of the Access Leg by combining the
description of the media established via the CS access with the description of
the media flow(s) established via the PS access for the signalling associated
with the Access Leg.
The SCC AS performs the Access Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with the
media description and other information of the newly established Access Leg
using the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6.3.1.5.
9a. If the UE transfers all the non real time media flow(s) to the new PS
access, the Source Access Leg (which is the Access Leg previously established
over PS access) is released as specified in clause 6.3.1.6.
9b. If the UE chooses to retain some media flow(s) in the original PS access,
then:
> 9b1. the UE sends an INVITE to the SCC AS (as part of the existing dialog)
> to update the session information over the Source Access Leg; and
>
> 9b2. the SCC AS performs the Remote Leg update (if necessary) by using
> procedures defined in clause 6.3.1.5. The Source Access Leg is not released
> in this case.
NOTE: Steps 8 and 9 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may occur
in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.3.4 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
for UEs with ICS capabilities - Using Gm reference point
The information flow for Access Transfer of real time media of an IMS session
in CS to PS direction, and zero or more non real time media flow(s) in PS to
PS direction is the same as the information flow for PS--CS Access Transfer:
CS to PS access, as specified in clause 6.3.2.1.2.
The flow requires that the user is in an active or inactive IMS originating or
terminating session; the Gm reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a dynamic STI is associated with each session.
##### 6.3.2.3.5 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer:
Active/Held sessions - Using Gm reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.5-1 PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer:
Active/Held sessions, provides an information flow for Access Transfer of real
time media flow(s) of one active and one or more held sessions between PS and
CS, any of which may have zero or more non real time media flow(s) which is
transferred within the PS access.
The flow requires that the user is in an active IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions; the Gm reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a dynamic STI is associated with each session.
Figure 6.3.2.3.5-1: PS-PS in conjunction with PS-CS Access transfer:
Active/Held sessions
**1a, 1b.** When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE
initiates the Access Transfer of the active session as specified in clause
6.3.2.3.3 PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: PS to CS for UEs
with ICS capabilities, or clause 6.3.2.3.4 PS--PS in conjunction with PS-CS
Access Transfer: CS to PS for UEs with ICS capabilities, based on the
direction of the Access Transfer of the real time media. The STI of the active
session is used by SCC AS to identify the active session.
1c. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the active session.
2a, 2b. **The UE** initiates the Access Transfer of the first held session
using the same procedures as identified in steps 1a and 1b with a difference
that for transfer to CS access, the CS media is not established for the held
session; the media established upon the transfer of the currently active
session is reused for the held session when it is resumed. The STI of the held
session is used by SCC AS to identify the held session.
2c. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the held session.
Steps 2a, 2b and 2c are repeated for the remaining held sessions.
NOTE 1: Steps 1c and 2c consist of a sequence of messages, which may occur in
parallel.
NOTE 2: Another supported scenario is when there are no active sessions, i.e.
the session in 1a and 1b may also be a held session.
##### 6.3.2.3.6 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer:
Explicit Communication Transfer - Using Gm reference point
Prior to consultative transfer, the transferor UE may have one session with
the transferee UE and one session with the transfer target UE. If the
transferor UE performs Access Transfer in this case, the information flow for
PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: Explicit Communication
Transfer is the same as the information flow in clause 6.3.2.3.5 PS--PS in
conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: Active/held sessions.
For all other cases in ECT service, there is only one session at the UE.
Depending on the direction of the Access transfer, the following information
flows apply:
\- the information flow in clause 6.3.2.3.3 for PS-PS in conjunction with PS-
CS Access Transfer: PS to CS; or,
\- the information flow in clause 6.3.2.3.4 for PS-PS in conjunction with PS-
CS Access Transfer: CS to PS.
The flow requires that the user is active in IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions with the Explicit Communication Transfer service; the Gm
reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS sessions that use CS media;
and a dynamic STI is associated with each session.
##### 6.3.2.3.7 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer:
Conferencing - Using Gm reference point
The information flows for PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer:
Conferencing in PS to CS and CS to PS directions, are the same as the
information flows in clause 6.3.2.3.3 PS--PS in conjunction with PS--CS Access
Transfer: PS to CS for UEs with ICS capabilities, and clause 6.3.2.3.4 PS--PS
in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: CS to PS for UEs with ICS
capabilities respectively.
The flow requires that the user is in an active or inactive IMS originating
and/or terminating sessions with the Conferencing service; the Gm reference
point of ICS is used for control of IMS sessions that use CS media.
##### 6.3.2.3.8 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to
CS -- using I1 reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.8-1 PS‑CS in conjunction with PS‑CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
access - using I1 reference point, provides an information flow for Access
Transfer of real time media flow(s) of an IMS session in PS to CS direction.
The flow requires that the user is in an active or inactive IMS originating or
terminating session; the I1 reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a unique STI is associated with each session.
Figure 6.3.2.3.8-1: PS--CS in conjunction with PS--CS Access Transfer: PS to
CS access - using I1 reference point
1\. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
registration with IMS via the new PS access (if not already registered) as
specified in clause 6.1. It subsequently initiates the \"Originations to a SIP
URI\" procedure as specified in TS 23.292 [5], clause 7.3.2.2.2.1 by sending
an I1, ICS Call Initiation including the STI to establish the Access Leg via
the PS access.
2\. The SCC AS identifies the session to be transferred using the STI, and
continues the \"Originations to a SIP URI\" procedure for completion of the
setup of CS media for the Access Leg by allocating a SCC AS PSI DN and sending
it in an I1, ICS Call Initiation Result; see TS 23.292 [5] for SCC AS PSI DN.
3\. The UE continues the \"Originations to a SIP URI\" procedure by sending a
Setup message including the SCC AS PSI DN to establish the CS media for the
Access Leg.
4\. The \"Originations to a SIP URI\" procedure is used at the CS and IMS
intermediate nodes, resulting in routeing of an INVITE with the SCC AS PSI to
the I/S-CSCF.
5\. The I/S-CSCF forwards the INVITE with the SCC AS PSI and SDP of the MGW as
part of the \"Originations with CS media using the Gm reference point\"
procedure.
6\. The SCC AS uses the SCC AS PSI to correlate the CS bearer control
signalling request received via the CS access with the Access Transfer request
previously received via the PS access.
The SCC AS completes the establishment of the Access Leg by combining the
description of the media established via the CS access with the description of
the media flow(s) established via the PS access for the signalling associated
with the Access Leg.
The SCC AS performs the Access Transfer by updating the Remote Leg with the
media description and other information of the newly established Access Leg
using the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6.3.5.
7\. The Source Access Leg (which is the Access Leg previously established over
PS access) is released as specified in clause 6.3.6.
NOTE: Steps 6 and 7 consist of a sequence of messages, some of which may occur
in parallel.
##### 6.3.2.3.9 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
- using I1 reference point
The information flow for Access Transfer of real time media of an IMS session
in CS to PS direction when the I1 reference point is used for service control
of sessions that use CS media, is the same as the information flow PS--CS
Access Transfer: CS to PS access, as specified in clause 6.3.2.1.2.
The flow requires that the user is in an active or inactive IMS originating or
terminating session; the I1 reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a unique STI is associated with each session.
##### 6.3.2.3.10 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: PS to CS
for Active/Held sessions - using I1 reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.10-1 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS
to CS for Active/Held sessions -- using I1 reference point, provides an
information flow for Access Transfer of real time media of one active and one
or more held sessions from PS to CS when the I1 reference point is used for
service control of sessions that use CS media.
The flow requires that the user is active in IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions; the I1 reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a unique STI is associated with each session.
Figure 6.3.2.3.10-1: PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS
to CS for Active/Held sessions -- using I1 reference point
1a. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates the
Access Transfer of the active session as specified in clause 6.3.2.3.8 PS --
PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: PS to CS -- using I1
reference point The STI of the active session is used by SCC AS to identify
the active session.
1b. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the active session.
2a. The UE initiates the Access Transfer of the first held session using the
same procedures as identified in steps 1a and 1b with a difference that the CS
media is not established for the held session; the media path established upon
transfer of the currently active session is reused for the held session when
it is resumed. The STI of the held session is used by SCC AS to identify the
held session.
2b. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the held session.
Steps 2a and 2b are repeated for the remaining held sessions.
NOTE 1: Steps 1b and 2b consist of a sequence of messages, which may occur in
parallel.
NOTE 2: Another supported scenario is when there are no active sessions, i.e.
the session in 1a and 1b may also be a held session.
##### 6.3.2.3.11 PS - PS in conjunction with PS - CS Access Transfer: CS to PS
for Active/Held sessions - using I1 reference point
Figure 6.3.2.3.11-1 PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS
to PS for Active/Held sessions -- using I1 reference point, provides an
information flow for Access Transfer of real time media of one active and one
or more held sessions from CS to PS when the I1 reference point is used for
service control of sessions that use CS media.
The flow requires that the user is active in IMS originating and/or
terminating sessions; the I1 reference point of ICS is used for control of IMS
sessions that use CS media; and a unique STI is associated with each session.
Figure 6.3.2.3.11-1: PS -- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS
to PS for Active/Held sessions - using I1 reference point
1a, 1b. When the UE determines a need for Access Transfer, the UE initiates
the Access Transfer of the active session as specified in clause 6.3.2.3.9 PS
-- PS in conjunction with PS -- CS Access Transfer: CS to PS - using I1
reference point. The STI of the active session is used by SCC AS to identify
the active session.
1c. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the active session.
2a, 2b. The UE initiates the Access Transfer of the first held session using
the same procedures as identified in steps 1a, 1b and 1c. The STI of the held
session is used by SCC AS to identify the held session.
2c. The UE and the SCC AS complete the Access Transfer of the held session.
Steps 2a, 2b and 2c are repeated for the remaining held sessions.
NOTE: Steps 1c and 2c consist of a sequence of messages, which may occur in
parallel.
### 6.3.3 Media Adding/Deleting
#### 6.3.3.1 Local End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing CS
session
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.1-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 adds PS media
flow(s) (e.g. video) to an existing multimedia session that only contains CS
media. As a post condition the UE‑1 has an ongoing CS call and a related IMS
session with the remote end.
Figure 6.3.3.1-1: Local End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing
CS session
1\. A multimedia session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either
originated or terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5]
clauses 7.3.2.1 and 7.4.2.1, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS
capability and therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session
establishment.
2\. UE-1 requests to add one or more PS media component(s) to the existing CS
Call by sending an INVITE containing description of the new PS media towards
SCC AS to establish a new Access Leg. UE‑1 provides description of the new
media and the information necessary for the SCC AS to identify the existing
session.
3\. The S-CSCF executes any service logic as appropriate.
4\. The S-CSCF sends the INVITE to the SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS determines that the INVITE is related to an existing session
using the information provided by UE-1 and decides to add the new media flow
to the session.
NOTE: If SCC AS decides that the request is not related to an existing
session, it handles the INVITE as a new session as described in clause 6.2.1.3
Session origination using PS media flow(s) only.
6\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5.
7\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.2 Local End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media in new
IMS Session and Gm Service Control
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.2-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 adds PS media
component(s) (e.g. video) and Gm Service Control Signalling Path to an
existing multimedia session that only contains CS media. Following this
scenario the session is controlled using ICS capability.
Figure 6.3.3.2-1: Local End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media
in new IMS Session and Gm Service Control Signalling Path
1\. A multimedia session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either
originated or terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5]
clauses 7.3.2.1 and 7.4.2.1, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS
capability and therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session
establishment.
2\. UE-1 requests to add one or more PS media component(s) and to control the
CS media using ICS capabilities by an INVITE towards SCC AS to establish a new
session. The request contains the description of the new PS media and
indicates that control of the existing CS media is transferred to the new
session. UE‑1 provides information necessary for the SCC AS to identify the
existing session and to request addition of the media flow to the existing
session.
3\. The S-CSCF executes any service logic as appropriate.
4\. The S-CSCF sends the INVITE to the SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS determines that the INVITE is related to an existing session
using the information provided by UE‑1 and adds the new media flow to the
session.
6\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg update using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5.
7\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.3 Local End Initiation case: Adding PS media to IMS session with CS
media
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.3-1 presents a scenario where UE-1 adds PS media
component(s) (e.g. video) to an existing multimedia session that contains CS
media and is controlled using ICS capability.
Figure 6.3.3.3-1: Local End Initiation case: Adding PS media to IMS session
with CS media
1\. An IMS session between UE-1 and UE-2 is established as either originated
or terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] clauses
7.3.2.2.4 and 7.4.2.2.2.2, respectively i.e. UE-1 is using the ICS capability
and therefore the Gm reference point during the session establishment.
2\. UE-1 initiates a request to add the PS media flow(s) to the existing IMS
session.
3\. The S-CSCF executes any service logic as appropriate.
4\. The S-CSCF sends the INVITE to the SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update using procedures defined in
clause 6.3.1.5.
6\. The SCC AS completes the session setup towards UE-1 according to
procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.4 Remote End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing CS
session
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.4-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 has an
existing CS session with UE‑2 and UE‑2 adds new media flow(s) to the session
and the new media flow is delivered via PS access towards UE‑1.
Figure 6.3.3.4-1: Remote End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing
CS session
1\. A CS session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either originated or
terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] clauses 7.3.2.1
and 7.4.2.1, respectively, i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS capability and
therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session establishment.
2\. S‑CSCF receives a request from UE‑2 to add new PS media flow(s) (e.g.
video) to the existing session.
3\. S‑CSCF forwards the request to SCC AS, which is anchored on the session
path.
4\. The T‑ADS function in the SCC AS decides that the new media flow is
delivered to UE‑1 via PS access and therefore splits the session. T‑ADS in the
SCC AS uses the C‑MSISDN for correlation, and then ensures the split session
is delivered only to UE‑1, and not delivered to other UEs of the user.
5-6. SCC AS initiates a new session towards UE‑1. The request includes the new
PS media flow. The SCC AS includes enough information within the session
request to allow UE-1 to correlate this new session with the existing CS
session.
7\. UE‑1 accepts the new session and completes the session setup via PS
access.
8\. The SCC AS completes the Remote Leg towards UE‑2 according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.5 Remote End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media in
new IMS Session and Gm Service Control
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.5-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 has an
existing CS session with UE‑2 and UE‑2 adds new media flow(s) to the session.
The new media flow(s) is delivered via PS access towards UE‑1 and Gm Service
Control Signalling Path is added. Following this scenario the session is
controlled using ICS capability.
Figure 6.3.3.5-1: Remote End Initiation case: Incorporating existing CS media
in new IMS Session and Gm Service Control Signalling Path
1\. A CS session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either originated or
terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] sections
7.3.2.1 and 7.4.2.1, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is not using the ICS capability
and therefore not using the Gm reference point during the session
establishment.
2\. S‑CSCF receives a request from UE‑2 to add new PS media flow (e.g. video)
to the existing session.
3\. S‑CSCF forwards the request to SCC AS, which is anchored on the session
path.
4\. The T‑ADS function in the SCC AS decides that the new media flow is
delivered to UE‑1 via PS access and therefore initiates a new session using
the Gm reference point using ICS capabilities as specified in TS 23.292 [5].
SCC AS decides to establish the Gm Service Control Signalling Path together
with the media addition using the ICS capability. T‑ADS in the SCC AS uses the
C‑MSISDN for correlation, and then ensures the new session is delivered only
to UE‑1, and not delivered to other UEs of the user.
5‑6. SCC AS initiates a new session towards UE‑1. The request includes the new
PS media and indicates that the existing CS media is moved to and controlled
over this session.
7\. UE‑1 accepts the new session and completes the session setup via PS
access.
8\. The SCC AS completes the Remote Leg towards UE‑2 according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.6 Remote End Initiation case: Adding PS media to IMS session with
CS media
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.6-1 presents a scenario where UE‑1 has an
existing session that contains CS media and Gm Service Control Signalling Path
with UE‑2 and UE‑2 adds new media to the session. The new media is delivered
together with the Gm Service Control Signalling Path towards UE‑1.
Figure 6.3.3.6-1: Remote End Initiation case: adding PS media to IMS session
with CS media
1\. A CS session between UE‑1 and UE‑2 is established as either originated or
terminated session with CS media as described in TS 23.292 [5] clauses
7.3.2.2.4 and 7.4.2.2.2.2, respectively i.e. UE‑1 is using the ICS capability
and therefore the Gm reference point during the session establishment.
2\. S-CSCF receives a request from UE-2 to add new PS media flow(s) (e.g.
video) to the existing session.
3\. S-CSCF forwards the request to SCC AS, which is anchored on the session
path.
4\. The T-ADS function in the SCC AS decides that the new media flow is
delivered to UE-1 via PS access. The SCC decides to add the PS media to the
existing Service Control Signalling Path that is established via Gm.
5-6. SCC AS initiates a request to add the PS media to the existing Service
Control Signalling Path towards UE-2.
7\. UE-1 accepts the new session and completes the session setup via PS
access.
8\. The SCC AS completes the Remote Leg towards UE-2 according to procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
#### 6.3.3.7 Local End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS and PS
sessions
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.7-1 presents a scenario where UE-1 has a CS call
and an IMS multimedia session with the remote end in a manner that they are
presented to UE-2 as one IMS session by the SCC AS and then removes PS media
flow(s) by releasing the PS Access Leg.
Figure 6.3.3.7-1: Local End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS
and PS sessions
1\. UE-1 uses standard IMS procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4] to remove one
or more PS media flows from the session.
2\. SCC AS sends a re-INVITE to UE-2 to remove the associated PS media flow(s)
from the session. The SCC AS terminates the Source Access Leg as defined in
6.3.1.6.
#### 6.3.3.8 Remote End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS and PS
sessions
The call flow in figure 6.3.3.8-1 presents a scenario where UE-1 has a CS call
and an IMS multimedia session with the remote end in a manner that they are
presented to UE-2 as one IMS session by the SCC AS and where as a result of
UE-2 requesting to remove PS media flow(s), the SCC AS terminates the Access
Leg associated with the PS media flow(s).
Figure 6.3.3.8-1: Remote End Initiation case -- Removing media from split CS
and PS sessions
1\. UE-2 uses standard IMS procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4] to remove one
or more PS media flow(s) from the session.
2\. SCC AS identifies the session from UE-2 as being split into two legs to
UE-1. It determines the appropriate Access Leg over which to send the updated
session information from UE-2. Since there is only a single PS media flow
associated with the session, the SCC AS terminates the Access Leg associated
with the PS media flow.
#### 6.3.3.9 Local End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing PS
session
This clause covers the scenario where UE 1 adds PS media flow(s) (e.g. video)
over a new IP-CAN, IP-CAN2, to an existing multimedia session that uses PS
media over IP-CAN1. As a post condition the UE 1 has an ongoing multimedia
session with the remote end.
The call flow is the same as in figure 6.3.3.3-1 except that both the original
media and the added media are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate nodes are
involved.
#### 6.3.3.10 Remote End Initiation case: Adding new PS media to existing PS
session
This clause covers the scenario where UE 1 has an existing PS session with UE
2 using PS media over IP-CAN1 and UE 2 adds new media to the session and the
new media flow is delivered using PS media over IP-CAN2 towards UE-1.
The call flow is the same as in clause 6.3.3.4 _Remote End Initiation case:
Adding new PS media to existing CS session_ , except that both the original
media flow and the added media flows are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate
nodes are involved. Consequently:
‑ in step 4. of the call flow, the T‑ADS function in the SCC AS decides that
the new media is delivered to UE 1 via PS through the access networks type
corresponding to IP‑CAN2;
‑ in step 5. of the call flow, the SCC AS includes enough information within
the session request to ensure that the S‑CSCF establishes the new session via
the selected access networks type.
#### 6.3.3.11 Local End Initiation case: Removing media from split PS sessions
This clause covers the scenario where local end UE-1 removes media flows from
split PS sessions. As a precondition, UE-1 has an IMS multimedia session with
the remote end. As a post-condition, UE-1 removes the PS session over one
IP‑CAN and continues IMS multimedia session with the remote end over the other
IP-CAN.
The call flow is the same as in figure 6.3.3.7-1 except that all the media
components are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate nodes are involved.
#### 6.3.3.12 Remote End Initiation case: Removing media from split PS
sessions
This clause covers the scenario where remote end UE-2 removes media flow(s)
from split PS sessions. As a precondition, UE‑1 has an IMS multimedia session
with the remote end. As a post-condition, the PS session over one IP-CAN is
removed and UE-1 continues IMS multimedia session with the remote end over the
other IP-CAN.
The call flow is the same as in figure 6.3.3.8-1 except that all the media
components are on PS accesses and no CS intermediate nodes are involved.
### 6.3.4 Void
## 6.4 Operator Policy and User Preferences
Operator Policy is provisioned in the network by the operator, and should be
communicated to the UE during initial provisioning or via OMA Device
Management [7]. Operator policy should be communicated to the UE, via OMA
Device Management, whenever the policy is updated by the operator.
Operator policy shall indicate, for each supported type of media or group of
media:
\- a list of access networks that are restricted for originating sessions and
Access Transfer;
\- a list of preferred access networks (in order of priority) to be used by
the UE with SC capabilities for originating sessions and Access Transfer, when
those access networks become available and Access Transfer is possible;
\- whether the UE with SC capabilities \"shall\"/\"should\"/\"may\" start
transferring media flow(s) to target access networks with higher priorities
than the current access network, when the target access networks become
available and Access Transfer is possible;
\- by indicating \"shall\" the operator mandates the UE to start Access
Transfer according to the home operator\'s list of preferred access networks
as soon as possible;
\- by indicating \"should\" the operator recommends the UE to start Access
Transfer according to the home operator\'s list of preferred access networks,
if Access Transfer is possible and desirable after having taken into account
the Local Operating Environment Information;
\- by indicating \"may\" the operator leaves the UE free to decide whether or
not to start Access Transfer in accordance with user preferences (when
configured), if Access Transfer is possible and desirable after having taken
into account the Local Operating Environment Information. Whenever user
preferences are not configured, the UE shall to take into account the home
operator\'s list of preferred access networks;
\- whether to keep or drop non transferable media flow(s) in the case of
partial Access Transfer.
NOTE 1: Operator policy for Access Transfer needs to be consistent with
operator policy for T-ADS.
User preferences may indicate for example:
\- preferred access/domain, i.e. CS preferred or IMS preferred, and which IP-
CAN within IMS.
The Local Operating Environment Information is implementation specific and may
comprise of such items as, radio environment information, quality of IP
connection (jitter, delay and packet loss), application specific requirements,
memory considerations, power considerations, etc.
The UE shall take in account operator policy, user preferences and the Local
Operating Environment Information when deciding which access to use for
outgoing sessions, performing UE assisted T-ADS, or before considering
initiating Access Transfer.
NOTE 2: If the \"IMS voice over PS Session Supported Indication\" indicator,
see TS 23.060 [27] and TS 23.401 [28], is not set for a specific 3GPP IP‑CAN,
this IP‑CAN can not be used for voice, even if set to preferred by the user
preferences.
## 6.5 Execution of supplementary services
### 6.5.1 General
This clause describes the SCC AS and UE procedures for execution of
supplementary service as described in TS 22.173 [15].
The related interactions apply to scenarios when the media components for the
UE are split into multiple Access Legs due to IMS Service Continuity
procedures. The Remote Leg is presented with one session including all the
media components.
For Access Leg where CS media is used, the interaction described in the
following sections still applies and the service request should be sent via PS
Access Leg. The operations on the CS media flows shall be handled based on the
service request and shall follow the procedures as described in TS 23.292 [5].
When service invocation fails on one Access Leg, the UE and the SCC AS may
retry on a different Access Leg.
### 6.5.2 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
The OIP service is not impacted.
### 6.5.3 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service is not impacted.
### 6.5.4 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
The TIP service is not impacted.
### 6.5.5 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The TIR service is not impacted.
### 6.5.6 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
Upon receiving an incoming session split across multiple Access Legs, if an UE
wants to invoke the CDIV service, the UE may use any of the Access Legs to
invoke the CDIV service following the procedures defined in TS 24.604 [21].
When the SCC AS splits an incoming session into multiple Access Legs and
receives a CDIV request from the UE on any of the Access Legs, the SCC AS
shall terminate the other Access Leg(s) and shall invoke the CDIV service
following the procedures defined in TS 24.604 [21].
### 6.5.7 Communication Hold (HOLD)
If the UE wants to invoke the HOLD service on one or more media component(s)
and the UE has multiple Access Legs, the UE shall invoke the HOLD procedures,
as defined in TS 24.610 [16] on all the Access Legs which contain the affected
media component(s). The SCC AS shall update the remote Access Leg using the
procedures defined in TS 24.610 [16].
If the remote end initiates the HOLD service on one or more media component(s)
and the UE has multiple Access Legs, the SCC AS shall forward the HOLD request
on all the Access Legs which contain the affected media component(s).
### 6.5.8 Communication Barring (CB)
The CB service is not impacted.
### 6.5.9 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
The MWI service is not impacted.
### 6.5.10 Conference (CONF)
When the UE wants to invoke the CONF services and has multiple Access Legs,
the UE may send any CONF related requests, e.g. subscribe request for
conference package or refer request to the conference, as defined in TS 24.605
[17], on any of the Access Legs.
When the UE has multiple Access Legs and the remote end sends a request for
the CONF service to replace an existing session within the same dialog, the
SCC AS may deliver the request for CONF service on any of the Access Legs.
When the UE has multiple Access Legs and receives a request on one of the
Access Legs for a CONF service to replace an existing session, the UE shall
follow the procedures specified in TS 24.605 [17] to establish a new session
to the conference focus.
When the UE has multiple Access Legs and receives a request for a CONF service
to replace an existing session outside the dialog, the UE shall follow the
procedures specified in TS 24.605 [17] to establish a new session to the
conference focus.
### 6.5.11 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
When the UE acts as the transferor UE and has multiple Access Legs, the UE may
send the request for ECT service, as specified in TS 24.629 [18], on any of
the Access Legs.
When the UE acts as the transferee UE and has multiple Access Legs, the SCC AS
may deliver the request for ECT service on any of the Access Legs.
When the UE has multiple Access Legs and receives an ECT request on one of the
Access Legs, the UE shall follow the procedures specified in TS 24.629 [18] to
establish a new session to the Transfer Target.
### 6.5.12 Advice of Charge (AOC)
When the AOC service specified in TS 24.647 [19] is active and the UE has
multiple Access Legs, the SCC AS may deliver charging information during the
communication to the UE over any of the Access Legs.
### 6.5.13 Closed User Groups (CUG)
The CUG service is not impacted.
### 6.5.14 Three-Party (3PTY)
The 3PTY service in TS 24.605 [17] is considered as a special case of CONF
service and the interaction with Session Transfer is the same as that
specified in clause 6.5.10 for CONF service.
### 6.5.15 Flexible Alerting (FA)
The FA service is not impacted.
### 6.5.16 Communication Waiting (CW)
Upon receiving an incoming session split across multiple Access Legs, if an UE
wants to invoke the CW service, the UE may use any of the Access Legs to
invoke the CW service following the procedures defined in TS 24.615 [22].
When the SCC AS splits an incoming session into multiple Access Legs and
receives a CW request from the UE on any of the Access Legs, the SCC AS shall
invoke the CW service following the procedures defined in TS 24.615 [22].
### 6.5.17 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)/Completion
of Communications by No Reply (CCNR)
The CCBS/CCNR service is not impacted.
### 6.5.18 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
The CAT service is not impacted.
### 6.5.19 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
When invoking the MCID service in temporary subscription mode and there are
multiple active Access Legs for the session, the UE may send the re-INVITE
request for invoking MCID service as defined in TS 24.616 [20] on any of the
Access Legs.
### 6.5.20 Reverse Charging
The Reverse Charging service is not specified.
### 6.5.21 Personal Network Management (PNM)
The PNM service is not specified.
### 6.5.22 Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
The CRS service is not specified.
# 6a Procedures and flows for Inter‑UE Transfer
## 6a.0 Introduction
In the following procedures and flows the UEs involved in IUT are labelled as
UE-1, UE-2, etc. while the remote endpoint of the session is labelled as
Remote Party. Flows are shown for IUT procedures establishing Collaborative
Sessions as well as IUT procedures without establishing a Collaborative
Session.
### 6a.0.1 Void
## 6a.1 IUT general procedures
### 6a.1.1 General
In all general IUT procedures the sessions are anchored in an SCC AS. These
procedures do not apply for emergency sessions.
### 6a.1.2 Remote Leg Update
Remote Leg Update for IUT procedures are executed as shown in figures
6.3.1.5-1 and 6.3.1.5-2, in which the media descriptions applicable after the
IUT procedure are communicated to the remote UE. For an IUT procedure without
establishing a Collaborative Session, the information of the new local end
which continues the session with the remote end is also included.
## 6a.2 Information flows for Collaborative Session establishment
### 6a.2.1 Establish Collaborative Session by transferring media
There is an ongoing session between UE-1 and a remote party, which is anchored
at the SCC AS. UE-1 transfers the media flow from UE-1 to UE-2 to establish a
Collaborative Session. Following is an information flow for the Collaborative
Session establishment procedure when UE-1 initiates media transfer from UE-1
to UE-2. After the transfer, the UE-1 becomes Controller UE, and UE-2 becomes
Controllee UE.
Figure 6a.2.1-1: Establish Collaborative Session by transferring media
1\. UE-1 sends an IUT media transfer request to the SCC AS to transfer Media
Flow-A from UE-1 to UE-2. The IUT media transfer request shall include the
enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media Flow-A;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS sends request to establish Access Leg at UE-2 for Media Flow-A.
The SCC AS removes Media Flow-A from UE-1, and updates the Remote Leg using
the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6a.1.2.
3\. The SCC AS sends an IUT media transfer response to UE-1. A Collaborative
Session is established, for which UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE-2
becomes a Controllee UE.
When the above transfer is completed the SCC AS retains the service state
(e.g. media flows status) of UE-1 and UE-2, and UE-1 retains the control of
the Collaborative Session.
NOTE 1: UE-1 can transfer other media flows from UE-1 by repeating the above
steps 1-3.
NOTE 2: If, besides Media Flow-A, there are other media flows between UE-1 and
the remote party, these other media flows shall not be impacted by the above
Inter‑UE Transfer operation, i.e. these other media flows remain on UE‑1.
### 6a.2.2 Establish Collaborative Session with new media
The following information flow shows the Collaborative Session establishment
procedure. There is an ongoing IMS session with Media Flow-A between UE-1 and
a remote party, which is anchored at the SCC AS. UE-1 wants to add a new Media
Flow-B on another UE-2 to the current ongoing IMS session to establish a
Collaborative Session.
Figure 6a.2.2-1: Flow for Collaborative Session establishment with new media
flow on another UE
1\. UE-1 decides to add a new Media Flow-B to UE-2. It sends an IUT add media
request to the SCC AS, indicating that a new Media Flow-B will be added to
UE-2. The request shall include enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the added media flow is Media Flow-B;
\- identify that the target of the added media flow is UE-2;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1;
2\. The SCC AS sends the IUT add media request to UE-2, indicating that a new
Media Flow-B will be created on UE-2. Media Flow-B between UE-2 and remote
party is established. The Remote Leg is updated accordingly.
3\. After the successful establishment of the Media Flow-B on UE-2, the SCC AS
sends an IUT add media response back to UE-1. A Collaborative Session is
established, for which UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE-2 becomes a
Controllee UE and Media Flow-A and Media Flow-B become part of the
Collaborative Session under the control of UE‑1..
## 6a.3 Media Transfer within Collaborative Session
### 6a.3.1 Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controller UE to
Controllee UE
A Collaborative Session is already established using procedures shown in
clause 6a.2. Following is an information flow for UE-1 performing media
transfer to UE-2; after the transfer, the UE-1 keeps the role of the
Controller UE, and UE-2 is Controllee UE. If UE-2 is not involved in the
Collaborative Session controlled by UE-1 before the media transfer, there is
at least another Controllee UE involved in the Collaborative Session before
the media transfer, which is not shown in the information flow.
Figure 6a.3.1-1: Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controller UE to
Controllee UE
1\. UE-1 sends IUT media transfer request to the S-CSCF to transfer the
Media-A from UE-1 to UE-2. The IUT media transfer request shall include the
enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media Flow-A;
\- identify that the source of the transferred media flow is UE-1;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS sends transfer request to establish a session with UE-2 for the
Media Flow-A, removes Media Flow-A from UE-1, and updates the Remote Leg using
the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6a.1.2.
3\. The SCC AS sends media transfer response to UE-1.
When the above transfer is completed the SCC AS retains the service state
(e.g. media flows status) of UE-1 and UE-2, and the UE-1 retains the control
of the Collaborative Session.
NOTE 1: UE-1 can transfer other media flows from UE-1 by repeating the above
steps 1-3.
NOTE 2: If, besides the Media Flow-A, there are other media flows in the
Collaborative Session, these other media flows shall not be impacted by the
above Inter‑UE Transfer operation.
### 6a.3.2 Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controllee UE to
Controller UE
A Collaborative Session is already established using procedures shown in
clause 6a.2, the UE-1 keeps the role of the Controller UE, and UE-2 is
Controllee UE. Following is an information flow for UE-1 initiating media
transfer from UE-2 to UE-1.
Figure 6a.3.2-1: Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controllee UE to
Controller UE
1\. UE-1 sends IUT media transfer request to the SCC-AS to transfer the
Media-A from UE-2 to UE-1. The IUT media transfer request shall include the
enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media-A;
\- identify the source of the media flow is UE-2;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-1;
2\. The SCC AS initiates the transfer by setting up Media-A towards Controller
UE-1, removing Media-A from Controllee UE-2, and updates the Remote Leg using
the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6a.1.2. After the
transfer, Media-A will be between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
NOTE 1: If no more media flow remains on the access leg between SCC AS and
Controllee UE-2, the Access Leg between UE-2 and the SCC AS is released and
Controllee UE-2 will no longer be part of the Collaborative Session.
3\. The SCC AS sends media transfer response to UE-1.
When the above transfer is completed the SCC AS retains the service state
(e.g. media flows status) of UE-1 and UE-2, and the UE-1 retains the control
of the Collaborative Session.
NOTE 2: UE-1 can transfer other media flows from UE-2 by repeating the above
steps 1-3.
NOTE 3: If, besides Media-A, there are other media flows in the Collaborative
Session, these other media flows shall not be impacted by the above Inter‑UE
Transfer operation.
### 6a.3.3 Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controllee UE to
another Controllee UE
UE-1, UE-2 and UE-3 are engaged in a Collaborative Session established using
procedures shown in clause 6a.2 for which UE-1 is the Controller UE and UE-2
is a Controllee UE. There is media flow, Media-A, between UE-2 and Remote
Party. The following figure presents an information flow of UE-1 performing
IUT media transfer from UE-2 to UE-3 after which UE-1 retains the role of the
Controller UE and UE-3 becomes Controllee UE. The following information flow
applies to cases in which UE-3 may or may not be part of Collaborative Session
before the media transfer.
Figure 6a.3.3-1: Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controllee UE to
another Controllee UE
1\. UE-1 sends IUT media transfer request to the SCC AS to transfer the
Media-A from UE-2 to UE-3. The IUT media transfer request shall include the
enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media Flow-A;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-3;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS sends request to establish Access Leg on UE-3 for Media Flow-A,
removes Media Flow-A from UE-2, and updates the Remote Leg using the Remote
Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6a.1.2.
3\. The SCC AS sends media transfer response to UE-1.
When the Inter‑UE Transfer is completed UE-1 keeps the Collaborative Session
control.
NOTE 1: UE-1 can transfer other media flows from UE-2 by repeating the above
steps 1-3.
NOTE 2: If, besides the Media Flow-A, there are other media flows in the
Collaborative Session, these other media flows shall not be impacted by the
above Inter‑UE Transfer operation.
### 6a.3.4 Void
## 6a.4 Media adding/deleting/releasing within Collaborative Session
### 6a.4.1 Controller UE initiated add new media on Controller UE
UE-1, UE-2 are engaged in a Collaborative Session established using procedures
shown in clause 6a.2 for which UE-1 is the Controller UE and UE-2 is a
Controllee UE, which has a media flow-A with the remote party. The following
flows shows how the Controller UE-1 adds a media flow-B to itself, which may
result in a new Access Leg, or it could be an additional media flow for an
already existing session for the Controller UE-1.
Figure 6a.4.1-1: Controller UE initiated add new media On Controller UE
1\. Controller UE-1 decides to add a new media flow-B to itself, and performs
an IUT add media request for the particular media requested. The IUT media
transfer request shall include enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the added media flow is media flow-B;
\- identify that the target of the added media flow is the Controller UE-1
itself;
2\. The new media flow-B is setup for Controller UE-1, and the Remote Leg is
updated as well with the newly added media flow-B using the Remote Leg Update
procedure as specified in clause 6a.1.2. After this, the new media flow-B will
be established between the Controller UE-1 and the Remote Party.
3\. The IUT addition of media is completed.
### 6a.4.2 Controller UE initiated add new media on Controllee UE
UE-1, UE-2 are engaged in a Collaborative Session established using procedures
shown in clause 6a.2 for which UE-1 is the Controller UE and UE-2 is a
Controllee UE, the following flows shows how the Controller UE-1 adds a media
flow to Controllee UE-2 which could result in a new Access Leg for the
Controllee UE-2, or it could be an additional media flow for an already
existing session for the Controllee UE-2. The following information flow also
applies to case in which UE-2 may not be part of Collaborative Session before
the media addition. In this case, there is at least another Controllee UE
involved in the Collaborative Session before the media addition, which is not
shown in the information flow.
Figure 6a.4.2-1: Controller UE initiated add new media On Controllee UE
1 Controller UE-1 decides to add a new media flow to Controllee UE-2, and
performs an IUT add media request for the particular media requested. The IUT
add media request shall include enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the added media flow is Media Flow-A;
\- identify that the target of the added media flow is Controllee UE-2.
2 The new Media Flow-A is setup for Controllee UE-2. The Remote Leg is updated
as well with the newly added media flow using the Remote Leg Update procedure
as specified in clause 6a.1.2. After this, the new media flow will be
established between Controllee UE-2 and the Remote Party.
3\. The IUT addition of media is completed.
### 6a.4.3 Controller UE Initiated Release Media (media flow on the Controller
UE)
The information flow shows the Controller UE releasing a media flow that is
originated from the Controller UE. As a pre-requisite, there exists a
Collaborative Session with two media flows, flow--A on the Controller UE
(UE-1) and Flow--B on the Controllee UE (UE-2).
Figure 6a.4.3-1: Controller UE Initiated Media release -- media on Controller
UE
1\. UE-1 sends a Release Media request to the SCC AS to remove Media-A from
the Collaborative Session. The IUT media release request shall include enough
information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the media is Media Flow-A;
\- identify that the released media is on UE-1;
\- keep the control of Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS updates the Remote Leg with media flow --A removed.
3\. The SCC AS sends release media response to UE-1. UE-1 releases media flow
-- A at its end.
The Collaborative Session continues to exist after the procedure is complete.
### 6a.4.4 Controller UE Initiated Release Media (media flow on the Controllee
UE)
The information flow shows the Controller UE releasing a media flow from a
Controllee UE. As a pre-requisite, there exists a Collaborative Session with
two media flows, flow--A on the Controller UE (UE-1) and Flow--B on the
Controllee UE (UE-2).
Figure 6a.4.4-1: Controller UE Initiated Media release -- media flow on
Controllee UE
1\. UE-1 sends a Release Media request to the SCC AS to remove Media-A from
the Collaborative Session. The request includes the information pertaining to
media flow -B:
\- identify that the released media is Media Flow-B;
\- identify that the released media is on UE-2;
\- keep the control of Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC identifies media flow B as associated with UE-2 (controlee UE) and
sends the Release Media Request to UE-2. The request identifies the media flow
--B that needs to be removed and the media flow is removed. If no more media
flows remain on UE-2 that are participating in the Collaborative Session, the
SCC AS releases the access leg from UE-2.
3\. UE-2 sends back Release Media response back to SCC AS.
4\. The SCC AS updates the Remote Leg with media flow--B removed.
Step 2 and step 4 may be executed in any order.
5\. The SCC AS sends release media response to UE-1.
If UE-2 has left the Collaborative Session at step 2 and no other Controllee
UE remain in this Collaborative Session, this Collaborative Session becomes a
normal IMS session.
### 6a.4.5 Controllee UE initiated release media on itself
As per standard IMS UE behaviour, a Controllee UE may initiate a release of a
media flow that it terminates. In this case, this media release on the access
leg is notified to the Controller UE, which may decide to transfer this media
flow to another UE under the same subscription, or to remove it from the
Collaborative Session (i.e. remove it on the remote leg).
The following information flow shows a Controllee UE initiating the release of
a media flow that it terminates, and Controller UE being informed of this
release by the SCC AS. As a pre-requisite, there exists a Collaborative
Session of which UE-1 is the Controller UE and UE-2 is a Controllee UE
terminating a media flow, Media Flow A. There may be other media flows (on UE
1, UE-2 or other UEs) within the Collaborative Session; such media flows and
UEs are not shown on this information flow; they shall not be impacted by this
operation.
Figure 6a.4.5-1: Controllee UE initiated release media flow on itself
1\. Controllee UE-2 sends a request to release Media Flow A (that it
terminates), using standard IMS procedure.
2\. The SCC AS identifies that Media Flow A is under Collaborative Session
control of UE-1. The SCC AS indicates to Controller UE-1 that Controllee UE-2
has released Media Flow A.
3\. Controller UE-1 initiates one of the following procedures, in order to
transfer Media Flow A to another UE under the same subscription, or to remove
it from the Collaborative Session:
\- Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controllee UE to Controller UE,
specified in clause 6a.3.2;
\- Controller UE initiated media transfer from Controllee UE to another
Controllee UE, specified in clause 6a.3.3;
\- Controller UE initiated release media (media flow on the Controllee UE),
specified in clause 6a.4.3;
\- Controller UE initiated release Collaborative Session, specified in clause
6a.5.1.
4\. The SCC AS updates the Remote Leg while executing the procedure initiated
by Controller UE-1 at step 3.
### 6a.4.6 Controllee UE initiated modify media on itself
As per standard IMS UE behaviour, a Controllee UE may initiate a modification
of a media flow that it terminates.
The following information flow shows a Controllee UE initiating the
modification of a media flow that it terminates. As a pre-requisite, there
exists a Collaborative Session of which UE-1 is the Controller UE and UE-2 is
a Controllee UE terminating a media flow, Media Flow A. There may be other
media flows (on UE-1, UE-2 or other UEs) within the Collaborative Session;
such media flows and UEs are not shown on this information flow; they shall
not be impacted by this operation.
Figure 6a.4.6-1: Controllee UE initiated modify media flow on itself
1\. Controllee UE-2 sends a request to modify the characteristics of Media
Flow-A (that it terminates), using standard IMS procedure.
2\. The SCC AS updates the Remote Leg for allowed media changes, providing the
new media flow characteristics from UE-2.
3\. The SCC AS sends a successful response to the request sent by UE-2 at step
1.
### 6a.4.7 Remote party initiated add new media
The following is an example of an information flow where remote party wants to
modify an existing session with UE-1 to add Media Flow-B. In this information
flow, UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same user subscription. UE-1 is the
Controller UE and UE-2 is a Controllee UE. If UE-2 is not involved in the
Collaborative Session controlled by UE-1 before the media addition, there is
at least another Controllee UE involved in the Collaborative Session before
the media addition which is not shown in the information flow.
Figure 6a.4.7-1: Remote party initiated add new media
1\. Remote party sends an Add Media request to add Media Flow-B to an existing
session between UE-1 and remote party as per TS 23.228 [4].
2\. SCC AS forwards the Add Media request to UE-1 according to the procedures
defined in TS 23.228 [4].
Step 3a is for the case Controller UE wants to add Media Flow-B to itself.
3a. The session setup is completed. The new Media Flow-B will after this be
established between UE-1 and remote party, and be involved in the
Collaborative Session controlled by UE-1.
Steps 3b and 5b are for the case Controller UE wants to add Media Flow-B to a
different UE while retaining control for the added media.
3b. Controller UE-1 sends an IUT-Redirect-Media request to SCC AS. The IUT-
Redirect-Media request needs to include at least the following information:
\- identify that Media Flow-B needs to be redirected to UE-2.
4b. SCC AS sends an Add Media Flow-B to UE-2.
5b. The session setup is completed. When the add media operation is completed,
there is Media Flow-B between UE-2 and remote party. There is a Collaborative
Session established between UE-1 and UE-2. The Media-B is controlled by UE-1.
NOTE 1: If UE-2 was not involved in the Collaborative Session controlled by
UE-1 before the media addition, UE‑2 becomes a Controllee UE when the media
addition is completed.
NOTE 2: If remote party wants to add more than one media flows to an existing
session, these media flows can be distributed to several different UEs by
repeating the above steps 3b-5b.
### 6a.4.8 Remote party initiated release media
The following is an example of an information flow where remote party wants to
remove one of media flows, Media Flow-B from an ongoing session. In this
information flow, UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same user subscription. UE-1 is
a Controller UE and UE-2 is a Controllee UE.
Figure 6a.4.8-1: Remote party initiated release media
1\. Remote party uses standard IMS procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4] to
remove Media Flow-B from the session.
Step 2a is for the case the released media is bound to Controller UE.
2a. The removal of Media Flow-B between Controller UE-1 and remote party is
completed.
Steps 2b and 3b are for the case the released media is bound to Controllee UE.
2b. The removal of Media Flow-B between Controllee UE-2 and remote party is
completed.
NOTE 1: If no more media remains on the Access Leg between SCC AS and
Controllee UE-2, this Access Leg is released and Controllee UE-2 will no
longer be part of the Collaborative Session.
3b. SCC AS informs Controller UE-1 that the Media Flow-B on UE-2 was removed.
NOTE 2: If no more Controllee UE remains after the media removal, the
Collaborative Session is terminated and there will be a general IMS session
between UE-1 and remote party.
### 6a.4.9 Remote party initiated media modification
A Collaborative Session is already established using procedures shown in
clause 6a.2. The following is an example of an information flow where remote
party wants to modify one of media flows, Media Flow-B from an ongoing
session. In this information flow, UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same user
subscription. UE-1 is a Controller UE and UE-2 is a Controllee UE.
Figure 6a.4.9-1: Remote party initiated media modification
1\. Remote party uses standard IMS procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4] to
modify Media Flow-B from the session.
Step 2a is for the case the modified media is bound to Controller UE.
2a. The modification of Media Flow-B between Controller UE-1 and remote party
is completed.
Steps 2b -- 3b are for the case the modified media is bound to Controllee UE.
2b. The modification of Media Flow-B between Controllee UE-2 and remote party
is completed.
3b. If the media modification is hold or resume, SCC AS informs Controller
UE-1 that the Media Flow-B on UE-2 was modified.
## 6a.5 Collaborative Session release
### 6a.5.1 Controller UE Initiated Release Collaborative Session
The following information flow shows the Controller UE releasing a
Collaborative Session to release all the media flows with remote party. As a
pre-requisite, there exists a Collaborative Session with two media flows,
Media Flow--A on the Controller UE (UE-1) and Media Flow--B on the Controllee
UE (UE-2).
Figure 6a.5.1-1: Controller UE initiated Collaborative Session release
1\. UE-1 sends a Release Collaborative Session request to the SCC AS to
release the Collaborative Session and to release the Media Flow-B on UE-2:
UE-1 removes Media Flow-A that is participating in the Collaborative Session.
2\. The SCC AS identifies the Collaborative Session and the participating
Access Leg from Controllee UE. SCC AS sends the Release Access Leg request to
UE-2. The request identifies the Access Leg that needs to be released.
3\. UE-2 releases the Access Leg and sends back Release Access Leg response to
SCC AS.
4\. The SCC AS releases the Remote Leg using IMS session release procedure as
specified in TS 23.228 [4].
5\. The SCC AS sends Release Collaborative Session response to UE-1.
### 6a.5.2 Remote Party Initiated Release Collaborative Session
The following shows the information flow where the remote party initiates the
release of the session, which causes the SCC-AS to release the Collaborative
Session.
UE-1 is a Controller UE and the other UEs are Controllee UEs.
Figure 6a.5.2-1: Remote Party Initiated Release Collaborative Session
1\. The Remote Party decides to release the session, and therefore a Session
Release Request is sent by the remote party to the SCC-AS.
2\. The SCC-AS releases the Access Leg(s) towards the Controller UE-1.
3\. The SCC-AS releases the Access Leg(s) towards the different Controllee
UEs. This occurs in parallel with step 2.
4\. When all Access Legs that belonged to the Collaborative Session have been
released, the SCC-AS responds to the remote party.
## 6a.6 Inter‑UE Transfer without establishing a Collaborative Session
UE-1 and UE-2 are under the same user subscription and share the same service
profile. UE-1 is involved in IMS session with remote party. The information
flow in Figure 6a.6-1 shows transfer of the session from UE-1 to UE-2. Since
the entire session is transferred simultaneously, the roles of the Controller
UE and Controllee UE are not applicable.
NOTE 1: This signalling flow does not require the UE-2 to have IUT
capabilities.
Figure 6a.6-1: Inter‑UE transfer without establishing Collaborative Session
1\. UE-1 sends IUT media and service control transfer request to the SCC AS to
transfer the session that includes Media-A from UE-1 to UE-2. The IUT media
and service control transfer request shall include enough information for the
network to:
\- identify the transferred session;
\- identify that the target of the transferred session is UE-2;
\- identify the access leg of UE-1 to be transferred to UE-2.
2\. The SCC AS initiates the media session setup procedure with UE-2 for the
Media-A, and updates the Remote Party.
3\. The SCC AS releases the session with UE-1.
When the above transfer is completed the SCC AS retains the service state
(e.g. media flows status) of UE-2, and the UE-2 has the control of the IMS
session.
NOTE 2: If, besides the Media-A, there are other media flows in an unrelated
session between UE-1 and Remote Party, the other media flows are not impacted
by the above session transfer operation.
NOTE 3: The set of Application Servers and services that are invoked for the
overall session with the remote end is determined by the service profile of
UE-1 and is not changed during this procedure. If UE-2 was under a different
service profile than UE-1 (contrarily to what is assumed), this procedure
would lead to a situation where UE-2 is involved in an IMS session for which
the Application Servers and services that are invoked are those of the wrong
service profile. This Release does not provide a solution to prevent this.
## 6a.7 Execution of supplementary services
### 6a.7.1 General
Even though the media components for the Collaborative Session are split onto
multiple Access Legs of different UEs, the remote end is presented with one
session including all the media components. This section describes the SCC AS
and IUT UE procedures for handling supplementary services as described in TS
22.173 [15].
Within a Collaborative Session, the Controllee UEs can be under a different
service profile than the Controller UE. The service profile of the Controller
UE shall determine the set of Application Servers and services that are
invoked for the overall session with the remote end.
For a Controllee UE\'s Access Leg where CS media is used, the interaction
described in the following sections still apply. However, the operations on
the CS media follow the procedures as described in TS 23.292 [5].
### 6a.7.2 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
The OIP service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.3 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.4 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
The TIP service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.5 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The TIR service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.6 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
The CDIV service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.7 Communication Hold (HOLD)
If the Controller UE wants to invoke the HOLD service on one or more media
component(s), the Controller UE shall invoke the HOLD procedures, as defined
in TS 24.610 [16]. The SCC AS shall act on the HOLD requests by updating all
the Controllee UEs whose media status are changed and shall update the remote
Access Leg using the procedures defined in TS 24.610 [16].
#### 6a.7.7.1 Controller UE invoking the HOLD service on the media flow on a
Controllee UE
The information flow shows a Controller UE invoking the HOLD service on the
media flow that is originated from the Controllee UE. As a pre-requisite,
there exists a Collaborative Session with two media flows, Media Flow--A on
the Controller UE (UE-1) and Media Flow--B on the Controllee UE (UE-2). Only
supplementary service execution for hold and resume is allowed for Controller
UE on the media flow that is originated from the Controllee UE.
Figure 6a.7.7.1-1: Controller UE invoking the HOLD service on the media flow
on a Controllee UE
1\. UE-1 sends a Supplementary Service Execution request to invoke the HOLD
service on Media Flow-B on UE-2. The IUT supplementary service execution
request shall include enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the media to be held is Media Flow-B;
\- identify that the media to be held is on UE-2;
\- identify that the supplementary service to be executed on Media Flow-B is
the HOLD service.
2\. The SCC identifies Media Flow-B as associated with UE-2 and sends the
Supplementary Service Execution request to UE-2. The request identifies the
Media Flow--B that needs to be held.UE-2 holds the Media Flow-B. The SCC AS
updates the Remote Leg with Media Flow--B held.
3\. The SCC AS sends a Supplementary Service Execution response to UE-1.
### 6a.7.8 Communication Barring (CB)
The CB service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.9 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
The MWI service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.10 Conference (CONF)
Only the Controller UE can invoke the CONF service for the Collaborative
Session and it shall follow the procedures as defined in TS 24.605 [17] for
any CONF service related operations.
When the remote end sends a request for the CONF service to replace an
existing session, the SCC AS shall deliver the request for CONF service to the
Controller UE, which then sets up new session following the procedures defined
in TS 24.605 [17].
### 6a.7.11 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
Only the Controller UE can invoke the ECT service on behalf of the
Collaborative Session and it shall follow the procedures as specified in TS
24.629 [18]. Upon receiving notification that ECT has been performed
successfully, the Controller UE shall terminate the previous active session
with the transferee UE by terminating all related media control sessions on
the Controllee UEs.
Upon receiving an ECT transfer request from the remote end to transfer the
Collaborative Session, the SCC AS shall deliver the request to the Controller
UE.
Upon receiving an ECT transfer request to transfer the Collaborative Session,
the Controller UE shall establish a new session towards the transfer target
following the procedures defined in TS 24.629 [18].
### 6a.7.12 Advice of Charge (AOC)
When the AOC service specified in TS 24.647 [19] is active, the SCC AS shall
deliver charging information during the communication to the Controller UE.
### 6a.7.13 Closed User Groups (CUG)
The CUG service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.14 Three-Party (3PTY)
The 3PTY service in TS 24.605 [17] is considered as a special case of CONF
service and the interaction with IUT is the same as that specified in clause
4.8.10 for CONF service.
### 6a.7.15 Flexible Alerting (FA)
The FA service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.16 Communication Waiting (CW)
The CW service is not impacted.
### 6a.7.17 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)/Completion
of Communications by No Reply (CCNR)
The CCBS/CCNR service is not impacted.
### 6a.7.18 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
The CAT service is not impacted.
### 6a.7.19 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
The MCID service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.20 Reverse Charging
The Reverse Charging service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.21 Personal Network Management (PNM)
The PNM service is not impacted by IUT.
### 6a.7.22 Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
The CRS service is not impacted by IUT.
## 6a.8 IUT target discovery
### 6a.8.1 General
When initiating Inter-UE transfer procedures, the UE may use the following
information:
\- other UEs belonging to the same IMS subscription;
\- the availability (e.g. online, offline etc) of the UEs;
\- the capabilities (e.g. support of audio/video formats etc) of the UEs.
determination of UEs belonging to the same IMS subscription is based on either
or both of static list stored in the UE and based on IMS registration. When
based on IMS registration, the UE gets notified when other UEs under the same
Implicit Registration Set become available and their capabilities and contact
details. The static list, which contains a list of eligible UEs for Inter-UE
Transfer, can be created manually by the user.
The availability and capabilities of the target UE(s) can be determined by the
information flow described in the subsequent section.
### 6a.8.2 Information flow for IUT target availability and capabilities
discovery
Figure 6a.8.2-1 Inter-UE Transfer target discovery based on IMS registration
1\. UE-2 is IMS registered following the procedures defined in TS 23.228 [4].
2\. UE-1 performs IMS registration following the procedures defined in TS
23.228 [4].
3 \~ 4. UE-1 is interested to discover the status and capabilities of other
devices under the same subscription. It subscribes to an event package (e.g.,
reg-event, presence) for registration information and the capabilities
information.
5 \~ 6. The IMS CN subsystem or presence AS notifies UE-1 of other devices
(e.g. UE-2) status and, if available, capabilities information.
7\. UE-3 performs IMS registration.
8 \~ 9. The IMS CN subsystem notifies UE-1 of UE-3\'s availability and, if
available, capabilities information.
Optionally, if sufficient UE capabilities information is not included in step
8, then the following steps can be performed:
10 \~ 13. Among all the available devices, UE 1 is interested in performing
Inter-UE transfer to UE-3. UE-1 performs capability query towards UE-3.
# 6b Void
# 6c Procedures and flows for SRVCC Emergency Session
## 6c.1 IMS Emergency origination flow
Figure 6c.1-1 provides flow for an emergency session established in IMS,
illustrating how the emergency session is anchored in the EATF.
Figure 6c.1-1: UE initiating an emergency session in IMS
1\. The UE initiates an IMS emergency session over EPS or GPRS and the
procedures defined in TS 23.167 [23]. This involves the UE generating a SIP
INVITE containing the UE\'s location information and the equipment identifier.
2\. The P-CSCF selects an E-CSCF and forwards the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
3\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the EATF.
4\. The EATF (acting as a routing B2BUA) anchors the emergency session, i.e.
the EATF is inserted in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for
enablement of Access Transfers for the call as specified in clause 6.3.1.3.
5\. The EATF creates a new INVITE and sends it back to E-CSCF.
6\. For this optional procedure, refer to TS 23.167 [23].
7\. The E-CSCF uses the routing information to format the INVITE message, and
it sends it directly to the PSAP, or to the PSAP via the MGCF.
## 6c.2 SRVCC session transfer of IMS emergency session
Figure 6c.2-1 provides flow for SRVCC for IMS emergency session.
Figure 6c.2-1: IMS level Call flow for SRVCC for IMS emergency session with
E-STN-SR
1\. MSC Server initiates the session transfer with the E-STN-SR and it
includes the equipment identifier.
2\. The I-CSCF routes the INVITE directly to the EATF via I5 by using similar
procedures to that defined in TS 23.228 [4] for PSI based Application Server
termination.
NOTE: The use of indirect routeing for PSI based Application Server
Termination as described in TS 23.228 [4] in clause 5.7.6 cannot be used for
routing the INVITE to the EATF.
3 - 4. The EATF uses the E-STN-SR to determine that Access Transfer is
requested. The EATF proceeds with the Access Transfer of the active session
with bi-directional speech for the UE by updating the Remote Leg with the
media description and other information using the Remote Leg Update procedure
as specified in clause 6.3.1.5.
5\. The E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP if
the PSAP is located in the PSTN or CS Domain (the u-plane path is switched
between the UE and the MGW) or the Re-INVITE is sent directly to an IP-capable
PSAP (the u-plane path between the UE and the PSAP is switched end-to-end).
6\. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg (i.e.
the access leg previously established over IMS) is released as specified in
clause 6.3.1.6.
## 6c.3 SRVCC Support for UEs in Normal Mode
If the MSC enhanced for SRVCC has a SIP interface, it shall use the mechanism
specified in TS 24.229 [26] additionally to carry the equipment identifier to
the EATF.
If the MSC enhanced for SRVCC does not have a SIP interface, it shall convey
the equipment identifier by using the IAM message to the MGCF. The MGCF shall
use the mechanism specified in TS 24.229 [26] additionally to carry the
equipment identifier to the EATF.
The EATF can then correlate the call legs according to the equipment
identifier.
NOTE: The method for correlation of the call legs at the EATF if SIP or ISUP
does not provide this information is implementation and configuration
dependant.
## 6c.4 SRVCC Support for UEs in Limited Service Mode
To support SRVCC procedure for UEs in Limited Service Mode, the MSC enhanced
for SRVCC will setup the call leg towards the EATF with the UE\'s equipment
identifier.
If the MSC enhanced for SRVCC has a SIP interface, it shall use the mechanism
specified in TS 24.229 [26] to carry equipment identifier as a SIP URI to the
EATF.
If the MSC enhanced for SRVCC does not have a SIP interface, it shall convey
the equipment identifier by using the IAM message to the MGCF. The MGCF shall
use the mechanism specified in TS 24.229 [26] to carry equipment identifier as
a SIP URI to the EATF.
The EATF can then correlate the call legs according to the equipment
identifier.
NOTE: The method for correlation of the call legs at the EATF if SIP or ISUP
does not provide this information is implementation dependant.
# 7 Security
## 7.1 General
There are no impacts on existing security mechanisms for the CS Domain or for
IMS as a result of Session Transfers.
## 7.2 Access security for CS Domain
TS 33.102 [11] describes the Security Architecture for GSM and UMTS
subscribers, SC places no additional requirements upon the CS domain security
than those already in the detailed access specific specification e.g., above
those described in TS 33.102 [11].
## 7.3 Access security for IMS
TS 33.203 [12] specifies the security features and mechanisms for secure
access to the IM subsystem (IMS). SC places no additional requirements upon
the IMS above those described in TS 33.203 [12].
# 8 Charging
## 8.1 Charging strategy
To ensure the completeness and correctness of charging during Session Transfer
procedure, and to avoid possible double billing in IMS and CS, the following
strategy should be applied:
\- Provide cohesive charging records with a complete service continuity
history for the whole duration of a SC subscriber multimedia session by the
SCC AS.
\- For cases of CS origination and CS termination, correlate the charging
records generated in CS and IMS for the subscriber multimedia session, to
avoid double billing to the subscriber.
\- Treat the charging records generated in the transferring-in access network
for the call(s)/session(s) established during the Session Transfer as
subsequent Access Legs, and therefore do not impact the direction of the
initial call(s)/session(s) for the purpose of charging.
\- Keep the start of charging in the transferring-in access network align with
the stop of charging in the transferring-out access network, to avoid double
billing to the subscriber during the Session Transfer.
To avoid online charging correlation in IMS and CS domain, the SC online
charging should be performed only in IMS, i.e. prepaid service logic in CS
domain should not be invoked for anchored CS origination/termination call and
subsequent CS origination call established for performing Session Transfer. In
addition, the SCC AS should report information related to the initial
multimedia session establishment as well as the information related to the
Session Transfer procedure to OCS for correct credit control purpose.
## 8.2 Accounting strategy
To assist in performing the settlement between operators, the following
strategy shall be applied:
\- Provide cohesive charging records with a complete service continuity
history for the whole duration of a SC subscriber multimedia session by the
SCC AS.
\- Use the charging records for subsequent Access Legs generated in CS/IMS
domain and the charging records generated in MGCF performing CS-IMS
interworking, taking the complete service continuity history described above
as reference, to perform the settlement between the providers of CS domain and
IMS.
\- Use the access network information in IMS charging records, taking the
complete service continuity history described above as reference, to perform
the settlement between the providers of IP‑CAN and IMS Core.
\- Additional reconciliation for I1 flows can also be applied, due to such
flows being uniquely identifiable from other flows over the same bearer (see
clause 4.8 of TS 23.292 [5] for more information).
\- At least in roaming scenarios, the SCC-AS returns the ICID of the original
access leg to the MSC-Server for the MSC-Server to include in charging
records.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Controller UE and Controllee UE operations
# A.1 General
Table A.1-1 provides an overview of Controller UE and Controllee UE
operations.
Table A.1-1: Controller UE and Controllee UE operations
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Op | Co | Co | Co | Co | | | erations | ntroller | ntroller | ntrollee | ntrollee | | | | UE | UE | UE | UE | | | | | Comment | | Comment | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Add | Yes | Standard | No | | | | media | | SC | | | | | flow by | | pro | | | | | creating | | cedures. | | | | | a new | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg on | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Add | Yes | New | No | The | | | media | | ca | | Co | | | flow by | | pability | | ntrollee | | | creating | | of | | UE can | | | a new | | I | | accep | | | Access | | nter‑UE. | | t/reject | | | Leg on a | | | | media | | | d | | | | flow | | | ifferent | | | | addition | | | UE | | | | using | | | | | | | Standard | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | cedures. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Add | Yes | Standard | No | | | | media | | IMS | | | | | flow to | | pro | | | | | an | | cedures. | | | | | existing | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg on | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Add | Add | Yes | New | No | The | | Media | media | | ca | | Co | | flow | flow to | | pability | | ntrollee | | (local | an | | of | | UE can | | end | existing | | I | | accep | | in | Access | | nter‑UE. | | t/reject | | itiating | Leg on a | | | | media | | case) | d | | | | flow | | | ifferent | | | | addition | | | UE | | | | using | | | | | | | Standard | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | cedures. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Remove | Remove | yes | Standard | Yes | If all | | | media | | IMS | | the | | | flow | | pro | | media | | | from an | | cedures. | | flows | | | Access | | | | are | | | Leg on | | | | removed | | | the same | | | | from the | | | UE. | | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg, the | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg is | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eleased. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Media | Remove | Yes | New | No | | | flow | media | | ca | | | | | flow an | | pability | | | | (local | Access | | of | | | | end | Leg on a | | I | | | | in | d | | nter‑UE. | | | | itiating | ifferent | | | | | | case) | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | MMTEL | Yes | Standard | No | | | | service | | IMS | | | | | control | | pro | | | | | with | | cedures. | | | | | media on | | | | | | | same UE | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | S 22.173 | | | | | | | [15]) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Invoke | MMTEL | Yes | New | No | | | | service | | ca | | | | Supp | control | | pability | | | | | with | | of | | | | Services | media on | | I | | | | | d | | nter‑UE. | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | (T | | | | | | | S 22.173 | | | | | | | [15]) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Colla | | Yes | New | No | | | borative | | | ca | | | | Session | | | pability | | | | Release | | | of | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | nter‑UE. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transfer | Transfer | Yes | | No | Only | | Media | (in/out) | | | | Co | | flow | of the | | | | ntroller | | | media | | | | UE can | | | flow | | | | initiate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ransfer. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#