# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report describes the architectural aspects of specific UTRAN
and E-UTRAN base stations, known as Home NodeBs and Home eNodeBs, which
provide services in e.g. residential or enterprise deployments.
NOTE: This feasibility study has led to normative modifications of various
specifications; the contents of this technical report should therefore be
considered out of date.
To achieve this, the objectives are to (a) document the architectural
assumptions taken by other working groups as part of their previous and
ongoing work on Home Node B/Home eNodeB and Closed Subscriber Groups (CSG),
and to (b) identify any outstanding issues not properly addressed in Rel-8.
Starting from the resulting architectural baseline, the intention is to derive
architectural requirements arising from the outstanding Rel-8 issues and the
Rel-9 requirements on Home NodeB and Home eNodeB as laid down by SA WG1 in TS
22.220 [2]. Based on this, the objective is to discuss and conclude on
solutions for the architectural issues arising from those requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service requirements for Home NodeBs and Home eNodeBs
\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home NodeB; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN; Overall description; Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 3761: \"The E.164 to Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI) Dynamic
Delegation Discovery System (DDDS) Application (ENUM)\".
[7] IETF RFC 4282: \"The Network Access Identifier\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Editor\'s Note: The following definitions are copied from TS 22.220 v1.0.0 and
are intended to be used as baseline terminology for the work in SA WG2. As the
work progresses these definitions may be revisited.
**Closed access mode:** HNB/HeNB operates as a CSG cell.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG):** A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**CSG cell:** A cell, part of the PLMN, broadcasting a specific CSG identity.
A CSG cell is accessible by the members of the closed subscriber group for
that CSG identity. All the CSG cells sharing the same identity are
identifiable as a single group for the purposes of mobility management and
charging.
**CSG identity:** An identifier broadcast by a CSG cell or cells and used by
the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the associated Closed
Subscriber Group. The scope and uniqueness of the CSG identity is within one
PLMN, i.e. a certain value of a CSG identity may exist in more than one PLMN.
**Allowed CSG list:** A list stored in the network and the UE containing all
the CSG identity information of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
**Home based network:** An IP based network in the H(e)NB owner\'s premises
that is connected to the H(e)NB.
**Hybrid access mode:** HNB/HeNB operates as a CSG cell where at the same
time, non-CSG members are allowed access.
**Open access mode:** HNB/HeNB operates as a normal cell, i.e. non-CSG cell.
Editor\'s Note: The following definitions need to be reviewed:
**CSG owner:** A CSG owner is the owner of one or more H(e)NBs, that have been
configured as a CSG cell(s) for a particular CSG. A CSG owner can, under the
H(e)NB operator\'s supervision, add, remove and view the list of CSG members.
**HNB:** A HNB is a Customer-premises equipment that connects a 3GPP UE over
UTRAN wireless air interface to a mobile operator\'s network using broadband
IP backhaul.
**HeNB:** A HeNB is a Customer-premises equipment that connects a 3GPP UE over
E-UTRAN wireless air interface to a mobile operator\'s network using broadband
IP backhaul.
H(e)NB Gateway: H(e)NB Gateway is a mobile network operator\'s equipment
(usually physically located on mobile operator premises) through which the
H(e)NB gets access to mobile operator\'s core network. For HeNBs, the HeNB
Gateway is optional.
**H(e)NB Operator:** A H(e)NB Operator is the PLMN operator under whose
license a H(e)NB operates. A H(e)NB needs to be configured and authorised by
the H(e)NB operator.
**H(e)NB Owner:** A H(e)NB Owner has a contractual relationship with the
H(e)NB operator, related to running one or more H(e)NBs in the H(e)NB owner\'s
premises.
NOTE: A H(e)NB Owner is likely to have the billing relationship with the
H(e)NB operator. A H(e)NB Owner will typically be the \"lead\" user in a
household, but could be, e.g. the corporate IT manager in an enterprise
context.
**H(e)NB SubSystem:** A H(e)NB SubSystem consists of the H(e)NB and,
optionally, the H(e)NB Gateway belonging to it.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CSG: Closed Subscriber Group
HNB: Home Node B (over UTRAN)
HeNB: Home Node B (over E-UTRAN)
HeMS: Home(e)NodeB Management System
HNB GW: Home Node B Gateway
SeGW: Security Gateway
# 4 Architectural baseline and assumptions from Rel-8
Editor\'s Note: This section will provide an overview of the architectural
work and architectural assumptions already made for Home NodeBs and Home
eNodeBs by other working groups for Rel-8.
## 4.1 Impacting specifications/reports from other 3GPP WGs
Rel-8 work related to HeNB, HNB and CSG have been performed in a number of
3GPP working groups. The following list shows Rel-8 specifications and reports
including HeNB, HNB and CSG:
**SA WG1:**
TS 22.011 Service accessibility.
TS 22.115 Service aspects; Charging and billing.
**SA WG3:**
TR 33.820 Security of H(e)NB.
**RAN:**
TS 36.300 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall description;
Stage 2.
TS 36.413 Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); S1 Application
Protocol (S1AP).
TS 25.367 Mobility Procedures for Home Node B; Overall description; Stage 2.
TS 36.304 Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network; Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) procedures in
idle mode.
TS 25.467 Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network (UTRAN); UTRAN
Architecture for 3G HNB.
TS 25.468 Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network: UTRAN Iuh
Interface RANAP User Adaption (RUA) signalling.
TS 25.469 Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network : UTRAN Iuh
interface Home Node B Application Part (HNBAP).
TR R3.020 Home (e)NodeB; Network aspects.
**CT WG1:**
TS 23.122 Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in
idle mode
TS 24.008 Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core network
protocols; Stage 3
TS 24.285 Allowed Closed Subscriber Group (CSG) List; Management Object (MO)
TS 24.301 Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet System (EPS);
Stage 3
TR 24.801 3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); CT WG1 aspects
**CT WG4:**
TS 23.008 Organization of subscriber data
TS 23.003 Numbering, addressing and identification
TS 29.002 Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification
TS 29.272 MME Related Interfaces Based on Diameter Protocol
## 4.2 Home NodeB architectural baseline and assumptions
### 4.2.1 Architectural assumptions
\- For pre-R8 UE, no new functions are added to the MSC/VLR, SGSN, HSS.
\- For R8 UE, the essential functions (e.g. access control) are supported in
the Core Network.
\- HNB-GW performs NAS Node Selection Function (NNSF).
\- The Allowed CSG List is part of the user\'s subscription data and stored in
the HSS.
### 4.2.2 Architectural requirements
Editor\'s note: The relevant Home NodeB architecture requirements will be
based on the service requirements in latest release 8 version of 22.011. Other
architectural requirements may be derived from Rel 8 work in other groups.
Editor\'s note: Architectural requirements are expected to cover:
> \- distribution of functions on network nodes for Home NodeB support
>
> \- architecture support for discovery, security, authentication, and
> management processes related to Home NodeB
>
> \- HNB installation, identification and location requirements
>
> \- HNB backhaul efficiency
>
> \- Emergency service support
#### 4.2.2.1 Support for CSGs and Allowed CSG List handling
\- The Allowed CSG List shall be provided as part of the CSG subscriber\'s
subscription data to the SGSN/MSC/VLR.
NOTE: The assumption for release 8 is the Allowed CSG List is stored in the
HSS.
\- When a CSG subscriber group is updated, the affected UEs\' CSG subscription
data shall be updated in the HSS. And then the HSS pushes updated subscription
data to SGSN/MSC/VLR.
\- The Allowed CSG List can be updated in the UE according to the result of
attach, RAU/LAU, service request and detach procedures or by application level
mechanisms such as OMA DM procedures.
\- If a release 8 UE is rejected to access a CSG cell with the reject cause
indicating it is not allowed to access a CSG cell, the UE shall remove the
corresponding CSG ID from its locally stored Allowed CSG List.
\- If a release 8 UE is accepted to access a CSG cell whose CSG ID is not
included in the UE\'s locally stored Allowed CSG List, the UE shall add
corresponding CSG ID into its locally stored Allowed CSG List.
#### 4.2.2.2 Access control
\- For pre-release 8 UEs, access control for HNB shall be performed in HNB GW
and optionally in HNB.
\- If the release 8 SGSN/MSC/VLR receives a NAS request message from the HNB
GW together with an indication that the request is from a release 8 UE, the
SGSN/MSC/VLR shall perform access control for HNB during corresponding attach,
detach, service request, RAU and location update procedures.
Editor\'s note: Operators may choose to use the \"pre-Release 8 access
control\" for Release 8 UEs.
Editor\'s note: Access control solution for HNB/HNB GW connected to pre-
release8 core network is FFS.
\- The Release 8 UE shall be notified of the cause of rejection by the network
if it is not allowed to access a CSG cell.
NOTE: For pre-Release 8 UEs, proper existing rejection cause should be used to
reject the UE if it is not allowed to access a CSG cell.
\- When a CSG ID which is not included in the UE\'s Allowed CSG List is
manually selected by the user, a RAU or location update procedure via the
selected CSG cell shall be triggered immediately by the UE to allow the SGSN
or MSC/VLR to perform CSG access control.
#### 4.2.2.3 Mobility management
\- The system shall allow flexibility on RAI/LAI assignment for CSG cells and
non-CSG cells.
\- The handover procedure from HNB to macro NodeB reuses the existing
relocation procedure for macro NB.
\- For idle UE mobility from HNB to Macro NB, the location area update
procedure/routing area update procedure is reused if necessary.
\- For Idle UE mobility from Macro NB to HNB, access control shall be
performed within LAU/RAU procedure if it is initiated by the UE. This applies
both to CSG capable UEs and non-CSG capable UEs.
### 4.2.3 Architecture model for Home NodeB access network
Editor\'s note: Possible additional functions and reference points are FFS.
#### 4.2.3.1 Logical architecture
The Rel-8 baseline architecture is based on the Rel-8 RAN and CT architecture
and assumptions.
Figure 4.2.3.1-1: Logical architecture
NOTE 1:- Communication between the HNB and the HNB GW is secured by a
mandatory Security Gateway (SeGW) function, which is not shown in the figure.
The SeGW may be implemented either as a separate physical entity or integrated
into the HNB GW.
NOTE 2 The optional C1 (OMA DM/OTA) interface may be used to update allowed
CSG lists on CSG-capable UEs.
NOTE 3: It is FFS whether or not C1 is also applicable for temporary CSG
members.
Editor\'s note: We have to decide whether the OAM nodes, OAM functions and
associated reference points e.g. HMS (Home NodeB Management System) will be
covered by this TR. Note that traditionally the OAM architecture is out of the
scope of SA2 specifications.
#### 4.2.3.2 Functional entities
**HNB:** The HNB provides the RAN connectivity using the Iuh interface,
supports the NodeB and most of the RNC functions and also HNB authentication,
HNB-GW discovery, HNB registration and UE registration over Iuh. The HNB
secures the communication to/from the SeGW.
**HNB GW:** The HNB GW serves the purpose of a RNC presenting itself to the CN
as a concentrator of HNB connections, i.e. the HNB-GW provides concentration
function for the control plane and provides concentration function for the
user plane. The HNB GW supports NAS Node Selection Function (NNSF).
**SeGW:** The Security Gateway is a mandatory logical function. It may be
implemented either as a separate physical entity or integrated into the HNB-
GW. The SeGW secures the communication from/to the HNB.
Editor\'s note: The security related functions of the HNB architecture are to
be addressed by SA3.
**CSG List Srv:** The CSG List Server is an optional function allowing the
network to update the allowed CSG lists on CSG-capable UEs.
#### 4.2.3.3 Reference points
**Uu:** Standard Uu interface between the UE and the HNB.
**Iuh:** Interface between the HNB and HNB GW. For the control plane, Iuh uses
HNBAP protocol to support HNB registration, UE registration and error handling
functions. For the user plane, Iuh support user plane transport bearer
handling.
**Iu-CS:** Standard Iu-CS interface between the HNB GW and the CS core
network.
**Iu-PS:** Standard Iu-PS interface between the HNB GW and the PS core
network.
**D:** Standard D interface between MSC/VLR and HLR/HSS.
**Gr:** Standard Gr interface between SGSN and HLR/HSS.
**C1:** Optional interface between the CSG List Srv and CSG-capable UEs. OTA
is used to update the allowed CSG list on a UE with a Rel-8 USIM. OMA DM is
used to update the Allowed CSG list on a UE with a pre-Rel-8 USIM.
#### 4.2.3.4 Functional split
Editor\'s note: This section contains a table of high level HNB access
function split between RAN and CN nodes.
Table 4.2.3.4-1: Home NB functional split
High-level Function | UICC | ME | HNB | HNB GW | SGSN | MSC/ VLR | HLR/ HSS | CSG List Server | Comments  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
HNB-GW Discovery |  |  | X |  |  |  |  |  | Determine the address of the Serving HNB-GW for a particular HNB.  
HNB Registration |  |  | X | X |  |  |  |  | HNB reports its HNB identity, location information, operating parameters to HNB GW.  
UE Registration for HNB |  |  | X | X |  |  |  |  | The UE Registration Function for HNB sets up the signalling context for the UE between HNB and HNB-GW and provides means for the HNB to convey UE identification data to the HNB-GW in order to perform access control for the UE in the HNB GW.  
Access control (for non-CSG capable UE) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
(NOTE 1) |  |  | X | X |  |  |  |  | This function is used to decide whether a non-CSG capable UE can access a HNB cell. This procedure is part of the UE registration procedure. Access control is based on the UE's IMSI.  
Access control (for CSG capable UE) |  |  |  |  | X | X |  |  | This function is used to decide whether a CSG capable UE can access a CSG cell.  
Time period control (Editor's note 1) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Control the period of time during which ( a temporary CSG user is allowed to camp on a CSG cell.  
CSG membership management (Editor's note 2) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | Add, remove and view the list of CSG members including the support of temporary CSG users  
Allowed CSG List management (for CSG UE) | X | X |  |  |  |  | X | X | Management of the list of allowed CSG identities (per subscriber)  
Manual CSG Selection | X | X |  |  | X | X | X |  | User manually selects a CSG. LAU/RAU shall be triggered after manual CSG selection to allow network perform CSG access control.  
Idle Mode Mobility | X | X |  |  | X | X | X |  | Cell selection/reselection to/from CSG cell. This may trigger LAU/RAU.  
Connected Mode mobility from HNB to Macro only (outbound) | X | X | X | X | X | X |  |  | Macro to macro mobility procedures (Non-CSG specific) are reused.  
Paging optimization |  |  |  | X |  |  |  |  | A mechanism for filtering paging messages in order to avoid paging distribution to HNBs/CSG cells where the UE is not registered  
Emergency Services |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
For non-CSG and CSG UE |  |  | X | X | X | X |  |  | Emergency calls for CSG and non-CSG members  
NAS Node Selection Function |  |  |  | X |  |  |  |  | NNSF allows the support of Iu-Flex  
Handling of connectionless SCCP messages |  |  | X | X | X | X |  |  | Connectionless SCCP messages sent by the HNB (e.g. Reset) need to be interworked to appropriate messages sent to the MSC/SGSN  
Re-mapping of transport addresses |  |  |  | X |  |  |  |  | If the user plane goes through the HNB GW (e.g. for Iu over ATM), interception of control plane message and re-mapping of the user plane addresses (TEID and IP address).  
NOTE 1: The support of this function in HNB is optional. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Editor\'s note: This function is still under consideration as an architectural
issue for Release 8.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether the description of this function is in the
scope of this TR. It is still under consideration as an architectural issue
for Release 8.
## 4.3 Home eNodeB architectural baseline and assumptions
### 4.3.1 Architectural requirements
Editor\'s note: The relevant Home eNodeB architecture requirements will be
based on the service requirements in latest release 8 version of TS 22.011.
Other architectural requirements may be derived from Release 8 work in other
groups.
Editor\'s note: Architectural requirements are expected to cover:
> \- distribution of functions on network nodes for Home eNodeB support.
>
> \- architecture support for discovery, security, authentication, and
> management processes related to Home eNodeB.
>
> \- architecture support for mobility and access control.
>
> \- Home eNodeB Installation, identification and location requirements.
>
> \- Home eNodeB backhaul efficiency.
>
> \- Emergency service support.
#### 4.3.1.1 Support for CSGs and Allowed CSG List handling
\- All Rel-8 onwards UEs supporting CSG functionality shall maintain a list of
allowed CSG identities. This list can be empty in case the UE does not belong
to any CSG.
\- Each cell of a HeNB may belong to, at maximum, one CSG. It shall be
possible for cells of a HeNB to belong to different CSGs and hence have
different CSG IDs.
NOTE 1: The limitation of a cell of a HeNB belonging to only one CSG is due to
limitation on the SIB-1 length, which allows for the name of only one CSG ID.
See TS 36.331 [5].
\- The Allowed CSG List shall be provided as part of the CSG subscriber\'s
subscription data to the MME.
NOTE 2: The assumption for release 8 is the Allowed CSG List is stored in the
HSS.
\- When a CSG subscriber group is updated, the affected UEs\' CSG subscription
data shall be updated in the HSS. And then the HSS pushes updated subscription
data to the MME.
\- The Allowed CSG List can be updated in the UE according to the result of
attach, TAU, service request and detach procedures or by application level
mechanisms such as OMA DM procedures.
\- If a release 8 UE is rejected to access a CSG cell with the reject cause
indicating it is not allowed to access a CSG cell, the UE shall remove the
corresponding CSG ID from its locally stored Allowed CSG List.
\- If a release 8 UE is accepted to access a CSG cell whose CSG ID is not
included in the UE\'s locally stored Allowed CSG List, the UE shall add
corresponding CSG ID into its locally stored Allowed CSG List.
#### 4.3.1.2 Access control
\- The MME shall perform access control for the UEs accessing through CSG
cells during attach, combined attach, detach, service request and TAU
procedures.
\- The UE shall be notified of the cause of rejection by the network if it is
not allowed to access a CSG cell.
\- When a CSG ID which is not included in the UE\'s Allowed CSG List is
manually selected by the user, a TAU procedure via the selected CSG cell shall
be triggered immediately by the UE to allow MME to perform CSG access control.
#### 4.3.1.3 Mobility management
\- There shall be no restriction on TAI assignment for E-UTRAN CSG cells,
i.e.:
\- It shall be possible that a normal cell (non-CSG cell) and a CSG cell can
share the same TAI or have different TAIs;
\- It shall be possible that CSG cells with different CSG ID can share the
same TAI or have different TAIs;
\- It shall be possible that CSG cells with the same CSG ID can share the same
TAI or have different TAIs.
\- The concept of TAI list applies also for CSG cells. The TAI list may
include TAIs related to CSG cells and TAIs related to non-CSG cells. The UE
does not differentiate these TAIs in the TAI list.
\- For the case of HeNB GW deployment, TAIs supported in the HeNB GW are the
aggregation of TAIs supported by the CSG cells under this HeNB GW.
### 4.3.2 Architecture model for Home eNodeB access network
Editor\'s note: Possible additional functions and reference points are FFS.
#### 4.3.2.1 Logical architecture
The Rel-8 baseline architecture variants are based on the Rel-8 RAN and CT
architecture and assumptions.
##### 4.3.2.1.1 Variant 1: With dedicated HeNB GW
Figure 4.3.2.1.1-1: Variant 1: With dedicated HeNB GW
NOTE 1: Communication between the HeNB and the HeNB GW is secured by a
mandatory Security Gateway (SeGW) function, which is not shown in the figure.
The SeGW may be implemented either as a separate physical entity or integrated
into the HeNB GW.
NOTE 2: The optional C1 (OMA DM/OTA) interface may be used to update allowed
CSG lists on CSG-capable UEs.
Editor\'s note: We have to decide whether the OAM nodes, OAM functions and
associated reference points e.g. HeMS (Home(e)NodeB Management System) will be
covered by this TR. Note that traditionally the OAM architecture is out of the
scope of SA2 specifications.
##### 4.3.2.1.2 Variant 2: Without HeNB GW
Figure 4.3.2.1.2-1: Variant 2: Without HeNB GW
NOTE: Communication between the HeNB and the MME/S-GW is secured by a
mandatory Security Gateway (SeGW) function, which is not shown in the figure.
##### 4.3.2.1.3 Variant 3: With HeNB GW for C-Plane
Figure 4.3.2.1.3-1: Variant 3: With HeNB GW for C-Plane
NOTE: Communication between the HeNB and the HeNB GW/S-GW is secured by a
mandatory Security Gateway (SeGW) function, which is not shown in the figure.
#### 4.3.2.2 Functional entities
**HeNB:** The functions supported by the HeNB shall be the same as those
supported by an eNB (with the possible exception of NNSF) and the procedures
run between a HeNB and the EPC shall be the same as those between an eNB and
the EPC. The HeNB secures the communication to/from the SeGW.
**HeNB GW:** HeNB GW serves as a concentrator for the C-Plane, specifically
the S1-MME interface. The HeNB GW may optionally terminate the user plane
towards the HeNB and towards the S-GW, and provide a relay function for
relaying User Plane data between the HeNB and the S-GW. The HeNB GW supports
NAS Node Selection Function (NNSF).
**SeGW:** The Security Gateway is a mandatory logical function. It may be
implemented either as a separate physical entity or co-located with an
existing entity. The SeGW secures the communication from/to the HeNB.
Editor\'s note: The security related functions of the HeNB architecture are to
be addressed by SA3.
**CSG List Srv:** The CSG List Server is an optional function allowing the
network to update the allowed CSG lists on CSG-capable UEs.
#### 4.3.2.3 Reference points
**LTE-Uu:** Standard LTE-Uu interface between the UE and the HeNB.
**S1-MME:** The S1-MME interface is defined between HeNB and MME if no HeNB GW
is used. If HeNB GW is present, it shall use standard S1-MME interface towards
both HeNB and MME.
**S1-U:** The S1-U data plane is defined between the HeNB, HeNB GW and the
Serving Gateway. The S1-U interface from the HeNB may be terminated at the
HeNB GW, or a direct logical U-Plane connection between HeNB and S-GW may be
used.
**S11:** Standard interface between MME and Serving GW.
**S6a:** Standard interface between MME and HSS.
**C1:** Optional interface between the CSG List Srv and CSG-capable UEs. OTA
is used to update the allowed CSG list on a UE with a Rel-8 USIM. OMA DM is
used to update the Allowed CSG list on a UE with a pre-Rel-8 USIM.
There is no X2 interface between HeNBs and between eNB and HeNB.
#### 4.3.2.4 High level functional split
Editor\'s note: This section contains a table of high level HNB access
function split between RAN and CN nodes.
Table 4.3.2.4-1: Home eNB functional split
+---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Hig | UICC | ME | HeNB | HeNB GW | MME | HLR/ | CSG | C | | h-level | | | | (NOTE | | | | omments | | F | | | | 1) | | HSS | List | | | unction | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Server | | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | HeNB-GW | | | X | | | | | De | | Di | | | | | | | | termine | | scovery | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | | Serving | | | | | | | | | | HeNB-GW | | | | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | | | | par | | | | | | | | | | ticular | | | | | | | | | | HeNB. | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Access | | | | | X | | | This | | control | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | unction | | | | | | | | | | is used | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | decide | | | | | | | | | | whether | | | | | | | | | | a UE | | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | | access | | | | | | | | | | a CSG | | | | | | | | | | cell. | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | S | | | X | X | X | | | This | | 1-SETUP | | | | | | | | pr | | between | | | | | | | | ocedure | | HeNB | | | | | | | | is used | | and MME | | | | | | | | to | | or HeNB | | | | | | | | es | | GW | | | | | | | | tablish | | | | | | | | | | S1 | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | | | HeNB | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | MME, or | | | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | | | HeNB | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | HeNB GW | | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | | HeNB GW | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | ployed. | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Time | | | | | | | | Control | | period | | | | | | | | the | | control | | | | | | | | period | | (Ed | | | | | | | | of time | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | during | | note 1) | | | | | | | | which a | | | | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | | | | mporary | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | user is | | | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | | | to camp | | | | | | | | | | on a | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | cell | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | CSG | | | | | | | | Add, | | mem | | | | | | | | remove | | bership | | | | | | | | and | | man | | | | | | | | view | | agement | | | | | | | | the | | (Ed | | | | | | | | list of | | itor\'s | | | | | | | | CSG | | note 2) | | | | | | | | members | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | cluding | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | | | | mporary | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | users | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Allowed | X | X | | | | X | X | Man | | CSG | | | | | | | | agement | | List | | | | | | | | of the | | man | | | | | | | | list of | | agement | | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | ide | | | | | | | | | | ntities | | | | | | | | | | (per | | | | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | | | | criber) | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Manual | X | X | | | X | X | | User | | CSG | | | | | | | | m | | Se | | | | | | | | anually | | lection | | | | | | | | selects | | | | | | | | | | a CSG. | | | | | | | | | | TAU | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | iggered | | | | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | | | | manual | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | lection | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | | | perform | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | access | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ontrol. | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Idle | X | X | | | X | X | | Cell | | Mode | | | | | | | | selecti | | M | | | | | | | | on/rese | | obility | | | | | | | | lection | | | | | | | | | | to/from | | | | | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | | trigger | | | | | | | | | | TAU. | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Co | X | X | X | | X | | | Macro | | nnected | | | | | | | | to | | Mode | | | | | | | | macro | | m | | | | | | | | m | | obility | | | | | | | | obility | | from | | | | | | | | pro | | HeNB to | | | | | | | | cedures | | Macro | | | | | | | | ( | | only | | | | | | | | Non-CSG | | (Ou | | | | | | | | sp | | tbound) | | | | | | | | ecific) | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | reused. | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Paging | | | | X | X | | | A | | optim | | | | | | | | me | | ization | | | | | | | | chanism | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | for | | 2) | | | | | | | | fi | | | | | | | | | | ltering | | | | | | | | | | paging | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | essages | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | order | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | avoid | | | | | | | | | | paging | | | | | | | | | | distr | | | | | | | | | | ibution | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | He | | | | | | | | | | NBs/CSG | | | | | | | | | | cells | | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | | | | reg | | | | | | | | | | istered | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | NAS | | | X | X | | | | NNSF | | Node | | | | | | | | allows | | Se | | | | | | | | the | | lection | | | | | | | | support | | F | | | | | | | | of | | unction | | | | | | | | S1-Flex | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | | | | | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | Re- | | | | X | | | | If the | | mapping | | | | | | | | user | | of | | | | | | | | plane | | tr | | | | | | | | goes | | ansport | | | | | | | | through | | ad | | | | | | | | the | | dresses | | | | | | | | HeNB | | | | | | | | | | GW, | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | ception | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | re- | | | | | | | | | | mapping | | | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | | dresses | | | | | | | | | | (TEID | | | | | | | | | | and IP | | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | | dress). | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | resence | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | HeNB GW | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | | tional. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | | | Paging | | | | | | | | | | optim | | | | | | | | | | isation | | | | | | | | | | in MME | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | HeNB-GW | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | | tional. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | | | There | | | | | | | | | | is no | | | | | | | | | | S1 Flex | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | unction | | | | | | | | | | (NNSF) | | | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | | | HeNB in | | | | | | | | | | case of | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | | | HeNB | | | | | | | | | | GW. | | | | | | | | | +---------+------+----+------+---------+-----+------+--------+---------+
Editor\'s note: This function is still under consideration as an architectural
issue for Release 8.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether the description of this function is in the
scope of this TR. It is still under consideration as an architectural issue
for Release 8.
# 5 Architectural requirements
NOTE: the requirements below are in addition to the requirements already
supported in Rel-8
## 5.1 General requirements
  * Rel-9 core network. should be backward compatible with Rel-8 UE.
### 5.1.1 Installation, identification and location requirements
The following requirements are from TS 22.220:
  * H(e)NB shall have a unique equipment identity.
\- All the H(e)NBs serving the same CSG share the same unique (within the
PLMN) identity called CSG Identity.
  * It shall be possible to support at least 125 million CSG Identities within a PLMN of an operator.
  * The impact of H(e)NB on the core network should be minimized.
### 5.1.2 CSG Membership Management
  * In closed or hybrid mode, it should be possible for the CSG manager to add, remove and list the CSG members. It should be possible to add subscribers from another operator with which the HNB/HeNB operator has a roaming agreement.
  * It shall be possible for the CSG manager and/or the operator operating the CSG cell to add/remove a roaming subscriber to a CSG without exchanging any CSG specific information with the HPLMN. In this case such CSG membership is acquired by the UE as a result of successful manual CSG selection.
  * For temporary CSG members it shall be possible for the CSG manager and/or the operator operating the CSG cell to limit the period of time during which the subscriber is considered a member of a CSG (granted access rights).
### 5.1.3 Mobility management
#### 5.1.3.1 Connected Mode
\- Handover to or from an open H(e)NB shall be supported.
> The requirements below apply to CSG cell in closed and hybrid mode:
\- Handover from GERAN or UTRAN or E-UTRAN non-CSG cell to a UTRAN or E-UTRAN
CSG cell shall be supported.
\- Handover from UTRAN or E-UTRAN CSG cell to a UTRAN or E-UTRAN CSG cell
shall be supported.
\- Handover from UTRAN or E-UTRAN CSG cell to GERAN/UTRAN/E-UTRAN non-CSG cell
shall be supported.
#### 5.1.3.2 Idle Mode
\- CSG Cell re-selection from UTRAN or E-UTRAN CSG cell to another UTRAN or
E-UTRAN CSG cell shall be supported
### 5.1.4 Charging Requirements
The following requirements are related to HeNB from TS 22.115:
\- It shall be possible to charge subscribers for consuming network services
via a CSG cell based on the following information:
\- CSG identity of the CSG cell
\- subscriber membership of the CSG
\- type of service consumed by the subscriber
\- addition to and deletion from a CSG
\- An operator shall be able to provide applicable tariffing information when
a subscriber is added to a CSG.
\- The network operator shall be able to charge both on-line and off-line for
subscribers consuming network services via a HNB/HeNB CSG cell.
### 5.1.5 Emergency Services Requirements
The following requirements are from TS 22.220:
\- H(e)NB shall support emergency calls for both CSG and non CSG members as
specified in TS 22.101 [4].
\- It shall be possible for the operator to provide location information of
the UE attempting an emergency call over a H(e)NB. The location information
shall be sufficiently accurate to comply with the regulatory requirements that
apply to the area where the H(e)NB is deployed.
### 5.1.6 QoS and Admission Control Requirements
The following requirements are from TS 22.220:
\- It shall be possible to provide information of the QoS treatment used for
H(e)NB traffic traversing the H(e)NB to the H(e)NB broadband access mechanism.
\- It shall be possible to perform admission control based on the available
H(e)NB backhaul resource.
\- It shall be possible for the network to set different criteria for access
control in a CSG cell for CSG and non-CSG members.
### 5.1.7 Local IP Access in Home-based Network Requirements
The following requirements are from TS 22.220:
\- It shall be possible that a H(e)NB supports Local IP Access to the home
based network in order to provide access for a directly connected (i.e. using
H(e)NB radio access), UE to other IP capable devices in the home. The
following requirements apply to support Local IP access:
\- Simultaneous access from a UE to both the operator\'s core network and
Local IP Access to the home based network shall be supported.
\- Access to local IP through the H(e)NB E-UTRAN/UTRAN-interface shall only be
granted to UE with valid subscription.
\- Pre-Rel-9 UEs should be able to use Local IP Access.
\- It shall not be precluded for a device in the home based network to contact
a UE via Local IP Access.
NOTE: Loss of access to Local IP Access is acceptable as a UE moves out of
H(e)NB coverage.
\- The operator or the H(e)NB Owner, within the limits set by the Operator,
shall be able to enable/disable Local IP Access to the home based network per
H(e)NB.
\- It shall be possible to collect and make available to the operator
statistics information (e.g. regular reporting of Local IP traffic volume) for
each user on the use of the Local IP Access to the home based network.
\- Local IP access to the home based network shall not compromise the security
of the operator networks.
### 5.1.8 Local IP Access to Internet Requirements
The following requirements are from TS 22.220:
\- It shall be possible to be done without traversing the operator network.
\- Simultaneous access from a UE to both the operator\'s core network and
Local IP Access to the Internet shall be supported.
\- The operator or the H(e)NB Owner, within the limits set by the operator,
shall be able to enable/disable Local IP Access to the Internet per H(e)NB.
\- It shall be possible to collect and make available to the operator
statistics information (e.g. regular reporting of Local IP traffic volume) for
each user on the use of the Local IP Access to the Internet.
\- Local IP access to the internet shall not compromise the security of the
operator networks.
NOTE: When a UE is using the Local IP Access to the Internet, it is assumed
that the H(e) NB does not provide any support to LI.
In addition, the following requirements shall be fulfilled:
\- Local IP access to the Internet shall support the following two scenarios:
\- Scenario 1: H(e)NB and backhaul are provided by the same operator.
\- Scenario 2: H(e)NB and backhaul are provided by different operators.
### 5.1.9 Managed Remote Access to home based network
The following requirements are from TS 22.220:
\- The H(e)NB may support remote access for a CSG member to the home based
network from a UE via a PLMN, in order to provide access to IP capable devices
connected to the home based network.
\- It shall be possible to restrict the access to the home based network on
per-subscriber basis (e.g. some subscribers may have managed access to their
home network and others may not).
## 5.2 Home NodeB specific requirements
### 5.2.1 Access control
\- Rel-8 SGSN/MSC stores the UE\'s Allowed CSG list and uses it to perform UE
access control if the CSG ID and access mode of the Home NodeB are forwarded
by the Home NodeB GW.
\- Home NodeB GW performs UE access control if the UE is not CSG capable or if
the SGSN/MSC is pre-Rel-8.
## 5.3 Home eNodeB specific requirements
### 5.3.1 General requirements
\- Impacts to core-network interfaces to HeNB subsystem (S1-U and S1-MME) will
be minimized.
### 5.3.2 Access control
\- MME stores the UE\'s allowed CSG list to perform UE access control.
\- CSG Id and access mode of the Home eNodeB shall be informed to the MME by
the Home eNodeB for UE access control.
### 5.3.3 Mobility management
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether there is any specific requirement in
addition to 5.1.2.
# 6 Architectural issues and solutions
Editor\'s note: This section will discuss solution alternatives for
architectural issues arising from (a) the service requirements for Home NodeBs
and Home eNodeBs as laid down by SA1 and (b) requirements listed in clause 5
of this document.
The section is subdivided into releases that architectural issues apply to.
Each architectural issue is structured as follows:
6.x.y Architectural Issue -- ABC
6.x.y.1 Description
6.x.y.2. Solutions
6.x.y.2.1 Solution 1
6.x.y.2.2 Solution 2
6.x.y.3. Evaluation
## 6.1 Release 8
### 6.1.1 void
### 6.1.2 Architectural issue - Needs for a master list of CSG IDs in VPLMN
#### 6.1.2.1 Description
To enable the H(e)NB owner to view the list of CSG members can be implemented
according to two different principles (it is FFS if any additional
alternatives exists) and also questions the overall requirement. It is assumed
that one or more intermediate entities exist, and they are here called node A
for simplicity:
Alt 1: The HeNB owner contacts node A each time a CSG member is added or
removed. Node A contacts the HSS of the CSG members to add or remove the CSG
Id. Node A stores a list containing necessary information for how to reach
each CSG members HSS. If the H(e)NB owner wants to view the list of CSG
members, the Node A can query each HSS in the list to retrieve CSG Id data.
Alt 2: The HeNB owner contacts node A each time a CSG member is added or
removed. Node A contacts the HSS of the CSG members to add or remove the CSG
Id, and Node A in addition stores the complete list of subscribers for this
CSG Id. If the H(e)NB owner wants to view the list of CSG members, Node A can
provide this information locally.
Alt 3: Is there a need for review by HNB owner, then no intermediate storage
needed. Also the HNB might keep the list.
#### 6.1.2.2 Solutions
##### 6.1.2.2.1 Solution 1
In this clause it is proposed that the procedure for viewing of permanent CSG
members is different from the procedure for viewing of temporary members.
For the permanent CSG members it is FFS whether the members could be added on-
the-fly. Given that any addition/deletion of a permanent CSG member requires
changes to the subscriber\'s profile in the HSS and in some cases it requires
inter-PLMN information exchange, it may be so that the permanent members are
best managed via formal communication in writing. For example, the following
steps may be necessary for addition of a new permanent CSG member:
\- the H(e)NB owner makes a written request to his PLMN (\"PLMN A\") for
addition of a visiting friend (\"Subscriber B\");
\- PLMN A then engages in a formal procedure with its roaming partner (\"PLMN
B\") who owns the subscription of Subscriber B;
\- after having received the consent from Subscriber B, PLMN B eventually
updates the Subscriber B\'s profile in the HSS of PLMN B;
\- following which PLMN A may also update the \"H(e)NB Data Base\" record of
the H(e)NB owner by adding the Subscriber B\'s identity as a new permanent CSG
member.
The \"H(e)NB Data Base\" record containing the permanent CSG members for a
specific CSG ID is stored in a H(e)NB Data Base owned by the PLMN operator who
operates the CSG. The Home(e)NB Data Base need not be collocated with the HSS
that stores the subscription profile of the H(e)NB owner.
The H(e)NB owner should be able to query the H(e)NB Data Base at any time via
a web-based interface that is outside of the 3GPP standardisation scope.
Regarding temporary CSG members, this clause assumes that temporary CSG
membership is handled at the network periphery as described in clause in
6.1.1.2.1. The \"Temporary CSG Member list\" is stored in the local CN node
(i.e. MME, MSC or SGSN) and the Access Provisioning Server in the H(e)NB is
involved in every dynamic membership update. Because of this, the list of
temporary CSG ID members can be stored locally at the H(e)NB and can be viewed
by making a local query to the Access Provisioning Server in the H(e)NB.
NOTE: In this solution there is no need for 3GPP standardisation of the
interface and/or the procedures used for viewing of either permanent or
temporary CSG members.
#### 6.1.2.3 Evaluation
### 6.1.3 Architectural issue - Identity used for CSG members (Rel-8?)
#### 6.1.3.1 Description
What identity shall the CSG manager use to identify mobile subscribers when
adding, removing or viewing the CSG members?
The CSG Manager uses these identities to complete administrative interaction
with the H(e)NB operator. These interactions will result in some form of O&M
procedure by the operator to either add or remove or view CSG membership to
the identified subscribers. This issue does not concern identities that will
be used by the core or radio access network.
Criteria for mobile subscriber identities for use by CSG Managers to
communicate with H(e)NB Operators:
\- comprehensible and easily produced by the CSG manager, who we cannot assume
has the skills of a network administrator.
\- recognizable and unambiguous to a mobile operator.
\- a value a mobile subscriber knows, or could know.
\- sufficient to identify not only the subscriber but also the subscriber\'s
mobile operator.
Alternative identities:
\- Alt A: IMSI is the most common identifier in the CN, but it can be
questioned if it shall be used from a confidentiality perspective.
\- Alt B: Another alternative is the MSISDN, which is well-known to each
subscriber. It probably requires a one to one mapping between IMSI and MSISDN,
which may not always be the case in all PLMNs.
\- Alt C: The Network Access Identifier (NAI) [RFC4282] could be used to
represent the user and home operator in an unambiguous fashion. An NAI has the
syntax of an email address, meaning it can be easily remembered, spoken and
entered using a keyboard by a third party. The NAI, if granted by the
subscriber\'s home operator, would be unambiguous and identify also the HPLMN.
\- Alt D: The UICC card associated with a subscription includes a serial
number that can be used to identify the subscription. The UICC card also
generally identifies the operator who issued it.
#### 6.1.3.2 Solutions
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Solution 1
It is left to the discretion of the H(e)NB operator which of the four
alternatives should be used. All four of the alternatives would suffice to
satisfy the four criteria.
Table 6.1.3.2.1-1: Solution 1
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Alternative | How to determine the | How these meet the | | | identity | criteria | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A) IMSI | Currently it is not | - An IMSI is a | | | apparent to a | serial number and | | | subscriber what the | therefore would be | | | IMSI associated with | relatively | | | their subscription | straightforward for | | | is. A new \"*#\" | a H(e)NB owner to | | | code could be | convey to the H(e)NB | | | standardized for MMI | operator. | | | to enable a | | | | subscriber to | - An IMSI | | | directly query their | unambiguously | | | device. | corresponds to a | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | | | - Currently an IMSI | | | | is not a value a | | | | subscriber knows, an | | | | additional mechanism | | | | would be needed to | | | | reveal it. | | | | | | | | - It is possible to | | | | infer the network | | | | operator from the | | | | IMSI | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | B) MSISDN | A subscriber will | - A MSISDN is | | | know their phone | easily comprehended | | | number or (for other | and conveyed. | | | devices such as data | | | | cards) can determine | - An MSIDN may be | | | this assigned number | used by several | | | as it is often | subscriptions, in a | | | assigned and could | multi-SIM device, | | | be included in owner | but in most cases | | | documentation. | there is a direct | | | | correspondence | | | | between a MSISDN and | | | | a subscription. | | | | | | | | - An MSISDN is a | | | | value that a | | | | subscriber knows or | | | | could determine. | | | | | | | | - It is possible to | | | | determine which | | | | operator an MSISDN | | | | corresponds to, but | | | | in most cases this | | | | is both possible and | | | | relatively | | | | straightforward. For | | | | example, the Enum | | | | standard, | | | | RFC 3761 [6], | | | | allows an MSISDN to | | | | be resolved to a | | | | particular URI by | | | | means of DNS. This | | | | could be leveraged | | | | to determine the | | | | operator. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | C) NAI | A subscriber could | - An NAI is easily | | | be assigned an NAI | comprehended and | | | value, and in many | conveyed. | | | cases the subscriber | | | | already has such a | - An NAI, if | | | value assigned (an | assigned, could | | | email address, for | unambiguously | | | example.) | identify a | | | | subscription and is | | | | currently used for | | | | this purpose (see | | | | RFC 4282 [7]). | | | | | | | | - An NAI is a value | | | | that the subscriber | | | | knows or could know. | | | | | | | | - It is possible to | | | | determine which | | | | operator an NAI | | | | corresponds to. The | | | | \'realm\' portion of | | | | the NAI identifies | | | | the operator (see | | | | RFC 4282 [7]). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | D) UICC serial | Examination of the | - A serial number | | number\ | UICC itself, for | and operator | | + some operator\ | example inside a | identification is | | identification | mobile device or | easily comprehended | | | consumer appliance. | and conveyed. | | | | | | | | - The UICC serial | | | | number will uniquely | | | | identify a | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | | | - If the UICC is | | | | physically | | | | accessible, the UICC | | | | serial number should | | | | be easy to | | | | determine. | | | | | | | | - It should be | | | | possible to identify | | | | the operator from | | | | the exterior of the | | | | UICC (e.g. branding | | | | information | | | | identifying the | | | | operator). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.1.3.3 Evaluation
An operator may choose one or more of the four alternatives outlined in
Solution 1. Each of these satisfies the criteria, though some considerations
are noted below. Taken together, these four alternatives satisfy the issue
Some considerations are worth noting regarding each of the alternatives.
(A) IMSI
The IMSI is not currently known to subscribers, a new mechanism to convey it
would be required.
Use of the IMSI by H(e)NB owners for administrative procedures could present
unacceptable security and confidentiality concerns. Use of the IMSI for
identification of subscribers _outside of signalling_ would require further
analysis by SA3.
(B) MSISDN
In some cases there may be no MSISDN assigned (e.g. some SIP phones).
A single MSISDN could be assigned to multiple subscriptions (e.g. a multi-SIM
device).
(C) NAI
Currently many subscribers do not have an NAI assigned to them.
(D) UICC serial number and operator identification
It may be difficult to physically access the UICC card.
The UICC card would have to include some form of operator identification (e.g.
branding information) in order to meet the criteria.
Additional considerations apply to the process by which the CSG manager
interacts with the H(e)NB operator:
A CSG Manager can only successfully add members who are subscribers of
operators who have roaming agreements with the H(e)NB Owner\'s operator. This
effectively restricts the range of potential H(e)NB Guests Users; some users
cannot obtain guest access to some H(e)NBs. For this reason, some identities
corresponding to mobile subscribers (that is, for potential invited guests)
may not be understood by all H(e)NB Operators.
The identity used for the guest user needs to be translated into an IMSI,
either by the H(e)NB Operator or by another operator with whom the H(e)NB
Operator has a roaming agreement. This translation must occur before the CSG
ID chosen by the CSG manager may be added to the guest user\'s subscription in
the guest user\'s operator\'s HSS. Some types of identity may not be easily
translated into an IMSI by the H(e)NB operator or other operators with whom
the H(e)NB operator has a roaming agreement. Therefore, successful
identification of subscribers by the CSG manager may require more than one
type of identity be supported for interaction between operators or even for a
given operator.
### 6.1.4 Architectural issue - Managing changes to CSG membership and
handling of CSG ID expiration time
#### 6.1.4.1 Description
The handling of the CSG ID expiration timer need to be defined, regarding what
functions that are to be performed in which nodes. In addition it is needed to
find a solution on how the synchronization is achieved between the UE and the
MME/SGSN/MSC, to avoid that the UE is camping on a CSG cell that the
MME/SGSN/MSC regards as not allowed for the UE. If the synchronization fails,
it will lead to that the UE cannot be reached by a page, since it is camping
on a CSG cell that MME/SGSN/MSC regards as not allowed for this UE.
Synchronization between UE and MME/SGSN/MSC is also needed in the case where a
CSG ID is removed from the HSS, or the expiration time is changed in HSS. The
assumption is that a solution covering the case of changed CSG data in HSS
also can be used for synchronization when a CSG ID timer expires.
#### 6.1.4.2 Solutions
##### 6.1.4.2.1 Solution 1
Since the expiration date for a CSG ID exists in HSS and MME/SGSN/MSC, it
seems needed that all entities handle the expiration date in some way.
Functionality in HSS:
\- The HSS must supervise the expiration dates of any CSG ID in the
subscription data, to be able to only send valid CSG IDs with corresponding
expiration dates (i.e. not expired ones) in subscription data to MME/SGSN/MSC
(e.g. in the existing Insert Subscriber Data message to SGSN). Otherwise the
result would be that the CSG list in HSS might grow over time, not allowing
new CSG IDs to be entered due to the maximum limit of 50 CSG IDs per
subscriber.
\- When a CSG ID expires, it implies that subscription data in HSS is changed.
It is proposed that HSS shall not inform MME/SGSN/MSC each time any CSG ID for
any subscriber expires. Another option is to let HSS supervise the timers, and
to update MME/SGSN/MSC each time a timer expires, but this seems to increase
the signalling from HSS to MME/SGSN/MSC and is therefore not preferred.
\- If a new CSG ID is added or removed in the subscribers CSG ID list in HSS,
or an expiration time is changed, it seems necessary to always send the
complete list of CSG IDs to MME/SGSN/MSC according to current CT WG4
specifications.
Functionality in MME/SGSN/MSC:
\- It is assumed that MME, SGSN and MSC have the same type of functionality
for timer expiration handling.
\- At any type of access control of a UE entering a CSG cell, the MME/SGSN/MSC
must check that the CSG ID of the CSG cell corresponds to a CSG ID in the
subscription data, and in addition that the expiration date hasn\'t passed.
\- If the MME/SGSN/MSC receives updated subscription data from HSS, it needs
to check whether any CGS ID is removed, or any expiration time is changed. No
action is required if one or several CSG ID are added.
\- If the expiration time for a CSG ID for an attached user expires, it seems
needed that MME/SGSN/MSC performs the following actions:
\- If the UE is in Idle mode, MME/SGSN/MSC pages the UE.
Editor\'s note: Paging UE in Idle mode needed or not is for further study.
\- There are three possible cases:
\- The UE is camped on the CSG ID that has expired. Solution: The page will
lead to the UE performing a Service Request. This Service Request can then be
rejected by the MME/SGSN/MSC with an appropriate cause code, indicating that
the CSG ID is not allowed. The UE will then remove this CSG ID from its list
of Allowed CSG IDs, and will move into macro coverage, or into another CSG
cell, depending on the content of its Allowed CSG ID list.
\- The UE is camped on another cell than the CSG cell with the CSG ID that has
expired. Solution: The MME/SGSN/MSC accepts the Service Request and informs
the UE of the expired CSG ID. It is FFS what mechanism to use to inform the UE
of the expired CSG ID.
\- The UE is not reachable. Solution: The MME/SGSN/MSC do not remove the
expired CSG ID, but marks it for removal. If there are incoming data for the
UE, it will be also paged in cells of these CSD IDs. The CSG ID is not removed
until the MME/SGSN/MSC can reach the UE and confirm that the UE has updated
its list. It is FFS how to handle the case when the UE attaches to another
MME/SGSN/MSC when it becomes reachable again.
\- If the UE is in Connected mode, there are two possible cases:
\- The UE is connected via the CSG cell of the expired CSG ID. Solution:
MME/SGSN/MSC performs an S1-release or Iu-release with an appropriate cause
code. This shall lead to the UE performing a TAU/RAU/LAU in macro-cell (or
another CSG cell) and removing the expired CSG ID from its list of Allowed CSG
IDs.
\- The UE is connected via another cell than the CSG cell of the expired CSG
ID. Solution: It is FFS how the UE is notified of the expiry of the CSG ID.
\- Note that the requirement for Rel-9 is to divert the traffic to a non-CSG
cell, which may require new procedures for network initiated handovers.
Disadvantages of placing the functionality in the UE:
\- It can be discussed whether the UE in addition also need to know the
expiration time. However, it does not seem possible to trust the UE to always
obey the expiration time, which means that MME/SGSN/MSC must supervise it
anyway. Therefore it would be duplicate functionality to require the UE to
also supervise the expiration time.
\- The UE does not get the expiration time according to existing
standardisation work in other bodies, and it is neither required by SA1. One
way to get the expiration time to the UE is to send it from the OMA DM server
in addition to the CSG IDs, but this do not cover the cases where operators do
not use OMA DM servers and rely on manual CSG ID addition. So in such cases
would MME/SGSN/MSC anyway need to supervise the expiration time, or to add new
procedures to convey the expiration time to the UE
\- The expiration time for a CSG ID is defined by CT4 to be an absolute time.
For a UE it doesn\'t seem trivial to precisely supervise that an absolute time
has expired, and in such cases would the MME/SGSN/MSC anyway need to supervise
it. An alternative is to add procedures to let the network convey absolute
time to the UE, but this will introduce additional complexity in the UE and
the network.
\- Since it is concluded above that MME/SGSN/MSC must supervise the expiration
time, an expiration time in the UE as well seems to cause race conditions and
unnecessary signalling, since both the MME/SGSN/MSC and the UE at probably the
same time tries to perform similar actions at CSG ID expiration.
\- Due to the above reasons it is proposed that the UE do not receive or
handle the expiration time for a CSG ID.
Functionality in other entities:
\- It is also possible for a potential CSG list server to inform the UE over
OMA DM of a changed list of allowed CSG IDs, caused by the expiration time for
a CSG ID.
#### 6.1.4.3 Evaluation
The following functionality is agreed for handling CSG membership changes for
permanent and temporary CSG members.
Current functionality defined for HSS:
\- The HSS sends the CSG subscription data including any potential expiration
time to the MME/SGSN/MSC.
\- If a CSG Id is added or removed in the CSG subscription data in the HSS, or
an expiration time is changed, then the HSS shall send the update to the
MME/SGSN/MSC.
Proposed additional functionality in HSS to handle changes in CSG membership:
\- If a CSG Id is to be removed from the CSG subscription data, or the CSG ID
is expired, then the HSS should remove the CSG ID from the HSS subscription
data after the CSG ID was removed from the UE list, e.g. by OMA DM or OTA
update, FFS how to accomplish when OMA DM or OTA are not deployed.
NOTE 1: It is FFS whether the other mechanisms besides OMA DM or OTA are
needed to reduce the amount of time a UE will be out of service at a CSG cell
when the subscriber has been removed from the CSG or the timer has expired.
\- The HSS shall not update the CSG subscription data in MME/SGSN/MSC because
of expiry of a CSG Id.
NOTE 2: This is just to reduce the amount of communication between the HSS and
the MME/SGSN/MSC and it is functionally not needed.
\- When the HSS stores CSG IDs with an expired time, these shall also be
included in the CSG subscription data sent to the MME/SGSN/MSC.
\- If a network uses paging optimisation Permanent CSG subscriptions should
get an appropriate expiration time in HSS when the CSG subscription is
cancelled. Subscription data in MME/SGSN/MSC are updated by the HSS because of
this change of the HSS CSG subscription data.
NOTE 3: Using the expiry time information in the CSG subscriber data makes it
possible to ensure that the MME that uses paging optimisation can page UEs
that still may camp on that CSG when the subscriber has been removed from the
CSG or the timer has expired. The CSG expiry time set to an expired value will
indicate that the UE has not updated its Allowed CSG list when the UE was
removed from a CSG or the CSG has expired for a temporary membership.
Current functionality defined for MME/SGSN/MSC:
\- The MME, SGSN and MSC shall supervise the expiration time of any CSG Id in
the subscription data, i.e., even if the UE knows the expiration time, the
MME, SGSN and MSC shall not rely on the UE\'s enforcement of the expiration
time for the CSG.
\- When a UE accesses a CSG cell, the MME/SGSN/MSC shall check that the CSG Id
of the CSG cell corresponds to a CSG Id in the CSG subscription data, and that
the expiration time (if present) is still valid.
\- In the event the UE accesses a closed CSG cell either due to being paged at
the CSG, initiating uplink data transfer, initiating a mobile originating call
or initiating a LAU/RAU/TAU procedure (e.g. triggered by an automatic or
manual reselection), if the CSG Id is not present in the CSG subscription data
or the timer has expired, then the MME/SGSN/MSC shall send a reject message
with the appropriate error code. The UE shall remove the entry for this CSG
from the Allowed CSG list.
NOTE 4: It is FFS whether the reject message with the appropriate error code
needs to be integrity protected
Proposed functionality in MME/SGSN/MSC to handle changes in CSG membership:
\- When a CSG subscription has expired, the entry for this CSG in the Allowed
CSG list of the UE may not yet have been removed, and the UE may be camped on
a CSG cell for that CSG in idle mode. In order to ensure a page reaches the UE
when paging optimisation is performed, the MME/SGSN/MSC shall page the UE at
all CSGs which are in the UE\'s CSG subscription data and that advertise a
TA/LA/RA where the UE may be camped on. This paging shall be performed
regardless whether CSG subscription(s) that are stored by MME/SGSN/MSC are
expired or not.
\- If an operator does not deploy OTA/OMA DM, paging optimization shall be
disabled (and the HSS should delete expired CSG Ids directly when they expire,
or are removed). FFS how to handle cases when home PLMN does not deploy
OTA/OMA DM but the visited PLMN does (e.g., potentially the visited PLMN could
disable paging optimisation for roamers).
\- In addition, if the UE is in Connected mode at a CSG cell and the CSG timer
expires or the CSG is removed from the subscription data, then the
MME/SGSN/MSC shall perform S1/Iu release procedure with appropriate cause.
NOTE 5: It is FFS whether the HNB/HeNB first attempts to perform a handover of
the UE to a suitable cell if a CSG timer expires or is removed. (See clause
6.3.2 for evaluation.)
NOTE 6: The S1/Iu release procedure will not cause the UE to update the
Allowed CSG list.
Functionality in other entities:
\- It is also possible for a potential CSG list server to inform the UE over
OMA DM or OTA of a changed list of allowed CSG Ids, caused by the
adding/removing/changing the expiration time for a CSG Id or by
adding/removing CSG IDs.
\- An OTA/OMA DM update shall overwrite the entire Allowed CSG list
\- In this case, the CSG list server shall indicate to the HSS (via an
unspecified interface) whenever the Allowed CSG list on the UE has been
updated via OMA DM or OTA, i.e., the HSS is aware which CSG Ids have been
updated in the Allowed CSG list. When the CSG list server indicates to the HSS
that a CSG ID is removed from UE list then the HSS removes that CSG ID from
the subscription data.
\- Only a successful OMA DM/OTA update shall remove the CSG Id from the HSS.
NOTE 7: The use of the NAS procedure at the MME/SGSN/MSC to remove a CSG ID
from UE list will not result in the CSG Id being removed from the CSG
subscription data at the HSS.
## 6.2 Release 8 and Release 9
### 6.2.1 Architectural issue - Network interface scalability
#### 6.2.1.1 Description
With the introduction of H(e)NBs, the core network elements (e.g. SGSN, GGSN,
MSC in UTRAN and MME, SGW in E-UTRAN) may now be required to handle a
significant number of associations with H(e)NBs. The increased number of
H(e)NBs may impact the number of SCTP associations and application layer
associations that need to be handled by the core network elements.
#### 6.2.1.2 Solutions
#### 6.2.1.3 Evaluation
### 6.2.2 Architectural issue - Paging optimization
#### 6.2.2.1 General
##### 6.2.2.1.1 Description
The support of paging optimization is still under discussion in Rel-8 for
Closed access mode H(e)NBs. Paging optimization may become even more important
with the introduction of Hybrid and Open access modes since there may now be
many more suitable cells on H(e)NBs where a UE may be paged.
##### 6.2.2.1.2 Solutions
##### 6.2.2.1.2.1 Solution 1 {#solution-1-3 .H6}
For two kinds of HeNB deployment architecture, the solutions of paging
optimization for closed mode HeNB are as follows:
\- HeNB directly connect to MME
The CSG id(s) and access mode of the HeNB can be transferred to MME when HeNB
initiates S1 set up procedure. If the configured CSG id(s) and access mode of
the HeNB are changed, HeNB could initiates eNB configuration update procedure
to update the configuration data stored in MME. MME can know the access mode
of HeNB and has the relationship between HeNB and CSG id(s). When MME
initiates paging procedure, it sends paging message to the close mode HeNBs
which have the TAI in the UE\'s TAI list and the CSG id in the UE\'s allowed
CSG list.
\- HeNB connect to MME via HeNB GW
In this case, CSG id(s) and access mode of HeNB does not need to be
transferred to MME when HeNB initiates S1 set up procedure. The HeNB GW which
acts as the concentrator of HeNBs could store the access mode and the
relationship between HeNB and CSG id(s), the HeNB GW can perform the paging
optimization. When MME initiates paging procedure, it provides the UE\'s
allowed CSG list in paging message and sends the message to HeNB GWs which
have the TAI in the UE\'s TAI list. The HeNB GW could forward the paging
message to appropriate closed mode HeNB.
When the HNB is deployed in the network, the paging optimization can use the
same mechanism above as when the HeNB connect to MME via HeNB GW case.
##### 6.2.2.1.3 Evaluation
#### 6.2.2.2 Sub-issue 1 - CSG Id list usage when HeNB Gateway is deployed
##### 6.2.2.2.1 Description
Paging is generally performed in the TA(s) that the UE has in its TA list.
Paging optimization can be performed by sending page messages only to the
HeNBs in the TAs supporting the CSG Ids that the UE being paged has in its
allowed CSG list. The node implementing paging optimization need to have
knowledge of the CSG Ids handled by a certain HeNB.
As defined in TS 36.413 version 8.4.0, CSG Id list is sent from the HeNB to
MME to inform the MME which CSG ID(s) is served by the Home eNB. MME can use
this information when deciding which HeNBs to send page messages to, and MME
performs the paging optimization.
If HeNB Gateway is deployed the following issue need to be handled:
\- If the HeNB Gateway shall transfer all CSG Ids, related to all Home eNBs
served by the Home eNB Gateway, to MME the defined maximum length (256) of the
CSG Id list is far too short.
##### 6.2.2.2.2 Solutions
##### 6.2.2.2.2.1 Solution 1 {#solution-1-4 .H6}
The CSG ID list size does not change from Rel-8. A solution is to keep the
list of CSG Ids in the HeNB Gateway and only transfer the TAIs served by the
HeNB Gateway to MME. This means that the HeNB Gateway performs the paging
optimization. Paging is then performed on tracking area level in the MME and
the HeNB Gateway selects which CSG to forward the paging to.
This means that the CSG Id List is not transferred in the S1 SETUP REQUEST or
in the ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE messages from HeNB Gateway to MME. The CSG Id
List is only transferred in the S1 SETUP REQUEST or in the ENB CONFIGURATION
from HeNB to HeNB Gateway.
##### 6.2.2.2.3 Evaluation sub-issue1
### 6.2.3 Architectural issue - Basic CSG access control
#### 6.2.3.1 Description
According to Rel-8 baseline, there are three cases for basic CSG access
control:
\- For non-CSG capable UEs accessing a HNB, access control is performed by the
HNB GW and optionally by the HNB based on subscription information configured
on HNB/HNB GW. CN nodes do not perform CSG access control in this case;
\- For CSG capable UEs accessing a HNB, CSG access control is performed by the
CN nodes;
\- For UEs accessing a HeNB, CSG access control is performed by the CN nodes.
In Rel-8, there is closed access mode HNB/HeNB.
\- Closed CSG cells only allow the UEs of corresponding CSG subscribers to
access. When a UE requests for access via a closed CSG cell, the network shall
perform CSG access control for this UE.
In Rel-9, there are two additional access modes of HNB/HeNB, i.e. open access
mode and hybrid access mode.
\- All UEs can access via an open cell. The network does not perform CSG
access control for the UEs accessing open cells of HNB/HeNB.
\- Hybrid CSG cells allow all UEs to access. This is same as open cells or
macro cells. If the network knows the access mode is hybrid, the network will
not perform CSG access control for the UE.
The following aspects should be addressed by all proposed solutions:
\- Besides the UE\'s CSG subscription data, what information is used by the CN
nodes to perform CSG access control and how the CN nodes get this information?
\- How does CN node know whether it needs to perform CSG access control for a
UE? Particularly in HNB case, whether
\- CSG access control is performed by both the SGSN and the MSC/VLR;
\- Or CSG access control is performed by either the SGSN or the MSC/VLR and
which CN node performs CSG access control.
#### 6.2.3.2 Solutions
##### 6.2.3.2.1 Solution1
**CSG access control regarding access mode:**
\- When a UE requests for access via a closed CSG cell, the network performs
CSG access control for this UE.
\- When a UE requests for access via an open cell or hybrid CSG cell, the
network does not perform CSG access control for the UE.
**In HNB case:**
For non-CSG capable UEs, the HNB GW and optionally the HNB performs CSG access
control based on subscription information (e.g. an allowed IMSI list of a
HNB/CSG).
For CSG capable UEs, the SGSN and the MSC/VLR perform CSG access control
independently when Iu connection is setup for the UE according to the implicit
indication by HNB GW.
The HNB GW implicitly indicates to the SGSN and the MSC/VLR whether they need
to perform CSG access control as follows:
\- For CSG capable UEs the HNB GW always accepts the registration request and
sends both the access mode and CSG ID to the SGSN/MSC/VLR when Iu connection
is setup for the UE. The SGSN/MSC/VLR performs CSG access control for the UE
based on received access mode and CSG ID information.
\- For non-CSG capable UEs, the HNB GW and optionally the HNB performs CSG
access control for the UE. If the UE is allowed to access this HNB, the HNB GW
accepts the registration request and sends only the CSG ID to the SGSN/MSC/VLR
when Iu connection is setup for the UE. Then the SGSN/MSC/VLR does not perform
CSG access control for the UE as the access mode parameter is not sent by the
HNB GW.
**In HeNB case:**
The MME always perform CSG access control for UEs accessing via a CSG cell. So
the access mode and CSG ID is sent to the MME by the HeNB (or by the HeNB GW
when deployed) during S1 connection is setup for the UE. The MME performs CSG
access control based on received access mode and CSG ID information.
**Advantages of this solution:**
\- Do not add additional parameter to indicate the CN node to perform access
control.
\- Consistent for CSG access control in CS only, PS only and CS&PS cases.
#### 6.2.3.3 Evaluation
### 6.2.4 Architectural issue - HNB support for legacy CN
#### 6.2.4.1 Description
As outlined in the current TS 25.467, access control for CSG capable UEs is
performed by the core network, and the HNB GW should always accept a CSG
capable UE\'s registration request and assign a context ID in the response.
There are three possible HNB deployment scenarios as following:
\- Use case 1: All the CN nodes which the HNB GW are connected to are release
8;
\- Use case 2: All the CN nodes which the HNB GW are connected to are legacy;
\- Use case 3: The CN nodes which the HNB GW are connected to include some
legacy CN nodes and some release 8 CN nodes.
If the HNB GW is connected to a pre-R8 core network, the legacy CN node is not
required to perform access control for CSG capable UEs. So in this scenario,
if the HNB GW/HNB does not perform CSG access control, a rogue UE announcing
it is CSG capable can access any HNB which is connected to a pre-R8 CN node.
#### 6.2.4.2 Solutions
##### 6.2.4.2.1 Solution1
The following solution is based on the reasonable assumption that the HNB GW
can be configured (e.g. via management system) with the version of the CN
nodes which the HNB GW is connected to.
If the CN node version information configured in the HNB GW indicates pre-R8
CN, the HNB GW performs access control for all UEs including CSG capable UEs
and non-CSG capable UEs.
NOTE: This also allows flexibility for operators to use the same access
control solution for CSG capable UEs as for non-CSG capable UEs by
configuration.
If the CN node version information configured in the HNB GW indicates mixed
pre-R8 and R8 CN, e.g. the SGSN is updated to R8 with CSG function, but the
MSC/VLR is still pre-R8. There are two possible alternatives:
\- Alternative 1: The HNB-GW selects a R8 CN node based on configured
information and the selected CN node performs access control for a CSG capable
UE.
\- Alternative 2: If the selected CN node is R8, the selected CN node performs
access control for a CSG capable UE; if the selected CN node is pre-R8, the
HNB GW performs access control for CSG capable UE.
If the CN node version information configured in the HNB GW indicates R8 CN,
the selected CN node performs access control for a CSG capable UE.
#### 6.2.4.3 Evaluation
## 6.3 Release 9
### 6.3.1 Architectural issue - Time period control
#### 6.3.1.1 Description
For temporary members, it shall be possible to limit the period of time during
which the subscriber is considered a member of a CSG (granted access
rights).It shall be possible to configure a time period for each temporary
member.
#### 6.3.1.2 Solutions
##### 6.3.1.2.1 Solution 1
CT WG4 has agreed that time period is a CSG-Subscription-Data stored in HSS,
which is described in TS 29.272. When the MME/SGSN/MSC receives CSG-
Subscription-Data from the HSS, the time period information is also sent to
the MME/SGSN/MSC.
Either the HSS or the MME/SGSN/MSC can perform a check on the expiry of the
time period during which a subscriber is granted access. However, considering
the critical role in the mobile network of the HSS, it is not advisable to use
the HSS to perform such check. Furthermore, in Release 8 it has been agreed
that the MME/SGSN/MSC is the entity where the access control function is
implemented. It is therefore natural to assume that the check on the time
period during which the subscriber is granted access is performed by the
MME/SGSN/MSC.
##### 6.3.1.2.2 Solution 2
TS 23.008 states that the Allowed CSG list sent by the HSS/HLR to the MME,
MSC/VLR and SGSN includes the expiry time.
It is proposed that the UE should be informed of the expiry time as follows:
\- **Allowed CSG list:** The expiry time should be included in the Allowed CSG
Management Object in OMA DM or OTA.
\- **User CSG list:** The expiry time should be included in the MME, MSC/VLR
and SGSN NAS signalling response to the Attach, Detach, Location Registration
procedures (LAU/RAU/TAU) since a UE may also add a CSG to the User CSG list
via manual CSG selection.
NOTE: For Rel-8 there is no User CSG list.
In addition it is proposed that the H(e)NB be informed of the expiry time for
a UE that accesses or performs a handover to the CSG cell
The MME, MSC/VLR and SGSN should remove the CSG entry once the membership time
has expired.
In both idle mode and connected mode the UE shall remove the CSG from the User
CSG list when the timer expires.
NOTE: If the UE has the CSG in the User CSG list then adding the expiry time
to the NAS procedures means that the MME, MSC/VLR and SGSN can safely delete
the CSG entry in the Allowed CSG list once the membership expires because the
UE will be aware that the membership has expired.
If the UE is in idle mode at a CSG cell for which the timer expires, the UE
shall reselect to another suitable cell.
The disadvantages of this solution are as follows:
\- UE impacts, i.e., the UE needs to keep an accurate time to delete entries
correctly
\- This solution does not solve the scenario for how to update the UE\'s CSG
list when the UE is a permanent CSG member and is removed from the CSG. Based
on the solution adopted for this case, the need for this solution will be
revisited.
#### 6.3.1.3 Evaluation
### 6.3.2 Architectural issue - Diversion of established communications
#### 6.3.2.1 Description
It shall be possible to divert established communications via a CSG cell to a
non-CSG cell. This procedure is applicable in the following cases:
\- in hybrid access mode, when services cannot be provided to a CSG member due
to a shortage of HNB/HeNB resources.
\- at the expiry of the time period for temporary CSG members.
#### 6.3.2.2 Solutions
##### 6.3.2.2.1 Solution 1
When the time period expires, the temporary member is no longer allowed to
access the operator\'s network via the current CSG cell. The temporary member
may however still be permitted to access the operator\'s network via a non-CSG
cell. In order to assure continuity of the established communications, when
the time period expires it shall be possible to invoke a handover procedure to
move the established communications to a permissible cell.
Similarly, for the hybrid access mode, it shall be possible to perform a
handover from the CSG cell in use by a non CSG member to a non-CSG cell.
##### 6.3.2.2.2 Solution 2
If the UE is in connected mode at the CSG cell for which the timer expires,
the following procedures are proposed:
\- The MME, MSC/VLR or SGSN should communicate the expiry time to the CSG cell
when the UE connects to that CSG cell
\- The CSG cell should try to handover the UE to a suitable cell before the
timer expires.
NOTE: In Rel-9 the CSG cell may also find a CSG cell for another suitable CSG
to handover the UE to as well.
\- If the CSG cell cannot handover the UE, then the MME shall perform a S1
Release procedure when the timer expires. An equivalent procedure may be
performed by the MSC/VLR or SGSN. In this case the UE will go to idle mode,
remove the CSG ID from the User CSG list if present and access at another
suitable cell if possible.
#### 6.3.2.3 Evaluation
##### 6.3.2.3.1 Diversion of established communications at the expiry of the
time period for temporary CSG members
If handover is used to divert communication from a CSG cell at the expiry of
the time period for temporary CSG members then the following functionality
applies:
Functionality in MME/SGSN/MSC at the expiry of the time period for temporary
CSG members:
\- The MME, SGSN and MSC shall send an S1/Iu release to the H(e)NB where the
UE is connected if the timer has expired for temporary CSG members at a closed
CSG cell.
Functionality in CSG cell in H(e)NB at the expiry of the time period for
temporary CSG members:
\- If the UE is in Connected mode at a CSG cell and the CSG cell receives an
S1/Iu release from the MME/SGSN/MSC that the CSG Id is expiring, then a closed
access CSG cell should try to handover the UE to a suitable cell before the
timer expires.
\- If handover is not possible then the CSG cell shall release the connection.
NOTE: Handover may not always be possible based on the surrounding coverage of
the CSG cell.
##### 6.3.2.3.2 Diversion of established communications from a hybrid CSG cell
when services cannot be provided to a CSG member due to a shortage of HNB/HeNB
resources
If handover is used to divert communication from a hybrid CSG cell when
services cannot be provided to a CSG member due to a shortage of HNB/HeNB
resources then the following functionality applies:
Functionality in MME/SGSN/MSC for Hybrid access mode H(e)NBs:
\- The MME, SGSN and MSC shall inform the H(e)NB whether the UE is a member of
the CSG for Hybrid access mode H(e)NBs.
Functionality in CSG cell in H(e)NB for Hybrid access mode H(e)NBs:
\- The H(e)NB may handover a UE that is not a member of the CSG to a suitable
cell due to a shortage of H(e)NB resources.
### 6.3.3 Architectural issue - Number limit
#### 6.3.3.1 Description
The network operator and/or the HeNB owner under the supervision of the
network operator shall be able to set a maximum limit to the number of UEs
with granted access to a given CSG cell. This limit is a static setting which
can only be changed/set during configuration or maintenance.
#### 6.3.3.2 Solutions
##### 6.3.3.2.1 Solution 1
Two scenarios need to be considered with regards to the number limit
requirement:
1\. The CSG consists of a single cell. In this scenario, the HeNB may perform
the number limit control. In the case where all the UEs access same
MME/SGSN/MSC via the HeNB, then the MME/SGSN/MSC may perform the number limit
control.
2\. The CSG consists of more than one HeNB. In this scenario, the HeNB can not
perform the number limit control for the CSG. In order for the MME/SGSN/MSC to
be able to perform the number limit control for the CSG, it is necessary that
all UEs in the CSG access the same MME/SGSN/MSC.
As the HeNB GW is an optional entity, (as agreed in architecture for HeNB
deployments in RAN3), the number limit control for CSG cannot be performed in
HeNB GW. Thus the control of maximum limit to the number of UEs with granted
access to the CSG needs to be performed in MME/SGSN/MSC.
#### 6.3.3.3 Evaluation
### 6.3.4 void
### 6.3.5 Architectural issue - Shared network aspects
#### 6.3.5.1 Description
If CSG-Id functionality shall be able to co-exist with shared networks or not,
and if it shall, what implications can it have on the architecture?
If so, whether and how a single HNB supports subscribers from multiple PLMNs
of the same country?: Since a CSG Id is unique per PLMN, and the CSG Id for a
certain PLMN is stored in the subscribers HSS for this PLMN, it is not obvious
how to treat a CSG Id for a PLMN if there is no HSS for this PLMN (and the
RAN-PLMN do not have a HSS in a shared network?). It needs to be studied how
the usage of CSG Id would work in a shared network scenario, since the RAN may
have a separate PLMN-id compared to the PLMN-Id of the CN. If a H(e)NB owner
adds a CSG member into its CSG list, it seems necessary to use the PLMN-Id for
the RAN, since the same RAN may be used by two different PLMN-Ids from a CN
perspective. However, there is no one-to-one relation between the PLMN-Id of
the shared RAN and a HSS, which is an issue when the H(e)NB owner shall add a
CSG member into a HSS.
#### 6.3.5.2 Solutions
#### 6.3.5.3 Evaluation
### 6.3.6 Architectural issue - In-bound H(e)NB handover support
#### 6.3.6.1 Description
In-bound connected mode handover to H(e)NB for a UE was not supported in Rel-8
due to time constraints but is a requirement for Rel-9 as stated in TS 22.220
[2]:
\- With the exception of GERAN to E-UTRAN handover, it shall be possible to
support service continuity when UE moves from a non-CSG cell to a CSG cell.
\- It shall be possible to support service continuity when UE moves from a CSG
cell to a non-CSG cell or another CSG cell.
Proper implementation of in-bound connected mode handover requires the
following issues to be resolved in the core network:
\- **Connected mode access control:** How to perform access control for an in-
bound handover to a H(e)NB when the H(e)NB is operating as a closed CSG cell,
i.e. to ensure the UE is performing handover to a suitable CSG cell.
\- **Various access mode supported:** How to perform access control correctly
when H(e)NB is operating as a hybrid/open CSG cell, i.e. to ensure the UE is
performing handover to a suitable CSG cell.
\- **How to route S1AP message to target HeNB GW/HeNB:** how to let MME route
S1AP message to target HeNB GW/HeNB for an Inbound handover to a H(e)NB.
Editor\'s note: RAN solution for in-bound handover to CSG cells has not been
decided yet.
#### 6.3.6.2 Solutions
##### 6.3.6.2.1 Solution 1: Including the Allowed CSG list in the _Handover
Restriction List_ IE
As currently defined, the _Handover Restriction List_ IE is included in
various S1-AP and X2-AP messages such as INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST and
HANDOVER REQUEST, and it is used by the source eNB to determine a target cell
based on equivalent PLMNs and forbidden TA/LAs for the UE.
To support in-bound connected mode handover, it is proposed to expand the
_Handover Restriction List_ IE to also include the Allowed CSG list of the UE.
This allows the source eNB to use this information to determine if a target
CSG cell is suitable for handover.
NOTE 1: It is a fundamental requirement for network controlled handover for
the source eNB to know the target (H)eNB\'s identity and certain other
parameters in order to prepare the target cell for handover. TS36.300 sec
22.3.3 and 22.3.4 describes the method by which the source eNB automatically
discovers any neighbouring target cells via the Automatic Neighbour Relation
(ANR) Function using UE measurement reports. In addition O&M in TS 32.511
manages which cells the eNB may establish neighbour relations with, i.e., O&M
may limit the cells that the source eNB may perform a handover with. In ANR,
the UE reports the global Cell ID, tracking area code and all PLMN IDs that
have been detected. By extending the ANR in Rel-9 to support in bound handover
to HeNBs, the UE may also report the access mode (closed/hybrid/open) and the
CSG ID. The source eNB will then have all the information needed to determine
if the target CSG cell is suitable for handover.
NOTE 2: This solution is based on an assumption that ANR Function is extended
to let the UE reports the access mode and the CSG ID to the source eNB. But
this assumption has not been agreed by RAN and other alternatives remain
possible.
The advantages of this approach include:
\- Allows the source eNB to efficiently determine whether a target cell is
suitable for handover without any extra messages.
\- In the case a target cell is a hybrid access mode HeNB, the source eNB
would know whether the UE belongs to the CSG and hence may prefer handover of
the UE to the target cell.
\- No changes to any of the existing handover procedures.
\- Forward compatible for instance if the X2 interface is included in Rel-9 or
later HeNB implementations.
NOTE 3: Any method that requires the MME to perform the check to determine if
the target cell has a CSG ID in the UE\'s Allowed CSG list will (a) require an
extra handshake in order to perform X2 based handover and (b) requires the MME
to perform this check for S1 based handover when the source eNB sends a
HANDOVER REQUIRED message which may mean a greater processing at the MME and
extra delay when the source eNB requests a handover to a non-suitable CSG
cell.
##### 6.3.6.2.2 Solution 2: CSG Access control in the Core Network with
support from the source RAN node
In this solution the Core Network elements (MME/SGSN/MSC) performs the access
control during the in-bound handover to HNB/HeNB. The Source NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB
sends the target CSG ID and access control mode of the target HNB/HeNB to the
Core Network in the handover request, and the Core Network performs access
control based on the UE allowed CSG list as the same as the normal attach
procedure. If the access control fails the Core Network shall return an error
cause to the source NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB to indicate the reason why the handover
failed (e.g. the target CSG id is not in the UE allowed CSG list). The source
NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB may select another target cell and send handover request
again.
##### 6.3.6.2.3 Solution 3: CSG Access control in the Core Network with
support from the target RAN node
For this solution we assume the following:
\- As the Core Network node (MME/SGSN/MSC) performs CSG access control during
in-bound handover. The NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB does not need to perform CSG access
control thus the Allowed CSG List is not needed to be transferred to
NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB.
\- The source NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB does not have the neighbour CSG cells\'
configuration.
\- CSG ID and access mode provided by the UE via the source NB/eNB/HNB/HeNB
can not be trusted.
When the Core Network node (MME/SGSN/MSC) receives message from source RAN
node indicating handover is required, the CN node gets the CSG ID and access
mode of the target cell directly from the target HNB/HeNB/HNB GW/HeNB GW. Then
the CN node performs the access control during the in-bound handover to
HNB/HeNB.
NOTE: The CN node can use current handover preparation procedure to get the
information from the target HNB/HeNB. Or a new pair of messages can be defined
to get the information from the target HNB/HeNB.
The advantages of this approach include:
\- No impact or requirement for access control either on the behaviour of
source RAN node or on the behaviour of the UE.
\- The CSG ID and access control mode of the target cell are validated by the
target HNB/HeNB. Thus this solution mitigates the risk for the UE to hand off
on a CSG cell for which the UE is not allowed.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how to perform access control if the MME/SGSN/MSC is
relocated during the handover procedure.
#### 6.3.6.3 Evaluation
### 6.3.7 Architectural issue - Open and hybrid access mode H(e)NB support
#### 6.3.7.1 Description
There are three modes for H(e)NBs for Rel-9, namely:
**\- Closed access mode:** H(e)NB operates as a CSG cell.
**\- Hybrid access mode: H(e)NB operates as a CSG cell where at the same time,
non-CSG members are allowed ac** cess.
**\- Open access mode:** H(e)NB operates as a normal cell, i.e. non-CSG cell.
There are four main issues related to support of hybrid mode:
\- management of the UE\'s Allowed CSG list
\- preferred resource allocation for CSG members by H(e)NBs that operate in
hybrid mode.
\- indicating the access mode to other network entities
\- diversion of established communication for a non-CSG member when services
cannot be provided to a CSG member due to a shortage of HNB/HeNB resources
#### 6.3.7.2 Sub-issues
##### 6.3.7.2.1 Sub-Issue 1 - Management of the UE\'s Allowed CSG list
##### 6.3.7.2.1.1 Description {#description-14 .H6}
The following requirements related to hybrid CSG cells have been agreed by SA
WG1:
\- Manual and automatic CSG selection applies to Hybrid access mode H(e)NBs.
\- Upon registration the network shall indicate whether the UE is a member of
the CSG. If the UE is a member of the CSG, the UE shall add the CSG identity
to the User CSG list, unless that identity is already present in the list.
The management of the UE\'s allowed CSG list for closed mode uses an implicit
indication of CSG membership with every mobility management transaction
between UE and network. Access to hybrid mode H(e)NBs is allowed for every
UE/user. Therefore compared to closed mode CSG list management existing
mobility management procedures cannot implicitly provide additional
functionality about CSG membership when hybrid mode is used according to the
stage 1 requirements.
##### 6.3.7.2.1.2 Solutions {#solutions-13 .H6}
##### 6.3.7.2.1.2.1 Solution 1: Manual CSG selection and UE Allowed CSG list
management {#solution-1-manual-csg-selection-and-ue-allowed-csg-list-
management .H6}
For open access mode, the H(e)NB is not a CSG cell, so there is no impact on
CSG list management.
For hybrid access mode, we propose to define a new accept cause value to
indicate whether the UE is a member of the CSG advertised by the hybrid cell
for attach and location area updating procedures (LAU/RAU/TAU). The MME,
MSC/VLR or SGSN includes the accept cause in the NAS signalling response to
indicate that the UE is a member of a CSG cell. The UE then updates the User
CSG list based on the specified accept cause value if it is not already
present in the CSG list.
Editor\'s note: It is FFS whether a UE\'s knowledge that it is a member of a
CSG impacts any UE behaviour, and therefore whether this new cause value is
needed.
##### 6.3.7.2.1.2.2 Solution 2: UE Allowed CSG list management by OTA/OMA DM
{#solution-2-ue-allowed-csg-list-management-by-otaoma-dm .H6}
It is proposed to add any CSG IDs of hybrid mode cells to the UE list of
allowed CSGs only by OTA/OMA DM. The acceptance of mobility management
procedures (Attach, LAU, RAU, TAU) does not add any CSG ID to the UE\'s
allowed CSG list when these procedures are performed via a CSG cell that
indicates hybrid mode. If the network rejects a mobility management procedure
in a hybrid mode CSG cell with a CSG related cause value the CSG ID is removed
from the UE list of allowed CSGs.
It may be considered as a drawback that a CSG member\'s UE, until its allowed
CSG list is updated by OTA/OMA DM, will not perform the preferential selection
of that CSG. As a non-member the UE is able to select that cell automatically
because any UE gets access to a hybrid mode cell.
The advantage of this solution is that hybrid mode CSG support can be
introduced without upgrading the large number of cases of successful mobility
management signalling scenarios between UE and network for differentiating
whether it is CSG related or not.
##### 6.3.7.2.1.3 Evaluation {#evaluation-12 .H6}
Two solutions are proposed for this issue. To simplify the implementation,
solution 2 is adopted. It means that adding a CSG ID of hybrid mode cells to
the UE\'s local Allowed CSG List is performed only by OTA/OMA DM.
##### 6.3.7.2.2 Sub-Issue 2 - Admission control and rate control for hybrid
access mode
##### 6.3.7.2.2.1 Description {#description-15 .H6}
If a HNB/HeNB operates in hybrid access mode, to minimise the impact on CSG
members of communications established by non-CSG members, it shall be possible
for the network to reduce the data rate of established PS communication of
non-CSG members. It shall also be possible for the network to follow different
admission control policies for CSG and non-CSG members.
The preferred resource allocation for CSG members by hybrid mode H(e)NBs does
not require any enhancements of the signalling between UE and network. The
mobility management procedures are not affected by it.
##### 6.3.7.2.2.2 Solutions {#solutions-14 .H6}
##### 6.3.7.2.2.2.1 Solution 1 {#solution-1-8 .H6}
As CSG related access control are performed in MME/SGSN/MSC, it is appropriate
for the MME/SGSN/MSC to use different admission control thresholds for CSG and
non-CSG members when the CSG operates in hybrid mode and to be capable of
reducing data rate of PS communication established by non-CSG members.
##### 6.3.7.2.2.2.2 Solution 2 {#solution-2-2 .H6}
When the UE context is established in the H(e)NB, the MME, SGSN or MSC
provides an indication to the H(e)NB whether the UE is a CSG member or not.
Based on this information the H(e)NB performs differentiated admission control
and rate control for CSG and non-CSG members.
Any additional information for differentiated handling of CSG and non-CSG
members (i.e. admission thresholds and AMBR-like thresholds for non-CSG
members) is configured locally in the H(e)NB per operator policy.
In case of changes of the CSG membership status (e.g. expiry of temporary CSG
membership), it should be possible for the Core Network node to convey this
change to the H(e)NB dynamically.
##### 6.3.7.2.2.3 Evaluation {#evaluation-13 .H6}
Two solutions are proposed for this issue. Solution 1 requires MME/SGSN/MSC to
support additional admission control function and will cause frequent
signalling on Iu/S1 interface. Thus solution 2 is adopted for the admission
control issue for hybrid access mode H(e)NB.
##### 6.3.7.2.3 Sub-Issue 3 - Indicating the access mode to other network
entities
##### 6.3.7.2.3.1 Description {#description-16 .H6}
Network entities use the CSG ID of the CSG cell to perform operations like
access control at a CSG cell. The network entity performing these operations
are already required to know the CSG ID of the H(e)NB to function correctly.
What needs to be understood is how the access mode is also communicated to
these entities?
##### 6.3.7.2.3.2 Solutions {#solutions-15 .H6}
##### 6.3.7.2.3.2.1 Solution 1: Indicating the access mode to other network
entities {#solution-1-indicating-the-access-mode-to-other-network-entities
.H6}
Network entities use the CSG ID of the CSG cell to perform operations like
access control and paging optimization for the CSG cell. The network entity
performing these operations is already required to know the CSG ID of the
H(e)NB to function correctly.
If the access mode (closed/hybrid/open) is communicated along with the CSG ID,
then the network entity will know how to treat the H(e)NB appropriately. A
H(e)NB in open access mode does not have a CSG ID and only needs to
communicate the access mode.
For example, for performing access control, the network entity will know
whether to check if the CSG ID of the H(e)NB is in the UE\'s subscription data
based on the reported mode of the H(e)NB. For closed mode the network entity
needs to perform access control based on the CSG ID, while for open or hybrid
access mode this check is not needed.
H(e)NB adds the H(e)NB access mode together with the CSG ID of the current CSG
cell in RANAP/S1-AP signalling when UE initiates NAS message to access the
network. The network entity uses these parameters to perform access control.
HNB registration procedure is used to report the CSG ID(s) and the access mode
of HNB to the HNB GW for paging optimization. Depending on whether HeNB GW is
deployed, S1 setup procedure reports the CSG ID(s) and the access mode of HeNB
to HeNB GW or the network entity for paging optimization.
NOTE: The details of indicating CSG ID and access mode of H(e)NB to network
entity only cover solution 1.
##### 6.3.7.2.3.3 Evaluation {#evaluation-14 .H6}
As the R8 H(e)NB, which is in closed access mode, only reports its CSG ID to
the core network, no access mode parameter is defined in R8, the core network
shall regard the H(e)NB as closed access mode when the CSG ID is received
without the access mode parameter.
When the access mode parameter is received along with the CSG ID, the network
shall treat the H(e)NB according to the received access mode.
##### 6.3.7.2.4 Sub-Issue 4 - Diversion of established communication for a
non-CSG member
See section 6.3.2 for description, solutions and evaluation.
#### 6.3.7.3 Evaluation
See clause 6.3.7.2.1.3, clause 6.3.7.2.2.3, clause 6.3.7.2.3.3,clause 6.3.2.3
for the evaluation of Allowed CSG List management, admission control, access
mode and diversion sub-issues.
### 6.3.8 Architectural issue -- CSG membership management (Rel-9?)
#### 6.3.8.1 Description
TS 22.011, clause 8.3.1 contains the following requirement:
\"_The owner of the HeNB or HNB shall be able, under the PLMN operator
supervision, to add, remove and view the list of CSG members. The consent of
the invited member or guest shall be obtained before being added to the
subscriber group._ \"
It seems less attractive to let the H(e)NB owner directly contact an HSS to
add, remove and view the list of CSG members, and therefore it seems required
to have one or more intermediate entities between the H(e)NB owner and an HSS.
If these entities, or any interfaces towards these entities, need to be
specified by 3GPP is FFS. It can be noted that the interface between the
H(e)NB owner in VPLMN and the HSS of the temporary guests HPLMN is an inter-
PLMN interface, which seems to exclude proprietary solutions.
Issue: Shall any entity, or interface, used by the H(e)NB owner to add, remove
and view the list of CSG members be specified by 3GPP, including interfaces to
HSS?
#### 6.3.8.2 Solutions
#### 6.3.8.3 Evaluation
### 6.3.9 Support for Local IP Access
#### 6.3.9.1 Description
This clause addresses the architecture issues related to support for Local IP
Access (LIPA) to the home based network and to the Internet.
The requirements for support of LIPA to the home based network and to the
Internet are defined in clause 5.1.7 and clause 5.1.8, respectively.
#### 6.3.9.2 Solutions
##### 6.3.9.2.1 Solutions covering both LIPA to the Internet and to the home-
based network
##### 6.3.9.2.1.1 Solution 1: Local IP Access solution based on traffic
breakout performed within H(e)NB using a local PDN connection
{#solution-1-local-ip-access-solution-based-on-traffic-breakout-performed-
within-henb-using-a-local-pdn-connection .H6}
##### 6.3.9.2.1.1.1 Architectural principles {#architectural-principles .H6}
Common principles applying to both UMTS and EPS:
\- Two PDN connections are assumed for simultaneous LIPA traffic and non-LIPA
traffic.
\- Pre-Rel-9 UEs that support Multiple PDN connections can simultaneously
access LIPA and non-LIPA PDN connections.
\- For LIPA traffic a Local P-GW function or Local GGSN function for EPS and
UMTS, respectively is located within the H(e)NB.
\- For non-LIPA traffic, P-GW/GGSN is located within the core network.
\- Local IP access PDN can be identified by a well-defined APN.
\- Mobility management signalling between UE and network is handled in the
core network.
\- Session management signalling (Bearer setup, etc.) for non-LIPA traffic
terminates in the core network.
\- Before LIPA PDN connection is established, the UE is authenticated,
authorized and registered by the core network.
Additional principles applying to UMTS only:
Additional principles applying to EPS only:
\- LIPA session management (LIPA PDN Connectivity establishment, Bearer
management, etc.) is performed in the core network.
##### 6.3.9.2.1.1.2 Open architectural issues {#open-architectural-issues .H6}
This section lists the open architectural issues, which have been identified
for this solution.
NOTE: Whether further open issues exist is FFS.
Common open issues applying to both UMTS and EPS:
\- Whether the H(e)NB provides Legal Intercept (LI) functionality.
\- Whether and how to assist the backhaul operator to perform legal intercept
(e.g., by making core network aware of IP address assigned to LIPA PDN
connection).
\- Whether Mobility (to macro-network and another H(e)NB) is
supported/required for LIPA traffic.
\- Whether QoS for LIPA traffic is based on static policies (no Gx to H(e)NB).
Open issues applying to UMTS only:
\- Location of LIPA session management.
Open issues applying to EPS (LTE and S4-based UMTS) only:
\- Location, number and possible subset of S-GW functions (two S-GWs (in HeNB
and core network) vs. one S-GW with relocation).
\- S11 interface to the HeNB to manage bearer setup for LIPA.
##### 6.3.9.2.1.2 Solution 2 -- Single UE IP address with LIPA at H(e)NB
{#solution-2-single-ue-ip-address-with-lipa-at-henb .H6}
##### 6.3.9.2.1.2.1 Architectural principles {#architectural-principles-1 .H6}
\- UEs are only required to activate one PDN connection for LIPA and Non-LIPA
traffic.
\- H(e)NB has the ability to drag/insert the LIPA traffic from/into PDP
context/bearers based on destination address.
\- There is a NAT inside H(e)NB to ensure returning LIPA traffic reaches
H(e)NB despite topologically incorrect source address.
\- Pre-Rel9 UEs that support single PDN connections can simultaneously access
LIPA and Non-LIPA.
##### 6.3.9.2.1.2.2 Open Issues {#open-issues .H6}
For this solution, the only requirements are NAT and routing functionalities
for the H(e)NB. The solution has the following issues as FFS:
\- How to provide Internet service continuity when a UE hands over to a macro
cell is FFS, if this function is required.
\- It is FFS if the LIPA function needs to support NAT traversal for other
home applications.
\- It is FFS on addressing the possibility that the private IPv4 address of
the home IP devices conflict with operator\'s services which using private
IPv4 addresses.
\- Whether it is necessary or not and how to block access to Local IP access
for non-CSG users at a hybrid H(e)NB is FFS.
\- It is FFS whether paging the UE from the H(e)NB requires a S-GW function to
reside in the H(e)NB.
\- How to do IPv6 prefix translation (NAT66) is FFS.
\- How does the routing policy configured in the H(e)NB work for roaming CSG
members, given that the H(e)NB does not know whether the destination address
belongs to the IP services network of the roaming CSG member\'s HPLMN. How
does the home operator enforce its routing policy?
#### 6.3.9.3 Evaluation
### 6.3.10 void
### 6.3.11 Architectural issue - Support of Emergency Services
#### 6.3.11.1 Description
For the UE access network via CSG, if the UE indicates to access network for
emergency calls or handover for emergency call, CSG access control restriction
shall be removed.
#### 6.3.11.2 Solutions
##### 6.3.11.2.1 Solution 1
If the CSG ID of the H(e)NB is not in the UE Allowed CSG List and UE camp on
this H(e)NB, UE is in the limited service state. In that case besides the
normal emergency process,
\- When Emergency Attach Request is received, the MME/SGSN shall not reject it
due to CSG access control restriction.
\- When Emergency Service Request is received, the MME/SGSN/MSC shall not
reject it due to CSG access control restriction.
\- When Emergency PDN connection Request is received, MME/SGSN shall not
reject it due to CSG access control restriction.
\- When UE have emergency bearer services and TAU/RAU is triggered, MME/SGSN
shall not reject it due to CSG access control restriction.
It is FFS how to support emergency service handover if the target H(e)NB CSG
ID is not on the UE allowed CSG list.
#### 6.3.11.3 Evaluation
## 6.4 Release 10
### 6.4.1 Architectural issue - Storage of CSG ID for temporary & roaming CSG
members
#### 6.4.1.1 Description
The conclusion of the CT WG4 Rel-8 work is that all allowed CSG Ids for a
certain subscriber are stored in the HSS of the subscribers HPLMN. The storing
of a CSG Id announced by a H(e)NB in VPLMN, requires that the HPLMN of the
subscriber has a roaming agreement with the VPLMN, and that the HPLMN supports
storing of CSG Id from a VPLMN.
Another conclusion is that a certain CSG Id may be found in more than one HSS,
since a H(e)NB owner in one PLMN may invite persons from several PLMNs to use
the CSG Id announced by the H(e)NB.
The following definitions apply to CSG members:
**Temporary CSG Member** : A member of a CSG for which there is an associated
expiration time. When the time period expires, the CSG shall no longer be
considered to be available to provide services, except for emergency calls.
**Permanent CSG Member:** A member of a CSG for which there is no associated
expiration time.
**Home CSG Member:** A member of a CSG where the CSG is associated with the
HPLMN. A Home CSG Member may be a Temporary CSG Member or a Permanent CSG
Member.
**Roaming CSG Member:** A member of a CSG where the CSG is associated with a
VPLMN. A Roaming CSG Member may be a Temporary CSG Member or a Permanent CSG
Member.
Permanent and temporary CSG members may have their CSG IDs stored in HSS
subscription data as defined in TS 29.272. A user\'s subscription has separate
CSG ID lists for every PLMN where the user has CSG memberships.
The above implies two different types of CSG members, (Roaming and Home CSG
members).
It may cause excessive load for the HSS to handle temporary CSG memberships,
especially for short lived membership. For this reason, investigation for
appropriate solution is needed. Additional consideration is also required for
roaming scenarios.
Editor\'s Note: There needs to be further clarification whether there are two
types of Temporary CSG members based on whether the member is stored as
subscriber data in the HSS.
#### 6.4.1.2 Solutions
##### 6.4.1.2.1 Solution 1: Storage of CSG ID for temporary CSG members
A temporary CSG member can be either in non-roaming or roaming situation,
depending on whether his PLMN is the same or different with the PLMN to which
the H(e)NB connects. Therefore, the term \"temporary CSG members\" in this
clause applies to both non-roaming and roaming CSG members.
Whereas permanent CSG members have their CSG IDs stored in the HSS (a separate
\'Allowed CSG ID list\' for every PLMN where the user has CSG memberships),
this solution assumes that the information relative to the temporary CSG
members is stored in the MME/MSC/SGSN (or MME/MSC/SGSN pool) to which the
H(e)NB connects.
The information relative to temporary CSG members is stored in a CSG ID-
specific context in the CN node (i.e. MME, MSC or SGSN) and is referred to as
the \"Temporary CSG Member list\".
The \"Temporary CSG Member list\" is maintained in the CN node even when the
latter contains no UE-specific context for a temporary CSG member.
The access control in the CN node is performed in two steps:
1) the CN node checks whether the CSG ID of the H(e)NB is contained in the
\"Allowed CSG ID list\" fetched from the HSS;
2) if the previous step fails, the CN node checks whether the user identity is
contained in the \"Temporary CSG Member list\" stored in the CSG ID-specific
context.
The H(e)NB owner is able to add or delete specific user IDs to/from the
\'Temporary CSG Member list\' that is used by the CN node to perform access
control. In addition to specifying access to the CSG, the H(e)NB owner also
has the ability to specify additional criteria for the visiting user, such as
the length of allowed access. The requested length of allowed access may be
capped by statically provisioned maximum duration value in the CN node.
To enable the dynamic update of the \'Temporary CSG Member list\' at the local
CN node, the H(e)NB contains an \"access provisioning server\" functionality
and exhibits a secure interface to the H(e)NB owner (e.g. a web-based
interface secured with any kind of locally configured credentials). The
collocation of the \'access provisioning server\' with the H(e)NB permits the
re-use of existing interfaces between the H(e)NB and the CN node.
Specifically for the HeNB case, when the HeNB owner requests addition of a
temporary CSG member, the \"access provisioning server\" in the HeNB triggers
the S1 ENB CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure to inform the MME (or all the MMEs
in the pool) about the new temporary member. When the temporary membership
expires, the MME triggers the S1 MME CONFIGURATION UPDATE procedure to inform
the HeNB that the visitor\'s membership has expired.
Equivalent Iu procedures are used for the HNB case.
The CN node may reject the H(e)NB owner\'s request for addition of a temporary
CSG member. While it is impossible to make fine grained decisions based on the
visitor\'s subscription profile (because the latter is not consulted during
the process of member addition), the rejection decisions could be based on
criteria such as the PLMN identity owning the visitor\'s subscription or the
number of temporary members admitted in the CSG cell at the same time.
Figure 6.4.1.2-1: Location of the Access Provisioning Server and the Temporary
CSG Member list
Editor\'s note: It is FFS how the Temp CSG Member list is restored when the CN
node is restarted.
Editor\'s note: In scenarios where the same CSG ID is shared by H(e)NBs that
are controlled by multiple CN node pools, the \"Temporary CSG Member list\"
information specific to this specific CSG ID needs to be stored in all CN node
pools. It is FFS whether such scenarios represent a valid use case.
##### 6.4.1.2.2 Solution 2
This solution allows CSG managers to add and remove subscriber to their CSG
memberships through a CSG Membership Management Server. How CSG managers
access the CSG Member Mgmt Srv (e.g. through a Web interfaces) is considered
outside the scope of this specification and left to the operator.
Upon a change of a CSG (i.e. when a CSG manager adds or removes a UE from its
CSG), the CSG Member Mgmt server will update the allowed CSG list of the added
or removed subscriber in its HLR/HSS.
In order to manage the CSG membership of a roaming UE, the CSG Member Mgmt Srv
in the VPLMN must be able to update the HLR/HSS in the HPLMN via a
standardized C2 interface.
Figure 6.4.1.2.2-1: Solution 2
NOTE: The protocol on C2 is FFS. Whether one of the Rel-8 roaming interfaces
(e.g. SWd) can be re-used is FFS.
This solution enables access control based on CSG information in a common way
for both temporary and permanent CSG members.
The advantage of this solution is that the update of the subscriber\'s allowed
CSG lists in the HLR/HSS can trigger an update of the allowed CSG list on the
UE (based on OMA DM or OTA). This improves the user experience as it enables
the UE to automatically select the CSG cell also in the roaming case (without
manual CSG selection).
Editor\'s Note: How to trigger the CSG List Srv to update the Allowed CSG List
in the UE is FFS.
The disadvantage of this solution is that in the roaming case it requires an
inter-operator interface to allow the CSG Member Mgmt Srv of the VPLMN to
update the allowed CSG list of the roaming subscriber. Since the updates over
this new interface have no stringent time constraints, a Web-based management
interfaces allowing roaming operators (VPLMNs) to provision CSG membership
information to the HPLMN might be sufficient.
##### 6.4.1.2.3 Solution 3: Storage of CSG ID for Roaming CSG Members on the
network
To handle Roaming CSG Members we propose a new logical entity in the network
that only stores subscription data for users that are roaming called the CSS
(CSG Subscriber Server). The CSS performs essentially the same function as the
HSS except it is only used for CSG specific subscription data and their
related procedures.
The CSS has the following properties
\- It stores the CSG subscription data for the Roaming CSG Member in the VPLMN
to which the CSG belongs
\- It uses a Diameter-based interface to the MME or SGSN. The interface to the
MSC/VLR is FFS.
\- It supports the same set of procedures as the HSS for managing the CSG
subscription data for Roaming CSG Members. For example, the CSS needs to
update the MME/SGSN/MSC/VLR as defined for the HSS when a subscriber is
added/removed from a CSG.
To perform access control for Roaming CSG Member at CSG cells
\- The visited MME, SGSN or MSC/VLR needs to retrieve the CSG subscription
data for a Roaming CSG Member from the CSS during the attach procedure or
tracking/location/routing area updating procedure as part of the UE\'s roaming
subscription profile. If the MME, SGSN or MSC/VLR contacts the CSS for each
roaming subscriber, or if it has means to determine which subscribers that
have CSG subscription data in CSS, is FFS. The MME, SGSN or MSC/VLR retrieves
the rest of the roaming user\'s profile from the home network using normal
procedures as defined for roaming in Rel-8.
The advantages of this solution are as follows:
\- No need for the VPLMN to access the HSS of the HPLMN to retrieve the
subscription data for the UE
\- Additionally, all CSG subscription data for the HPLMN may be also be stored
in the CSS to separate this rather dynamic user profile information from the
rest of the information stored in the HSS to protect the HSS and simplify the
procedures to support CSGs.
##### 6.4.1.2.4 Solution 4: Storage of CSG ID for Temporary CSG Members and
Roaming CSG Members on the network
To avoid excessive load for the HSS to handle temporary CSG memberships, and
to allow CSG-subscription information for roaming CSG members to be stored in
the VPLMN rather than in the HSS of the HPLMN, it is proposed to introduce a
new logical entity in the network that stores CSG-Subscription data for CSG
members from CSGs within the network. These members may be home subscribers or
inbound roamer. The new logical entity is called CSG Subscription Store (CSS).
The CSS is located between the MME (or SGSN or VLR) and the HSS and intercepts
S6a/S6d (and Gr) signalling. When the CSS detects that subscription data are
sent from the HSS to the MME as part of the Update Location Answer command
(ULA) it checks its database to see whether the subscriber in question
subscribes to CSG information. If so, the CSS sends this information to the
MME, either by extending the intercepted ULA message or by issuing a new
Insert Subscriber Data Request command (IDR).
The CSS maintains the current MME address for all home subscribers and
incoming roamers (unless the current MME is outside the network). When CSG-
subscription data in the CSS are added (or modified), the CSS forwards the
added (or modified) data to the current MME.
The advantages of this solution are:
1\. No need to impact the MME (or SGSN, or VLR). CSG-Subscription data are
received by MME from the CSS as if they were received from the HSS.
2\. No need to impact the HPLMN. The HSS in the HPLMN does not need to store
CSG-Subscription Data.
3\. No extensive load in the HSS caused by temporary short lived memberships.
The drawbacks are:
1\. The CSS needs to maintain the current MME (and SGSN and VLR) address for
all home subscribers and for all incoming roamer. And the CSS is loaded by all
HSS signalling. It should therefore be considered to limit this solution to
roaming subscribers only, and to do without advantage 3.
2\. The CSS needs to intercept S6a/S6d traffic and MAP Gr traffic.
It is FFS how redundancy is provided for the CSS.
#### 6.4.1.3 Evaluation
# 7 Conclusions
###### ### Annex A: Functional split for HNB access as per TS 25.467 [3]
The UTRAN functions in the HNB are supported by RANAP, whereas the HNB
specific functions are supported by Home NodeB Application Protocol (HNBAP)
between the HNB and the HNB-GW. The HNB-GW provides concentration function for
the control plane and may provide concentration function for the user plane.
This sub-clause defines the functional split between the core network and the
UMTS radio access network. The functional split is shown in table A-1 and A-2.
Table A-1: Functional split for UTRAN function in the HNB access
+-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Function | HNB | HNB-GW | CN | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | RAB management | | | | | functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | RAB establishment, | X | FFS | X | | modification and | | | | | release | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | RAB characteristics | X | X | | | mapping Iu transmission | | | | | bearers | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | RAB characteristics | X | | | | mapping Uu bearers | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | RAB queuing, | X | | X | | pre-emption and | | | | | priority | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Radio Resource | | | | | Management functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Radio Resource | X | | | | admission control | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Broadcast Information | X | | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iu link Management | | | | | functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iu signalling link | X | X | X | | management | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | ATM VC management | | X | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | AAL2 establish and | | X | X | | release | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | AAL5 management | | X | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | GTP-U Tunnels | X | X | X | | management | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | TCP Management | X (FFS) | (X) (Note 1) | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Buffer Management | X | X | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iu U-plane (RNL) | | | | | Management: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iu U-plane frame | | | X | | protocol management | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iu U-plane frame | X | | | | protocol initialization | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Mobility management | | | | | functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Location information | X | | X | | reporting | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Handover and Relocation | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Inter RNC hard HO, Iur | X | FFS (Note 4) | X | | not used or not | | | | | available | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Serving RNS Relocation | X (FFS) | | X | | (intra/inter MSC) | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Inter system hard HO | X | FFS (Note 4) | X | | (UMTS-GSM) | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Inter system Change | X | FFS | X | | (UMTS-GSM) | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Paging Triggering | X | | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | GERAN System | X | | X | | Information Retrieval | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Security Functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Data confidentiality | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Radio interface | X | | | | ciphering | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Ciphering key | | | X | | management | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | User identity | X | | X | | confidentiality | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Data integrity | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Integrity checking | X | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Integrity key | | | X | | management | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Service and Network | | | | | Access functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | CN Signalling data | X | | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Data Volume Reporting | X | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | UE Tracing | X | | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Location reporting | X | FFS (Note 3) | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iu Co-ordination | | | | | functions: | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Paging co-ordination | X | | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | NAS Node Selection | | X | | | Function | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | MOCN Rerouting Function | FFS | X | X | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | HNB Registration (Note | | | | | 2) | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | HNB Registration | X | X | | | Function | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | HNB-GW Discovery | X | | | | Function | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | HNB de-registration | X | X | | | Function | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | UE Registration for HNB | | | | | ^Note\ 2^ | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | UE Registration | X | X | | | Function for HNB | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | UE de-registration | X | X | | | Function for HNB | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iuh user-plane | | | | | Management functions | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | Iuh User plane | X | X | | | transport bearer | | | | | handling | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+ | NOTE 1: If TCP is | | | | | terminated for Iu-BC in | | | | | the HNB-GW. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Protocol | | | | | support for this group | | | | | of functions is | | | | | provided by the HNB | | | | | Application Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Whether it is | | | | | possible (and may be | | | | | necessary) to provide | | | | | location information | | | | | from the HNB-GW (e.g. | | | | | GW may have logic to | | | | | derive location based | | | | | on the public IP | | | | | address of the HNB-GW, | | | | | etc). is FFS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Support for | | | | | relocation from the | | | | | macro network to HNB is | | | | | FFS. | | | | +-------------------------+---------+----------------+----+
Editor\'s note: Functional description of the functions is needed.
Table A-2: Functional split for HNB function in the HNB access
* * *
Function HNB HNB-GW HNB Registration (Note 1)  
HNB Registration Function X X HNB-GW Discovery Function X  
HNB de-registration Function X X
UE Registration for HNB (Note 1)  
UE Registration Function for HNB X X UE de-registration Function for HNB X X
Iuh user-plane Management functions  
Iuh User plane transport bearer handling X X NOTE 1: Protocol support for this
group of functions is provided by the HNB Application Protocol.
* * *
###### ### Annex B: Functional split for HeNB access as per TS 36.300 [4]
The HeNB hosts the same functions as an eNB as described in TS 36.300 [4]
section 4.1, with the following additional specifications in case of
connection to the HeNB-GW:
\- Discovery of a suitable Serving HeNB-GW
\- A HeNB shall only connect to a single HeNB-GW at one time, namely no S1
Flex function shall be used at the HeNB in case of connection to the HeNB-GW.
\- If the HeNB is connected to a HeNB-GW, it will not simultaneously connect
to another HeNB-GW, or another MME.
\- The TAC and PLMN ID used by the HeNB shall also be supported by the HeNB-
GW.
\- When the HeNB connects to a HeNB-GW, selection of an MME at UE attachment
is hosted by the HeNB-GW instead of the HeNB.
\- HeNBs may be deployed without network planning. A HeNB may be moved from
one geographical area to another and therefore it may need to connect to
different HeNB-GWs depending on its location.
The HeNB-GW hosts the following functions:
\- Relaying UE-associated S1 application part messages between the MME serving
the UE and the HeNB serving the UE.
\- Terminating non-UE associated S1 application part procedures towards the
HeNB and towards the MME. Note that when a HeNB-GW is deployed, non-UE
associated procedures shall be run between HeNBs and the HeNB-GW and between
the HeNB-GW and the MME.
\- Optionally terminating S1-U interface with the HeNB and with the SGW.
\- Supporting TAC and PLMN ID used by the HeNB.
In addition to functions specified in TS 36.300 [4] section 4.1, the MME hosts
the following functions:
\- Access control for UEs that are members of Closed Subscriber Groups (CSG).
Mechanisms for filtering of paging messages, in order to avoid paging message
distribution to HeNBs belonging to CSGs where the UE is not registered, is
FFS.
###### ### Annex C: Actions of MME/SGSN/MSC/VLR upon Allowed CSG List update
The actions of MME/SGSN/MSC/VLR upon Allowed CSG List update are summarized in
the following table. Please refer to clause 6.1.4, clause 6.3.2, clause 6.3.4
and clause 6.3.7 for more details.
Table C-1: MME/SGSN/MSC/VLR actions upon ACL update
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE state | Change to | Current | Access mode | Actions of | | | the ACL | camping | | MME/S | | | | cell | | GSN/MSC/VLR | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Add a | CSG cell of | Hybrid | MME/S | | | | this CSG | | GSN/MSC/VLR | | | | | | stores the | | | | | | updated | | | | | | Allowed CSG | | | | | | List and | | | | | | informs the | | | | | | membership | | | | | | change of | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | (i.e. the | | | | | | membership | | | | | | is changed | | | | | | from non | | | | | | CSG member | | | | | | to CSG | | | | | | member) to | | | | | | H(e)NB. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | CSG ID | Other cell | / | MME/S | | | | | | GSN/MSC/VLR | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | just stores | | | | | | the updated | | | | | | Allowed CSG | | | | | | List, no | | | | | | other | | | | | | action is | | | | | | performed. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | Hybrid | MME/S | | | | | | GSN/MSC/VLR | | | | | | stores the | | | | | | updated | | | | | | Allowed CSG | | | | | | List and | | | | | | informs the | | | | | | membership | | | | | | change of | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | (i.e. the | | | | | | membership | | | | | | is changed | | | | | | from CSG | | | | | | member to | | | | | | non CSG | | | | | | member) to | | | | | | H(e)NB. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECM | Remove a | CSG cell of | Closed | Which | | -CONNECTED/ | CSG ID or a | this CSG | | solution | | | | | | described | | READY | CSG ID is | | | below | | | expired | | | should be | | | | | | chosen is | | | | | | FFS: | | | | | | | | | | | | 1) The | | | | | | MME/S | | | | | | GSN/MSC/VLR | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | to the | | | | | | H(e)NB that | | | | | | the UE is | | | | | | no longer | | | | | | permitted | | | | | | to access | | | | | | the CSG. By | | | | | | receiving | | | | | | the | | | | | | indication, | | | | | | the H(e)NB | | | | | | tries to | | | | | | handover | | | | | | the UE to a | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) The | | | | | | MME/S | | | | | | GSN/MSC/VLR | | | | | | performs | | | | | | S1/Iu | | | | | | release | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | cause. | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 4) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Other cell | / | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Expiration | CSG cell of | Hybrid | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | date is | this CSG | Closed | MME/S | | | | | | GSN/MSC/VLR | | | | | | just stores | | | | | | the updated | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | extended. | Other cell | / | Allowed CSG | | | | | | List, no | | | | (NOTE 1) | (NOTE 2) | other | | | | | | action is | | | | | | performed. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ECM-IDLE/ | All cases | | | | | STANDBY | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | \"Other | | | | | | cell\" may | | | | | | be a macro | | | | | | cell, an | | | | | | open cell, | | | | | | or a CSG | | | | | | cell | | | | | | belongs to | | | | | | other CSG | | | | | | ID. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | \"/\" | | | | | | includes | | | | | | all cases | | | | | | including | | | | | | macro, | | | | | | open, | | | | | | hybrid and | | | | | | closed. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | This is | | | | | | according | | | | | | to | | | | | | claus | | | | | | e 6.3.4.2.2 | | | | | | that \"_In | | | | | | case of | | | | | | changes of | | | | | | the CSG | | | | | | membership | | | | | | status | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | expiry of | | | | | | temporary | | | | | | CSG | | | | | | m | | | | | | embership), | | | | | | it should | | | | | | be possible | | | | | | for the | | | | | | Core | | | | | | Network | | | | | | node to | | | | | | convey this | | | | | | change to | | | | | | the H(e)NB | | | | | | dynam | | | | | | ically_.\", | | | | | | which | | | | | | allows | | | | | | admission | | | | | | control and | | | | | | rate | | | | | | control for | | | | | | hybrid | | | | | | access mode | | | | | | as required | | | | | | by SA WG1. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: See | | | | | | c | | | | | | lause 6.3.2 | | | | | | for | | | | | | evaluation. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#