# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Report documents functionality being specified to support IMS
Emergency Calls over GPRS and EPS. Because IMS emergency call support is
expected to impact several functional areas, this TR will describe the
functionality as it is being developed. Once a functional component is
complete the appropriate Technical Specifications will be updated accordingly.
# 1 Scope
## 1.1 Objective
This TR has been created for the purpose of having a single source for
documenting the GPRS and EPS enhancements to support emergency calls. As
solutions to particular aspects are agreed, CRs will be created for the
associated TSs. This TR is not a study. The IMS Emergency Services study is
available in TR 23.867 [5].
The present document includes the following:
\- Functionality needed to meet the requirements as defined in TS 22.101 [2]
and TS 23.167 [3] for handling IMS emergency calls over the GPRS using GERAN
and UTRAN access both in the case where the UE is in normal service mode
(e.g., UE has sufficient credentials and is authorized to receive the service)
and where the UE is in limited service mode (e.g. the UE does not have
sufficient credentials or is not authorized to receive GPRS service).
\- Functionality needed to meet the requirements as defined in TS 22.101 [2]
and TS 23.167 [3] for handling IMS emergency calls over the EPS using E-UTRAN
access both in the case where the UE is in normal service mode (e.g., UE has
sufficient credentials and is authorized to receive the service) and where the
UE is in limited service mode (e.g. the UE does not have sufficient
credentials or is not authorized to receive EPS service).
\- EPS functionality needed to support IMS emergency call handovers between
3GPP accesses and between 3GPP and non-3GPP accesses.
NOTE: Access network specific impacts for a UE to attach to the non-3GPP
access network for emergency calling are out of scope of 3GPP.
\- EPS functionality to support of IMS emergency calls that complies with
applicable requirements for provision of location information as defined in TS
23.167 [3].
# 2 Background
GPRS Emergency Services procedures were partially complete in Release 7. A
decision was made at SA#36 to remove GPRS Emergency Services support from
Release 7 so that a complete solution could be developed in Release 9 (see
clause 9.17 of the SA#36 meeting report [4]). The functionality provided
support for valid subscribers initiating an IMS Emergency Call over UTRAN
while in their home network or while roaming. The GPRS enhancements included:
a) **Definition of an Emergency APN:** A UE that needs to do IMS emergency
registration (for example always in VPLMN) shall start by requesting a PDP
context with the emergency APN in GPRS. The emergency APN is the basic part of
the Rel-7 solution, because it enables IMS emergency services with local
break-out for roaming UEs in VPLMN. In a home network, a PDP context to an
emergency APN also provides a way for GPRS to identify a session for emergency
services so that special GPRS handling, that may override subscription, can be
allowed.(e.g., QoS and ARP). This capability is critical for the most basic
solution that could be supported and should be the highest priority
functionality to be specified.
b) **UE QoS indication of emergency:** The UE shall include an emergency
indication in the UMTS bearer QoS IE when establishing or modifying the PDP
context used for the emergency service. It has been determined that this is
not needed. QoS can be provided by either establishment of the emergency PDP
context or through PCC.
c) **QoS Negotiation:** SGSN handling of the ARP is modified to not re-verify
the value received from the GGSN against the subscription. This allows the
GGSN to change the ARP for emergency services to a high priority so the call
will not be pre-empted. This is functionality is important for overriding
subscription in order to override ARP subscription limits.
d) **Network support indication:** The SGSN shall indicate in the Attach
Accept and RAU Accept messages whether GPRS emergency functions are supported
in the network. This indicator improves functional efficiency.
# 3 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\".
[4] 3GPPTSG SA#36 meeting report:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/TSG_SA/TSGS_36/Report.
[5] 3GPP TR 23.867: \"Internet Protocol (IP) based IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) emergency sessions\".
[6] 3GPP TSG SA#36 TD SP-070427 by Nokia/NSN: \"IMS emergency services using
GPRS access in Rel‑7\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.167 v7.4.0, 2007-03-20: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
emergency sessions\".
[8] 3GPP TSG SA#37 meeting report:
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg_sa/TSG_SA/TSGS_37/Report.
[9] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.107: \"Quality of Service (QoS) concept and architecture\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"Architectural requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[16] OMA AD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane Location Architecture\",
http://www.openmobileallieance.org.
[17] 3GPP TR 23.891: \"Evaluation of LCS Control Plane Solutions for EPS\".
[18] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network Application
Part (RANAP) signalling\".
[19] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); S1
Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[21] 3GPP2 X.S0060, \"HRPD Support for Emergency Services\",
http://www.3gpp2.org.
# 4 Definitions and abbreviations
## 4.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TS 23.167 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] or TS 23.167 [3].
**Limited Service Mode:** The UE state that only allows emergency calls. This
state is entered when a UE is unable to find a suitable cell to camp on, or
the SIM is not inserted, or if it receives certain responses to a Location
Registration request (e.g., \"illegal UE\"), it attempts to camp on a cell
irrespective of the PLMN identity. See TS 23.122[15].
**Invalid UICC:** A UE that does not have a UICC or a UE with an IMSI that
does not have corresponding subscription information in the HLR.
**Local regulation categories:**
(1) **Normal Mode:** Only subscribers are supported. Meaning, an emergency
call is treated by the network as any other call regarding subscription. The
UE must be authenticated and authorized for service in their current location
in order to gain network access for emergency calling.
(2) **Valid IMSI limited:** Only subscribers with a valid IMSI that can be
authenticated are supported by the network. They may not be authorized for PS
service in their current location but are allowed to over ride subscription
restrictions to initiate an IMS emergency call.
(3) **All Emergency Calls (All-EmCalls):** Regulation requires all UEs to be
able to access the network to initiate an emergency call, regardless of
authentication or authorization status. Therefore, even a UE without valid
credentials should be served (e.g. UE\'s without an UICC, UE\'s that received
\"IMSI unknown in HLR\" or \"PLMN not allowed\" rejects).
## 4.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 5 Overall Functionality to Support IMS Emergency Calls
## 5.1 IMS Functionality
### 5.1.1 Release 7 functionality to be considered for Release 9
As documented in clause 9.17 of the SA#37 meeting report [8], GPRS
functionality removed from Release 7 can be reinserted with Release 9 CRs. The
table in Annex A lists the CRs handled during SA#36, #37 and #38 regarding
GPRS support of IMS emergency calls. The CRs in the table marked as \"open\"
indicates they need to be considered in Release 9.
1) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions; TS 23.167 [3]: For the
most part the IMS specification is access network agnostic. However references
and examples referring to GPRS were removed from the TS and these need to be
added back. If only valid subscribers are addressed initially, then GPRS would
be added to the applicable clauses and another CR would be needed later to add
GPRS to the clauses addressing limited mode. Refer to SA#37 CR0069R3.
### 5.1.2 Release 9 Functionality
1) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions; TS 23.167 [3]:
\- The E-UTRAN specification TS 23.401 [14] needs to be added to the
references clause and referenced throughout the document where appropriate
where other IP-CAN specifications are referenced.
\- Annex E \"Emergency support in different IP‑CANs\" needs to have GPRS
updated.
## 5.2 GPRS Functionality
### 5.2.1 UTRAN Functionality overview
The minimum UTRAN functionality needed to support IMS emergency calling for
UEs in normal service mode, while in their home network or while roaming, is
the ability to establish an emergency PDP context (i.e., the emergency APN).
This allows QoS and ARP rules to be established for sessions associated with
the emergency PDP context to meet local regulatory requirements. An emergency
PDP context also allows the knowledge of the emergency session to be supported
during handovers that cause a new SGSN to be assigned because the emergency
PDP context is included in the mobility messages (Forward Relocation Request
and Routing Area Update). The QoS negotiation capability and network
indication of emergency support are also efficient handling of emergency
calls.
### 5.2.2 UTRAN Normal Service Mode Functionality
TR 23.867 [5] is the study for IMS emergency calls and associated IP-CAN
impacts.
IP-CAN requirements to support IMS emergency calls are specified in clause 4.4
of TS 23.167 [3]. Additionally, TS 23.167 v7.4.0 [7] Annex A contains further
analysis of GPRS impacts related to the IP-CAN requirements.
A synopsis of UTRAN functionality needed to support IMS emergency calls for
UEs operating in normal service mode is provided in Annex B.
#### 5.2.2.1 Release 7 functionality to be considered for Release 9
The table in Annex A lists the CRs handled during SA#36, #37 and #38 regarding
GPRS support of IMS emergency calls. The CRs in the table marked as \"open\"
indicates the functionality needs to be considered for Release 9.
NOTE: QoS may be changing in Release 8 and also needs to be considered.
##### 5.2.2.1.1 General emergency services support descriptions:
1) _Architecture requirements_ TS 23.221[11]: Based on SA#37 CR0054R3 the
following is considered:
\- Clause 8 \"Support of IM CN Subsystem services\" -- Provide a description
of GPRS emergency call handling for UE recognized emergency calls including
emergency attach, emergency PDP context, QoS, CS/IM domain selection. (Note:
Do not include UICC-less handling from CR0054R3 as that will be done
separately under UTRAN Limited Service Mode).
2) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR594R2 the following is considered:
\- Add a new clause 5x \"Functionality for IMS emergency services support.
Provide an overview of PS domain emergency call support functionality
including: emergency attach, emergency PDP context , QoS, PCC, emergency
services network support indictor, allocation/retention priority handling for
emergency services.
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Emergency APN:
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#37 CR0598 and SA#36 CR0596, the following is
considered to support establishing a PDP context to an Emergency APN:
\- Reference section: Add TS 23.167 IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency
sessions;
\- Clause 3.2 Abbreviations: Add Em-APN Emergency Access Point Name;
\- Clause 6.5.3 Combined GPRS/IMSI Attach procedure;
\- Clause 9.2.2.1 PDP Context Activation Procedure:
\- Step 1 -- Include procedure for requesting the Emergency Context in the
Activate PDP Context Request
\- Step 4 -- Include GGSN handling of Em-APN (GGSN filtering and that
subscription is not required)
\- Annex A -- A.1 Definitions: State the Em-APN PDP context is linked with a
dynamic PDP address.
• Annex A -- A.2 Selection Rules: Include Em-APN in SDL for establishing PDP
context.
##### 5.2.2.1.3 QoS Negotiation
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR0594R2, QoS interworking per TS 23.107 [10] needs
to be considered:
\- Clause 6.9.1.2.2 Inter SGSN Routeing Area Update (A/Gb-mode) - 3rd
paragraph following step 12: Enhance the description of prioritization to
include consideration of highest QoS per TS 23.107 [10].
\- Clause 6.9.1.3.2 Combined Inter SGSN RA/LA Update (A/Gb-mode) - 3rd
paragraph following step 16: Enhance the description of prioritization to
include consideration of highest QoS per TS 23.107 [10].
\- Clause 6.9.2.1 Routing Area Update (Iu-mode) - 3rd paragraph following Note
4: Enhance the description of prioritization to include consideration of
highest QoS per TS 23.107 [10].
\- Clause 6.9.2.2.1 Serving RNS Relocation Procedure (Iu-mode),
\- Clause 6.9.2.2.2 Combined Hard Handover and SRNS Relocation Procedure, and
\- Clause 6.9.2.2.3 Combined Cell/URA Update and SRNS Relocation Procedure:
following the text for the figure, insert a new paragraph that describes
sending the PDP Contexts in a prioritized order to the new SGSN in the Forward
Relocation Request message and that prioritization is implementation dependent
but should be based on current activity and the highest QoS per TS 23.107
[10].
\- Clause 6.13.2.1 Inter-SGSN Inter-system Change: Iu mode to A/Gb mode Inter-
SGSN Change, and
\- Clause 6.13.2.2 A/Gb mode to Iu mode Inter-SGSN Change: 2nd paragraph
following step 21: Enhance the description of prioritization to include
consideration of highest QoS per TS 23.107 10].
2) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR0595R2, SGSN QoS negotiation is modified so that
the ARP IE value is not re-verified by the SGSN or GGSN after the GGSN sets
it. This allows the GGSN/PCC to modify the ARP to a value higher than the
subscription allows so that the session will not be pre-empted.
\- Clause 9.2.2.1 PDP Context Activation Procedure - Step 4 last paragraph,
\- Clause 9.2.2.1.1 Secondary PDP Context Activation Procedure -- Step 3 last
paragraph,
\- Clause 9.2.3.1 SGSN-Initiated PDP Context Modification Procedure -- Step 2
last paragraph,
\- Clause 9.2.3.3 MS-Initiated PDP Context Modification Procedure: add
requirement that the ARP IE is not subject to re-verification.
\- Clause 9.2.3.2 GGSN-Initiate PDP Context Modification Procedure -- Step 1:
Add a statement that a disabled ARP restriction will not be enabled during
context modification if an ARP subscription restriction was disabled during
context activation.
##### 5.2.2.1.4 PCC enhancement to support IMS emergency calls:
1) _Policy and charging control architecture_ ; TS 23.203 [13]: Based on SA#37
CR0051, in the GPRS specific clause add the ability for PCRF verification with
IM CN that an Emergency APN is being used for an emergency call.
2) In addition, Release 8 PCC enhancements should be considered in TS 23.203
[13] to include a PCC based Admission and Priority parameter as described in
clause 5.2.2.2.
##### 5.2.2.1.5 Network support indication
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS): Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]: Based on SA#36 CR0594R2, an indictor for network support of PS
emergency calls is sent to the UE in attach and routing update responses. The
CR specified the indicator in successful response messages. In addition to the
functionality in the CR, the indicator would also be needed in attach and
routing update reject messages. This will allow restricted mode UEs to know if
the network can be accessed for emergency services.
\- Clause 6.5.3: Combined GPRS/IMSI Attach procedure: add indictor to text of
step 9 (attach accept),
\- Clause 6.9.2.1: Routing Area Update Procedure (Iu-mode): add indicator to
text of step 17 (routing area update accept),
\- Clause 6.13.2.2 Inter-SGSN Inter-system Change: A/Gb mode to Iu mode Inter-
SGSN Change: add indictor to text of step 16 (routing area update accept).
#### 5.2.2.2 Key Issue 1: PCC rule for Allocation and Retention Priority
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Description
Based on SA2#59 S2-073681, an Emergency ARP parameter in the PCC based rules
is considered to allow PCC to override the subscription ARP. This allows PCC
to assign an ARP value to a session that may not be allowed per subscription.
This allows PCC to assign a higher priority to emergency sessions.
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Solution
Policy and charging control architecture; TS 23.203 [13]: needs to consider
defining a PCC based rule for Allocation and Retention Priority parameter for
emergency sessions. The PCC rules can be got from the solution described on
clause 5.3.4.
### 5.2.3 UTRAN Limited Service Mode Functionality
A synopsis of Limited Service Mode procedures is in Annex C.
#### 5.2.3.1 Re-Introduction of Release 7 Functionality
#### 5.2.3.2 Key Issue 1: Limited Mode UE Attaching to a GPRS network (UE with
UICC)
##### 5.2.3.2.1 Description
If a UE that has an HLR entry for its IMSI but is in a limited service mode,
normal attach procedures would fail. However, a UE may be permitted limited
access to the network for emergency services when required by local
regulation.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Solution
When a limited mode UE detects an emergency services request, the UE includes
an emergency indicator in the Attach Request. This will allow GPRS to override
attach restrictions:
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS): Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]:
\- Clause 6.5.3 Combined GPRS / IMSI Attach procedure.
#### 5.2.3.3 Key Issue 2: Network Support of Emergency Services
##### 5.2.3.3.1 Description
For normal mode, a network indicator is sent from the SGSN to the UE in the
Attach Accept and Routing Update Accept messages to the UE to indicate the
network support of PS emergency services. If a UE\'s request had been
rejected, no indicator had been defined. This would result in the UE
inefficiently attempting Emergency Attaches in networks that may not support
PS emergency services. Also, lack of PS emergency services advertisement shall
cause the UE to use CS access to place emergency calls.
##### 5.2.3.3.2 Solution
By including the indicator in Attach and Routing Update Reject messages, the
UE would know if it could attempt an Emergency Attach when in limited service
mode and the user attempts an emergency call.
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS): Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]:
\- Clause 6.5.3: Combined GPRS/IMSI Attach procedure: add indictor to text of
step 9 (attach reject),
\- Clause 6.9.2.1: Routing Area Update Procedure: add indicator to text of
step 17 (routing area update reject),
\- Clause 6.13.2.2.1 Inter-SGSN Inter-system Change: A/Gb mode to Iu mode
Inter-SGSN Change using Gn/Gp: add indictor to text of step 16 (routing area
update reject).
#### 5.2.3.4 Key Issue 3: Limited Mode UE Attaching to a GPRS network
(UICCless UE)
##### 5.2.3.4.1 Description
If a UE is in limited service mode because it does not have a UICC or does not
have an HLR entry for its IMSI, normal attach procedures would fail. However,
a UE may be permitted limited access to the network for emergency services
when required by local regulation.
##### 5.2.3.4.2 Solution
When a limited mode UE detects an emergency services request, the UE includes
an emergency indicator in the Attach Request and its IMEI. This will allow
GPRS to override attach restrictions and skip authentication and location
update procedures.
1) _General Packet Radio Service (GPRS): Service description; Stage 2_ TS
23.060 [9]:
Clause 6.5.3 Combined GPRS / IMSI Attach procedure.
### 5.2.4 GERAN Normal Service Mode Functionality
#### 5.2.4.1 Key Issue 1: Emergency Calls over GERAN
##### 5.2.4.1.1 Description
The number of GERAN (A/Gb mode) networks that will support voice over IMS
real-time services will be limited. So voice over IMS is not likely to be
supported.
##### 5.2.4.1.2 Solution
If a UE is camped on a GERAN network, it is recommended that emergency calls
should be initiated in CS mode. GERAN support for IMS emergency services will
not be developed in this release.
### 5.2.5 GERAN Limited Service Mode Functionality
See clause 5.2.4.1. It is recommended that CS mode is used for UEs capable of
A/Gb mode.
## 5.3 EPS Functionality
### 5.3.1 EPS Functionality overview
The solution for the EPS is aimed at supporting both normal mode and limited
service mode. When the UE is in normal service mode the normal EMM procedures
apply. As the UE enters limited service mode as specified in TS 23.122 [15]
(e.g. Attach request is rejected), special EMM procedures for emergency
service may be needed to access EPS. For release 9, the proposed solution uses
the emergency APN. In all cases (e.g. home, roaming, normal mode, limited
service mode), emergency connectivity to an emergency APN will be used. The UE
initiates the emergency connectivity upon recognition of dialled emergency
number. This connectivity is limited to using emergency services available at
the PDN served by the emergency APN, via static rules (thus no impact on PCC).
The Allocation/Retention Priority (ARP) values set for the bearer used to
provide connectivity to the Emergency APN shall be adequate to support
emergency services and the QCI shall select a GBR service for conversational
voice service. And the GBR set to the value necessary to support the selected
codec for the emergency service.
### 5.3.2 E-UTRAN Normal Service Mode Functionality
A synopsis of E-UTRAN functionality needed to support IMS emergency calls for
UEs operating in normal service mode is provided in Annex B.
#### 5.3.2.1 Key Issue 1: Attach: shall it be a normal attach or an emergency
attach?
##### 5.3.2.1.1 Description
It has to be decided whether a UE that will start an emergency session and has
not yet made an initial attach to the network needs to perform a normal attach
or an emergency attach.
##### 5.3.2.1.2 Solution
The emergency attach procedure should not be attempted until:
\- the UE is in limited service mode and
\- the UE is attempting to set up an emergency session
When a normal attach is used, a default bearer is set up based on subscription
or operator policy. The APN associated to this default bearer is normally not
supporting the features associates to an emergency access. So, subsequent to a
normal attach, another (additional) default bearer to the emergency APN to be
set up. This PDN connection shall have the QoS attributes suitable to support
an emergency call.
The handling of the limited service state attach for the E-UTRAN is described
in the relevant clause in this TR.
#### 5.3.2.2 Key Issue 2:
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Description
\
##### 5.3.2.2.2 Solution
\
\
### 5.3.3 E-UTRAN Limited Service Mode Functionality
A synopsis of Limited Service Mode procedures is in Annex C.
#### 5.3.3.1 Key Issue 1: Attach in limited service state
##### 5.3.3.1.1 Description
If the attach procedure or the tracking area update procedures fail the UE
enters a limited service mode allowing the UE to place only emergency calls --
if the network allows for that - until another non blacklisted TAI is
identified on the broadcast information, in which case a normal attach will be
attempted. Before a UE can place an emergency call, it needs to be attached to
the network.
##### 5.3.3.1.2 Solution
If the user attempts to place an emergency call while in limited service mode,
then an emergency attach is attempted with the IMSI or IMEI as a UE
identifier. IMEI is included if the UE does not have a UICC. The IMEI is
included to potentially blacklist malicious callers. The emergency attach will
not directly cause a TAU to be performed and will override any service
restriction that would otherwise forbid the UE from being attached in the
specific TA.
The emergency attach procedure also caused the establishment of a default EPS
bearer providing PDN connectivity to the emergency APN. This PDN connection
shall have the QoS attributes suitable to support an emergency call. Over this
connectivity it is possible to establish an IMS session for emergency services
only, and static rules will prevent the usage of this APN for other purposes.
#### 5.3.3.2 Key Issue 2: Mobility management during an emergency call
##### 5.3.3.2.1 Description
An ongoing successful emergency call placed while the UE is in normal or
limited service state may be interrupted by a failed TA update, handover to a
restricted area, or any other service restriction implying the UE should be
detached. A mechanism is needed to avoid this.
In order to support emergency call continuity, the UE can be permitted to
handover to an access restriction area. A mechanism is needed to solve this.
##### 5.3.3.2.2 Solution -- special handling of TA updates for emergency
services
Provide explicit context in the EPC so that the network is aware an emergency
call is ongoing. This will avoid TA UPDATE failures (the TA updates always
succeed during an emergency call). When the UE enters limited service mode,
the network maintains bearer resources used for the emergency call.
##### 5.3.3.2.3 Solution -- special handling of Handover for emergency
services
Provide explicit context in the EPC and E-UTRAN so that the network is aware
an emergency call is ongoing. The MME can identify the bearer used for the
emergency call based on the Emergency APN in EPS bearer context. In order to
inform the E-UTRAN about the usage of the bearer for emergency purposes, the
MME allocates an ARP value reserved for emergency services to the emergency
bearer. In case a bearer with an emergency ARP values is established, the
Mobility Restriction functionality shall not be executed in the radio network
and the core network for emergency bearers, the UE can be handover to these
areas included in the Handover Restriction List. If the source eNodeB finds
the target eNodeB included in the Handover Restriction List and an emergency
call is ongoing for the UE, the source eNodeB only sends bearer resources used
for the emergency call to the target MME/eNodeB and requests the MME to
release the non-emergency bearers by sending a Bearer Release Request. The
target eNodeB also considers the emergency bearer ARP when evaluating bearers
to be allowed to handover.
#### 5.3.3.3 Key Issue 3: Additional PDN Connection during Limited Service
Mode
##### 5.3.3.3.1 Description
A UE in a limited Service mode after establishing an Emergency Attach should
not have access to any additional PDN connection due to the nature of the mode
the UE is operating on. Thus the system needs to ensure that no additional PDN
access is possible.
##### 5.3.3.3.2 Solution -- Restricting Additional PDN connection after
Emergency Attach
The UE Requested PDN Connectivity procedure is not applicable if the UE has
performed an Emergency Attach. The reason is that only emergency call is
allowed on such a connection, and this can be handled with a single PDN
connection. So the UE shall not send additional PDN Connectivity requests in
this mode, if a fraudulent UE does try to establish an additional PDN
Connection, then the MME shall reject such request with appropriate reason.
NOTE: When GPRS procedures are specified in the appropriate specifications
(i.e. when the CRs are written), the same Single PDN Connection for Emergency
Attach/PDP Context shall be applied for limited service mode of operation.
#### 5.3.3.4 Key Issue 4: When to Detach after an emergency call
##### 5.3.3.4.1 Description
When a UE is emergency attached, it is not allowed on the network except for
emergency calls. Once on the network for emergency calling, how long should
the UE remain attached after the call terminates must be considered. The time
needs to be long enough not to drop a very long emergency call. But the timer
needs to be short enough to release unused resources (e.g., to permit the UE
to reselect a cell in the HPLMN and return to normal service; or to limit the
time during which the UE might reselect a GERAN cell). This may require some
timer reset depending on service or other conditions. The timer supports
cases, e.g. when the initial emergency call may have terminated abnormally and
should be allowed to be re-established quickly. The emergency detach timer may
need to be started also for UEs that change from normal to limited services
conditions, e.g. when moving into restricted areas.
It can be noted that the MME is not aware of the SIP signalling that releases
the emergency call. Additionally, it is not yet determined whether dedicated
bearers will be established and released when the emergency call starts and
ends.
##### 5.3.3.4.2 Solution -- Detach of UEs in limited service mode
The user may need to re-initiate the emergency call. MME initiated implicit
detach procedures after inactivity timeout specific to emergency attach are
used. This timer may be shorter than that used for non-emergency inactivity
timeouts. The UE is also allowed to explicitly detach using normal UE detach
procedures. The HSS-initiated detach procedure is not suitable for the detach
of UEs that are emergency attached, because the emergency service is not a
subscribed service and these UEs may not have an HSS entry.
### 5.3.4 QOS handling for emergency calls
#### 5.3.4.1 Description
If an EPS Bearer is used for emergency service, the bearer should get special
handling, e.g. special ARP should be set for the bearer in order to guarantee
the bearer can be established in case of resource limitations. Special
emergency PCC rules for the bearer can be used to solve this.
#### 5.3.4.2 Emergency Call without an Emergency APN
When the AF receives emergency services, the AF provides Emergency indicator
information to the PCRF. According to that indicator, the PCRF provides
emergency services PCC rule to the PCEF. The PCRF instructs PCEF the bearer is
used for emergency services by setting the ARPs of PCC rules to Emergency
ARPs. This enables the relevant network elements to prioritize bearers with
the ARPs when performing policy control. According to the Emergency ARPs, the
PCEF initiates dedicated bearer activation procedure to establish emergency
bearer.
Editor\'s note: It is expected that the current PCC procedures are sufficient
to set an appropriate ARP for the emergency call.
#### 5.3.4.3 Emergency Call with an Emergency APN
The emergency APN allows the UE to obtain local bearer and a local P-CSCF. The
PCEF performs an IP-CAN Session Establishment procedure as defined in TS
23.203 [13]. The emergency APN is provided to the PCRF from the PCEF. The PCRF
instructs PCEF the bearer is used for emergency services by setting the ARP of
PCC rules to Emergency ARPs. This enables the relevant network elements to
prioritize bearers with the ARP when performing admission control.
If the AF does not provide an emergency indication but the emergency service
information is associated with an UE IP address belonging to an emergency APN,
it should be possible for the PCRF to reject the emergency service provided by
the P-CSCF (and thus to trigger the release of the associated emergency
session). This PCRF check will be added to the GPRS annex of TS 23.203 [13].
### 5.3.5 Load re-balancing between MMEs
#### 5.3.5.1 Key Issue 1: Releasing connected UEs
##### 5.3.5.1.1 Description
If the UE is in ECM_CONNECTED mode and the MME needs to be offloaded, the MME
can initiate an S1 release procedure which forces the S1 and RRC connections
to be released and the UE to perform TAU. This procedure may cause an
emergency call to be released and it is possible that a failure during TAU
procedures could prohibit the connection to be re-established to the same
PSAP. UEs in an active emergency session should not be released.
##### 5.3.5.1.2 Solution
When a UE is in ECM-CONNECTED mode with an active emergency session, the MME
should not release the UE. The MME should wait until the UE initiates a TAU or
becomes inactive.
## 5.4 EPS Emergency Location Functionality
Emergency location functionality may be based on a user plane solution
specified by OMA in SUPL 2.0 [16] or based on a control plane solution for EPS
[17]. See also TS 23.167 [3] for additional location functionality that may be
supported for IMS emergency calls.
NOTE: Support for UICC-less is defined by OMA as of SUPL 2.0. Possible
improvement of SUPL support for UICC-less EPS emergency calls is out of scope
for 3GPP.
To support routeing of calls to the correct PSAP, in some countries, use of
the serving cell identity may be required. Mechanisms for the CN to obtain the
serving cell identity are inherently supported by the S1 and Iu interfaces,
and, Location Reporting procedures specified in TS 25.413 [18] for UTRAN and
TS 36.413 [19] E-UTRAN.
## 5.5 EPS functionality for handovers between 3GPP and HRPD access
### 5.5.0 General
When both the 3GPP and HRPD accesses support emergency calls in the packet
domain, support for handover of emergency calls between 3GPP access and HRPD
access follows the architecture and flows in TS 23.402 [20] for handover
between 3GPP and non-3GPP accesses.
\- For the cases of non-optimized handover between 3GPP access and HRPD access
and optimized handover from HRPD to 3GPP access, the emergency call is over a
PDN connection that may not be in the same default PDN. As with the flows for
these cases in 23.402, the UE establishes the PDN connection for the emergency
call after the default PDN is handed over. In these cases when the target
access is 3GPP access, the emergency requirements on the attach procedures in
Annex B.2 for normal mode UEs and Annex C for limited service mode UEs apply.
\- For the case of optimized handover from 3GPP to HRPD access, when an
emergency call is established in LTE, the context for the emergency call is
established in the HRPD access prior to handover using session maintenance
procedures over the S101 interface.
### 5.5.1 Key Issue 1: Availability of APN and PDN GW address in limited
service mode for network based handovers
#### 5.5.1.1 Description
When a UE performs an attach with the EPS, the HSS stores an APN and PDN GW
identity for the UE. However, when the UE is in limited service mode and does
not have a validated IMSI, it will not have a record in the HSS. This
information is needed for handover to HRPD access because the PDN GW identity
is retrieved from the HSS/3GPP AAA Server when the UE attaches to the non-3GPP
access.
#### 5.5.1.2 Solution
When a UE which is in limited service mode and does not have a validated IMSI
performs a emergency call handover from 3GPP access to HPRD access, besides
emergency APN and PDN GW address in the direct transfer request message to
HRPD on S101 as specified in TS 23.402 [20], the MME will also include IMEI as
no IMSI is provided. This applies in the optimized handover case, and is not
available in the non optimized case.
### 5.5.2 Key Issue 2: Identification of an emergency call at attach for HRPD
access
#### 5.5.2.1 Description
When a UE attaches to an HRPD access for handover of an emergency call, the
HRPD access must have a means to indicate to the EPC that a PDN connection is
for an emergency call.
#### 5.5.2.2 Solution
As with 3GPP access, the HRPD access will provide to the PDN GW an Emergency
APN.
NOTE: How Emergency APN is provided to the HRPD access is defined in
specifications for the HRPD access technology and is outside the scope of
3GPP.
### 5.5.3 Key Issue 3: Emergency call handover from HRPD access to E-UTRAN in
limited service mode
#### 5.5.3.1 Description
When a UE performs handover from HRPD access to E-UTRAN, Attach procedure
specified in TS 23.401 [14] is used. The Attach procedure is shared with
several procedures including the initial attach, handover (especially from
non-3GPP) and emergency attach. And it is expected that the emergency call
handover procedure is different from emergency attach and the Attach procedure
should be modified to support the emergency call handover. Therefore, it is
needed to distinguish emergency handover from the existing procedures
including the emergency attach for adding an appropriate emergency call
handover flow into the Attach procedure. And also other relevant procedures
should be considered in same way.
#### 5.5.3.2 Solution
## 5.6 EPS functionality for HRPD access
### 5.6.1 Overview of EPS functionality
The solution for the EPS is aimed at supporting both normal mode and limited
service mode. When the UE is in normal service mode the normal mobility
management procedures for HRPD apply. As the UE enters limited service mode
(e.g., Attach request is rejected), special mobility management procedures for
emergency service may be needed to access EPS. For Release 9, the proposed
solution uses the emergency APN. In all cases (e.g., home, roaming, normal
mode, limited service mode), emergency connectivity to an emergency APN will
be used. The UE initiates the emergency connectivity upon recognition of
dialled emergency number.
The ARP values set for the bearer used to provide connectivity to the
Emergency APN shall be adequate to support emergency services (this is to be
decided when the ARP definition is complete) and the QCI shall select a GBR
service for conversational voice service. And the GBR set to the value
necessary to support the selected codec for the emergency service.
As with 3GPP access, an emergency attach is used for HRPD access only when:
\- the UE is in limited service mode and
\- the UE is attempting to set up an emergency session
Support for emergency in specific HRPD access is documented in specifications
for that technology, such as [21].
###### ### Annex A: Release 7 CRs for GPRS Emergency Services
The following table contains the Release 7 CRs addressed under the IMS
Emergency Services agenda item in SA#36, SA#37 and SA#38. The CRs with the
status \"open\" need to be considered for Release 9.
+------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | SA# | SP pkg | TS | CR# | D | Action | Status | | | | | | escription | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070263 | | | LS from | None | closed | | | | | | SA2 asking | | | | | | | | about GPRS | | | | | | | | in rel.7 | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070427 | | | Nokia/NSN | Use as | open | | | | | | summary of | guideline | | | | | | | GPRS | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | status | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070435 | | | LS from CT | Send LS to | open | | | | | | regarding | CT once | | | | | | | GPRS | SA2 | | | | | | | status in | accepts | | | | | | | rel.7; CT | CRs to TSs | | | | | | | CRs | | | | | | | | pending SA | | | | | | | | decision | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070910 | 22.101 | 0245 | Limits IM | approved | closed | | | | | | CN support | at SA#38; | | | | | | | to IWLAN | N/A for | | | | | | | and FBI | SA2; | | | | | | | | verify | | | | | | | | Rel-9 did | | | | | | | | not also | | | | | | | | change | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070383 | 23.060 | 0594R2 | - Adds | rejected | open | | | | | | clause 5.x | at SA#36; | | | | | | | describing | consider | | | | | | | what | as | | | | | | | is/not | separate | | | | | | | supported | parts in | | | | | | | for emer | Rel-9/TR; | | | | | | | calls | clause 5.x | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | - Adds | reflect | | | | | | | ref to QoS | Rel-9 | | | | | | | (TS | fun | | | | | | | 23.107) | ctionality | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - Adds | | | | | | | | ntwk | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | tification | | | | | | | | of SGSN | | | | | | | | support of | | | | | | | | PS emer | | | | | | | | calls. | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070383 | 23.060 | 0595R2 | To support | rejected | open | | | | | | priority | at SA#36; | | | | | | | of PS emer | consider | | | | | | | calls, the | for | | | | | | | Allocation | Rel-9/TR | | | | | | | /Retention | | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | nformation | | | | | | | | Element is | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | e-verified | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070383 | 23.060 | 0596 | Cla | rejected | open | | | | | | rification | at SA#36; | | | | | | | of | consider | | | | | | | Emergency | for | | | | | | | APN | Rel-9/TR | | | | | | | selection | | | | | | | | rules due | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | incomplete | | | | | | | | impl | | | | | | | | ementation | | | | | | | | of CR0586; | | | | | | | | Missing | | | | | | | | decision | | | | | | | | action | | | | | | | | APN(R) | | | | | | | | =Em-APN is | | | | | | | | added into | | | | | | | | Figure | | | | | | | | A.1:SDL | | | | | | | | Diagram 1 | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 37 | 070535 | 23.060 | 0598 | All | approved | open | | | | | | changes | at SA#37; | | | | | | | introduced | consider | | | | | | | by CR | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | 0586rev1( | | | | | | | | S2-070565) | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | removed: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | TS23.167 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - Em-APN | | | | | | | | ab | | | | | | | | breviation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - Em-APN | | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | | handling | | | | | | | | in PDP | | | | | | | | Context | | | | | | | | Activation | | | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | - Em-APN | | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | | handling | | | | | | | | in APN | | | | | | | | selection | | | | | | | | rules | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070384 | 23.107 | 0162R3 | Emergency | rejected | closed | | | | | | Indication | at SA#36; | | | | | | | is added | not | | | | | | | to the | needed, | | | | | | | UMTS QoS | PCC | | | | | | | a | support of | | | | | | | ttributes. | emergency | | | | | | | | services | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | complishes | | | | | | | | this. | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070385 | 23.167 | 0065R1 | Aligns | approved | closed | | | | | | CS/PS | at SA#36; | | | | | | | selection | complete | | | | | | | w/22.101 | for Rel-9 | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 36 | 070385 | 23.167 | 0066 | Removes | approved | closed | | | | | | Editor\'s | at SA#36; | | | | | | | note on | complete | | | | | | | access | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | reject of | | | | | | | | anonymous | | | | | | | | request | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 37 | 070535 | 23.167 | 0067R6 | Require a | approved | closed | | | | | | UE to | at SA#37; | | | | | | | include | complete | | | | | | | IP-CAN | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | identity | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nformation | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | available | | | | | | | | in the SIP | | | | | | | | INVITE to | | | | | | | | enable a | | | | | | | | P-CSCF to | | | | | | | | determine | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | general UE | | | | | | | | location | | | | | | | | -- e.g. if | | | | | | | | the UE is | | | | | | | | roaming. | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 37 | 070535 | 23.167 | 0069R3 | Removes | approved | open | | | | | | GPRS | at SA#37; | | | | | | | refer | consider | | | | | | | ences/text | parts for | | | | | | | | Rel-9 | | | | | | | | (Annex A | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nformation | | | | | | | | goes in | | | | | | | | the new | | | | | | | | TR) | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070887 | 23.167 | 0071R1 | Correction | approved | closed | | | | | | of | at SA#38; | | | | | | | Emergency | complete | | | | | | | Re | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | gistration | | | | | | | | Required | | | | | | | | 380 | | | | | | | | Response | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070887 | 23.167 | 0072R1 | Cleanup of | approved | closed | | | | | | o | at SA#38; | | | | | | | utstanding | complete | | | | | | | issues for | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | (removes | | | | | | | | several | | | | | | | | editor\'s | | | | | | | | notes) | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070887 | 23.167 | 0075R1 | 380 | approved | closed | | | | | | response | at SA#38; | | | | | | | generation | complete | | | | | | | | for Rel-9 | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070887 | 23.167 | 0077R4 | P-CSCF | approved | closed | | | | | | procedure | at SA#38; | | | | | | | clar | complete | | | | | | | ifications | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | gistration | | | | | | | | time | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 37 | 070549 | 23.203 | 0051 | Removal of | approved | open | | | | | | PCC | at SA#37; | | | | | | | ve | consider | | | | | | | rification | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | that | but in the | | | | | | | Emergency | GPRS | | | | | | | APN is | specific | | | | | | | used for | clause | | | | | | | IM CN | A.1.3.2.1 | | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | | | call | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070887 | 23.221 | 0054R2 | see | revised to | closed | | | | | | CR0054R3 | 070897 at | | | | | | | | SA#38; | | | | | | | | N/A for | | | | | | | | SA2 | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 38 | 070897 | 23.221 | 0054R3 | Removal of | approved | open | | | | | | GPRS | at SA#38; | | | | | | | specific | consider | | | | | | | support | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | for | via 2 CRs; | | | | | | | Emergency | 1 for | | | | | | | | normal | | | | | | | | mode, 2nd | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | limited | | | | | | | | mode | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+ | 37 | 070535 | 23.228 | 0700 | Add TS | approved | closed | | | | | | 23.167 IMS | at SA#37; | | | | | | | emergency | complete | | | | | | | sessions | for Rel-9 | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | reference | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | 23.228 and | | | | | | | | correct | | | | | | | | clause | | | | | | | | 5.13 to | | | | | | | | indicate | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | support of | | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | | | session | | | +------+--------+--------+--------+------------+------------+--------+
###### ### Annex B: IMS Emergency Calls over UTRAN and E-UTRAN
# B.1 IMS Emergency Calls over UTRAN
## B.1.1 UTRAN Use Cases
### B.1.1.1 Normal Mode -- Initial Call
For a UTRAN based IMS Subscriber with valid GPRS and IMS subscriptions, the
following procedures are needed to initiate an IMS Emergency Call over UTRAN.
+----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | | Home/ | Attached | IMS | Action | | | | | | | | | Roaming | | Registered? | | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | 1a | Home | Yes | Yes | **Case 1a: IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration is | | | | | | required**[^3] | | | | | | | | | | | | a) Create PDP | | | | | | Context to | | | | | | Emergency APN (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate IMS | | | | | | Emergency Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) GGSN/PGW static | | | | | | filters to ensure | | | | | | Em-APN limited use | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | 1b | Home | Yes | Yes | **Case 1b: No IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | Required** | | | | | | | | | | | | a) No GPRS action | | | | | | needed; | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Initiate IMS | | | | | | Emergency Call | | | | | | | | | | | | c) P-CSCF detects | | | | | | emergency session | | | | | | and informs | | | | | | GGSN/PGW via PCRF | | | | | | of Emergency | | | | | | Session (this may | | | | | | trigger network | | | | | | requested QoS | | | | | | procedure to have a | | | | | | secondary PDP | | | | | | context for the | | | | | | emergency call). | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | 2 | Home | Yes | No | a) Create PDP | | | | | | Context to | | | | | | Emergency APN (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate IMS | | | | | | Emergency Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) GGSN/PGW static | | | | | | filters to ensure | | | | | | Em-APN limited use | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | 3 | Home | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | Attach[^4] | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Create PDP | | | | | | Context to | | | | | | Emergency APN (with | | | | | | appropriate QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate IMS | | | | | | Emergency Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) GGSN/PGW static | | | | | | filters to ensure | | | | | | EmAPN limited use | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | 4 | Roaming | Yes | Yes or No | a) Create PDP | | | | | | Context to | | | | | | Emergency APN (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate IMS | | | | | | Emergency Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Local GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static filters to | | | | | | ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+ | 5 | Roaming | No | No | a) Normal Attach | | | | | | (see footnote 2) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Create PDP | | | | | | Context to | | | | | | Emergency APN (with | | | | | | appropriate QoS/ | | | | | | priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate IMS | | | | | | Emergency Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) Local GGSN/PGW | | | | | | static filters to | | | | | | ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------+-------------+---------------------+
### B.1.1.2 Normal Mode -- Handover
* * *
      Use Case                                                      Solution
6 UTRAN based IMS capable UE that has no roaming restrictions Only intra-PLMN
handovers are considered in Rel‑9. A UE in normal mode is allowed to perform
handovers and are not restricted from entering a new area so no enhancements
are needed.
* * *
## B.1.2 GPRS Non-Emergency Procedures to Support Emergency Sessions
The following are based on CRs that were agreed in Release 7 for GPRS
emergency call support and need to be reconsidered for Release 9:
### B.1.2.1 Network Indicator
To inform the UE whether or not the network supports the Emergency APN, the
SGSN will always include the \"Emergency Support Indication\" in the response
to the UE on Attach and Routing Update (Attach Accept, Routing Update Accept,
Attach Reject, Routing Update Reject).
# B.2 IMS Emergency Calls over E-UTRAN
## B.2.1 E-UTRAN Use Cases
### B.2.1.1 Normal Mode -- Initial Call
For a E-UTRAN based IMS Subscriber with valid EPS and IMS subscriptions, the
following procedures are needed to initiate an IMS Emergency Call over
E-UTRAN.
+----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | | Home/ | EMM-Registered | IMS | Action | | | | | | | | | Roaming | | Registered? | | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | 1a | Home | Yes | Yes | **Case 1a: IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration is | | | | | | required**[^7] | | | | | | | | | | | | a) UE | | | | | | requested PDN | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency APN | | | | | | (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Call via E-CSCF | | | | | | | | | | | | d) PDN GW | | | | | | static filters | | | | | | to ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | 1b | Home | Yes | Yes | **Case 1b: No | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | Required** | | | | | | | | | | | | a) No EPS | | | | | | action needed; | | | | | | | | | | | | b) Initiate | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | c) P-CSCF | | | | | | detects | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | session and | | | | | | informs PDN GW | | | | | | via PCRF of | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Session (this | | | | | | may trigger | | | | | | network | | | | | | requested QoS | | | | | | procedure to | | | | | | have dedicated | | | | | | GBR bearer for | | | | | | the emergency | | | | | | call). | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | 2 | Home | Yes | No | a) UE | | | | | | requested PDN | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency APN | | | | | | (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) PDN GW | | | | | | static filters | | | | | | to ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | 3 | Home | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | Attach [^8] | | | | | | | | | | | | b) UE | | | | | | requested PDN | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency APN | | | | | | (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) PDN GW | | | | | | static filters | | | | | | to ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | 4 | Roaming | Yes | Yes or No | a) UE | | | | | | requested PDN | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency APN | | | | | | (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | c) Initiate | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Local PDN | | | | | | GW static | | | | | | filters to | | | | | | ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+ | 5 | Roaming | No | No | a) Normal | | | | | | Attach (see | | | | | | footnote 4) | | | | | | | | | | | | b) UE | | | | | | requested PDN | | | | | | connectivity | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Emergency APN | | | | | | (with | | | | | | appropriate | | | | | | QoS/ priority/ | | | | | | ARP/P-CSCF | | | | | | assignment) | | | | | | | | | | | | c) IMS | | | | | | Emergency | | | | | | Registration | | | | | | | | | | | | d) Initiate | | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | | | | e) Local PDN | | | | | | GW static | | | | | | filters to | | | | | | ensure EmAPN | | | | | | limited use | +----+---------+----------------+-------------+-----------------+
### B.2.1.2 Normal Mode -- Handover
* * *
      Use Case                                                     Solution
6 E-UTRAN based IMS capable UE with no roaming restrictions. Only intra-PLMN
handovers are considered in Rel.9. A UE in normal mode is allowed to perform
handovers and are not restricted from entering a new area so no enhancements
are needed.
* * *
## B.2.2 EPS Non-Emergency Procedures to Support Emergency Sessions
The following are based on CRs that were agreed in Release 7 for GPRS
emergency call support and need to be considered for EPS:
### B.2.2.1 Network Indicator
To inform the UE whether or not the network supports the Emergency APN, the
MME will always include the \"Emergency Support Indication\" in the response
to the UE on Attach and Tracking Area Update (Attach Accept, Tracking Area
Update Accept, Attach Reject, Tracking Area Update Reject).
###### ### Annex C: Local regulation for emergency call
Local regulation for emergency calling sometimes requires a network to provide
emergency call handling regardless of a caller\'s subscription.
Local regulation for emergency call support is grouped into the following
categories: \"Normal Mode\", \"Valid IMSI limited\", and \"All Emergency Calls
(All-EmCalls)\".
The following table summarizes the necessary procedures to support UEs in
different service states for each of the categories of local regulation. The
type of local regulation a network supports is in the \"Local Regulation\"
column and the UE service states are in the \"Valid IMSI\", \"Valid
Location\", and \"Valid Service\" columns.
+----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Local | Valid | Valid | Valid | Action | | | re | | | | | | | gulation | IMSI | Location | Service | | | | | | | | | | | (Note 1) | | (Note 2) | (Note 3) | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | Normal | N | Y or N | Y or N | During | | | only | | | | network | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | lection: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a) | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | fails | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c) No | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | | | | | | | d) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | Reject; | | | | | | | **emer = | | | | | | | N** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Later if | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | detects | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | call, | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | be able | | | | | | | to use | | | | | | | the PS | | | | | | | network. | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | Normal | Y | N | Y or N | During | | | only | | | | network | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | lection: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a) | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | succeeds | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c) | | | | | | | Update | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | failure | | | | | | | | | | | | | | d) No | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | Reject; | | | | | | | **emer = | | | | | | | N** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Later if | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | detects | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | call, | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | be able | | | | | | | to use | | | | | | | the PS | | | | | | | network. | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | Normal | Y | Y or N | N | Same as | | | only | | | | Invalid | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | (case 2) | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | Valid | N | Y or N | Y or N | During | | | IMSI | | | | network | | | limited | | | | se | | | | | | | lection: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a) | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | fails | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | reject; | | | | | | | **emer = | | | | | | | N** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Later if | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | detects | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | call, | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | be able | | | | | | | to use | | | | | | | the PS | | | | | | | network. | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | Valid | Y | N | Y or N | During | | | IMSI | | | | network | | | limited | | | | se | | | | | | | lection: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a) | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | succeeds | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c) | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | Update | | | | | | | fails | | | | | | | | | | | | | | d) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | reject; | | | | | | | **emer = | | | | | | | Y** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Later if | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | detects | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | call: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e) | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | Attach; | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | **IMSI** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | f) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | succeeds | | | | | | | | | | | | | | g) Skip | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | update | | | | | | | | | | | | | | h) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | Accept; | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | emer=Y**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | i) | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | | Context | | | | | | | (GPRS) | | | | | | | or PDN | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | (EPS) to | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | APN | | | | | | | (with | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | ropriate | | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | riority/ | | | | | | | AR | | | | | | | P/P-CSCF | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | ignment) | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | Valid | Y | Y or N | N | Same as | | | IMSI | | | | Valid | | | limited | | | | IMSI | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | Invalid | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | (case 5) | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | All | N | Y or N | Y or N | During | | | -EmCalls | | | | network | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | lection: | | | | | | | (Note 4) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a) | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | fails | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | reject; | | | | | | |** emer = | | | | | | | Y**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | Later if | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | detects | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | call: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | d) | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | Attach; | | | | | | | include | | | | | | |** IMEI**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | e) Skip | | | | | | | Authenti | | | | | | | cation* | | | | | | | | | | | | | | f) Skip | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | update | | | | | | | | | | | | | | g) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | Accept; | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | emer=Y** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | h) | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | | Context | | | | | | | (GPRS) | | | | | | | or PDN | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | (EPS) to | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | APN | | | | | | | (with | | | | | | | P-TMSI, | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | ropriate | | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | riority/ | | | | | | | AR | | | | | | | P/P-CSCF | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | ignment) | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | All | Y | N | Y or N | During | | | -EmCalls | | | | network | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | lection: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | a) | | | | | | | Normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ocedures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | b) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | succeeds | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c) | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | Update | | | | | | | fails | | | | | | | | | | | | | | d) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | reject; | | | | | | | **emer = | | | | | | | Y** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Later if | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | detects | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | call: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | e) | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | Attach; | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | **IMSI** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | f) | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | succeeds | | | | | | | | | | | | | | g) Skip | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | update | | | | | | | | | | | | | | h) | | | | | | | Attach | | | | | | | Accept; | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | emer=Y**| | | | | | | | | | | | | | i) | | | | | | | Create | | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | | Context | | | | | | | (GPRS) | | | | | | | or PDN | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | nnection | | | | | | | (EPS) to | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | APN | | | | | | | (with | | | | | | | P-TMSI, | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | ropriate | | | | | | | QoS/ | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | riority/ | | | | | | | AR | | | | | | | P/P-CSCF | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | ignment) | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | All | Y | Y or N | N | Same as | | | -EmCalls | | | | All | | | | | | | -EmCalls | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | invalid | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | (case 8) | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Local | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | gulation | | | | | | | -- the | | | | | | | entries | | | | | | | in this | | | | | | | column | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | epresent | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | minimal | | | | | | | level of | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | required | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ervices. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Valid | | | | | | | Location | | | | | | | - the UE | | | | | | | is being | | | | | | | served | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | area it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ttached. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | Valid | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | -- the | | | | | | | UE is | | | | | | | allowed | | | | | | | PS | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | barred | | | | | | | due to | | | | | | | credit | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | exh | | | | | | | austion) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | UEs that | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | aware | | | | | | | that an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | IMSI | | | | | | | will be | | | | | | | denied | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | UE\'s | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | an UICC, | | | | | | | UE\'s | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | eviously | | | | | | | received | | | | | | | \"IMSI | | | | | | | unknown | | | | | | | in HLR\" | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | \"PLMN | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | llowed\" | | | | | | | reject), | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | may skip | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | normal | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | attempt | | | | | | | (steps | | | | | | | a, b, c) | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | initiate | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | mergency | | | | | | | attach | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | IMEI, | | | | | | | starting | | | | | | | at step | | | | | | | d. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+ |** * | | | | | | | Authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | may not | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | pe | | | | | | | rformed. | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | authen | | | | | | | tication | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | erformed | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | fails, | | | | | | | access | | | | | | | would | | | | | | | still be | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | lowed.** | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
# C.1 GPRS/EPS enhancements to support Limited Service Mode UEs
From the table above, the following functionality is required:
(1) Including the \"Emergency Support Network Indicator\" on
Attach/Routing/Tracking Update Reject messages is used to inform the UE of the
network\'s support of Emergency Services for \"Limited Service Mode\" UEs. If
the indicator is set to \"no\" in a reject to the UE, then the UE will not
attempt an Emergency Attach while in a limited service mode. If the indicator
is set to \"yes\" in a reject to the UE, then the UE may perform an Emergency
Attach while in limited service mode.
(2) Where IMSI is used as the UE identifier for mobility management; for UEs
that do not have a valid IMSI, the IMEI will be used as the UE identifier
(e.g., Attach, Request PDP Context, Forward Relocation Request). Once
attached, the SGSN/MME will generate a P-TMSI for the UE that can be used for
UE -- SGSN/MME signalling (include P-TMSI in Attach Accept).
(3) When a UE performs an Emergency Attach with IMEI, authentication is
skipped or if performed and fails, will continue with the Emergency Attach.
(4) When a UE performs an Emergency Attach (IMSI or IMEI) the HLR Location
Update is skipped.
(5) Inter-SGSN/MME Relocation procedures (Forward Relocation Request) will
need to include an indication that the UE is in limited service mode so that
authentication and/or updating the HLR with the new location can either be
skipped or if fails, the call can still be allowed to continue if required by
local regulation.
###### ### Annex D: TS 23.401 Release 9 Changes
Key : Green highlight indicates new text for existing TS 23.401 clauses . TS
23.401 clause 5.9.2 is all new text for IMS emergency call support.
****************************Start of Change
23.401v830_S2-087299.1**************************
NOTICE: ALL TEXT UNDER TS 23.401 CLAUSE 5.9.2 IS NEW
5.9.2 IMS Emergency Call Support
5.9.2.1 Introduction
The bearer services for IMS emergency call support are functionalities
provided by the serving network of the UE and do not require a subscription.
However, subscription related restrictions such as roaming restrictions and
bearer limits may apply to the emergency bearer services , depending on local
regulation. To provide IMS emergency services, the MME is configured with
Emergency Configuration Data that is applied to all emergency bearer services
that are established on UE request. The Emergency Configuration Data contains
the Emergency APN which is used to derive PDN GW.
5.9.2.2 EPC Capabilities to Support IMS Emergency Calls
5.9.2.2.1 Introduction
EPC functions and capabilities are provided per clause 4 except as specified
in the following clauses .
5.9.2.2.2 Architecture Reference Model
Per clause 4.2, the non-roaming architectures (Figure 4.2.1-1 and Figure
4.2.1-2) and roaming architecture with the visited operator\'s application
function (Figure 4.2.2-3) apply. The other roaming architectures with services
provided by the home network do not apply.
5.9.2.2.3 Mobility Restrictions
When local regulation requires Emergency Calls to be provided regardless of
mobility restrictions, the _Mobility Restrictions per clause 4.3.5.7_ , should
not be applied to emergency connections. When emergency bearers are created,
the MME includes an indication to E-UTRAN. When in state ECM_CONNECTED, the
source E-UTRAN considers this indication during handover evaluation. If only
restricted target cells are available, E-UTRAN can handover the emergency
bearers and include non-emergency bearers in the \"Bearers to be Released\"
list.
5.9.2.2.4 PDN GW selection function (3GPP accesses)
When a PDN GW is selected for IMS emergency call support, the _PDN GW
selection function_ described in clause 4.3.8.1 for normal bearer services
does not apply. The PDN GW selection does not depend on subscriber information
in the HSS since emergency call support is a local, not subscribed service.
The PDN GW selection function shall derive a suitable PDN GW in the visited
PLMN by using the Emergency APN. The PDN GW address is derived from the
Emergency APN and the protocol type on S5 (PMIP or GTP) by using the Domain
Name Service function.
If the Domain Name Service function provides a list of PDN GW addresses, one
PDN GW address is selected from this list. If the selected PDN GW cannot be
used, e.g. due to an error, then another PDN GW is selected from the list. The
specific interaction between the MME and the Domain Name Service function may
include functionality to allow for the retrieval or provision of additional
information regarding the PDN GW capabilities (e.g. whether the PDN GW
supports PMIP‑based or GTP-based S5/S8, or both).
If the PDN GW identity is statically configured in the MME, then it may be a
FQDN or an IP Address[es].
5.9.2.2.5 QoS
The EPS Bearer description in clause 4.7.2.1states \"_The initial bearer level
QoS parameter values of the default bearer are assigned by the network, based
on subscription data (in case of E-UTRAN the MME sets those initial values
based on subscription data retrieved from HSS). The PCEF may change those
values based in interaction with the PCRF or based on local configuration._ \"
Where local regulation supports calls from an unauthorised caller, the MME may
not have subscription data. Additionally, the local network may want to
provide IMS emergency call support differently than what is allowed by a UE
subscription. Therefore, the initial QoS values configured in the MME will be
based on local configuration. The PDN GW can make the final decision on QoS
parameters.
5.9.2.2.6 PCC
When connecting to a PDN GW for IMS emergency call support and dynamic policy
is used, per clause 4.7.5, the PCRF provides the PDN GW with the QoS
parameters, including ARP for the emergency bearers to prioritize the bearers
when performing admission control. Per clause 4.7.5, local configuration of
static policy functions is also allowed and not subject to standardization.
The PDN GW can make the final decision on QoS parameters.
The PCRF also has the ability to ensure the emergency PDN GW connection is
used only for IMS emergency sessions. The PCRF can reject an IMS session
established via the emergency PDN GW connection if the AF (i.e., P-CSCF) does
not provide an emergency indication to the PCRF.
5.9.2.2.7 IP Address Allocation
When an emergency session is established in the visited/serving network, and
if the UE does not have an IP address, the UE is assigned a dynamic IP address
in the visited/serving network. The PDN type value shall be according to UE
capabilities and network preference (if preference is applicable for a UE).
5.9.2.2.8 Load re-balancing between MMEs
As per load re-balancing procedures in clause 4.3.7.3, the MME is allowed to
off-load ECM-CONNECTED mode UEs by initiating S1 Release procedures. When a UE
is in ECM-CONNECTED mode with an active emergency session, the MME should not
release the UE. The MME should wait until the UE initiates a TAU or becomes
inactive. The MME may release the UE under critical conditions such as the
need to perform an MME node restart.
5.9.2.x1 Emergency Attach
An Emergency Attach procedure, based on the _Attach Procedure_ in clause
5.3.2.1, is used when a UE is in a limited service mode and the UE needs a PDN
connection for emergency services The enhancements needed to support Emergency
Attach are:
a) The Attach Request indicates request type \"emergency\".
b) If the UE has a valid IMSI it includes it otherwise the UE includes its
IMEI in the emergency attach request.
c) Where local regulation requires support for unauthenticated or unauthorized
UEs, subscription and authorization procedures may be skipped or performed and
failing is accepted.
The _Attach Procedure_ Steps are modified as follows:
Step 1 (Attach Request): UE includes the emergency attach indication and IMSI
or IMEI. If the UE has a valid IMSI then it includes the IMSI when initiating
Attach with request type \"emergency\". Otherwise the IMEI is included.
Step 5a (Authentication): If the MME is configured to accept unauthenticated
emergency services the MME skips the authentication procedure or accepts that
authentication fails when the request type is "emergency".
Step 5b (Identity Request-ME Identity): The IMEI may have been included in
Step 1. If not, it may be requested. If the MME is configured to accept
unauthenticated emergency services the MME skips the IMEI check or accepts
that it fails when the request type is "emergency".
Step 8 (Update Location Request): The location update is not performed for an
unauthenticated UE and may not be performed for unauthorized UE.
Step 11 For UEs with valid IMSI MME does not reject emergency attach due to
access restrictions, regional restrictions or subscription check failure and
does not notify any reject to HSS.
Step 12 (Create Default Bearer): For request type "emergency" the MME applies
the parameters from MME Emergency Configuration Data.
Step 14 (PCC): Where dynamic PCC is deployed, the PCRF, recognizing the
emergency APN, instructs the PCEF that the bearer is used for emergency
services by setting the ARP of the PCC rules so that bearers can be
prioritized when performing admission control. If dynamic PCC is not deployed,
static rules are configured in the PDN GW.
Step 17 (Initial Context Setup Request/Attach Accept): The MME determines the
UE AMBR to be used by the eNB based on MME configured values. The MME includes
an ARP value reserved for emergency service for the emergency bearers in the
Session Management Request.
Step 25 (Notify Request): The Notify Request is not performed for an
unauthenticated UE and may not be performed for unauthorized UE.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if handover to non-3PPP accesses is supported during
an emergency call for UEs without a valid IMSI (i.e., no HSS entry).
5.9.2.x2 Emergency Tracking Area Update
This procedure is executed when the UE has an on-going emergency call when a
tracking area update is triggered. If the MME changes, the emergency
connection information must be conveyed to the MME so that the appropriate
service level can be maintained.
Tracking area update during an emergency call is based on the procedures in
clause 5.3.3. The enhancements needed to support IMS Emergency Calls are:
a) If emergency calls are supported for UEs in a limited service mode, the
tracking area update must succeed if the UE moves to a restricted area during
the emergency call. This includes continuing the procedure if security
procedures fail or the location update fails or indicates the UE is now in a
restricted area.
The _Tracking Area Update procedure with Serving GW change_ Steps in clause
5.3.3.1 are enhanced or used as follows:
Step 4, Step 6, Step 7 (Context Request/Authentication/Context Acknowledge):
For emergency calls in limited service mode and where the network supports
emergency calls in limited service mode, the validation procedures may be
skipped. If performed and fails, the TAU may proceed where required by local
regulation.
Step 5 (Context Response): Per clause 5.3.3.1, the APN is included in the MME
context information, thereby conveying the emergency call context when the APN
is the Emergency APN.
Step 12 (Update Location): For emergency calls in limited service mode and
where the network supports emergency calls in limited service mode, the
location update procedures may be skipped. If performed and fails, the TAU may
proceed where required by local regulation.
Step 15 (Update Location Ack): The regional subscription restrictions and
access restrictions are ignored where emergency access is required per local
regulation.
The _Tracking Area Update procedure without Serving GW change_ Steps in clause
5.3.3.2 are enhanced or used as follows:
Step 4, Step 6, Step 8, Step 9 (Context Request(oMME)/Context Request(oSGSN),
Authentication/Context Acknowledge): For emergency calls in limited service
mode and where the network supports emergency calls in limited service mode,
the validation procedures may be skipped. If performed and fails, the TAU may
proceed where required by local regulation.
Step 5 (Context Response): Per clause 5.3.3.1, the APN is included in the MME
context information, thereby conveying the emergency call context when the APN
is the Emergency APN.
Step 16 (Update Location): For emergency calls in limited service mode and
where the network supports emergency calls in limited service mode, the
location update procedures may be skipped. If performed and fails, the TAU may
proceed where required by local regulation.
Step 21 (Update Location Ack): The regional subscription restrictions and
access restrictions are ignored where emergency access is required per local
regulation.
5.9.2.x3 Detach Procedures
The user that is emergency attached, may need to re-initiate the emergency
call, for example, if the call dropped. Explicit UE initiated detach and MME
initiated implicit detach procedures per clause 5.3.8 apply. MME initiated
implicit detach procedures are based on an inactivity timeout specific to
limited service mode. This timer may be shorter than that used for non-
emergency inactivity timeouts.
The Detach procedures for UEs that are emergency attached are handled per
normal detach procedures in clause 5.3.8. The enhancements needed to support
IMS Emergency Calls are as follows:
The _UE-initiated Detach Procedure_ in clause 5.3.8.2 Steps are enhanced as
follows:
Step 1, Note 3: NAS security is not performed for an emergency attached UE.
5.9.2.x4 Emergency PDN Connection
This procedure is executed after the UE has successfully attached to the EPS.
When the UE detects an emergency call, it establishes a PDN connection using
the emergency APN so that emergency call handling can be provided by the local
EPS per EPS configuration without subscription limitations.
A UE request for emergency PDN connectivity is based on the _UE request for
PDN connectivity procedure_ in clause 5.10.2. The enhancements needed to
support IMS Emergency Calls are:
a) The PDN Connectivity Request indicates request type \"emergency\". The APN
included is the emergency APN.
Editors note: It is to be defined whether the APN from the MME Emergency
Configuration Data or the APN signalled from UE takes precedence for the PDN
GW selection.
b) MME configured Emergency Configuration Data is used to establish the
default bearer.
The _UE request for PDN connectivity procedure_ Steps are enhanced as follows:
Step 1 (PDN Connectivity Request): Request type indicates \"emergency\". The
APN includedis is the Emergency APN that the MME recognizes and therefore does
not verify against the UE\'s subscription.
Step 2 (Create Default Bearer Request): Parameters derived from MME Emergency
Configuration Data are used for establishing the default bearer.
Step 4 (PCC): Where dynamic PCC is deployed, the PCRF, recognizing the
emergency APN, instructs the PCEF that the bearer is used for emergency
services by setting the ARP of the PCC rules so that bearers can be
prioritised when performing admission control. Otherwise, these rules are
statically configured in the PDN GW. If dynamic PCC is not deployed, static
rules are configured in the PDN GW.
Step 7 (Bearer Setup Request): The MME determines the UE AMBR to be used by
the eNB. Either the existing UE AMBR value is reused or a new UE AMBR is
determined based on MME configured values for the UE-AMBR and the updated set
of APN-AMBRs in use. The MME includes an ARP value reserved for emergency
service for the emergency bearers in the Session Management Request.
Step 15 (Notify Request): The Notify Request including the Emergency APN and
PDN GW identity is sent to the HSS.
5.9.2.x5 UE requested PDN connectivity during Limited Service Mode
In a limited service mode of operation, the UE shall not request any
additional PDN connectivity when already connected via Emergency Attach
procedure, as specified in 5.9.2.x1. If a UE does make an attempt to initiate
an additional PDN connection in this scenario, the MME shall reject this
request.
5.9.2.x6 Handover
When the source eNodeB needs to handover the UE to a target eNodeB, under
ordinary circumstances the source eNodeB will not select a target if it is on
the Handover Restricted List. An exception is when there are no other targets
and the eNodeB needs to handover emergency bearers. The source eNodeB may
select a target eNodeB that is on the Handover Restricted List for emergency
bearers and request the MME to release non-emergency bearers.
The target eNodeB is also allowed to reject bearers during handover. The
target eNodeB needs to take into consideration the emergency bearer QoS
indicator (e.g. the ARP) when determining which bearers to reject.
When the MME receives the list of bearers to be released, the MME will release
according to the bearer deactivation procedures in clause 5.4.3.
This eNodeB check for emergency bearer QoS is applicable to the following
handover procedures:
\- Clause 5.5.1.1.2, X2-based handover without Serving GW relocation:
(Handover execution) -- the source eNodeB would not include non-emergency
bearers in the handover request to the target eNodeB if the target is on the
Handover Restricted List. The source eNodeB sends a Bearer Release Request to
the MME for the bearers that were not included in the Handover Request. If the
target eNodeB was not restricted all bearers, were included in the Handover
Request. If the target eNodeB can not accept all bearers, it needs to consider
the emergency bearer QoS when selecting bearers to accept.
\- Clause 5.5.1.1.3, X2-based handover with Serving GW relocation:
(Handover execution) -- same eNodeB handling as described above.
\- Clause 5.5.1.2 S1-based handover:
Step 2 (Handover Required) -- if the target eNodeB is restricted, the source
eNodeB only includes emergency bearers.
Step 5 (Handover Request Ack) -- when considering which bearers to allow, the
target eNodeB needs to consider the ARP value reserved for emergency bearer.
Step 9 (Handover Command) -- if the Handover Command was received from a
restricted target, the source eNodeB can request the MME to release the non-
emergency bearers.
5.9.2.x7 Location Support
Emergency location functionality may be based on a user plane solution
specified by OMA in SUPL 2.0 [x1] or based on a control plane solution for EPS
[x2]. See also TS 23.167 [x3] for additional location functionality that may
be supported for IMS emergency calls.
NOTE: Support for UICC-less is defined by OMA as of SUPL 2.0. Possible
improvement of SUPL support for UICC-less EPS emergency calls is out of scope
for 3GPP.
To support routeing of calls to the correct PSAP, in some countries, use of
the serving cell identity may be required. Mechanisms for the CN to obtain the
serving cell identity are inherently supported by the S1 and Iu interfaces,
and, Location Reporting procedures specified in TS 25.413 [22] for UTRAN and
TS 36.413 [36] for E-UTRAN.
Editor\'s Note: When creating the TS 23.401 CR, add the above references: [x1]
OMA AD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane Location Architecture\",
http://www.openmobileallieance.org. [x2] 3GPP TR 23.891: \"Evaluation of LCS
Control Plane Solutions for EPS\". [x3] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"IP Multimedia
Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\"
5.9.2.x8 MME Emergency Configuration Data
Editor\'s Note: A new table to be added in 23.401 clause 5.7.2. Other
parameters that need be included is FFS.
Table 5.7.2-x: MME Emergency Configuration Data
* * *
Field Description Emergency Access Point Name (em APN) A label according to
DNS naming conventions describing the access point used for Emergency PDN
connection (wild card not allowed). Emergency QoS profile The bearer level QoS
parameter values for Emergency APN\'s default bearer (QCI and ARP). Emergency
PDN GW identity The statically configured identity of the PDN GW used for
emergency APN. The PDN GW identity may be either an FQDN or an IP address.
* * *
###### ### Annex E: TS 23.060 Release 9 Changes
TS 23.060 clause 5.x is all new text for functionality for emergency call
support.
NOTICE: ALL TEXT UNDER TS 23.060 CLAUSE 5.x IS NEW
5.x Functionality for emergency call support
5.x.y APN Restriction handling for Emergency calls
During PDP Context Activation procedure or default bearer activation (for
connectivity through S4) for emergency, GGSN or PGW shall ignore APN
Restriction. During PDP Context Modification procedure (via the APN
Restriction received from the GGSN or PGW) and inter SGSN changes, the SGSN
shall not deactivate emergency related bearer to maintain valid APN
combination. Same restriction also applies to procedures in TS 23.401.
#