# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
SRVCC as specified in TS 23.216 [3], provides handover of voice calls from
E-UTRAN/HSPA to UTRAN/GERAN or from E-UTRAN to CDMA2000 1x. SRVCC of IMS
emergency calls is not supported in TS 23.216 [3], and thus handover of such
calls will have unpredictable effects, in the worst case causing the call to
fail. This is a serious concern for operators and their subscribers, and may
cause regulatory violations in some parts of the world.
Therefore, the objective of this document is to study both the EPS and IMS
aspects of how to best support the handover of ongoing emergency calls for the
following scenarios:
\- E-UTRAN to UTRAN/GERAN CS.
\- HSPA to UTRAN/GERAN CS.
\- E-UTRAN to CDMA2000 1x CS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.869: \"Support for IMS Emergency Calls over GPRS and EPS\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SR VCC); stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.891: \"Evaluation of LCS Control Plane Solutions for EPS\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SR VCC):** see TS 23.216 [3].
**Emergency Session Transfer Number for SR VCC:** A number used in the session
transfer procedure for emergency calls, pointing toward the serving (visited
if roaming) IMS E-SCC AS which handles the IMS emergency session transfer from
PS to CS access.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
E-STN-SR Emergency Session Transfer Number for SR VCC
E-SCC AS Emergency Service Centralization and Continuity Application Server
# 4 Overall Requirements
## 4.1 Service Characteristics
## 4.2 Architectural Requirements
1\. The transport layer aspects of the solution shall be based on SRVCC
procedures specified in Rel‑8 TS 23.216 [3] - Single Radio Voice Call
Continuity (SR VCC).
2\. The IMS aspects of the solution shall be aligned with the conclusions of
the study in TR 23.868 Extended Support of IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS)
Emergency Sessions where appropriate.
3\. The solution should be able to provide continuity of location support
following SR VCC of emergency calls by providing the PSAP with an accurate
initial and updated location estimate, according to applicable regional
requirements and subject to the constraints of the PSAP interface.
4\. The solution shall provide a mechanism to perform session transfer for UEs
in limited service mode and prohibit when necessary, according to local
regulations.
# 5 Scenarios
## 5.1 SR VCC from E-UTRAN (or HSPA) to 3GPP 2/3G
### 5.1.1 Use case #1
1\. UE initiate IMS emergency session over EPS or UTRAN (HSPA). This solution
will be defined as according to the outcome of TR 23.869 [2] and TR 23.891
[6].
2\. Visited IMS network is used for routing the session to PSAP. The SIP
session is anchored in E-SCC AS.
3\. UE is moving out of E-UTRAN (or HSPA) coverage into 2/3G.
4\. SR VCC is performed and the UE is connected to 2/3G CS.
5\. Handover back to E-UTRAN (or HSPA) is not supported.
Editor's note: It is FFS which details of the solution on location continuity
in case of SRVCC for emergency calls will be documented in TR 23.891 [6] and
TR 23.870, respectively.
## 5.2 SR VCC from E-UTRAN to CDMA2000 1x
### 5.2.1 Use case #1
1\. The UE initiates IMS emergency session over EPS. This solution will be
defined as according to the outcome of TR 23.869 [2].
2\. Visited IMS network is used for routing the session to PSAP. The SIP
session is anchored in E-SCC AS similar to anchoring of session transfer in
SCC AS, as specified in TS 23.237 [4].
3\. The UE is moving out of E-UTRAN coverage to CDMA2000 1x network.
4\. SRVCC is performed and the UE is connected to CDMA 2000 1x network.
5\. Handover back to E-UTRAN is not supported.
# 6 Architecture Alternatives
## 6.1 Alternative 1 -- SRVCC from E-UTRAN (or HSPA) to 3GPP 2/3G
### 6.1.1 General
This clause presents an Architecture alternative to allow SR VCC for IMS
emergency session from E-UTRAN to 2/3G CS. It uses E-STN-SR for session
transfer procedure. E-STN-SR is an Emergency Session Transfer Number for SR
VCC. MSC Server is enhanced for SR VCC (aka SR VCC MSC). SR VCC MSC initiates
the session transfer with E‑STN‑SR, using the same procedure as defined for
regular SR VCC with STN-SR in TS 23.216 [3].
E-STN-SR points toward the serving (visited if roaming) IMS network which
handles the IMS emergency session. The E-SCC AS performs the session
continuity when the INVITE (E-STN-SR) is received. This procedure for
executing session transfer is similar to the one being defined in TS 23.237
[4] for regular SR VCC procedure, in clause 6.3.2.1.4.
For emergency session over E-UTRAN or HSPA, this functionality will be covered
by TR 23.869 [2]. The MME or SGSN has to be aware that the UE is having an
emergency session.
Other SR VCC related functionality follows what is being defined in TS 23.216
[3].
The following figure shows a general architecture to support SR VCC IMS
emergency with E-STN-SR.
{width="6.00625in" height="3.1152777777777776in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1: Architecture to support SR VCC for IMS emergency session with
E-STN-SR
NOTE: The MSC server enhanced with SR VCC may not be the final target MSC
which connects to the target cell.
Editor's note: Architecture enhancements for Location Reporting/Continuity are
FFS.
### 6.1.2 Functional Entities
#### 6.1.2.1 MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC
MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC provides the same functions as specified in TS
23.216 [3] plus:
\- Support of location continuity as defined in TR 23.891 [6].
\- Support of Limited Service Mode.
#### 6.1.2.2 MME/SGSN
MME/SGSN provides the same functions as specified in TS 23.216 [3] plus:
\- Identifies the UE and indicates emergency call as part of handover request.
\- May send location information to support location continuity as defined in
TR 23.891 [6]
\- Shall send equipment identifier to the MSC server during the handover
procedure for the case of UEs operating in limited service mode.
NOTE: How MME/SGSN know this session is emergency session will be studied as
part for TR 23.869 [2].
Editor's note: Additional enhancements (e.g., location aspect) are FFS.
#### 6.1.2.3 E-CSCF
E‑CSCF shall provide the procedures for the insertion of the E‑SCC‑AS into the
signalling path of an IMS emergency call.
#### 6.1.2.4 E-SCC AS
E‑SCC‑AS shall provide the procedures for IMS session anchoring and PS to CS
session transfer. The E‑SCC‑AS acts as a routing B2BUA which invokes third
party call control (3pcc) for enablement of Session Transfers as specified in
TS 23.237 [4]
#### 6.1.2.5 SRVCC UE
The SRVCC UE has IMS emergency call capabilities as defined in TS 23.167 [5]
and TR 23.869 [2].
### 6.1.3 Call flows
#### 6.1.3.1 IMS Emergency Origination
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 provides an example flow for an emergency session established
in IMS, illustrating how the emergency session is anchored.
Figure 6.1.3.1-1: UE initiating an emergency session in IMS
1\. The UE initiates an IMS emergency session over EPS or HSPA (according to
the agreed solution defined in TR 23.869 [2]) and the procedures defined in TS
23.167 [5]. This involves the UE generating a SIP INVITE containing the UE\'s
location information.
2\. The P-CSCF selects an E-CSCF and forwards the INVITE to the E-CSCF.
3\. The E-CSCF sends the INVITE to the E-SCC-AS.
4\. The E-SCC-AS (acting as a routing B2BUA) anchors the emergency session,
i.e. the E-SCC-AS is inserted in the signalling path which invokes a 3pcc for
enablement of Domain Transfers for the call as specified in TS 23.237 [4].
5\. The E-SCC AS creates a new INVITE and sends it back to E-CSCF.
6\. The E-CSCF sends a request to the LRF sends the INVITE to the LRF to
obtain UE location information (if not provided in the INVITE), selects the
most appropriate PSAP based on the UE\'s location and allocates the necessary
correlation information and routing information for the call.
7\. The E-CSCF uses the routing information to format the INVITE message, and
it sends it directly to the PSAP, or to the PSAP via the MGCF.
#### 6.1.3.2 SRVCC Procedures
The call flow in Figure 6.1.3.2-1 illustrates the bearer level for SR VCC
procedure for IMS emergency session.
Figure 6.1.3.2-1: bearer level Call flow for SR VCC for IMS emergency session
with E-STN-SR
1a, 1b UE has initiated IMS Emergency session. E-UTRAN/UTRAN is aware that
both the UE and CN support SR VCC as defined in TS 23.216 [3]. MME/SGSN is
aware that IMS Emergency session is ongoing.
2,3 EUTRAN (UTRAN) determines that SR VCC is needed based on same mechanism
defined in TS 23.216 [3].
4\. MME/SGSN invokes SR VCC via Sv interface to MSC enhanced with SR VCC.
MME/SGSN knows this is related to SR VCC IMS emergency. Either E-STN-SR is
configured locally in MME and transferred to MSC or MME sends an Emergency
indication to MSC and lets MSC to utilize its local configured E-STN-SR. MME
may also send location related information to MSC to support location
continuity as defined in TR 23.891 [6]. For the case of UEs operating in
Limited Service Mode the MME/SGSN includes the equipment identifier in this
message.
5\. MSC initiates the session transfer with E-STN-SR. The IMS procedure is
illustrate in Figure 6.1.3.2-2. The rest of the SR VCC procedures follow TS
23.216 [3]. MSC needs to support location continuity as defined in TR 23.891
[6].
The call flow in figure 6.1.3.2-2 illustrates the IMS level for SR VCC
procedure for IMS emergency session for the authenticated case.
Figure 6.1.3.2-2: IMS level Call flow for SR VCC for IMS emergency session
with E-STN-SR
1\. MSC server initiates the session transfer with the E-STN-SR.
2\. The I-CSCF routes the INVITE directly to the E-SCC AS by using similar
procedures to that defined in TS 23.228, clause 5.7.5 \"PSI based Application
Server termination -- direct\".
3-4. The E-SCC AS uses the E-STN-SR to determine that Access Transfer is
requested. The E-SCC AS proceeds with the Access Transfer of the active
session with bi-directional speech for the UE by updating the Remote Leg with
the media description and other information using the Remote Leg Update
procedure as specified in clause 6.3.1.5 of TS 23.237 [4] (i.e. by sending a
Re-INVITE to update the Remote Leg).
5\. The E-CSCF forwards the Re-INVITE to the MGCF associated with the PSAP if
the PSAP is located in the PSTN or CS Domain (the u-plane path is switched
between the UE and the MGW) or the Re-INVITE is sent directly to an IP-capable
PSAP (the u-plane path between the UE and the PSAP is switched end-to-end).
6\. When session modification procedures complete, the source access leg (i.e.
the access leg previously established over IMS) is released as specified in
clause 6.3.1.6 of TS 23.237 [4].
Editor's note: Additional enhancements (e.g., location aspect) are FFS.
### 6.1.4 Support for UEs in Limited Service Mode
In order to support SRVCC emergency session domain transfer for UEs in Limited
Service Mode (e.g. UICC-less) using equipment identifier, the MME shall
support Limited Service Mode UE emergency attach defined in TR 23.869 [2]
using unauthenticated IMSI or equipment identifier.
When EUTRAN (UTRAN) determines that SR VCC is needed, MME/SGSN invokes SR VCC
via Sv interface to MSC enhanced for SR VCC including in any case the UE\'s
equipment identifier. The MSC enhanced for SR VCC will setup the call leg
towards the E-SCC AS with the UE\'s equipment identifier.
If the MSC enhanced for SR VCC has a SIP interface, it shall use the mechanism
specified in TS 24.229 [7] to carry equipment identifier as a SIP URI to the
E-SCC AS.
If the MSC enhanced for SRVCC does not have a SIP interface, it may convey the
equipment identifier by using the IAM message to the MGCF. The MGCF then sends
this with an INVITE to E-SCC AS, as part of the IMS procedure.
The E-SCC AS can then correlate the call legs according to the equipment
identifier.
The method for correlation of the call legs at the E-SCC AS if SIP or ISUP
does not provide this information is implementation dependant.
## 6.2 Alternative 2 -- SRVCC from E-UTRAN to CDMA2000 1x
### 6.2.1 General
This clause describes an architecture alternative to enable SRVCC for IMS
emergency session from E‑UTRAN to CDMA2000 1x Circuit Switch. It is similar to
the clause 6.1.3 in TS 23.216 [3] where the voice session is handover from
E‑UTRAN to CDMA2000 1.x. To support handover of emergency session the network
is aware that the UE and core network support SRVCC and has information to
identify Emergency session.
### 6.2.2 Call Flow
The following call flow illustrates the general bearer level call flow on
handing over the emergency session from E‑UTRAN to CDMA2000 1x.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Bearer level call flow for LTE VoIP-to-1x CS emergency voice
service continuity
1a, 1b The UE has initiated an IMS Emergency session. The E-UTRAN is aware
that both the UE and CN support SRVCC as defined in TS 23.216 [3]. MME is
aware that IMS Emergency session is ongoing.
Editor's Note: Considerations need to be made for the return of the E-STN-SR
from the IMS network is to the UE for the purpose of session transfer
initiation in step 4.
2,3 The E-UTRAN determines that SRVCC handover to CDMA2000 1x is needed based
on same mechanism defined in TS 23.216 [3].
4\. The E-UTRAN invokes the procedure for SRVCC handover to CDMA2000 1x.
5\. An inter‑technology handover procedure is initiated to the CDMA2000 1x
network, similar to the SRVCC procedures in TS 23.216 [3]. Traffic resources
are assigned in the 1x access network and the 3GPP2 emergency SRVCC procedure
is invoked.
NOTE 1: the emergency SRVCC procedure is to be defined in 3GPP2.
NOTE 2: Location continuity on the 1xRTT side will be specified by 3GPP2.
6\. The CS access leg is established over 1xRTT access. The E‑UTRAN/EPS
context may be released based on the normal E‑UTRAN/EPS procedure.
### 6.2.3 Limited Service Mode Call Flow
The principles of section 6.1.4 related to the support of UEs in limited
service mode also apply to the case of 3GPP2 1xRTT.
# 7 Assessment
# 8 Conclusion
## 8.1 Architecture
There is only one architecture alternative, this one should be specified.
## 8.2 Procedure
There is only one procedure/information flow alternative for SRVCC emergency
with 3GPP 2/3G CS networks, Likewise, there is only one procedure/information
flow alternative for SRVCC emergency with cdma2000 1x CS networks. Each of
these should be specified.
## 8.3 Support for Limited Service Mode UEs
The equipment identifier is passed to MSC server via the MME. The equipment
identifier is then communicated to the E-SCC AS to allow the E-SCC AS to
correlate the session when updating the new leg.
#