# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a general description of the physical layer of
NR radio interface. The present document also describes the document structure
of the 3GPP physical layer specifications, i.e. TS 38.200 series.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 38.202: \"NR; Services provided by the physical layer\"
[3] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.212: \"NR; Multiplexing and channel coding\"
[5] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\"
[6] 3GPP TS 38.214: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for data\"
[7] 3GPP TS 38.215: \"NR; Physical layer measurements\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format
**\ **: \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
UE User Equipment
MAC Medium Access Control
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
RLC Radio Link Control
FEC Forward Error Correction
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
CP Cyclic Prefix
DFT-s-OFDM Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-Orthogonal Frequency Division
Multiplexing
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
TDD Time Division Duplex
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
LDPC Low Density Parity Check
E-UTRA Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
SRS Sounding reference signal
# 4 General description of layer 1
## 4.1 Relation to other layers
### 4.1.1 General protocol architecture
The radio interface described in this specification covers the interface
between the User Equipment (UE) and the network. The radio interface is
composed of the Layer 1, 2 and 3. The TS 38.200 series describes the Layer 1
(Physical Layer) specifications. Layers 2 and 3 are described in the 38.300
series.
{width="5.291666666666667in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 1: Radio interface protocol architecture around the physical layer
Figure 1 shows the NR radio interface protocol architecture around the
physical layer (Layer 1). The physical layer interfaces the Medium Access
Control (MAC) sub-layer of Layer 2 and the Radio Resource Control (RRC) Layer
of Layer 3. The circles between different layer/sub-layers indicate Service
Access Points (SAPs). The physical layer offers a transport channel to MAC.
The transport channel is characterized by how the information is transferred
over the radio interface. MAC offers different logical channels to the Radio
Link Control (RLC) sub-layer of Layer 2. A logical channel is characterized by
the type of information transferred.
### 4.1.2 Service provided to higher layers
The physical layer offers data transport services to higher layers. The access
to these services is through the use of a transport channel via the MAC sub-
layer. Details are specified in [2].
## 4.2 General description of layer 1
### 4.2.1 Multiple access
The multiple access scheme for the NR physical layer is based on Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) with a cyclic prefix (CP). For uplink,
Discrete Fourier Transform-spread-OFDM (DFT-s-OFDM) with a CP is also
supported. To support transmission in paired and unpaired spectrum, both
Frequency Division Duplex (FDD) and Time Division Duplex (TDD) are enabled.
The Layer 1 is defined in a bandwidth agnostic way based on resource blocks,
allowing the NR Layer 1 to adapt to various spectrum allocations. A resource
block spans 12 sub-carriers with a given sub-carrier spacing.
The radio frame has a duration of 10ms and consists of 10 sub-frames with a
sub-frame duration of 1ms. A sub-frame is formed by one or multiple adjacent
slots, each having 14 adjacent symbols. Further details on the frame structure
are specified in [2].
### 4.2.2 Physical channels and modulation
The physical channels defined in the downlink are:
\- the Physical Downlink Shared Channel (PDSCH),
\- the Physical Downlink Control Channel (PDCCH),
\- the Physical Broadcast Channel (PBCH),
The physical channels defined in the uplink are:
\- the Physical Random Access Channel (PRACH),
\- the Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH),
\- and the Physical Uplink Control Channel (PUCCH).
In addition, signals are defined as reference signals, primary and secondary
synchronization signals.
The modulation schemes supported are
\- in the downlink, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM, and 256QAM,
\- in the uplink, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM for OFDM with a CP and
π/2-BPSK, QPSK, 16QAM, 64QAM and 256QAM for DFT-s-OFDM with a CP
### 4.2.3 Channel coding
The channel coding scheme for transport blocks is quasi-cyclic LDPC codes with
2 base graphs and 8 sets of parity check matrices for each base graph,
respectively. One base graph is used for code blocks larger than certain sizes
or with initial transmission code rate higher than thresholds; otherwise, the
other base graph is used. Before the LDPC coding, for large transport blocks,
the transport block is segmented into multiple code blocks with equal size.
The channel coding scheme for PBCH and control information is Polar coding
based on nested sequences. Puncturing, shortening and repetition are used for
rate matching. Further details of channel coding schemes are specified in [4].
### 4.2.4 Physical layer procedures
There are several Physical layer procedures involved. Such procedures covered
by the physical layer are;
\- Cell search
\- Power control
\- Uplink synchronisation and Uplink timing control
\- Random access related procedures
\- HARQ related procedures
\- Beam management and CSI related procedures
Through the control of physical layer resources in the frequency domain as
well as in the time and power domains, implicit support of interference
coordination is provided in NR.
### 4.2.5 Physical layer measurements
Radio characteristics are measured by the UE and the network and reported to
higher layers. These include, e.g. measurements for intra- and inter-frequency
handover, inter RAT handover, timing measurements, and measurements for RRM.
Measurements for inter-RAT handover are defined in support of handover to
E-UTRA.
# 5 Document structure of physical layer specification
## 5.1 Overview
The physical layer specification consists of a general document (TS 38.201),
and six documents (TS 38.202 and 38.211 through 38.215). The relation between
the physical layer specifications in the context of the higher layers is shown
in Figure 2.
Figure 2: Relation between Physical Layer specifications
## 5.2 TS 38.201: Physical layer; General description
The scope is to describe:
\- The contents of the Layer 1 documents (TS 38.200 series);
\- Where to find information;
## 5.3 TS 38.202: Physical layer services provided by the physical layer
The scope is to describe services provided by the physical layer, and to
specify:
\- Services and functions of the physical layer;
\- Model of physical layer of the UE;
\- Parallel transmission of simultaneous physical channels and SRS;
\- Measurements provided by the physical layer.
## 5.4 TS 38.211: Physical channels and modulation
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the Layer-1 physical
channels, generation of physical layer signals and modulation, and to specify:
\- Definition of the uplink and downlink physical channels;
\- Frame structure and physical resources;
\- Modulation mapping (BPSK, QPSK, etc);
\- OFDM signal generation;
\- Scrambling, modulation and upconversion;
\- Layer mapping and precoding;
\- Physical shared channel in uplink and downlink;
\- Reference signal in uplink and downlink;
\- Physical random access channel;
\- Primary and secondary synchronization signals.
## 5.5 TS 38.212: Multiplexing and channel coding
The scope is to describe the transport channel and control channel data
processing, including multiplexing, channel coding and interleaving, and to
specify:
\- Channel coding schemes;
\- Rate matching;
\- Uplink transport channels and control information;
\- Downlink transport channels and control information.
## 5.6 TS 38.213: Physical layer procedures for control
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer procedures
for control, and to specify:
\- Synchronization procedures;
\- Uplink power control;
\- Random access procedure;
\- UE procedure for reporting control information;
\- UE procedure for receiving control information.
## 5.7 TS 38.214: Physical layer procedures for data
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer procedures
for data, and to specify:
\- Power control;
\- Physical downlink shared channel related procedures;
\- Physical uplink shared channel related procedure.
## 5.8 TS 38.215: Physical layer measurements
The scope is to establish the characteristics of the physical layer
measurements, and to specify:
\- Control of UE/NG-RAN measurements;
\- Measurement capabilities for NR.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Preferred mathematical notations
The following table contains the preferred mathematical notations used in L1
documentation.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | item | notation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | multiply product | cross sign, e.g. _a_ × _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix product | dot sign, e.g. _a_ ⋅ _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | scalar product (product of a | dot sign, scalar should precede | | matrix by a scalar) | matrix | | | e.g. {width="0.7777777777777778in" | | | height="0.5in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix dimensioning | number of rows × number of | | | column, e.g.: | | | | | | _R_ × _C_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Kronecker product | _a_ ⊗ _b_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of sets (all elements | curly brackets {}, e.g. | | of same type, not ordered | | | elements) | {a~1~, a~2~, ...,a~p~}, | | | or{width="1.0395833333333333in" | | | height="0.3736111111111111in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of lists (all | round brackets (), e.g. (A, u, | | elements not necessary of same | x) | | type, ordered elements) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of sequences (all | angle brackets, e.g. \ or | | elements) | {width="1.0770833333333334in" | | | height="0.41041666666666665in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of function argument | round brackets, e.g. f(_x_) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of array index | square brackets, e.g. a[_x_] | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of matrix or vector | square brackets [], e.g. | | | {width="0.2916666666666667in" | | | height="0.5in"}, | | | {width="0.4722222222222222in" | | | height="0.2361111111111111in"}, | | | or | | | {width="0.5833333333333334in" | | | height="0.5in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Separation of indexes | use a comma : e.g. _N~i~_ ~,_j_ ~ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | use of italic for symbols | a symbol should be either in | | | italic or in normal font, but | | | mixing up should be avoided. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | bracketing of arithmetic | round brackets : e.g. | | expression to force precedence | {width="0.69375in" | | | height="0.2361111111111111in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | necessity of bracketing | When only + and × bracketing is | | arithmetic expressions | not necessary. When the **mod** | | | operator is used explicit | | | bracketing of mod operands and | | | possibly result should be done. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | number type | in a context of non negative | | | integer numbers, some notes | | | should stress when a number is | | | signed, or possibly fractional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | binary **xor** and **and** | respectively use + or ⋅. If no | | | \"mod 2\" is explicitly in the | | | expression some text should | | | stress that the operation is | | | modulo 2. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix or vector transpose | v^T^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1×1 matrices | implicitly cast to its unique | | | element. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | vector dot product | u^T^⋅v for column vectors, and | | | u⋅v^T^ for line vectors | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | complex conjugate | v^*^ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | matrix or vector Hermitian | v^H^ | | transpose | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | real part and imaginary part of | Re(x) and Im(x) | | complex numbers. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Modulo operation (including | Let $q$ be the integer quotient | | negative value) | of $a$ and $N$, | | | | | | $Z$is integer, $r$is remainder | | | then | | | | | | $\begin{matrix} | | | \left{ q \in Z \m | | | iddle| \right.\ \left{ a = N \t | | | imes q + r \middle| \right.\ \ | | | \end{matrix}$, | | | where$\ q = \left\l | | | floor \frac{a}{N} \right\rfloor$ | | | for all $a$and $N$ | | | | | | (Note that | | | $\left\lfloor \right\rfloor$ is | | | floor operation to round the | | | elements of $$ to the nearest | | | integers towards minus infinity) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#