# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the NR Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol for
the UE -- NR radio interface.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR MAC protocol specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR PDCP specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR RRC Protocol specification\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Data field element:** An RLC SDU or an RLC SDU segment that is mapped to the
Data field.
**RLC data volume:** [ ]{.underline} The amount of data available for
transmission in an RLC entity.
**RLC SDU segment:** A segment of an RLC SDU.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AM Acknowledged Mode
AMD AM Data
ARQ Automatic Repeat request
gNB NR Node B
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RLC Radio Link Control
SDU Service Data Unit
SN Sequence Number
TB Transport Block
TM Transparent Mode
TMD TM Data
UE User Equipment
UM Unacknowledged Mode
UMD UM Data
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The objective is to describe the RLC architecture and the RLC entities from a
functional point of view.
## 4.2 RLC architecture
### 4.2.1 RLC entities
The description in this sub clause is a model and does not specify or restrict
implementations.
RRC is generally in control of the RLC configuration.
Functions of the RLC sub layer are performed by RLC entities. For an RLC
entity configured at the gNB, there is a peer RLC entity configured at the UE
and vice versa.
An RLC entity receives/delivers RLC SDUs from/to upper layer and
sends/receives RLC PDUs to/from its peer RLC entity via lower layers.
An RLC PDU can either be an RLC data PDU or an RLC control PDU. If an RLC
entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layer, it receives them through a single
RLC channel between RLC and upper layer, and after forming RLC data PDUs from
the received RLC SDUs, the RLC entity submits the RLC data PDUs to lower layer
through a single logical channel. If an RLC entity receives RLC data PDUs from
lower layer, it receives them through a single logical channel, and after
forming RLC SDUs from the received RLC data PDUs, the RLC entity delivers the
RLC SDUs to upper layer through a single RLC channel between RLC and upper
layer. If an RLC entity submits/receives RLC control PDUs to/from lower layer,
it submits/receives them through the same logical channel it submits/receives
the RLC data PDUs through.
An RLC entity can be configured to perform data transfer in one of the
following three modes: Transparent Mode (TM), Unacknowledged Mode (UM) or
Acknowledged Mode (AM). Consequently, an RLC entity is categorized as a TM RLC
entity, an UM RLC entity or an AM RLC entity depending on the mode of data
transfer that the RLC entity is configured to provide.
A TM RLC entity is configured either as a transmitting TM RLC entity or a
receiving TM RLC entity. The transmitting TM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from
upper layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer receiving TM RLC entity via lower
layers. The receiving TM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and
receives RLC PDUs from its peer transmitting TM RLC entity via lower layers.
An UM RLC entity is configured either as a transmitting UM RLC entity or a
receiving UM RLC entity. The transmitting UM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from
upper layer and sends RLC PDUs to its peer receiving UM RLC entity via lower
layers. The receiving UM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and
receives RLC PDUs from its peer transmitting UM RLC entity via lower layers.
An AM RLC entity consists of a transmitting side and a receiving side. The
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity receives RLC SDUs from upper layer and
sends RLC PDUs to its peer AM RLC entity via lower layers. The receiving side
of an AM RLC entity delivers RLC SDUs to upper layer and receives RLC PDUs
from its peer AM RLC entity via lower layers.
Figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates the overview model of the RLC sub layer.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Overview model of the RLC sub layer
RLC SDUs of variable sizes which are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits)
are supported for all RLC entity types (i.e. TM, UM and AM RLC entity).
Each RLC SDU is used to construct an RLC PDU without waiting for notification
from the lower layer (i.e., by MAC) of a transmission opportunity. In the case
of UM and AM RLC entities, an RLC SDU may be segmented and transported using
two or more RLC PDUs based on the notification(s) from the lower layer.
RLC PDUs are submitted to lower layer only when a transmission opportunity has
been notified by lower layer (i.e. by MAC).
NOTE: The UE should aim to prevent excessive non-consecutive RLC PDUs in a MAC
PDU when the UE is requested to generate more than one MAC PDU.
Description of different RLC entity types are provided below.
#### 4.2.1.1 TM RLC entity
##### 4.2.1.1.1 General
A TM RLC entity can be configured to submit/receive RLC PDUs through the
following logical channels:
\- BCCH, DL/UL CCCH, and PCCH
Figure 4.2.1.1.1-1: Model of two transparent mode peer entities
A TM RLC entity submits/receives the following RLC data PDU:
\- TMD PDU.
##### 4.2.1.1.2 Transmitting TM RLC entity
When a transmitting TM RLC entity forms TMD PDUs from RLC SDUs, it shall:
\- not segment the RLC SDUs;
\- not include any RLC headers in the TMD PDUs.
##### 4.2.1.1.3 Receiving TM RLC entity
When a receiving TM RLC entity receives TMD PDUs, it shall:
\- deliver the TMD PDUs (which are just RLC SDUs) to upper layer.
#### 4.2.1.2 UM RLC entity
##### 4.2.1.2.1 General
An UM RLC entity can be configured to submit/receive RLC PDUs through the
following logical channels:
\- DL/UL DTCH
Figure 4.2.1.2.1-1: Model of two unacknowledged mode peer entities
An UM RLC entity submits/receives the following RLC data PDU:
\- UMD PDU.
An UMD PDU contains either one complete RLC SDU or one RLC SDU segment.
##### 4.2.1.2.2 Transmitting UM RLC entity
The transmitting UM RLC entity generates UMD PDU(s) for each RLC SDU. It shall
include relevant RLC headers in the UMD PDU. When notified of a transmission
opportunity by the lower layer, the transmitting UM RLC entity shall segment
the RLC SDUs, if needed, so that the corresponding UMD PDUs, with RLC headers
updated as needed, fit within the total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower
layer.
##### 4.2.1.2.3 Receiving UM RLC entity
When a receiving UM RLC entity receives UMD PDUs, it shall:
\- detect the loss of RLC SDU segments at lower layers;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the received UMD PDUs and deliver the RLC SDUs to
upper layer as soon as they are available;
\- discard received UMD PDUs that cannot be re-assembled into an RLC SDU due
to loss at lower layers of an UMD PDU which belonged to the particular RLC
SDU.
#### 4.2.1.3 AM RLC entity
##### 4.2.1.3.1 General
An AM RLC entity can be configured to submit/receive RLC PDUs through the
following logical channels:
\- DL/UL DCCH or DL/UL DTCH.
Figure 4.2.1.3.1-1: Model of an acknowledged mode entity
An AM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC data PDUs:
\- AMD PDU.
An AMD PDU contains either one complete RLC SDU or one RLC SDU segment.
An AM RLC entity delivers/receives the following RLC control PDU:
\- STATUS PDU.
##### 4.2.1.3.2 Transmitting side
The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity generates AMD PDU(s) for each RLC
SDU. When notified of a transmission opportunity by the lower layer, the
transmitting AM RLC entity shall segment the RLC SDUs, if needed, so that the
corresponding AMD PDUs, with RLC headers updated as needed, fit within the
total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower layer.
The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity supports retransmission of RLC SDUs
or RLC SDU segments (ARQ):
\- if the RLC SDU or RLC SDU segment to be retransmitted (including the RLC
header) does not fit within the total size of RLC PDU(s) indicated by lower
layer at the particular transmission opportunity notified by lower layer, the
AM RLC entity can segment the RLC SDU or re-segment the RLC SDU segments into
RLC SDU segments;
\- the number of re-segmentation is not limited.
When the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity forms AMD PDUs from RLC SDUs or
RLC SDU segments, it shall:
\- include relevant RLC headers in the AMD PDU.
##### 4.2.1.3.3 Receiving side
When the receiving side of an AM RLC entity receives AMD PDUs, it shall:
\- detect whether or not the AMD PDUs have been received in duplication, and
discard duplicated AMD PDUs;
\- detect the loss of AMD PDUs at lower layers and request retransmissions to
its peer AM RLC entity;
\- reassemble RLC SDUs from the received AMD PDUs and deliver the RLC SDUs to
upper layer as soon as they are available.
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
The following services are provided by RLC to upper layer:
\- TM data transfer;
\- UM data transfer;
\- AM data transfer, including indication of successful delivery of upper
layers PDUs.
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
The following services are expected by RLC from lower layer (i.e. MAC):
\- data transfer;
\- notification of a transmission opportunity, together with the total size of
the RLC PDU(s) to be transmitted in the transmission opportunity.
## 4.4 Functions
The following functions are supported by the RLC sub layer:
\- transfer of upper layer PDUs;
\- error correction through ARQ (only for AM data transfer);
\- segmentation and reassembly of RLC SDUs (only for UM and AM data transfer);
\- re-segmentation of RLC SDU segments (only for AM data transfer);
\- duplicate detection (only for AM data transfer);
\- RLC SDU discard (only for UM and AM data transfer);
\- RLC re-establishment;
\- Protocol error detection (only for AM data transfer).
# 5 Procedures
## 5.1 RLC entity handling
### 5.1.1 RLC entity establishment
When upper layers request an RLC entity establishment, the UE shall:
\- establish a RLC entity;
\- set the state variables of the RLC entity to initial values;
\- follow the procedures in subclause 5.2.
### 5.1.2 RLC entity re-establishment
**When** upper layers request an RLC entity re-establishment, the UE
shall**:**
\- discard all RLC SDUs, RLC SDU segments, and RLC PDUs, if any;
\- stop and reset all timers;
\- reset all state variables to their initial values.
### 5.1.3 RLC entity release
When upper layers request an RLC entity release, the UE shall:
\- discard all RLC SDUs, RLC SDU segments, and RLC PDUs, if any;
\- release the RLC entity.
## 5.2 Data transfer procedures
### 5.2.1 TM data transfer
#### 5.2.1.1 Transmit operations
##### 5.2.1.1.1 General
When submitting a new TMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting TM RLC entity
shall:
\- submit an RLC SDU without any modification to lower layer.
#### 5.2.1.2 Receive operations
##### 5.2.1.2.1 General
**When receiving a new TMD PDU from lower layer, the receiving TM RLC entity
shall:**
**\- deliver the TMD PDU without any modification to upper layer.**
### 5.2.2 UM data transfer
#### 5.2.2.1 Transmit operations
##### 5.2.2.1.1 General
**When submitting a UMD PDU to lower layer, the transmitting UM RLC entity
shall:**
\- if the UMD PDU contains a segment of an RLC SDU, set the SN of the UMD PDU
to TX_Next;
\- if the UMD PDU contains a segment that maps to the last byte of an RLC SDU,
then increment TX_Next by one.
#### 5.2.2.2 Receive operations
##### 5.2.2.2.1 General
**The receiving UM RLC entity shall maintain a reassembly window according to
state variable** RX_Next_Highest **as follows:**
\- a SN falls within the reassembly window if (RX_Next_Highest --
UM_Window_Size) \ \- update state variables, reassemble and deliver RLC SDUs to upper layer
> and start/stop _t-Reassembly_ as needed (see sub clause 5.2.2.2.3).
**When _t-Reassembly_ expires, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:**
\- update state variables, discard RLC SDU segments and start _t-Reassembly_
as needed (see sub clause 5.2.2.2.4).
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Actions when an UMD PDU is received from lower layer
**When an UMD PDU is received from lower layer, the receiving UM RLC entity
shall:**
> \- if the UMD PDU header does not contain an SN:
>
> \- remove the RLC header and deliver the RLC SDU to upper layer.
>
> \- else if (RX_Next_Highest -- UM_Window_Size) \
> \- discard the received UMD PDU.
>
> \- else:
>
> \- place the received UMD PDU in the reception buffer.
##### 5.2.2.2.3 Actions when an UMD PDU is placed in the reception buffer
**When an UMD PDU with SN = x is placed in the reception buffer, the receiving
UM RLC entity shall:**
\- if all byte segments with SN = x are received:
\- reassemble the RLC SDU from all byte segments with SN = x, remove RLC
headers and deliver the reassembled RLC SDU to upper layer;
\- if x = RX_Next_Reassembly:
\- update RX_Next_Reassembly to the SN of the first SN > current
RX_Next_Reassembly that has not been reassembled and delivered to upper layer.
\- else if x falls outside of the reassembly window:
\- update RX_Next_Highest to x + 1;
\- discard any UMD PDUs with SN that falls outside of the reassembly window;
\- if RX_Next_Reassembly falls outside of the reassembly window:
\- set RX_Next_Reassembly to the SN of the first SN >= (RX_Next_Highest --
UM_Window_Size) that has not been reassembled and delivered to upper layer.
\- if _t-Reassembly_ is running:
\- if RX_Timer_Trigger \ RX_Next_Reassembly + 1; or
\- if RX_Next_Highest = RX_Next_Reassembly + 1 and there is at least one
missing byte segment of the RLC SDU associated with SN = RX_Next_Reassembly
before the last byte of all received segments of this RLC SDU:
\- start _t-Reassembly_ ;
\- set RX_Timer_Trigger to RX_Next_Highest.
##### 5.2.2.2.4 Actions when t-Reassembly expires
**When _t-Reassembly_ expires, the receiving UM RLC entity shall:**
\- update RX_Next_Reassembly to the SN of the first SN >= RX_Timer_Trigger
that has not been reassembled;
\- discard all segments with SN \ RX_Next_Reassembly + 1; or
\- if RX_Next_Highest = RX_Next_Reassembly + 1 and there is at least one
missing byte segment of the RLC SDU associated with SN = RX_Next_Reassembly
before the last byte of all received segments of this RLC SDU:
\- start t-Reassembly;
\- set RX_Timer_Trigger to RX_Next_Highest.
### 5.2.3 AM data transfer
#### 5.2.3.1 Transmit operations
##### 5.2.3.1.1 General
**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall prioritize transmission of
RLC control PDUs** over **AMD PDUs. The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
shall prioritize transmission of AMD PDUs containing previously transmitted
RLC SDUs or RLC SDU segments over transmission of AMD PDUs containing not
previously transmitted RLC SDUs or RLC SDU segments.**
The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall maintain a transmitting window
according to the state variable TX_Next_Ack as follow**s:**
\- a SN falls within the transmitting window if TX_Next_Ack \= RX_Next_Highest
\- update RX_Next_Highest to x+ 1.
\- if all bytes of the RLC SDU with SN = x are received:
\- reassemble the RLC SDU from AMD PDU(s) with SN = x, remove RLC headers when
doing so and deliver the reassembled RLC SDU to upper layer;
\- if x = RX_Highest_Status,
\- update RX_Highest_Status to the SN of the first RLC SDU with SN > current
RX_Highest_Status for which not all bytes have been received.
\- if x = RX_Next:
\- update RX_Next to the SN of the first RLC SDU with SN > current RX_Next for
which not all bytes have been received.
\- if _t-Reassembly_ is running:
\- if RX_Next_Status_Trigger = RX_Next; or
\- if RX_Next_Status_Trigger = RX_Next + 1 and there is no missing byte
segment of the SDU associated with SN = RX_Next before the last byte of all
received segments of this SDU; or
\- if RX_Next_Status_Trigger falls outside of the receiving window and
RX_Next_Status_Trigger is not equal to RX_Next + AM_Window_Size:
\- stop and reset _t-Reassembly_.
\- if _t-Reassembly_ is not running (includes the case _t-Reassembly_ is
stopped due to actions above):
\- if RX_Next_Highest> RX_Next +1; or
\- if RX_Next_Highest = RX_Next + 1 and there is at least one missing byte
segment of the SDU associated with SN = RX_Next before the last byte of all
received segments of this SDU:
\- start _t-Reassembly_ ;
\- set RX_Next_Status_Trigger to RX_Next_Highest.
##### 5.2.3.2.4 Actions when _t-Reassembly_ expires
**When _t-Reassembly_ expires, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- update RX_Highest_Status to the SN of the first RLC SDU with SN >=
RX_Next_Status_Trigger for which not all bytes have been received;
\- if RX_Next_Highest> RX_Highest_Status +1: or
\- if RX_Next_Highest = RX_Highest_Status + 1 and there is at least one
missing byte segment of the SDU associated with SN = RX_Highest_Status before
the last byte of all received segments of this SDU:
\- start _t-Reassembly_ ;
\- set RX_Next_Status_Trigger to RX_Next_Highest.
## 5.3 ARQ procedures
### 5.3.1 General
**ARQ procedures are only performed by an AM RLC entity.**
### 5.3.2 Retransmission
**The transmitting side of an AM RLC entity can receive a negative
acknowledgement (notification of reception failure by its peer AM RLC entity)
for an RLC SDU or an RLC SDU segment by the following:**
\- STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity.
**When receiving a negative acknowledgement for an RLC SDU or an RLC SDU
segment by a STATUS PDU from its peer AM RLC entity, the transmitting side of
the AM RLC entity shall:**
\- if the SN of the corresponding RLC SDU falls within the range TX_Next_Ack
\= pollPDU; or
\- if BYTE_WITHOUT_POLL >= pollByte:
\- include a poll in the AMD PDU as described below.
**Upon notification of a transmission opportunity by lower layer, for each AMD
PDU submitted for transmission, the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
shall:**
\- if both the transmission buffer and the retransmission buffer becomes empty
(excluding transmitted RLC SDUs or RLC SDU segments awaiting acknowledgements)
after the transmission of the AMD PDU; or
\- if no new RLC SDU can be transmitted after the transmission of the AMD PDU
(e.g. due to window stalling);
\- include a poll in the AMD PDU as described below.
NOTE: Empty RLC buffer (excluding transmitted RLC SDUs or RLC SDU segments
awaiting acknowledgements) should not lead to unnecessary polling when data
awaits in the upper layer. Details are left up to UE implementation.
**To include a poll in an AMD PDU, the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
shall:**
\- set the P field of the AMD PDU to \"1\";
\- set PDU_WITHOUT_POLL to 0;
\- set BYTE_WITHOUT_POLL to 0.
**Upon submission of an AMD PDU including a poll to lower layer, the
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- set POLL_SN to the highest SN of the AMD PDU among the AMD PDUs submitted
to lower layer;
\- if _t-PollRetransmit_ is not running:
\- start _t-PollRetransmit_.
\- else:
\- restart _t-PollRetransmit_.
#### 5.3.3.3 Reception of a STATUS report
**Upon reception of a STATUS report from the receiving RLC AM entity the
transmitting side of an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- if the STATUS report comprises a positive or negative acknowledgement for
the RLC SDU with sequence number equal to POLL_SN:
\- if _t-PollRetransmit_ is running:
\- stop and reset _t-PollRetransmit_.
#### 5.3.3.4 Expiry of _t-PollRetransmit_
**Upon expiry of _t-PollRetransmit_ , the transmitting side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**
\- if both the transmission buffer and the retransmission buffer are empty
(excluding transmitted RLC SDU or RLC SDU segment awaiting acknowledgements);
or
\- if no new RLC SDU or RLC SDU segment can be transmitted (e.g. due to window
stalling):
\- consider the RLC SDU with the highest SN among the RLC SDUs submitted to
lower layer for retransmission; or
\- consider any RLC SDU which has not been positively acknowledged for
retransmission.
\- include a poll in an AMD PDU as described in clause 5.3.3.2.
### 5.3.4 Status reporting
**An AM RLC entity sends STATUS PDUs to its peer AM RLC entity in order to
provide positive and/or negative acknowledgements of RLC SDUs (or portions of
them).**
**Triggers to initiate STATUS reporting include:**
\- Polling from its peer AM RLC entity:
\- When an AMD PDU with SN = x and the P field set to \"1\" is received from
lower layer, the receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall:
\- if the AMD PDU is to be discarded as specified in subclause 5.2.3.2.2; or
\- if x \= RX_Next + AM_Window_Size:
\- trigger a STATUS report.
\- else:
\- delay triggering the STATUS report until x \=
RX_Next + AM_Window_Size.
NOTE 1: This ensures that the RLC Status report is transmitted after HARQ
reordering.
\- Detection of reception failure of an AMD PDU
\- The receiving side of an AM RLC entity shall trigger a STATUS report when
_t-Reassembly_ expires.
NOTE 2: The expiry of _t-Reassembly_ triggers both RX_Highest_Status to be
updated and a STATUS report to be triggered, but the STATUS report shall be
triggered after RX_Highest_Status is updated.
**When STATUS reporting has been triggered, the receiving side of an AM RLC
entity shall:**
\- if _t-StatusProhibit_ is not running:
\- at the first transmission opportunity indicated by lower layer, construct a
STATUS PDU and submit it to lower layer.
\- else:
\- at the first transmission opportunity indicated by lower layer after _t-
StatusProhibit_ expires, construct a single STATUS PDU even if status
reporting was triggered several times while _t-StatusProhibit_ was running and
submit it to lower layer.
**When a STATUS PDU has been submitted to lower layer, the receiving side of
an AM RLC entity shall:**
\- start _t-StatusProhibit_.
**When constructing a STATUS PDU, the AM RLC entity shall:**
\- for the RLC SDUs with SN such that RX_Next \ Value | > Description | +=========+===========================================================+ | 00 | Data field contains all bytes of an RLC SDU | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | 01 | Data field contains the first segment of an RLC SDU | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | 10 | Data field contains the last segment of an RLC SDU | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+ | 11 | Data field contains neither the first nor last segment of | | | an RLC SDU | +---------+-----------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.3.5 Segment Offset (SO) field
Length: 16 bits
The SO field indicates the position of the RLC SDU segment in bytes within the
original RLC SDU. Specifically, the SO field indicates the position within the
original RLC SDU to which the first byte of the RLC SDU segment in the Data
field corresponds. The first byte of the original RLC SDU is referred by the
SO field value \"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero.
#### 6.2.3.6 Data/Control (D/C) field
Length: 1 bit.
The D/C field indicates whether the RLC PDU is an RLC data PDU or RLC control
PDU. The interpretation of the D/C field is provided in Table 6.2.3.6-1.
Table 6.2.3.6-1: D/C field interpretation
Value Description
* * *
0 Control PDU 1 Data PDU
#### 6.2.3.7 Polling bit (P) field
Length: 1 bit.
The P field indicates whether or not the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity
requests a STATUS report from its peer AM RLC entity. The interpretation of
the P field is provided in Table 6.2.3.7-1.
Table 6.2.3.7-1: P field interpretation
Value Description
* * *
0 Status report not requested 1 Status report is requested
#### 6.2.3.8 Reserved (R) field
Length: 1 bit.
The R field is a reserved field for this release of the protocol. The
transmitting entity shall set the R field to \"0\". The receiving entity shall
ignore this field.
#### 6.2.3.9 Control PDU Type (CPT) field
Length: 3 bits.
The CPT field indicates the type of the RLC control PDU. The interpretation of
the CPT field is provided in Table 6.2.3.9-1.
Table 6.2.3.9-1: CPT field interpretation
+--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | Value | Description | +========+============================================================+ | > 000 | > STATUS PDU | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+ | > 001- | > Reserved | | | > | | | > (PDUs with this coding will be discarded by the | | | > receiving entity for this release of the protocol) | +--------+------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.2.3.10 Acknowledgement SN (ACK_SN) field
Length: 12 bits or 18 bits (configurable).
The ACK_SN field indicates the SN of the next not received RLC SDU which is
not reported as missing in the STATUS PDU. When the transmitting side of an AM
RLC entity receives a STATUS PDU, it interprets that all RLC SDUs up to but
not including the RLC SDU with SN = ACK_SN have been received by its peer AM
RLC entity, excluding those RLC SDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK_SN,
portions of RLC SDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK_SN, SOstart and
SOend, RLC SDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK_SN and NACK_range, and
portions of RLC SDUs indicated in the STATUS PDU with NACK_SN, NACK range,
SOstart and SOend.
#### 6.2.3.11 Extension bit 1 (E1) field
Length: 1 bit.
The E1 field indicates whether or not a set of NACK_SN, E1, E2 and E3 follows.
The interpretation of the E1 field is provided in Table 6.2.3.11-1.
Table 6.2.3.11-1: E1 field interpretation
Value Description
* * *
0 A set of NACK_SN, E1, E2 and E3 does not follow. 1 A set of NACK_SN, E1, E2
and E3 follows.
#### 6.2.3.12 Negative Acknowledgement SN (NACK_SN) field
Length: 12 bits or 18 bits (configurable).
The NACK_SN field indicates the SN of the RLC SDU (or RLC SDU segment) that
has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC entity.
#### 6.2.3.13 Extension bit 2 (E2) field
Length: 1 bit.
The E2 field indicates whether or not a set of SOstart and SOend follows. The
interpretation of the E2 field is provided in Table 6.2.3.13-1.
Table 6.2.3.13-1: E2 field interpretation
Value Description
* * *
0 A set of SOstart and SOend does not follow for this NACK_SN. 1 A set of
SOstart and SOend follows for this NACK_SN.
#### 6.2.3.14 SO start (SOstart) field
Length: 16 bits.
The SOstart field (together with the SOend field) indicates the portion of the
RLC SDU with SN = NACK_SN (the NACK_SN for which the SOstart is related to)
that has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC entity.
Specifically, the SOstart field indicates the position of the first byte of
the portion of the RLC SDU in bytes within the original RLC SDU. The first
byte of the original RLC SDU is referred by the SOstart field value
\"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero.
#### 6.2.3.15 SO end (SOend) field
Length: 16 bits.
When E3 is 0, the SOend field (together with the SOstart field) indicates the
portion of the RLC SDU with SN = NACK_SN (the NACK_SN for which the SOend is
related to) that has been detected as lost at the receiving side of the AM RLC
entity. Specifically, the SOend field indicates the position of the last byte
of the portion of the RLC SDU in bytes within the original RLC SDU. The first
byte of the original RLC SDU is referred by the SOend field value
\"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero. The special SOend value
\"1111111111111111\" is used to indicate that the missing portion of the RLC
SDU includes all bytes to the last byte of the RLC SDU.
When E3 is 1, the SOend field indicates the portion of the RLC SDU with SN =
NACK_SN + NACK range - 1 that has been detected as lost at the receiving side
of the AM RLC entity. Specifically, the SOend field indicates the position of
the last byte of the portion of the RLC SDU in bytes within the original RLC
SDU. The first byte of the original RLC SDU is referred by the SOend field
value \"0000000000000000\", i.e., numbering starts at zero. The special SOend
value \"1111111111111111\" is used to indicate that the missing portion of the
RLC SDU includes all bytes to the last byte of the RLC SDU.
#### 6.2.3.16 Extension bit 3 (E3) field
Length: 1 bit.
The E3 field indicates whether or not information about a continous sequence
of RLC SDUs that have not been received follows.
Table 6.2.3.16-1: E3 field interpretation
Value Description
* * *
0 NACK range field does not follow for this NACK_SN. 1 NACK range field
follows for this NACK_SN.
#### 6.2.3.17 NACK range field
Length: 8 bits
This NACK range field is the number of consecutively lost RLC SDUs starting
from and including NACK_SN.
# 7 Variables, constants and timers
## 7.1 State variables
This sub clause describes the state variables used in AM and UM entities in
order to specify the RLC protocol. The state variables defined in this
subclause are normative.
All state variables and all counters are non-negative integers.
All state variables related to AM data transfer can take values from 0 to 4095
for 12 bit SN or from 0 to 262143 for 18 bit SN. All arithmetic operations
contained in the present document on state variables related to AM data
transfer are affected by the AM modulus (i.e. final value = [value from
arithmetic operation] modulo 4096 for 12 bit SN and 262144 for 18 bit SN).
All state variables related to UM data transfer can take values from 0 to 63
for 6 bit SN or from 0 to 4095 for 12 bit SN. All arithmetic operations
contained in the present document on state variables related to UM data
transfer are affected by the UM modulus (i.e. final value = [value from
arithmetic operation] modulo 64 for 6 bit SN and 4096 for 12 bit SN).
When performing arithmetic comparisons of state variables or SN values, a
modulus base shall be used.
TX_Next_Ack and RX_Next shall be assumed as the modulus base at the
transmitting side and receiving side of an AM RLC entity, respectively. This
modulus base is subtracted from all the values involved, and then an absolute
comparison is performed (e.g. RX_Next \<= SN \< RX_Next + AM_Window_Size is
evaluated as [RX_Next -- RX_Next] modulo 2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^ \<= [SN --
RX_Next] modulo 2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^ \< [RX_Next + AM_Window_Size -- RX_Next]
modulo 2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^), where _sn-FieldLength_ is 12 or 18 for 12 bit
SN and 18 bit SN, respectively.
RX_Next_Highest-- UM_Window_Size shall be assumed as the modulus base at the
receiving UM RLC entity. This modulus base is subtracted from all the values
involved, and then an absolute comparison is performed (e.g.
(RX_Next_Highest-- UM_Window_Size) \<= SN \< RX_Next_Highest is evaluated as
[(RX_Next_Highest-- UM_Window_Size) -- (RX_Next_Highest-- UM_Window_Size)]
modulo 2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^ \<= [SN -- (RX_Next_Highest-- UM_Window_Size)]
modulo 2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^ \< [RX_Next_Highest-- (RX_Next_Highest--
UM_Window_Size)] modulo 2^[_sn-FieldLength_]^), where _sn-FieldLength_ is 6 or
12 for 6 bit SN and 12 bit SN, respectively.
The transmitting side of each AM RLC entity shall maintain the following state
variables:
a) TX_Next_Ack -- Acknowledgement state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN of the next RLC SDU for which a
positive acknowledgment is to be received in-sequence, and it serves as the
lower edge of the transmitting window. It is initially set to 0, and is
updated whenever the AM RLC entity receives a positive acknowledgment for an
RLC SDU with SN = TX_Next_Ack.
b) TX_Next -- Send state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN to be assigned for the next
newly generated AMD PDU. It is initially set to 0, and is updated whenever the
AM RLC entity constructs an AMD PDU with SN = TX_Next and contains an RLC SDU
or the last segment of a RLC SDU.
c) POLL_SN -- Poll send state variable
This state variable holds the value of the highest SN of the AMD PDU among the
AMD PDUs submitted to lower layer when POLL_SN is set according to sub clause
5.3.3.2. It is initially set to 0.
The transmitting side of each AM RLC entity shall maintain the following
counters:
a) PDU_WITHOUT_POLL -- Counter
This counter is initially set to 0. It counts the number of AMD PDUs sent
since the most recent poll bit was transmitted.
b) BYTE_WITHOUT_POLL -- Counter
This counter is initially set to 0. It counts the number of data bytes sent
since the most recent poll bit was transmitted.
c) RETX_COUNT -- Counter
This counter counts the number of retransmissions of an RLC SDU or RLC SDU
segment (see subclause 5.3.2). There is one RETX_COUNT counter maintained per
RLC SDU.
The receiving side of each AM RLC entity shall maintain the following state
variables:
a) RX_Next -- Receive state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN following the last in-sequence
completely received RLC SDU, and it serves as the lower edge of the receiving
window. It is initially set to 0, and is updated whenever the AM RLC entity
receives an RLC SDU with SN = RX_Next.
b) RX_Next_Status_Trigger -- _t-Reassembly_ state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the RLC SDU
which triggered _t-Reassembly_.
c) RX_Highest_Status -- Maximum STATUS transmit state variable
This state variable holds the highest possible value of the SN which can be
indicated by \"ACK_SN\" when a STATUS PDU needs to be constructed. It is
initially set to 0.
d) RX_Next_Highest -- Highest received state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the RLC SDU
with the highest SN among received RLC SDUs. It is initially set to 0.
Each transmitting UM RLC entity shall maintain the following state variables:
a) TX_Next -- UM send state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN to be assigned for the next
newly generated UMD PDU with segment. It is initially set to 0, and is updated
after the UM RLC entity submits a UMD PDU including the last segment of an RLC
SDU to lower layers.
Each receiving UM RLC entity shall maintain the following state variables:
a) RX_Next_Reassembly -- UM receive state variable
This state variable holds the value of the earliest SN that is still
considered for reassembly. It is initially set to 0.
b) RX_Timer_Trigger -- UM _t-Reassembly_ state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN which triggered
_t-Reassembly_.
c) RX_Next_Highest-- UM receive state variable
This state variable holds the value of the SN following the SN of the UMD PDU
with the highest SN among received UMD PDUs. It serves as the higher edge of
the reassembly window. It is initially set to 0.
## 7.2 Constants
a) AM_Window_Size
This constant is used by both the transmitting side and the receiving side of
each AM RLC entity. AM_Window_Size = 2048 when a 12 bit SN is used,
AM_Window_Size = 131072 when an 18 bit SN is used.
b) UM_Window_Size
This constant is used by the receiving UM RLC entity to define SNs of those
UMD SDUs that can be received without causing an advancement of the receiving
window. UM_Window_Size = 32 when a 6 bit SN is configured, UM_Window_Size =
2048 when a 12 bit SN is configured.
## 7.3 Timers
The following timers are configured by TS 38.331 [5]:
a) _t-PollRetransmit_
This timer is used by the transmitting side of an AM RLC entity in order to
retransmit a poll (see sub clause 5.3.3).
b) **_t-Reassembly_**
This timer is used by the receiving side of an AM RLC entity and receiving UM
RLC entity in order to detect loss of RLC PDUs at lower layer (see sub clauses
5.2.2.2 and 5.2.3.2). If **_t-Reassembly_** is running, **_t-Reassembly_**
shall not be started additionally, i.e. only one **_t-Reassembly_** per RLC
entity is running at a given time.
c) _t-StatusProhibit_
This timer is used by the receiving side of an AM RLC entity in order to
prohibit transmission of a STATUS PDU (see sub clause 5.3.4).
## 7.4 Configurable parameters
The following parameters are configured by TS 38.331 [5]:
a) _maxRetxThreshold_
This parameter is used by the transmitting side of each AM RLC entity to limit
the number of retransmissions corresponding to an RLC SDU, including its
segments (see subclause 5.3.2).
b) _pollPDU_
This parameter is used by the transmitting side of each AM RLC entity to
trigger a poll for every _pollPDU_ PDUs (see subclause 5.3.3).
c) _pollByte_
This parameter is used by the transmitting side of each AM RLC entity to
trigger a poll for every _pollByte_ bytes (see subclause 5.3.3).
#