# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the description of the Packet Data Convergence
Protocol (PDCP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NG Radio Access Network; Overall description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.322: \"NR Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security Architecture and Procedures for 5G System \".
[7] IETF RFC 5795: \"The RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Framework\".
[8] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Framework and four
profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP and uncompressed\".
[9] IETF RFC 4815: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections and
Clarifications to RFC 3095\".
[10] IETF RFC 6846: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): A Profile for TCP/IP
(ROHC-TCP)\".
[11] IETF RFC 5225: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC) Version 2: Profiles for
RTP, UDP, IP, ESP and UDP Lite\".
[12] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**AM DRB** : a data radio bearer which utilizes RLC AM.
**Non-split bearer** : a bearer whose radio protocols are located in either
the MgNB or the SgNB to use MgNB or SgNB resource, respectively.
**PDCP data volume** : the amount of data available for transmission in a PDCP
entity.
**Split bearer** : in dual connectivity, a bearer whose radio protocols are
located in both the MgNB and the SgNB to use both MgNB and SgNB resources.
**UM DRB** : a data radio bearer which utilizes RLC UM.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AM Acknowledged Mode
CID Context Identifier
DRB Data Radio Bearer carrying user plane data
gNB NR Node B
HFN Hyper Frame Number
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IP Internet Protocol
MAC Medium Access Control
MAC-I Message Authentication Code for Integrity
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
RB Radio Bearer
RFC Request For Comments
RLC Radio Link Control
ROHC RObust Header Compression
RRC Radio Resource Control
RTP Real Time Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SDU Service Data Unit
SN Sequence Number
SRB Signalling Radio Bearer carrying control plane data
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UM Unacknowledged Mode
X-MAC Computed MAC-I
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The present document describes the functionality of the PDCP.
## 4.2 Architecture
### 4.2.1 PDCP structure
Figure 4.2.1.1 represents one possible structure for the PDCP sublayer; it
should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the radio interface
protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 [2].
Figure 4.2.1-1: PDCP layer, structure view
The PDCP sublayer is configured by upper layers TS 38.331 [3]. The PDCP
sublayer is used for RBs mapped on DCCH and DTCH type of logical channels. The
PDCP sublayer is not used for any other type of logical channels.
Each RB (except for SRB0) is associated with one PDCP entity. Each PDCP entity
is associated with one, two, or four RLC entities depending on the RB
characteristic (e.g. uni-directional/bi-directional or split/non-split) or RLC
mode:
\- For split bearers or for RBs configured with PDCP duplication, each PDCP
entity is associated with two UM RLC entities (for same direction), four UM
RLC entities (two for each direction), or two AM RLC entities;
\- Otherwise, each PDCP entity is associated with one UM RLC entity, two UM
RLC entities (one for each direction), or one AM RLC entity.
### 4.2.2 PDCP entities
The PDCP entities are located in the PDCP sublayer. Several PDCP entities may
be defined for a UE. Each PDCP entity is carrying the data of one radio
bearer.
A PDCP entity is associated either to the control plane or the user plane
depending on which radio bearer it is carrying data for.
Figure 4.2.2.1 represents the functional view of the PDCP entity for the PDCP
sublayer; it should not restrict implementation. The figure is based on the
radio interface protocol architecture defined in TS 38.300 [2].
For split bearers, routing is performed in the transmitting PDCP entity.
Figure 4.2.2-1: PDCP layer, functional view
## 4.3 Services
### 4.3.1 Services provided to upper layers
The PDCP layer provides its services to the RRC or SDAP layers. The following
services are provided by PDCP to upper layers:
\- transfer of user plane data;
\- transfer of control plane data;
\- header compression;
\- ciphering;
\- integrity protection.
The maximum supported size of a PDCP SDU is 9000 bytes. The maximum supported
size of a PDCP Control PDU is 9000 bytes.
### 4.3.2 Services expected from lower layers
A PDCP entity expects the following services from lower layers per RLC entity
(for a detailed description see TS 38.322 [5]):
\- acknowledged data transfer service, including indication of successful
delivery of PDCP PDUs;
\- unacknowledged data transfer service.
## 4.4 Functions
The PDCP layer supports the following functions:
\- transfer of data (user plane or control plane);
\- maintenance of PDCP SNs;
\- header compression and decompression using the ROHC protocol;
\- ciphering and deciphering;
\- integrity protection and integrity verification;
\- timer based SDU discard;
\- for split bearers, routing;
\- duplication;
\- reordering and in-order delivery;
\- out-of-order delivery;
\- duplicate discarding.
# 5 Procedures
## 5.1 PDCP entity handling
### 5.1.1 PDCP entity establishment
When upper layers request a PDCP entity establishment for a radio bearer, the
UE shall:
\- establish a PDCP entity for the radio bearer;
\- set the state variables of the PDCP entity to initial values;
\- follow the procedures in clause 5.2.
### 5.1.2 PDCP entity re-establishment
When upper layers request a PDCP entity re-establishment, the UE shall
additionally perform once the procedures described in this clause. After
performing the procedures in this clause, the UE shall follow the procedures
in clause 5.2.
When upper layers request a PDCP entity re-establishment, the transmitting
PDCP entity shall:
\- for UM DRBs and AM DRBs, reset the header compression protocol for uplink
and start with an IR state in U-mode (as defined in RFC 3095 [8] and RFC 4815
[9]) if _drb-ContinueROHC_ is not configured in TS 38.331 [3];
\- for UM DRBs and SRBs, set TX_NEXT to the initial value;
\- for SRBs, discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
PDCP entity re-establishment procedure;
\- apply the integrity protection algorithm and key provided by upper layers
during the PDCP entity re-establishment procedure;
\- for UM DRBs, for each PDCP SDU already associated with a PDCP SN but for
which a corresponding PDU has not previously been submitted to lower layers,
and;
\- for AM DRBs whose PDCP entities were suspended, from the first PDCP SDU for
which the successful delivery of the corresponding PDCP Data PDU has not been
confirmed by lower layers, for each PDCP SDU already associated with a PDCP
SN:
\- consider the PDCP SDUs as received from upper layer;
\- perform transmission of the PDCP SDUs in ascending order of the COUNT value
associated to the PDCP SDU prior to the PDCP re-establishment without
restarting the _discardTimer_ , as specified in clause 5.2.1;
\- for AM DRBs whose PDCP entities were not suspended, from the first PDCP SDU
for which the successful delivery of the corresponding PDCP Data PDU has not
been confirmed by lower layers, perform retransmission or transmission of all
the PDCP SDUs already associated with PDCP SNs in ascending order of the COUNT
values associated to the PDCP SDU prior to the PDCP entity re-establishment as
specified below:
\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU as specified in the clause
5.7.4;
\- perform integrity protection and ciphering of the PDCP SDU using the COUNT
value associated with this PDCP SDU as specified in the clause 5.9 and 5.8;
\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer, as specified in clause
5.2.1.
When upper layers request a PDCP entity re-establishment, the receiving PDCP
entity shall:
\- process the PDCP Data PDUs that are received from lower layers due to the
re-establishment of the lower layers, as specified in the clause 5.2.2.1;
\- for SRBs, discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs;
\- for SRBs and UM DRBs, if _t-Reordering_ is running:
\- stop and reset _t-Reordering_ ;
\- for UM DRBs, deliver all stored PDCP SDUs to the upper layers in ascending
order of associated COUNT values after performing header decompression;
\- for AM DRBs, perform header decompression for all stored PDCP SDUs if _drb-
ContinueROHC_ is not configured in TS 38.331 [3];
\- for UM DRBs and AM DRBs, reset the header compression protocol for downlink
and start with NC state in U-mode (as defined in RFC 3095 [8] and RFC 4815
[9]) if _drb-ContinueROHC_ is not configured in TS 38.331 [3];
\- for UM DRBs and SRBs, set RX_NEXT and RX_DELIV to the initial value;
\- apply the ciphering algorithm and key provided by upper layers during the
PDCP entity re-establishment procedure;
\- apply the integrity protection algorithm and key provided by upper layers
during the PDCP entity re-establishment procedure.
### 5.1.3 PDCP entity release
When upper layers request a PDCP entity release for a radio bearer, the UE
shall:
\- discard all stored PDCP SDUs and PDCP PDUs in the transmitting PDCP entity;
\- for UM DRBs and AM DRBs, deliver the PDCP SDUs stored in the receiving PDCP
entity to upper layers in ascending order of associated COUNT values after
performing header decompression, if not decompressed before;
\- release the PDCP entity for the radio bearer.
### 5.1.4 PDCP entity suspend
When upper layers request a PDCP entity suspend, the transmitting PDCP entity
shall:
\- set TX_NEXT to the initial value;
\- discard all stored PDCP PDUs;
When upper layers request a PDCP entity suspend, the receiving PDCP entity
shall:
\- if t-_Reordering_ is running:
\- stop and reset _t-Reordering_ ;
\- deliver all stored PDCP SDUs to the upper layers in ascending order of
associated COUNT values after performing header decompression;
\- set RX_NEXT and RX_DELIV to the initial value.
## 5.2 Data transfer
### 5.2.1 Transmit operation
At reception of a PDCP SDU from upper layers, the transmitting PDCP entity
shall:
\- start the _discardTimer_ associated with this PDCP SDU (if configured).
For a PDCP SDU received from upper layers, the transmitting PDCP entity shall:
\- associate the COUNT value corresponding to TX_NEXT to this PDCP SDU;
NOTE 1: Associating more than half of the PDCP SN space of contiguous PDCP
SDUs with PDCP SNs, when e.g., the PDCP SDUs are discarded or transmitted
without acknowledgement, may cause HFN desynchronization problem. How to
prevent HFN desynchronization problem is left up to UE implementation.
\- perform header compression of the PDCP SDU as specified in the clause
5.7.4;
\- perform integrity protection, and ciphering using the TX_NEXT as specified
in the clause 5.9 and 5.8, respectively;
\- set the PDCP SN of the PDCP Data PDU to TX_NEXT modulo 2^[_pdcp-SN-
SizeUL_]^;
\- increment TX_NEXT by one;
\- submit the resulting PDCP Data PDU to lower layer as specified below.
When submitting a PDCP PDU to lower layer, the transmitting PDCP entity shall:
\- if the transmitting PDCP entity is associated with one RLC entity:
\- submit the PDCP PDU to the associated RLC entity;
\- else, if the transmitting PDCP entity is associated with two RLC entities:
\- if the PDCP duplication is activated:
\- if the PDCP PDU is a PDCP Data PDU:
\- duplicate the PDCP Data PDU and submit the PDCP Data PDU to both associated
RLC entities;
\- else:
\- submit the PDCP Control PDU to the primary RLC entity;
\- else:
\- if the two associated RLC entities belong to the different Cell Groups; and
\- if the total amount of PDCP data volume and RLC data volume pending for
initial transmission (as specified in TS 38.322 [5]) in the two associated RLC
entities is equal to or larger than _ul-DataSplitThreshold_ :
\- submit the PDCP PDU to either the primary RLC entity or the secondary RLC
entity;
\- else:
\- submit the PDCP PDU to the primary RLC entity.
NOTE 2: If the transmitting PDCP entity is associated with two RLC entities,
the UE should minimize the amount of PDCP PDUs submitted to lower layers
before receiving request from lower layers and minimize the PDCP SN gap
between PDCP PDUs submitted to two associated RLC entities to minimize PDCP
reordering delay in the receiving PDCP entity.
### 5.2.2 Receive operation
#### 5.2.2.1 Actions when a PDCP Data PDU is received from lower layers
In this clause, following definitions are used:
\- HFN(State Variable): the HFN part (i.e. the number of most significant bits
equal to HFN length) of the State Variable;
\- SN(State Variable): the SN part (i.e. the number of least significant bits
equal to PDCP SN length) of the State Variable;
\- RCVD_SN: the PDCP SN of the received PDCP Data PDU, included in the PDU
header;
\- RCVD_HFN: the HFN of the received PDCP Data PDU, calculated by the
receiving PDCP entity;
\- RCVD_COUNT: the COUNT of the received PDCP Data PDU = [RCVD_HFN, RCVD_SN].
At reception of a PDCP Data PDU from lower layers, the receiving PDCP entity
shall determine the COUNT value of the received PDCP Data PDU, i.e.
RCVD_COUNT, as follows:
_\- if RCVD_SN \ = SN(RX_DELIV) +_ Window_Size _:_
_\- RCVD_HFN = HFN(RX_DELIV) -- 1._
\- else:
\- RCVD_HFN = HFN(RX_DELIV);
\- RCVD_COUNT = [RCVD_HFN, RCVD_SN].
After determining the COUNT value of the received PDCP Data PDU = RCVD_COUNT,
the receiving PDCP entity shall:
\- perform deciphering and integrity verification of the PDCP Data PDU using
COUNT = RCVD_COUNT;
\- if integrity verification fails:
\- indicate the integrity verification failure to upper layer;
\- discard the PDCP Data PDU;
\- if RCVD_COUNT \= RX_NEXT:
\- update RX_NEXT to RCVD_COUNT + 1.
\- if _outOfOrderDelivery_ is configured:
\- deliver the resulting PDCP SDU to upper layers.
\- if RCVD_COUNT = RX_DELIV:
\- deliver to upper layers in ascending order of the associated COUNT value
after performing header decompression, if not decompressed before;
\- all stored PDCP SDU(s) with consecutively associated COUNT value(s)
starting from COUNT = RX_DELIV;
\- update RX_DELIV to the COUNT value of the first PDCP SDU which has not been
delivered to upper layers, with COUNT value > RX_DELIV;
\- if _t-Reordering_ is running, and if RX_DELIV >= RX_REORD:
\- stop and reset _t-Reordering_.
\- if _t-Reordering_ is not running (includes the case when _t-Reordering_ is
stopped due to actions above), and RX_DELIV \= RX_REORD;
\- if RX_DELIV \ 15 then LARGE_CIDS = TRUE else LARGE_CIDS = FALSE;
\- PROFILES (M): Profiles are used to define which profiles are allowed to be
used by the UE. The list of supported profiles is described in clause 5.7.1.
The parameter PROFILES is configured by upper layers (_profiles_ for uplink
and downlink in TS 38.331 [3]);
\- FEEDBACK_FOR (N/A): This is a reference to the channel in the opposite
direction between two compression endpoints and indicates to what channel any
feedback sent refers to. Feedback received on one ROHC channel for this PDCP
entity shall always refer to the ROHC channel in the opposite direction for
this same PDCP entity;
\- MRRU (N/A): ROHC segmentation is not used.
### 5.7.4 Header compression
If header compression is configured, the header compression protocol generates
two types of output packets:
\- compressed packets, each associated with one PDCP SDU;
\- standalone packets not associated with a PDCP SDU, i.e. interspersed ROHC
feedback.
A compressed packet is associated with the same PDCP SN and COUNT value as the
related PDCP SDU. The header compression is not applicable to the SDAP header
and the SDAP Control PDU if included in the PDCP SDU.
Interspersed ROHC feedback are not associated with a PDCP SDU. They are not
associated with a PDCP SN and are not ciphered.
NOTE: If the MAX_CID number of ROHC contexts are already established for the
compressed flows and a new IP flow does not match any established ROHC
context, the compressor should associate the new IP flow with one of the ROHC
CIDs allocated for the existing compressed flows or send PDCP SDUs belonging
to the IP flow as uncompressed packet.
### 5.7.5 Header decompression
If header compression is configured by upper layers for PDCP entities
associated with user plane data, the PDCP Data PDUs are decompressed by the
header compression protocol after performing deciphering as explained in
clause 5.8. The header decompression is not applicable to the SDAP header and
the SDAP Control PDU if included in the PDCP Data PDU.
### 5.7.6 PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback
#### 5.7.6.1 Transmit Operation
When an interspersed ROHC feedback is generated by the header compression
protocol, the transmitting PDCP entity shall:
\- submit to lower layers the corresponding PDCP Control PDU as specified in
clause 6.2.3.2 i.e. without associating a PDCP SN, nor performing ciphering.
#### 5.7.6.2 Receive Operation
At reception of a PDCP Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback from lower
layers, the receiving PDCP entity shall:
\- deliver the corresponding interspersed ROHC feedback to the header
compression protocol without performing deciphering.
## 5.8 Ciphering and deciphering
The ciphering function includes both ciphering and deciphering and is
performed in PDCP, if configured. The data unit that is ciphered is the MAC-I
(see clause 6.3.4) and the data part of the PDCP Data PDU (see clause 6.3.3)
except the SDAP header and the SDAP Control PDU if included in the PDCP SDU.
The ciphering is not applicable to PDCP Control PDUs.
The ciphering algorithm and key to be used by the PDCP entity are configured
by upper layers TS 38.331 [3] and the ciphering method shall be applied as
specified in TS 33.501 [6].
The ciphering function is activated/suspended/resumed by upper layers TS
38.331 [3]. When security is activated and not suspended, the ciphering
function shall be applied to all PDCP Data PDUs indicated by upper layers TS
38.331 [3] for the downlink and the uplink, respectively.
For downlink and uplink ciphering and deciphering, the parameters that are
required by PDCP for ciphering are defined in TS 33.501 [6] and are input to
the ciphering algorithm. The required inputs to the ciphering function include
the COUNT value, and DIRECTION (direction of the transmission: set as
specified in TS 33.501 [6]).The parameters required by PDCP which are provided
by upper layers TS 38.331 [3] are listed below:
\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in TS 33.501 [6]. It will
use the value RB identity --1 as in TS 38.331 [3]);
\- KEY (the ciphering keys for **the control plane and for the user plane
are** K~RRCenc~ and K~UPenc~, respectively).
## 5.9 Integrity protection and verification
The integrity protection function includes both integrity protection and
integrity verification and is performed in PDCP, if configured. The data unit
that is integrity protected is the PDU header and the data part of the PDU
before ciphering. The integrity protection is always applied to PDCP Data PDUs
of SRBs. The integrity protection is applied to PDCP Data PDUs of DRBs for
which integrity protection is configured. The integrity protection is not
applicable to PDCP Control PDUs.
The integrity protection algorithm and key to be used by the PDCP entity are
configured by upper layers TS 38.331 [3] and the integrity protection method
shall be applied as specified in TS 33.501 [6].
The integrity protection function is activated/suspended/resumed by upper
layers TS 38.331 [3]. When security is activated and not suspended, the
integrity protection function shall be applied to all PDUs including and
subsequent to the PDU indicated by upper layers TS 38.331 [3] for the downlink
and the uplink, respectively.
NOTE: As the RRC message which activates the integrity protection function is
itself integrity protected with the configuration included in this RRC
message, this message needs first be decoded by RRC before the integrity
protection verification could be performed for the PDU in which the message
was received.
For downlink and uplink integrity protection and verification, the parameters
that are required by PDCP for integrity protection are defined in TS 33.501
[6] and are input to the integrity protection algorithm. The required inputs
to the integrity protection function include the COUNT value, and DIRECTION
(direction of the transmission: set as specified in TS 33.501 [6]). The
parameters required by PDCP which are provided by upper layers TS 38.331 [3]
are listed below:
\- BEARER (defined as the radio bearer identifier in TS 33.501 [6]. It will
use the value RB identity --1 as in TS 38.331 [3]);
\- KEY (the integrity protection keys for **the control plane and for the user
plane are** K~RRCint~ and K~UPint~, respectively).
At transmission, the UE computes the value of the MAC-I field and at reception
it verifies the integrity of the PDCP Data PDU by calculating the X-MAC based
on the input parameters as specified above. If the calculated X-MAC
corresponds to the received MAC-I, integrity protection is verified
successfully.
## 5.10 Handling of unknown, unforeseen, and erroneous protocol data
When a PDCP PDU that contains reserved or invalid values is received, the
receiving PDCP entity shall:
\- discard the received PDU.
## 5.11 PDCP duplication
### 5.11.1 Activation/Deactivation of PDCP duplication
For the PDCP entity configured with _pdcp-Duplication_ , the transmitting PDCP
entity shall:
\- for SRBs:
\- activate the PDCP duplication;
\- for DRBs:
\- if the activation of PDCP duplication is indicated:
\- activate the PDCP duplication;
\- if the deactivation of PDCP duplication is indicated:
\- deactivate the PDCP duplication.
### 5.11.2 Duplicate PDU discard
For the PDCP entity configured with _pdcp-Duplication_ , the transmitting PDCP
entity shall:
\- if the successful delivery of a PDCP Data PDU is confirmed by one of the
two associated AM RLC entities:
\- indicate to the other AM RLC entity to discard the duplicated PDCP Data
PDU;
\- if the deactivation of PDCP duplication is indicated:
\- indicate to the secondary RLC entity to discard all duplicated PDCP Data
PDUs.
# 6 Protocol data units, formats, and parameters
## 6.1 Protocol data units
### 6.1.1 Data PDU
The PDCP Data PDU is used to convey one or more of followings in addition to
the PDU header:
\- user plane data;
\- control plane data;
\- a MAC-I.
### 6.1.2 Control PDU
The PDCP Control PDU is used to convey one of followings in addition to the
PDU header:
\- a PDCP status report;
\- an interspersed ROHC feedback.
## 6.2 Formats
### 6.2.1 General
A PDCP PDU is a bit string that is byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. In the figures in clause 6.2, bit strings are represented by tables in
which the most significant bit is the leftmost bit of the first line of the
table, the least significant bit is the rightmost bit on the last line of the
table, and more generally the bit string is to be read from left to right and
then in the reading order of the lines. The bit order of each parameter field
within a PDCP PDU is represented with the first and most significant bit in
the leftmost bit and the last and least significant bit in the rightmost bit.
PDCP SDUs are bit strings that are byte aligned (i.e. multiple of 8 bits) in
length. A compressed or uncompressed SDU is included into a PDCP Data PDU from
the first bit onward.
### 6.2.2 Data PDU
#### 6.2.2.1 Data PDU for SRBs
Figure 6.2.2.1-1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU with 12 bits PDCP SN.
This format is applicable for SRBs.
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: PDCP Data PDU format for SRBs
#### 6.2.2.2 Data PDU for DRBs with 12 bits PDCP SN
Figure 6.2.2.2-1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU with 12 bits PDCP SN.
This format is applicable for UM DRBs and AM DRBs.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: PDCP Data PDU format with 12 bits PDCP SN
#### 6.2.2.3 Data PDU for DRBs with 18 bits PDCP SN
Figure 6.2.2.3-1 shows the format of the PDCP Data PDU with 18 bits PDCP SN.
This format is applicable for UM DRBs and AM DRBs.
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: PDCP Data PDU format for DRBs with 18 bits PDCP SN
### 6.2.3 Control PDU
#### 6.2.3.1 Control PDU for PDCP status report
Figure 6.2.3.1-1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one PDCP
status report. This format is applicable for AM DRBs.
Figure 6.2.3.1-1: PDCP Control PDU format for PDCP status report
#### 6.2.3.2 Control PDU for interspersed ROHC feedback
Figure 6.2.3.2-1 shows the format of the PDCP Control PDU carrying one
interspersed ROHC feedback. This format is applicable for UM DRBs and AM DRBs.
Figure 6.2.3.2-1: PDCP Control PDU format for interspersed ROHC feedback
## 6.3 Parameters
### 6.3.1 General
If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field then the bits in
the parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most bit string is
the first and most significant and the right most bit is the last and least
significant bit.
Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary encoding
for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered from MSB to LSB
when read in the PDU.
### 6.3.2 PDCP SN
Length: 12, or 18 bits as indicated in table 6.3.2.1. The length of the PDCP
SN is configured by upper layers (_pdcp-SN-SizeUL_ or _pdcp-SN-SizeDL_ in TS
38.331 [3]).
Table 6.3.2-1: PDCP SN length
* * *
Length Description 12 UM DRBs, AM DRBs, and SRBs 18 UM DRBs, and AM DRBs
* * *
### 6.3.3 Data
Length: Variable
This field includes one of the followings:
\- Uncompressed PDCP SDU (user plane data, or control plane data);
\- Compressed PDCP SDU (user plane data only).
### 6.3.4 MAC-I
Length: 32 bits
This field carries a message authentication code calculated as specified in
clause 5.9.
For SRBs, the MAC-I field is always present. If integrity protection is not
configured, the MAC-I field is still present but should be padded with padding
bits set to 0.
For DRBs, the MAC-I field is present only when the DRB is configured with
integrity protection.
### 6.3.5 COUNT
Length: 32 bits
The COUNT value is composed of a HFN and the PDCP SN. The size of the HFN part
in bits is equal to 32 minus the length of the PDCP SN.
Figure 6.3.5-1: Format of COUNT
NOTE: COUNT does not wrap around.
### 6.3.6 R
Length: 1 bit
Reserved. In this version of the specification reserved bits shall be set to
0. Reserved bits shall be ignored by the receiver.
### 6.3.7 D/C
Length: 1 bit
This field indicates whether the corresponding PDCP PDU is a PDCP Data PDU or
a PDCP Control PDU.
Table 6.3.7-1: D/C field
* * *
Bit Description 0 Control PDU 1 Data PDU
* * *
### 6.3.8 PDU type
Length: 3 bits
This field indicates the type of control information included in the
corresponding PDCP Control PDU.
Table 6.3.8-1: PDU type
* * *
Bit Description 000 PDCP status report 001 Interspersed ROHC feedback 010-111
Reserved
* * *
### 6.3.9 FMC
Length: 32 bits
First Missing COUNT. This field indicates the COUNT value of the first missing
PDCP SDU within the reordering window, i.e. RX_DELIV.
### 6.3.10 Bitmap
Length: Variable. The length of the bitmap field can be 0.
This field indicates which SDUs are missing and which SDUs are correctly
received in the receiving PDCP entity. The bit position of N^th^ bit in the
Bitmap is N, i.e., the bit position of the first bit in the Bitmap is 1.
Table 6.3.10-1 Bitmap
* * *
Bit Description 0 PDCP SDU with COUNT = (FMC + bit position) modulo 2^32^ is
missing. 1 PDCP SDU with COUNT = (FMC + bit position) modulo 2^32^ is
correctly received.
* * *
### 6.3.11 Interspersed ROHC feedback
Length: Variable
This field contains one ROHC packet with only feedback, i.e. a ROHC packet
that is not associated with a PDCP SDU as defined in clause 5.7.4.
# 7 State variables, constants, and timers
## 7.1 State variables
This clause describes the state variables used in PDCP entities in order to
specify the PDCP protocol. The state variables defined in this clause are
normative.
All state variables are non-negative integers, and take values from 0 to
[2^32^ -- 1].
PDCP Data PDUs are numbered integer sequence numbers (SN) cycling through the
field: 0 to [2^[_pdcp-SN-SizeUL_]^ -- 1] or 0 to [2^[_pdcp-SN-SizeDL_]^ -- 1].
The transmitting PDCP entity shall maintain the following state variables:
a) TX_NEXT
This state variable indicates the COUNT value of the next PDCP SDU to be
transmitted. The initial value is 0.
The receiving PDCP entity shall maintain the following state variables:
a) RX_NEXT
This state variable indicates the COUNT value of the next PDCP SDU expected to
be received. The initial value is 0.
b) RX_DELIV
This state variable indicates the COUNT value of the first PDCP SDU not
delivered to the upper layers, but still waited for. The initial value is 0.
c) RX_REORD
This state variable indicates the COUNT value following the COUNT value
associated with the PDCP Data PDU which triggered _t-Reordering_.
## 7.2 Constants
a) Window_Size
This constant indicates the size of the reordering window. The value equals to
2^[_pdcp-SN-SizeDL_]\ --\ 1^.
## 7.3 Timers
The transmitting PDCP entity shall maintain the following timers:
a) _discardTimer_
This timer is configured only for DRBs. The duration of the timer is
configured by upper layers TS 38.331 [3]. In the transmitter, a new timer is
started upon reception of an SDU from upper layer.
The receiving PDCP entity shall maintain the following timers:
b) _t-Reordering_
The duration of the timer is configured by upper layers TS 38.331 [3]. This
timer is used to detect loss of PDCP Data PDUs as specified in clause 5.2.2.
If _t-Reordering_ is running, _t-Reordering_ shall not be started
additionally, i.e. only one _t-Reordering_ per receiving PDCP entity is
running at a given time.
#