# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 38.41x series of
technical specifications that define the NG interface for the interconnection
of an NG-RAN node to the 5GC (5G Core Network).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.411: \"NG-RAN; NG layer 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.412: \"NG-RAN; NG signalling transport\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP) \".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.414: \"NG-RAN; NG data transport\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G system\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G system\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.415: \"PDU Session User Plane Protocol\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.455: \"NR Positioning Protocol A (NRPPa)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**gNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [7].
**ng-eNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [7].
**NG-RAN node** : as defined in TS 38.300 [7].
**UPF** : as defined in TS 23.501 [8].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
5GC 5G Core Network
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
SMF Session Management Function
UPF User Plane Function
# 4 General aspects
## 4.1 NG Architecture
The NG-RAN is layered into a Radio Network Layer (RNL) and a Transport Network
Layer (TNL). The NG-RAN architecture, i.e. the NG-RAN logical nodes and
interfaces between them, are defined as part of the RNL.
The NG-RAN architecture consists of a set of gNBs and ng-eNBs which are
connected to the 5GC through the NG interface and is specified in TS 38.300
[7].
The NG-RAN may have several NG access points towards the 5GC. As a minimum,
each NG access point\ (in NG-RAN or 5GC) shall independently fulfil the
requirements of the relevant NG specifications (3GPP 38.41x series - see
clause 7).
NG is a logical interface.
There may be multiple NG-C logical interfaces towards the 5GC from any one NG-
RAN node. The selection of the NG-C interface is then determined by the NAS
Node Selection function as described in clause 5.
There may be multiple NG-U logical interfaces towards the 5GC from any one NG-
RAN node. The selection of the NG-U interface is done within the 5GC and
signalled to the NG-RAN node by the AMF.
## 4.2 NG interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the NG interface are as
follows:
\- the NG interface is open;
\- the NG interface supports the exchange of signalling information between
the NG-RAN and 5GC;
\- from a logical standpoint, the NG is a point-to-point interface between an
NG-RAN node and a 5GC node. A point-to-point logical interface is feasible
even in the absence of a physical direct connection between the NG-RAN and
5GC;
\- the NG interface supports control plane and user plane separation;
\- the NG interface separates Radio Network Layer and Transport Network Layer;
\- the NG interface is future proof to fulfil different new requirements and
support of new services and new functions;
\- the NG interface is decoupled with the possible NG-RAN deployment variants;
\- the NG Application Protocol supports modular procedures design and uses a
syntax allowing optimized encoding /decoding efficiency.
## 4.3 NG interface specification objectives
The NG interface specification facilitates the following:
\- inter-connection of NG-RAN nodes with AMFs supplied by different
manufacturers;
\- separation of NG interface Radio Network functionality and Transport
Network functionality to facilitate introduction of future technology.
## 4.4 NG interface capabilities
The NG interface supports:
\- procedures to establish, maintain and release NG-RAN part of PDU sessions;
\- procedures to perform intra-RAT handover and inter-RAT handover;
\- the separation of each UE on the protocol level for user specific
signalling management;
\- the transfer of NAS signalling messages between UE and AMF;
\- mechanisms for resource reservation for packet data streams.
# 5 Functions of the NG interface
## 5.1 General
The following clauses describe the functions supported over the NG interface.
## 5.2 Paging function
The paging function supports the sending of paging requests to the NG-RAN
nodes involved in the paging area e.g. the NG-RAN nodes of the TA(s) the UE is
registered.
## 5.3 UE Context Management function
The UE Context management function allows the AMF to establish, modify or
release a UE Context in the AMF and the NG-RAN node e.g. to support user
individual signalling on NG.
The function also enables the AMF to manage RRC state notifications of a CM-
CONNECTED UE.
## 5.4 Mobility Management function
The mobility function for UEs in CM-CONNECTED includes the intra-system
handover function to support mobility within NG-RAN and inter-system handover
function to support mobility from/to EPS system. It comprises the preparation,
execution and completion of handover via the NG interface.
## 5.5 PDU Session Management function
The PDU Session function is responsible for establishing, modifying and
releasing the involved PDU sessions NG-RAN resources for user data transport
once a UE context is available in the NG-RAN node.
NGAP supports transparent relaying of PDU Session related information by the
AMF as described in TS 23.502 [6].
## 5.6 NAS Transport function
The NAS Signalling Transport function provides means to transport or reroute a
NAS message (e.g. for NAS mobility management) for a specific UE over the NG
interface.
## 5.7 NAS Node Selection function
The interconnection of NG-RAN nodes to multiple AMFs is supported in the 5GS
architecture.
Therefore, a NAS node selection function is located in the NG-RAN node to
determine the AMF association of the UE, based on the UE\'s temporary
identifier, which was assigned to the UE by the AMF. When the UE\'s temporary
identifier has not been yet assigned or is no longer valid the NG-RAN node may
instead take into account slicing information to determine the AMF.
This functionality is located in the NG-RAN node and enables proper routing
via the NG interface. On NG, no specific procedure corresponds to the NAS Node
Selection Function.
## 5.8 NG Interface Management function
The NG-interface management functions provide
\- means to ensure a defined start of NG-interface operation (reset);
\- means to handle different versions of application part implementations and
protocol errors (error indication).
## 5.9 Warning Message Transmission function
The warning message transmission function provides means to transfer warning
messages via NG interface or cancel ongoing broadcast of warning messages. It
also provides the capability for the NG-RAN to inform the AMF that ongoing PWS
operation has failed for one or more areas, or that one or more areas may be
reloaded by the CBC.
## 5.10 Configuration Transfer function
The Configuration Transfer function is a generic mechanism that allows the
request and transfer of RAN configuration information (e.g. SON information)
between two RAN nodes via the core network.
## 5.11 Trace function
The Trace function provides means to control trace sessions in the NG-RAN
node.
## 5.12 AMF Management function
The AMF management function supports AMF planned removal and AMF auto-recovery
as specified in TS 23.501 [8].
## 5.13 Multiple TNL Associations Support Function
When there are multiple TNL associations between a NG-RAN node and an AMF, the
NG-RAN node selects the TNL association for NGAP signalling based on the usage
and the weight factor of each TNL association received from the AMF, and uses
the TNL association as specified in TS 23.501 [8] and TS 23.502 [6]. If an AMF
releases a TNL association or a TNL association has failed, the NG-RAN node
selects a new one as specified in TS 23.501 [8] and TS 23.502 [6].
## 5.14 AMF Load Balancing function
The NG interface supports the indication by the AMF of its relative capacity
to the NG-RAN node in order to achieve load-balanced AMFs within the pool
area.
## 5.15 Location Reporting function
This function enables the AMF to request the NG-RAN node to report the UE\'s
current location, or the UE\'s last known location with timestamp, or the
UE\'s presence in a configured area of interest.
## 5.16 AMF Re-allocation function
This function allows to redirect an initial connection request issued by an
NG-RAN node from an initial AMF towards a target AMF selected by 5GC. In this
case the NG-RAN node initiates an Initial UE Message procedure over one NG
interface instance and receives the first downlink message to close the UE-
associated logical connection over a different NG interface instance.
## 5.17 UE Radio Capability Management function
The UE Radio Capability Management function is related to the UE radio
capability handling.
## 5.18 NRPPa Signaling Transport function
The NRPPa (NR Positioning Protocol A) Signalling Transport function provides
means to transport an NRPPa (3GPP TS 38.455 [10]) message transparently over
the NG interface.
## 5.19 Overload Control function
The overload function provides means to enable AMF controls the load that the
NG-RAN node(s) are generating.
## 5.20 Report of Secondary RAT data volumes Function
The Report of Secondary RAT data volumes Function enables the NG-RAN node to
report Secondary RAT usage data information in case of MR-DC, either with a
dedicated procedure or by including Secondary RAT usage data information in
other messages.
# 6 Signalling procedures of the NG interface
## 6.1 PDU Session Management Procedures
The following list of PDU Session management procedures are used to establish,
release or modify NG-RAN resources for a PDU session:
\- PDU Session Resource Setup;
\- PDU Session Resource Release;
\- PDU Session Resource Modify;
\- PDU Session Resource Notify;
\- PDU Session Resource Modify Indication.
## 6.2 UE Context Management Procedures
The following list of UE Context management procedures are used to establish,
release or modify the UE context.
\- Initial Context Setup;
\- UE Context Release Request;
\- UE Context Release;
\- UE Context Modification;
\- RRC Inactive Transition Report.
## 6.3 NAS transport procedures
The NAS transport procedures enable transparent transfer of NAS signalling
data between the AMF and the UE. The procedures providing this functionality
are:
\- Initial UE Message (NG-RAN node initiated);
\- Uplink NAS transport (NG-RAN node initiated);
\- Downlink NAS transport (AMF initiated);
\- NAS non delivery indication (NG-RAN node initiated);
\- Reroute NAS Request (AMF initiated).
## 6.4 UE Mobility Management Procedures
The following list of UE Mobility management procedures are used to prepare,
execute or cancel handovers.
\- Handover Preparation;
\- Handover Resource Allocation;
\- Handover Notification;
\- Path Switch Request;
\- Uplink RAN Status Transfer;
\- Downlink RAN Status Transfer;
\- Handover Cancellation.
## 6.5 Paging procedure
The following paging procedure is used to send paging requests to the NG-RAN
nodes involved in the paging area:
\- Paging.
## 6.6 AMF Management procedures
The following list of AMF management procedures are used by the AMF to inform
the NG-RAN node about an AMF\'s status, and to release the UE TNLA binding for
specific UE(s):
\- AMF Status Indication;
\- UE TNLA binding release.
## 6.7 NG Interface Management procedures
The following list of procedures are used to manage the NG interface:
\- NG Setup;
\- RAN Configuration Update;
\- AMF Configuration Update;
\- NG Reset;
\- Error Indication.
## 6.8 Warning message transmission procedures
The following procedures are used to manage the broadcasting of warning
messages:
\- Write-Replace Warning;
\- PWS Cancel;
\- PWS Restart Indication;
\- PWS Failure Indication.
## 6.9 Location Reporting procedures
The following procedures are used to report the location of the UE:
\- Location Reporting Control;
\- Location Report;
\- Location Reporting Failure Indication.
## 6.10 UE Radio Capability Management procedures
The following procedures are related to the UE radio capability handling:
\- UE Radio Capability Check;
\- UE Radio Capability Info Indication.
## 6.11 UE Tracing procedures
The following procedures are used to trace the UE:
\- Trace Start;
\- Trace Failure Indication;
\- Deactivate Trace;
\- Cell Traffic Trace.
## 6.12 NR Positioning Protocol A (NRPPa) procedures
The following procedures are used for NRPPa signalling:
\- Downlink UE Associated NRPPa Transport;
\- Uplink UE Associated NRPPa Transport;
\- Downlink non-UE Associated NRPPa Transport;
\- Uplink non-UE Associated NRPPa Transport.
## 6.13 Overload Control procedures
The following procedures are used by the AMF to start or stop overload
control.
\- Overload Start procedure;
\- Overload Stop procedure.
## 6.14 Configuration Transfer procedures
The following procedures are used by the AMF to transfer the RAN configuration
information.
\- Downlink RAN Configuration Transfer procedure;
\- Uplink RAN Configuration Transfer procedure.
## 6.15 Secondary RAT Data Usage Report procedure
The purpose of the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report procedure is to provides
information on the used resources of the secondary RAT (e.g. NR resources
during MR-DC operation) as specified in TS 23.501 [8].
# 7 NG interface protocol structure
## 7.1 NG Control Plane
The control plane protocol stack of the NG interface is shown on Figure 7.1-1.
The transport network layer is built on IP transport. For the reliable
transport of signalling messages, SCTP is added on top of IP. The application
layer signalling protocol is referred to as NGAP (NG Application Protocol).
Figure 7.1-1: NG Interface Control Plane
## 7.2 NG User Plane
The NG user plane (NG-U) interface is defined between a NG-RAN node and a UPF.
The NG-U interface provides non guaranteed delivery of PDU Session user plane
PDUs between the NG-RAN node and the UPF.
The protocol stack for NG-U is shown in Figure 7.2-1.
Figure 7.2-1: NG-U protocol structure
# 8 Other NG interface specifications
## 8.1 NG-RAN NG interface: NG layer 1 (TS 38.411)
TS 38.411 [2] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used to
support the NG interface.
## 8.2 NG-RAN NG interface: NG signalling transport (TS 38.412)
TS 38.412 [3] specifies how the NGAP signalling messages are transported over
NG.
## 8.3 NG-RAN NG interface: NG application protocol (NGAP) (TS 38.413)
TS 38.413 [4] specifies the radio network layer signalling procedures of the
control plane between the NG-RAN node and the AMF.
## 8.4 NG-RAN NG interface: NG data transport (TS 38.414)
TS 38.414 [5] specifies the standards for user data transport protocols over
the NG interface.
## 8.5 NG-RAN NG interface: NG PDU Session user plane protocol (TS 38.415)
TS 38.415 [9] specifies the PDU Session user plane protocol procedures over
the NG interface.
#