# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for Signalling Transport to be
used across the E1 interface. The E1 interface provides means for the
interconnection of gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP within the NG-RAN architecture (TS
38.401 [2]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[3] IETF RFC 8200 (2017-07): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[4] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[5] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[6] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.460: \"NG-RAN; E1 general aspects and principles\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.461: \"NG-RAN; E1 layer 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.463: \"NG-RAN; E1 Application Protocol (E1AP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage-2\".
[11] IETF RFC 6083 (2011-01): \"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for
Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)\".
[12] IETF RFC 6335 (2011-08): \"Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
Procedures for the Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port
Number Registry\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**E1:** interface between a gNB-CU-CP and a gNB-CU-UP, providing an
interconnection point between the gNB-CU-CP and the gNB-CU-UP.
**gNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [10].
**gNB-CU: as defined in TS 38.401 [2].**
**gNB-CU-CP: as defined in TS 38.401 [2].**
**gNB-CU-UP: as defined in TS 38.401 [2].**
**SCTP endpoint:** as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [6].
**SCTP association:** as defined in IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09) [6].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DiffServ Differentiated Service
IANA Internet Assigned Number Authority
IP Internet Protocol
PPP Point to Point Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 E1 signalling bearer
## 4.1 Function and protocol stack
E1 signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of E1AP message over E1 interface.
\- Provision of networking and routeing function
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network
\- Support for flow control and congestion control
The protocol stack for E1 Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1-1 and
details on each protocol are described in the following sections.
Figure 4.1-1: E1 signalling bearer protocol stack
The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 5 Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet,
etc., shall not be prevented.
# 6 IP layer
The gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 8200 [3]) and/or IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 [4]).
The IP layer of E1 only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
E1AP message.
The gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as
described in IETF RFC 2474 [5].
# 7 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [6]) shall be supported as the transport layer of E1
signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier assigned by IANA to be used
by SCTP for the application layer protocol E1AP is 64 and 67 for DTLS over
SCTP (IETF RFC 6083 [11]). The byte order of the ppid shall be big-endian.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
The gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP shall support a configuration with a single SCTP
association per gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair. Configurations with multiple SCTP
endpoints per gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair should be supported. When
configurations with multiple SCTP associations are supported, the gNB-CU-CP or
the gNB-CU-UP may request to dynamically add/remove SCTP associations between
the gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair. Within the set of SCTP associations established
between one gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP pair, a single SCTP association shall be
employed for E1AP elementary procedures that utilize non-UE-associated
signalling with the possibility of fail-over to a new association to enable
robustness.
When the configuration with multiple SCTP endpoints per gNB-CU-UP is supported
and gNB-CU-UP wants to add additional SCTP endpoints, the gNB-CU-UP
Configuration Update procedure shall be the first E1AP procedure triggered on
an additional TNLA of an already setup E1 interface instance after the TNL
association has become operational, and the gNB-CU-CP shall associate the TNLA
to the E1 interface instance using the included gNB-CU-UP ID.
Either the gNB-CU-CP or gNB-CU-UP shall establish the first SCTP association.
The additional SCTP associations are established by the gNB-CU-UP. The SCTP
Destination Port number value to be used for E1AP is 38462 which is assigned
by IANA. When the gNB-CU-CP requests to dynamically add additional SCTP
associations between the gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP pair, the gNB-CU-CP port is
selected and signalled by the gNB-CU-CP to the gNB-CU-UP, and it can be port
number value 38462 or any dynamic port value as defined by IETF RFC 6335 [12].
Between one gNB-CU-CP and gNB-CU-UP pair:
\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved over an SCTP
association for the sole use of E1AP elementary procedures that utilize non
UE-associated signalling.
\- At least one pair of stream identifiers over one or several SCTP
associations shall be reserved for the sole use of E1AP elementary procedures
that utilize UE-associated signalling. However, a few pairs (i.e. more than
one) should be reserved.
\- For a single UE-associated signalling the gNB-CU-CP and the gNB-CU-UP shall
use one SCTP association and one SCTP stream, and the SCTP association/stream
should not be changed during the communication of the UE-associated signalling
until after current SCTP association is failed, or TNL binding update is
performed.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. **For SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from a gNB-CU-CP or a gNB-CU-UP, at
any time for an already established SCTP association, which shall be handled
as defined in IETF RFC 4960 [6] in sub clause 5.2.**
The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism,
initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source
and prioritise certain messages.
#