# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 38.47x series of
technical specifications that define the F1 interface. The F1 interface
provides means for interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of a gNB within an
NG-RAN, or for interconnecting a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU of an en-gNB within an
E-UTRAN.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.401: \"NG-RAN; Architecture Description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.471: \"NG-RAN; F1 layer 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.472: \"NG-RAN; F1 signalling transport\".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.473: \"NG-RAN; F1 Application Protocol (FnAP)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.474: \"NG-RAN; F1 data transport\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.425: \"NG-RAN; Xn interface user plane protocol\".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**en-gNB** : as defined in TS 37.340 [9]
**gNB-CU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
**gNB-DU** : as defined in TS 38.401 [2]
**gNB** : as defined in TS 38.300 [8]
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DRB Data Radio Bearers
F1-U F1 User plane interface
F1-C F1 Control plane interface
F1AP F1 Application Protocol
GTP-U GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
IP Internet Protocol
NR-MIB NR-Master Information Block
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PA Paging Area
PF Paging Frame
PO Paging Occasion
QoS Quality of Service
RRC Radio Resource Control
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SRB Signalling Radio Bearers
SIB1 System Information Block 1
TNL Transport Network Layer
# 4 General aspects
This clause captures the F1 interface principles and characteristics.
## 4.1 F1 interface general principles
The general principles for the specification of the F1 interface are as
follows:
\- the F1 interface is open;
\- the F1 interface supports the exchange of signalling information between
the endpoints, in addition the interface supports data transmission to the
respective endpoints;
\- from a logical standpoint, the F1 is a point-to-point interface between the
endpoints.
NOTE: A point-to-point logical interface should be feasible even in the
absence of a physical direct connection between the endpoints.
\- the F1 interface supports control plane and user plane separation;
\- the F1 interface separates Radio Network Layer and Transport Network Layer;
\- the F1 interface enables exchange of UE associated information and non-UE
associated information;
\- the F1 interface is designed in a future proof way to fulfil different new
requirements, support new services and new functions;
\- one gNB-CU and a set of gNB-DUs are visible to other logical nodes as a gNB
or an en-gNB where the gNB terminates the Xn and the NG interfaces, and the
en-gNB terminates the X2 and the S1-U interfaces;
\- the gNB-CU may be separated in control plane (CP) and user plane (UP).
## 4.2 F1 interface specification objectives
The F1 interface specifications facilitate the following:
\- inter-connection of a gNB-CU and a gNB-DU supplied by different
manufacturers.
## 4.3 F1 interface capabilities
The F1 interface supports:
\- procedures to establish, maintain and release radio bearers for the NG-RAN
part of PDU sessions and for E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearers;
\- the separation of each UE on the protocol level for user specific
signalling management;- the transfer of RRC signalling messages between the UE
and the gNB-CU.
## 4.4 Void
# 5 Functions of the F1 interface
## 5.1 General
The following clauses describe the functions supported over F1-C and F1-U.
## 5.2 F1-C functions
### 5.2.1 F1 interface management function
The error indication function is used by the gNB-DU or gNB-CU to indicate to
the gNB-CU or gNB-DU that an error has occurred.
The reset function is used to initialize the peer entity after node setup and
after a failure event occurred. This procedure can be used by both the gNB-DU
and the gNB-CU.
The F1 setup function allows to exchange application level data needed for the
gNB-DU and gNB-CU to interoperate correctly on the F1 interface. The F1 setup
is initiated by the gNB-DU.
The gNB-CU Configuration Update and gNB-DU Configuration Update functions
allow to update application level configuration data needed between gNB-CU and
gNB-DU to interoperate correctly over the F1 interface, and may activate or
deactivate cells. With the gNB-CU Configuration Update function, energy saving
with cell activation/deactivation can be supported as defined in TS 38.300
[8].
The F1 setup and gNB-DU Configuration Update functions allow to inform the
S-NSSAI(s) supported by the gNB-DU.
The F1 resource coordination function is used to transfer information about
frequency resource sharing between gNB-CU and gNB-DU. In case of split gNB
architecture, the gNB-CU may consolidate the outgoing messages from multiple
gNB-DUs and distribute the incoming messages to the involved gNB-DUs, to
perform resource coordination.
The gNB-DU status indication function allows the gNB-DU to indicate overload
status to gNB-CU.
### 5.2.2 System Information management function
Scheduling of system broadcast information is carried out in the gNB-DU. The
gNB-DU is responsible for transmitting the system information according to the
scheduling parameters available.
The gNB-DU is responsible for the encoding of the NR-MIB message. In case
broadcast of SIB1 and other SIBs is needed, the gNB-DU is responsible for the
encoding of the SIB1 message and the gNB-CU is responsible for the encoding of
other SIBs. The gNB-DU may re-encode SIB9. The gNB-DU is responsible for the
generation of the SystemInformation message.
To support Msg3 based on-demand SI as described in TS 38.331 [11], the gNB-CU
can confirm the received SI request from the UE by including the UE identity,
and command the gNB-DU to broadcast the requested other SIs.
### 5.2.3 F1 UE context management function
The F1 UE context management function supports the establishment and
modification of the necessary overall UE context.
The establishment of the F1 UE context is initiated by the gNB-CU and accepted
or rejected by the gNB-DU based on admission control criteria (e.g., resource
not available).
The modification of the F1 UE context can be initiated by either gNB-CU or
gNB-DU. The receiving node can accept or reject the modification. The F1 UE
context management function also supports the release of the context
previously established in the gNB-DU. The release of the context is triggered
by the gNB-CU either directly or following a request received from the gNB-DU.
The gNB-CU request the gNB-DU to release the UE Context when the UE enters
RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE.
This function can be also used to manage DRBs and SRBs, i.e., establishing,
modifying and releasing DRB and SRB resources. The establishment and
modification of DRB resources are triggered by the gNB-CU and
accepted/rejected by the gNB-DU based on resource reservation information and
QoS information to be provided to the gNB-DU. For each DRB to be setup or
modified, the S-NSSAI may be provided by gNB-CU to the gNB-DU in the UE
Context Setup procedure and the UE Context Modification procedure.
The mapping between QoS flows and radio bearers is performed by gNB-CU and the
granularity of bearer related management over F1 is radio bearer level. For
NG-RAN, the gNB-CU decides an aggregated DRB QoS profile for each radio bearer
based on received QoS flow profile, and provides both aggregated DRB QoS
profile and QoS flow profile to the gNB-DU, and the gNB-DU either accepts the
request or rejects it with appropriate cause value. With this function, gNB-DU
could also notify gNB-CU whether the QoS for already established DRBs is not
fulfilled any longer or it is fulfilled again. To support packet duplication
for intra-gNB-DU CA as described in TS 38.300 [8], one data radio bearer
should be configured with two GTP-U tunnels between gNB-CU and a gNB-DU.
With this function, gNB-CU requests the gNB-DU to setup or change of the
SpCell (as defined in TS 38.321 [10]) for the UE, and the gNB-DU either
accepts or rejects the request with appropriate cause value.
With this function, the gNB-CU requests the setup of the SCell(s) at the gNB-
DU side, and the gNB-DU accepts all, some or none of the SCell(s) and replies
to the gNB-CU. The gNB-CU requests the removal of the SCell(s) for the UE.
With this function, the gNB-CU indicates the UL UE AMBR limit to the gNB-DU,
and the gNB-DU enforces the indicated limit.
With this function, the gNB-DU indicates that a bearer, or a UE is inactive or
active. The gNB-CU consolidates all the serving gNB-DUs for the UE and takes
further action.
### 5.2.4 RRC message transfer function
This function allows to transfer RRC messages between gNB-CU and gNB-DU. RRC
messages are transferred over F1-C. The gNB-CU is responsible for the encoding
of the dedicated RRC message with assistance information provided by gNB-DU.
This function also allows gNB-DU to report to gNB- CU if the downlink RRC
message has been successfully delivered to UE or not.
### 5.2.5 Paging function
The gNB-DU is responsible for transmitting the paging information according to
the scheduling parameters provided.
The gNB-CU provides paging information to enable the gNB-DU to calculate the
exact PO and PF. The gNB-CU determines the PA. The gNB-DU consolidates all the
paging records for a particular PO, PF and PA, and encodes the final RRC
message and broadcasts the paging message on the respective PO, PF in the PA.
### 5.2.6 Warning messages information transfer function
This function allows to cooperate with the warning message transmission
procedures over NG interface. The gNB-CU is responsible for encoding the
warning related SI message and sending it together with other warning related
information for the gNB-DU to broadcast over the radio interface.
## 5.3 F1-U functions
### 5.3.1 Transfer of user data
This function allows to transfer of user data between gNB-CU and gNB-DU.
### 5.3.2 Flow control function
This function allows to control the downlink user data flow to the gNB-DU. The
detailed protocol is specified in TS 38.425 [7].
## 5.4 TEIDs allocation
The gNB-DU is responsible for the allocation of the F1-U DL GTP TEID for each
data radio bearer.
# 6 Procedures of the F1 interface
## 6.1 Control plane procedures
### 6.1.1 Interface Management procedures
The F1 Interface management procedures are listed below:
\- Reset procedure
\- Error Indication procedure
\- F1 Setup procedure
\- gNB-DU Configuration Update procedure
\- gNB-CU Configuration Update procedure
\- gNB-DU Resource Coordination procedure
\- gNB-DU Status Indication procedure
### 6.1.2 Context Management procedures
The F1 Context management procedures are listed below:
\- UE Context setup procedure
\- UE Context Release Request (gNB-DU initiated) procedure
\- UE Context Release (gNB-CU initiated) procedure
\- UE Context Modification (gNB-CU initiated) procedure
\- UE Context Modification Required (gNB-DU initiated) procedure
\- UE Inactivity Notification Procedure
\- Notify procedure
### 6.1.3 RRC Message Transfer procedures
The F1 RRC message transfer procedures are listed below:
\- Initial UL RRC Message Transfer procedure
\- UL RRC Message Transfer procedure
\- DL RRC Message Transfer procedure
\- RRC Delivery Report procedure
### 6.1.3A Warning Message Transmission procedures
The F1 Warning message transmission procedures are listed below:
\- Write-Replace Warning procedure
\- PWS Cancel procedure
\- PWS Restart Indication procedure
\- PWS Failure Indication procedure
### 6.1.4 System Information procedures
The F1 System information procedures are listed below:
\- System Information Delivery procedure
### 6.1.5 Paging procedures
The F1 Paging procedures are listed below:
\- Paging procedure
### 6.1.6 Void
## 6.2 User plane procedures
# 7 F1 interface protocol structure
## 7.1 F1 Control Plane Protocol (F1-C)
Figure 7.1-1 shows the protocol structure for F1-C. The TNL is based on IP
transport, comprising the SCTP on top of IP. The application layer signalling
protocol is referred to as F1AP (F1 Application Protocol).
{width="2.6666666666666665in" height="2.3645833333333335in"}
Figure 7.1-1: Interface protocol structure for F1-C
## 7.2 F1 User Plane Protocol (F1-U)
Figure 7.2-1 shows the protocol structure for F1-U. The TNL is based on IP
transport, comprising the UDP and GTP-U on top of IP.
{width="2.6659722222222224in" height="2.65625in"}
Figure 7.2-1: Interface protocol structure for F1-U
# 8 Other F1 interface specifications
This clause contains the description of the other related 3GPP specifications.
## 8.1 NG-RAN F1 interface: layer 1 (3GPP TS 38.471)
3GPP TS 38.471 [3] specifies the physical layer technologies that may be used
to support the F1 interface.
## 8.2 NG-RAN F1 interface: signalling transport (3GPP TS 38.472)
3GPP TS 38.472 [4] specifies the signalling bearers for the F1AP for the F1-C
interface.
## 8.3 NG-RAN F1 interface: F1AP specification (3GPP TS 38.473)
3GPP TS 38.473 [5] specifies the F1AP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the F1 interface.
## 8.4 NG-RAN F1 interface: data transport and transport signalling (3GPP TS
38.474)
3GPP TS 38.474 [6] specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of the
F1-U interface.
## 8.5 NG-RAN F1 interface: user plane protocol (3GPP TS 38.425)
3GPP TS 38.425 [7] specifies the user plane protocol being used over the F1-U
interface.
#