# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part deliverable covering the 5G
System (5GS) User Equipment (UE) protocol conformance specification, as
identified below:
\- 3GPP TS 38.508-1 [11]: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 1: Common test environment \".
\- 3GPP TS 38.508-2: \"**5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Common Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma** \" (the
present document).
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for 5G New Radio (NR) User Equipment (UE), in compliance with the
relevant requirements.
Special conformance testing functions can be found in 3GPP TS 38.509 [12] and
3GPP TS 36.509 [14] and the common test environments are included in 3GPP TS
38.508-1 [11] and 3GPP TS 36.508 [13].
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP Releases
starting from Release 15 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 38.523-1: \"5GS; UE conformance specification; Part 1: Protocol
conformance specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 38.523-2: "5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Applicability of protocol test cases".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.523-3: "5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Protocol Test Suites".
[5] 3GPP TS 38.521-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.521-2: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.521-3: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Radio transmission and reception; Part 3: Range 1 and Range 2 Interworking
operation with other radios".
[8] 3GPP TS 38.521-4: "NR; User Equipment conformance specification; Radio
transmission and reception; Part 4: Performance".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.522: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Applicability of radio transmission, radio reception and radio resource
management test cases".
[10] 3GPP TS 38.523: "NR; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Radio
resource management".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.508-1: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Common test environment\".
[12] 3GPP TS 38.509: \"5GS; Special conformance testing functions for UE\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.508: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); Common Test Environments
for User Equipment (UE) Conformance Testing\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Special
conformance testing functions for User Equipment (UE)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 34.229-2: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP);User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 2:
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) specification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.523-2: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRAN); User Equipment (UE)
conformance specification; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma specification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 38.306: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities".
[18] ISO/IEC 9646-7: \"Information technology - Open systems interconnection -
Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part 7: Implementation
Conformance Statements\".
[19] 3GPP TS 38.307: "NR; User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-
independent frequency band".
[20] 3GPP TS 37.340:\"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
NR; Multi-connectivity; Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\"
[23] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [5] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[5].
**Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS):** statement made by the supplier
of an implementation or system claimed to conform to a given specification,
stating which capabilities have been implemented
**ICS proforma:** document, in the form of a questionnaire, which when
completed for an implementation or system becomes an ICS
**Implementation extra Information for Testing (IXIT):** A statement made by a
supplier or implementer of an UEUT which contains or references all of the
information (in addition to that given in the ICS) related to the UEUT and its
testing environment, which will enable the test laboratory to run an
appropriate test suite against the UEUT
**IXIT proforma:** A document, in the form of a questionnaire, which when
completed for an UEUT becomes an IXIT
**Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS):** An ICS for an
implementation or system claimed to conform to a given protocol specification
**Protocol Implementation extra Information for Testing (PIXIT):** An IXIT
related to testing for conformance to a given protocol specification
**Static conformance review** : A review of the extent to which the static
conformance requirements are claimed to be supported by the UEUT, by comparing
the answers in the ICS(s) with the static conformance requirements expressed
in the relevant specification(s)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
> FFS For Further Study
>
> ICS Implementation Conformance Statement
>
> IXIT Implementation extra Information for Testing
>
> PICS Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement
>
> PIXIT Protocol Implementation extra Information for Testing
>
> SCS System Conformance Statement
>
> TC Test Case
>
> UEUT User Equipment Under Test
###### ## Annex A (normative):ICS proforma for NR/5GS Generation User
Equipment
Notwithstanding the provisions of the copyright clause related to the text of
the present document, The Organizational Partners of 3GPP grant that users of
the present document may freely reproduce the ICS proforma in this annex so
that it can be used for its intended purposes and may further publish the
completed ICS.
# A.1 Guidance for completing the ICS proforma
## A.1.1 Purposes and structure
The purpose of this ICS proforma is to provide a mechanism whereby a supplier
of an implementation of the requirements defined in relevant specifications
may provide information about the implementation in a standardised manner.
The ICS proforma is subdivided into clauses for the following categories of
information:
\- instructions for completing the ICS proforma;
\- identification of the implementation;
\- identification of the protocol;
\- ICS proforma tables (for example: UE implementation types, Teleservices,
etc).
## A.1.2 Abbreviations and conventions
The ICS proforma contained in this annex is comprised of information in
tabular form in accordance with the guidelines presented in ISO/IEC 9646‑7
[18].
##### Item column {#item-column .H6}
The item column contains a number which identifies the item in the table.
##### Item description column {#item-description-column .H6}
The item description column describes in free text each respective item (e.g.
parameters, timers, etc.). It implicitly means \"is \
supported by the implementation?\".
##### Reference column {#reference-column .H6}
The reference column gives reference to the relevant 3GPP core specifications.
##### Release column {#release-column .H6}
The release column indicates the earliest release from which the capability or
option is relevant.
##### Mnemonic column {#mnemonic-column .H6}
The Mnemonic column contains mnemonic identifiers for each item.
##### Comments column {#comments-column .H6}
This column is left blank for particular use by the reader of the present
document.
##### References to items {#references-to-items .H6}
For each possible item answer (answer in the support column) within the ICS
proforma there exists a unique reference, used, for example, in the
conditional expressions. It is defined as the table identifier, followed by a
solidus character \"/\", followed by the item number in the table. If there is
more than one support column in a table, the columns shall be discriminated by
letters (a, b, etc.), respectively.
## A.1.3 Instructions for completing the ICS proforma
The supplier of the implementation may complete the ICS proforma in each of
the spaces provided. More detailed instructions are given at the beginning of
the different clauses of the ICS proforma.
# A.2 Identification of the User Equipment
Identification of the User Equipment should be filled in so as to provide as
much detail as possible regarding version numbers and configuration options.
The product supplier information and client information should both be filled
in if they are different.
A person who can answer queries regarding information supplied in the ICS
should be named as the contact person.
## A.2.1 Date of the statement
## A.2.2 User Equipment Under Test (UEUT) identification
UEUT name:
Hardware configuration:
Software configuration:
## A.2.3 Product supplier
Name:
Address:
Telephone number:
Facsimile number:
E-mail address:
Additional information:
## A.2.4 Client
Name:
Address:
Telephone number:
Facsimile number:
E-mail address:
Additional information:
## A.2.5 ICS contact person
Name:
Telephone number:
Facsimile number:
E-mail address:
Additional information:
# A.3 Identification of the protocol
This ICS proforma applies to the 3GPP standards listed in the normative
references clause of the present document.
# A.4 ICS proforma tables
## A.4.1 UE Implementation Types
Table A.4.1-1: UE Radio Technologies
+------+-----------------------+-----------+---------+-----------+----------+ | Item | UE Radio Technologies | Ref. | Release | Mnemonic | Comments | +------+-----------------------+-----------+---------+-----------+----------+ | 1 | NR FDD | 38.101-1, | Rel-15 | pc_nrFDD | | | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2 | | | | +------+-----------------------+-----------+---------+-----------+----------+ | 2 | NR TDD | 38.101-1, | Rel-15 | pc_nrTDD | | | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2 | | | | +------+-----------------------+-----------+---------+-----------+----------+
Table A.4.1-2: UE general functionality
* * *
Item UE Functionality Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1 Support of multiple NR
FDD bands 38.101, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrFDD_MultiBand  
2 Support of multiple NR TDD bands 38.101, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrTDD_MultiBand  
3 NR SUL 38.101-1 Rel-15 pc_nrSUL  
4 NR SDL 38.101-1 Rel-15 pc_nrSDL  
5 Support of multiple NR SUL bands 38.101, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrSUL_MultiBand  
6 Support of multiple NR SDL bands 38.101, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrSDL_MultiBand
* * *
Table A.4.1-3: RAN-CN Interface Options
* * *
Item UE support of RAN-CN Interface Options Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1
NG-RAN NR 38.300 Rel-15 pc_NG_RAN_NR Option 2 2 EN-DC 37.340 Rel-15 pc_EN_DC
Option 3 3 NE-DC 37.340 Rel-15 pc_NE_DC Option 4 4 NG-RAN E-UTRA 38.300 Rel-15
pc_NG_RAN_EUTRA Option 5 5 NGEN-DC 37.340 Rel-15 pc_NGEN_DC Option 7
* * *
Table A.4.1-4: NSA DC UE Radio Technologies
* * *
Item NSA UE Radio Technologies Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1 Intra-Band
Contiguous EN-DC 38.101-3, 5.2B.2 Rel-15 pc_IntraBand_Contiguous_ENDC  
2 Intra-Band Non-Contiguous EN-DC 38.101-3, 5.2B.3 Rel-15
pc_IntraBand_Non_Contiguous_ENDC  
3 Inter-Band EN-DC within FR1 38.101-3, 5.2B.4 Rel-15
pc_InterBand_ENDC_WithinFR1  
4 Inter-Band EN-DC including FR2 38.101-3, 5.2B.5 Rel-15
pc_InterBand_ENDC_IncludingFR2  
5 Inter-band EN-DC including both FR1 and FR2 38.101-3, 5.2B.6 Rel-15
pc_InterBand_ENDC_IncludingFR1_FR2  
6 Inter-band NR-DC between FR1 and FR2 38.101-3, 5.2B.6 Rel-15
pc_InterBand_NRDC_BetweenFR1_FR2
* * *
Table A.4.1-4A: SA CA UE Radio Technologies
* * *
Item SA UE Radio Technologies Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1 Intra-Band
Contiguous CA within FR1 38.101-1, 5.2A.1 Rel-15
pc_IntraBand_Contiguous_CA_WithinFR1  
2 Intra-Band Non-contiguous CA within FR1 38.101-1, 5.2A.1 Rel-15
pc_IntraBand_NonContiguous_CA_WithinFR1  
3 Intra-Band Contiguous CA within FR2 38.101-2, 5.2A.1 Rel-15
pc_IntraBand_Contiguous_CA_WithinFR2  
4 Intra-Band Non-contiguous CA within FR2 38.101-2, 5.2A.1 Rel-15
pc_IntraBand_NonContiguous_CA_WithinFR2  
5 Inter-Band CA within FR1 38.101-1, 5.2A.2 Rel-15 pc_InterBand_CA_WithinFR1  
6 Inter-Band CA within FR2 38.101-2, 5.2A.2 Rel-15 pc_InterBand_CA_WithinFR2  
7 Inter-band CA between FR1 and FR2 38.101-3, 5.2A.1 Rel-15
pc_InterBand_CA_BetweenFR1_FR2
* * *
Table A.4.1-5: 5GS UE Core Technologies
* * *
Item 5GS UE Core Technologies Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1 UE Supports 5GS
Core 24.501 Rel-15 pc_5GCN  
2 UE Supports 5GS core over non-3GPP Access Network 24.501, 4.7 Rel-15
pc_5GCN_N3AN
* * *
## A.4.2 UE Service Capabilities
### A.4.2.1 3GPP Standardised UE Service Capabilities
#### A.4.2.1.1 Bearer Services
Table A.4.2.1.1-1: Definition of Bearer Services
* * *
**Item** **Definition of Bearer Services** **Ref.** **Release** **Mnemonic**
**Comments** 1 FFS
* * *
## A.4.3 Baseline Implementation Capabilities
Table A.4.3-1: Supported protocols
* * *
Item Supported protocols Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1 5GS Mobility
Management 24.501 Rel-15  
2 5GS Session Management 24.501 Rel-15  
3 Radio Resource Control 38.331 Rel-15  
4 Service Data Adaptation Protocol 37.324 Rel-15  
5 Packet Data Convergence Protocol 38.323 Rel-15  
6 Radio Link Control 38.322 Rel-15  
7 Medium Access Control 38.321 Rel-15  
8 Physical Layer 38.201 Rel-15
* * *
Table A.4.3-2: Special Conformance Testing Functions
* * *
**Item** **Special Conformance Testing Functions** **Ref.** **Release**
**Mnemonic** **Comments** 1 UE test loop 38.509 Rel-15
* * *
### A.4.3.1 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
NOTE: The values indicated in column \"Release\" in tables A.4.3.1-1 and
A.4.3.1-2 below are to be understood as the specifications release version in
which a band was introduced and not as a mandate that a UE conforming to
particular release shall support a particular band. For further guidance to
release independent bands see TS 38.307 [19].
Table A.4.3.1-1: NR FDD FR1 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item NR FDD RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic
Comments 1 NR Frequency band: 1920-1980, 2110-2170 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15
pc_nrBand1_Supp NR Band 1 2 NR Frequency band: 1850-1910, 1930-1990 MHz
38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand2_Supp NR Band 2 3 NR Frequency band: 1710-1785,
1805-1880 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand3_Supp NR Band 3 4 NR Frequency
band: 824-849, 869-894 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand5_Supp NR Band 5 5 NR
Frequency band: 2500-2570, 2620-2690 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand7_Supp
NR Band 7 6 NR Frequency band: 880-915, 925-960 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15
pc_nrBand8_Supp NR Band 8 7 NR Frequency band: 832-862, 791-821 MHz 38.101-1,
5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand20_Supp NR Band 20 8 NR Frequency band: 703-748, 758-803
MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand28_Supp NR Band 28 9 NR Frequency band:
1710-1780, 2110-2200 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand66_Supp NR Band 66 10
NR Frequency band: 1695-1710, 1995-2020 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15
pc_nrBand70_Supp NR Band 70 11 NR Frequency band: 663-698, 617-652 MHz
38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand71_Supp NR Band 71
* * *
Table A.4.3.1-2: NR TDD FR1 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item NR TDD RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic
Comments 1 NR Frequency band: 2570-2620 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15
pc_nrBand38_Supp NR Band 38 2 NR Frequency band: 2496-2690 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2
Rel-15 pc_nrBand41_Supp NR Band 41 3 NR Frequency band: 3300--4200 MHz
38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand77_Supp NR Band 77 4 NR Frequency band: 3300--
3800 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand78_Supp NR Band 78 5 NR Frequency band:
4400--5000 MHz 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand79_Supp NR Band 79
* * *
Table A.4.3.1-3: NR FR2 TDD RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item NR TDD RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic
Comments 1 NR Frequency band: 26500-29500 MHz 38.101-2, 5.2 Rel-15
pc_nrBand257_Supp NR Band 257 2 NR Frequency band: 24250-27500 MHz 38.101-2,
5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand258_Supp NR Band 258 3 NR Frequency band: 37000--40000 MHz
38.101-2, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand260_Supp NR Band 260 4 NR Frequency band: 27500
--28350 MHz 38.101-2, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand261_Supp NR Band 261
* * *
Table A.4.3.1-4: NR PC2 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item NR PC2 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic
Comments 1 NR Frequency band: 2496-2690 MHz 38.101-1, 6.2.1 Rel-15
pc_nrBand41_PC2_Supp NR Band 41 2 NR Frequency band: 3300-4200 MHz 38.101-1,
6.2.1 Rel-15 pc_nrBand77_PC2_Supp NR Band 77 3 NR Frequency band: 3300--3800
MHz 38.101-1, 6.2.1 Rel-15 pc_nrBand78_PC2_Supp NR Band 78 4 NR Frequency
band: 4400--5000 MHz 38.101-1, 6.2.1 Rel-15 pc_nrBand79_PC2_Supp NR Band 79
* * *
Table A.4.3.1-5: NR SUL FR1 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item NR SUL FR1 RF Baseline Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic
Comments 1 NR Frequency band: 1710-1785 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand80_Supp
NR Band 80 2 NR Frequency band: 880-915 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand81_Supp
NR Band 81 3 NR Frequency band: 832-862 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand82_Supp
NR Band 82 4 NR Frequency band: 703-748 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15 pc_nrBand83_Supp
NR Band 83 5 NR Frequency band: 1920-1980 38.101-1, 5.2 Rel-15
pc_nrBand84_Supp NR Band 84 6 NR Frequency band: 1710-1780 38.101-1, 5.2
Rel-15 pc_nrBand86_Supp NR Band 86
* * *
### A.4.3.2 Physical Layer Baseline Implementation Capabilities
Table A.4.3.2-1: UE Physical Layer Baseline Implementation Capabilities
+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | Item | UE | Ref. | Re | Mne | M | If | Com | | | Phy | | lease | monic | | indi | ments | | | sical | | | | | cated | | | | Layer | | | | | "Yes" | | | | Bas | | | | | the | | | | eline | | | | | fe | | | | Impl | | | | | ature | | | | ement | | | | | shall | | | | ation | | | | | be | | | | Ca | | | | | i | | | | pabil | | | | | mplem | | | | ities | | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ccess | | | | | | | | | fully | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ested | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | cor | | | | | | | | | respo | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | lease | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 1 | Su | 38 | R | pc_d | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | ownli | | | | | | PDSCH | 4.2.7 | | nkSPS | | | | | | rece | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | semi- | | | | | | | | | persi | | | | | | | | | stent | | | | | | | | | sched | | | | | | | | | uling | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 2 | Su | 38 | R | pc | Yes | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _pds | | | | | | 2 | 4.2.7 | | ch_2 | | | | | | 56QAM | | | 56QAM | | | | | | for | | | _FR1 | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR1 | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 3 | Su | 38 | R | pc | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _pds | | | | | | 2 | 4.2.7 | | ch_2 | | | | | | 56QAM | | | 56QAM | | | | | | for | | | _FR2 | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR2 | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 4 | Su | 38 | R | pc | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _pus | | | | | | 2 | 4.2.7 | | ch_2 | | | | | | 56QAM | | | 56QAM | | | | | | for | | | _FR1 | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | FR1 | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 5 | Su | 38 | R | pc\ | Yes | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _pdsc | | | | | | rece | 4.2.7 | | h_Ma | | | | | | iving | | | pping | | | | | | PDSCH | | | TypeA | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | seven | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | mbols | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 6 | Su | 38 | R | pc\ | Yes | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _pdsc | | | | | | rece | 4.2.7 | | h_Ma | | | | | | iving | | | pping | | | | | | PDSCH | | | TypeB | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | PDSCH | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 7 | Su | 38 | R | pc_r | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | a_Ty | | | | | | res | 4.2.7 | | pe0_ | | | | | | ource | | | PUSCH | | | | | | alloc | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | Type | | | | | | | | | 0 for | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 8 | Su | 38 | R | pc\ | | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _scal | | | | | | sc | 4.2.7 | | ingFa | | | | | | aling | | | ctor0 | | | | | | f | | | dot75 | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | 0.75 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plied | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | max | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | alcul | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 9 | Su | 38 | R | pc_ | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | csi_ | | | | | | han | 4.2.7 | | RS_C | | | | | | dover | | | FRA_ | | | | | | using | | | ForHO | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | conte | | | | | | | | | ntion | | | | | | | | | free | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | andom | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ccess | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | PRACH | | | | | | | | | reso | | | | | | | | | urces | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | assoc | | | | | | | | | iated | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | SI-RS | | | | | | | | | reso | | | | | | | | | urces | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | arget | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 10 | Su | 38 | R | pc\ | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _conf | | | | | | Type | 4.2.7 | | igure | | | | | | 1 | | | dUL_ | | | | | | PUSCH | | | Grant | | | | | | tra | | | Type1 | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | grant | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 11 | Su | 38 | R | pc\ | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _conf | | | | | | Type | 4.2.7 | | igure | | | | | | 2 | | | dUL_ | | | | | | PUSCH | | | Grant | | | | | | tra | | | Type2 | | | | | | nsmis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | grant | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 12 | Su | 38 | R | p | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | c_pd | | | | | | PDSCH | 4.2.7 | | sch_ | | | | | | Rece | | | Repet | | | | | | ption | | | ition | | | | | | when | | | Multi | | | | | | confi | | | Slots | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | layer | | | | | | | | | para | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | | | egati | | | | | | | | | onFac | | | | | | | | | torDL | | | | | | | | | > 1 | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 13 | Sup | 38 | R | pc | FFS | | | | | ports | .306, | el-15 | _dyn | | | | | | su | 4.2.7 | | amicS | | | | | | pplem | | | witch | | | | | | ental | | | _SUL | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | witch | | | | | | | | | (DCI | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | sele | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | rier) | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 14 | Sup | 38 | R | p | No | | Set | | | ports | .306, | el-15 | c_nr | | | to | | | more | 4.2.7 | | MIMO\ | | | true | | | than | | | _CB_ | | | if | | | one | | | PUSCH | | | max | | | MIMO | | | | | | Numbe | | | l | | | | | | rMIMO | | | ayers | | | | | | -Laye | | | at | | | | | | rsCB- | | | the | | | | | | PUSCH | | | UE | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | has | | | PUSCH | | | | | | value | | | tr | | | | | | other | | | ansmi | | | | | | than | | | ssion | | | | | | 'oneL | | | with | | | | | | ayer' | | | cod | | | | | | | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | preco | | | | | | | | | ding. | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | indic | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | | ature | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | ind | | | | | | | | | icate | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | cod | | | | | | | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | cohe | | | | | | | | | rency | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ubset | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 15 | Sup | 38 | R | pc_ | No | | Set | | | ports | .306, | el-15 | nrMIM | | | to | | | more | 4.2.7 | | O_No | | | true | | | than | | | nCB_ | | | if | | | one | | | PUSCH | | | m | | | MIMO | | | | | | axNum | | | l | | | | | | berMI | | | ayers | | | | | | MO-La | | | at | | | | | | yersN | | | the | | | | | | onCB- | | | UE | | | | | | PUSCH | | | for | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | has | | | tr | | | | | | value | | | ansmi | | | | | | other | | | ssion | | | | | | than | | | using | | | | | | \' | | | no | | | | | | oneLa | | | n-cod | | | | | | yer\' | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | prec | | | | | | | | | oding | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 16 | Su | 38 | R | pc\ | Yes | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _inte | | | | | | rece | 4.2.7 | | rleav | | | | | | iving | | | ingVR | | | | | | PDSCH | | | B_To | | | | | | with | | | PRB_ | | | | | | i | | | PDSCH | | | | | | nterl | | | | | | | | | eaved | | | | | | | | | VRB-t | | | | | | | | | o-PRB | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 17 | **_Su | 38 | R | pc_ | Yes | |_** If | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | **_dy | | | the | | | dy | 4.2.7 | | namic | | | UE | | | namic | | | Power | | | sup | | | EN-DC | | | Shari | | | ports | | | power | | | ng_** | | | this | | | shari | | | | | | capab | | | ng** _| | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | ynami | | | | | | | | | cally | | | | | | | | | share | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | LTE | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | _LTE | | | | | | | | | + | | | | | | | | | P_NR | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | Pcma | | | | | | | | | x._** | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 18 | * | 38 | R | pc_m | No | | | | | **Sup | .306, | el-15 | axNum | | | | | | ports | 4.2.7 | | berSe | | | | | | up to | | | archS | | | | | | 10 | | | paces | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | earch | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | paces | | | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | | | SCell | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | | | WP** _| | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 19 | * | 38 | R | pc\ | Yes | | | | |__Sup | .306, | el-15 | _spat | | | | | | ports | 4.2.7 | | ialBu | | | | | | sp | | | ndlin | | | | | | atial | | | gHARQ | | | | | | bun | | | _ACK | | | | | | dling | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | HAR | | | | | | | | | Q-ACK | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rried | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | PUSCH | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | PUCCH | | | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | | | roup. | | | | | | | | | With | | | | | | | | | sp | | | | | | | | | atial | | | | | | | | | bund | | | | | | | | | ling, | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | HAR | | | | | | | | | Q-ACK | | | | | | | | | bits | | | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | MIMO | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | bu | | | | | | | | | ndled | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ingle | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | gical | | | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | | | AND\" | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | erati | | | | | | | | | on_**| | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+ | 20 |**_Su | 38 | R | pc | No | | | | | pport | .306, | el-15 | _add | | | | | | a | 4. | | ition | | | | | | ltern | 2.7.5 | | alDMR | | | | | | ative | | | S_DL | | | | | | addit | | | _Alt | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | DMRS | | | | | | | | | pos | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | LTE | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | RS_ ** | | | | | | | +------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-------+
### A.4.3.2A NR CA Physical Layer Baseline Implementation Capabilities
#### A.4.3.2A.1 General NR CA capabilities
> Table A.4.3.2A.1-1: Downlink NR CA capabilities (for one or more of the
> supported NR CA configurations in Tables A.4.3.2A.2.1-3, A.4.3.2A.2.2-3,
> A.4.3.2A.3.2-3 and A.4.3.2A.4-3)
+------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 1 | DL NR CA with 2 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 2 | DL NR CA with 3 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 3 | DL NR CA with 4 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 4 | DL NR CA with 5 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 5 | DL NR CA with 6 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 6 | DL NR CA with 7 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 7 | DL NR CA with 8 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+
> Table A.4.3.2A.1-2: Uplink CA capabilities (for one or more of the supported
> NR CA configurations in Tables A.4.3.2A.2.1-3, A.4.3.2A.2.2-3,
> A.4.3.2A.3.2-3 and A.4.3.2A.4-3)
+------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 1 | UL NR CA with 2 carriers | 38.101-1, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-2, 5.3A | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A | | +------+--------------------------+----------------+----------+
#### A.4.3.2A.2 NR CA Intra-band contiguous
##### A.4.3.2A.2.1 NR CA Intra-band contiguous with FR1
> Table A.4.3.2A.2.1-1: Downlink Bandwidth Class capabilities for NR Intra-
> band contiguous CA with FR1 configurations (for one or more of the supported
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.2.1-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW
Class A 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
2 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class B 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
3 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class C 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
4 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class D 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
5 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class E 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
6 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class F 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
7 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class G 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
8 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class H 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
9 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class I 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
10 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class J 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
11 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class K 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
12 DL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class L 38.101-1, 5.3A.5
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.2.1-2: Uplink Bandwidth Class capabilities for NR Intra-band
> contiguous CA with FR1 configurations (for one or more of the supported
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.2.1-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW
Class A 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
2 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class B 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
3 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class C 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
4 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class D 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
5 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class E 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
6 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class F 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
7 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class G 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
8 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class H 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
9 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class I 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
10 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class J 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
11 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class K 38.101-1, 5.3A.5  
12 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class L 38.101-1, 5.3A.5
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.2.1-3: Supported NR CA configurations for Intra-band
> contiguous CA with FR1
+--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | NR CA | Release | > Supported | Supported CA | Supported | | c | | | Bandwidth | Bandwidth | | onfiguration | | | Class(es) in | Combination | | / Item | | | UL | Set(s) | | | | | | | | (Note 1) | | | (Note 2,5) | (Note 3) | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n77C | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n78C | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n79C | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n77D | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n78D | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n79D | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n77E | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n78E | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | CA_n79E | Rel-15 | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | Notation | | | | | | used for | | | | | | intra-band | | | | | | contiguous | | | | | | CA Bands is | | | | | | according to | | | | | | TS 38.101-1 | | | | | | [23] Table | | | | | | 5.5A.1-1, | | | | | | e.g. | | | | | | 'CA_n77C' | | | | | | indicates CA | | | | | | operation on | | | | | | NR band n77 | | | | | | with DL CA | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Class C. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | UL CA | | | | | | capabilities | | | | | | as per Table | | | | | | A. | | | | | | 4.3.2A.2.1-2 | | | | | | can be | | | | | | supported on | | | | | | a single or | | | | | | multiple CA | | | | | | Band(s). The | | | | | | UE supplier | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate all | | | | | | supported UL | | | | | | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | Class(es), | | | | | | in uplink of | | | | | | the | | | | | | supported CA | | | | | | Band(s), as | | | | | | per TS | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | [23] Table | | | | | | 5.5A.1-1. | | | | | | For this | | | | | | release of | | | | | | s | | | | | | pecification | | | | | | valid | | | | | | choices are | | | | | | 'N', 'XB' | | | | | | and 'XC', | | | | | | where X is | | | | | | the band. | | | | | | For example, | | | | | | for CA_1C, | | | | | | N would mean | | | | | | only DL CA, | | | | | | '1C' would | | | | | | mean both DL | | | | | | and UL CA. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: The | | | | | | UE supplier | | | | | | shall | | | | | | indicate the | | | | | | supported | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Combination | | | | | | Set(s) as | | | | | | per TS | | | | | | 38.101-1 | | | | | | [23] Table | | | | | | 5.5A.1-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 4: | | | | | | Reference to | | | | | | all items is | | | | | | 38.101-1, | | | | | | 5.5A.1 and | | | | | | 38.331, | | | | | | 6.3.4 | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 5: | | | | | | UL(Table | | | | | | A.4 | | | | | | .3.2A.2.1-3) | | | | | | shall return | | | | | | all | | | | | | supported CA | | | | | | Co | | | | | | nfigurations | | | | | | where at | | | | | | least one UL | | | | | | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | Class was | | | | | | declared in | | | | | | column | | | | | | \"Supported | | | | | | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | Class(es) in | | | | | | UL\".\ | | | | | | U | | | | | | L_2CC(Table | | | | | | A.4 | | | | | | .3.2A.2.1-3) | | | | | | shall return | | | | | | all | | | | | | supported CA | | | | | | Co | | | | | | nfigurations | | | | | | where at | | | | | | least one 2 | | | | | | Carrier UL | | | | | | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | Class was | | | | | | declared in | | | | | | column | | | | | | \"Supported | | | | | | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | Class(es) in | | | | | | UL\".\ | | | | | | U | | | | | | L_3CC(Table | | | | | | A.4 | | | | | | .3.2A.2.1-3) | | | | | | shall return | | | | | | all | | | | | | supported CA | | | | | | Co | | | | | | nfigurations | | | | | | where at | | | | | | least one 3 | | | | | | Carrier UL | | | | | | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | Class was | | | | | | declared. | | | | | +--------------+---------+-------------+--------------+--------------+
##### A.4.3.2A.2.2 NR CA Intra-band contiguous with FR2
> Table A.4.3.2A.2.2-1: Downlink Bandwidth Class capabilities for NR Intra-
> band contiguous CA with FR2 configurations (for one or more of the supported
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.2.2-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW
Class A 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
2 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class B 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
3 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class C 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
4 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class D 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
5 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class E 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
6 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class F 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
7 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class G 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
8 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class H 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
9 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class I 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
10 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class J 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
11 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class K 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
12 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class L 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
13 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class M 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
14 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class O 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
15 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class P 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
16 DL NR FR2 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class Q 38.101-2, 5.3A.4
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.2.2-2: Uplink Bandwidth Class capabilities for NR Intra-band
> contiguous CA with FR2 configurations (for one or more of the supported
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.2.2-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW
Class B 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
2 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class C 38.101-2, 5.3A.4  
3 UL NR FR1 Intra-band contiguous CA BW Class D 38.101-2, 5.3A.4
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.2.2-3: Supported NR CA configurations for Intra-band
> contiguous CA with FR2
FFS
#### A.4.3.2A.3 NR CA Intra-band non-contiguous
##### A.4.3.2A.3.1 NR CA Intra-band non-contiguous with FR1
Editor's note: There are no NR CA Intra-band non-contiguous configurations
with FR1in Rel-15.
##### A.4.3.2A.3.2 NR CA Intra-band non-contiguous with FR2
> Table A.4.3.2A.3.2-1: Downlink Bandwidth Class capabilities for NR Intra-
> band non-contiguous configurations CA with FR2 (for one or more of the
> supported configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.3.2-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 DL NR FR2 Intra-band non-contiguous CA BW
Class Combination A-A 38.101-2, 5.3A.5
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.3.2-2: Uplink Bandwidth Class capabilities for NR Intra-band
> non-contiguous CA with FR2 configurations (for one or more of the supported
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.3.2-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 UL NR FR1 Intra-band non-contiguous CA BW
Class Combination A-A 38.101-2, 5.3A.5
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.3.2-3: Supported configurations for NR Intra-band non-
> contiguous CA with FR2
FFS
#### A.4.3.2A.4 NR Inter-band CA
#### A.4.3.2A.4.1 NR Inter-band CA with FR1 (two bands)
> Table A.4.3.2A.4.1-1: Downlink Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for
> NR Inter-band CA configuration with FR1 and two bands (for one or more of
> the supported CA configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.4.1-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 DL NR FR1 Inter-band CA BW Class
Combination A-A (two bands) 38.101-2, 5.3A.5
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.4.1-2: Uplink Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for NR
> Inter-band CA with FR1 and two bands (for one or more of the supported CA
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2A.4.1-3)
* * *
Item Bandwidth Class Ref. Comments 1 UL NR FR1 Inter-band CA BW Class
Combination A-A (two bands) 38.101-2, 5.3A.5
* * *
> Table A.4.3.2A.4.1-3: Supported CA configurations for NR Inter-band CA with
> FR1 and two bands
FFS
### A.4.3.2B NR DC Physical Layer Baseline Implementation Capabilities
#### A.4.3.2B.1 NR DC between FR1 and FR2
> Table A.4.3.2B.1-1: Downlink NR DC Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities
> between FR1 and FR2 (for one or more of the supported DC configurations in
> Table A.4.3.2B.1-2)
+------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | | | | | | | | (FR1-FR2) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 1 | DL NR DC FR1 and FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-A | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 2 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-D | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 3 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-E | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 4 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-F | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 5 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-G | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 6 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-H | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 7 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-I | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 8 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-J | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 9 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-K | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 10 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-L | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 11 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A-M | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 12 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | C-A | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 13 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | C-D | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 14 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | C-E | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 15 | DL NR DC FR1 AND FR2 | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | C-F | 38.101-2, 5.3A.4 | | | | | | | | | | 38.101-3, 5.3A.1 | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+
> Table A.4.3.2B.1-2: Supported NR DC configurations between FR1 and FR2 (two
> bands)
FFS
#### A.4.3.2B.2 EN-DC Physical Layer Baseline Implementation Capabilities
##### A.4.3.2B.2.1 EN-DC Intra-band contiguous with NR FR1
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.1-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Intra-band contiguous configurations with NR FR1 (for one or more of the
> supported configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.1-2)
+------+------------------------+----------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | | | | | | | | (E-UTRA/NR FR1) | | | +------+------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 1 | DL EN-DC Intra-band | 38.101-3, 5.3B | | | | contiguous with NR FR1 | | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | A/A | | | +------+------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 2 | DL EN-DC Intra-band | 38.101-3, 5.3B | | | | contiguous with NR FR1 | | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | C/A | | | +------+------------------------+----------------+----------+ | 3 | DL EN-DC Intra-band | 38.101-3, 5.3B | | | | contiguous with NR FR1 | | | | | BW Class Combination | | | | | D/A | | | +------+------------------------+----------------+----------+
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.1-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band contiguous configurations
> with NR FR1
FFS
##### A.4.3.2B.2.2 EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous with FR1
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.2-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Intra-band non-contiguous configurations with NR FR1 (for one or more of the
> supported configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.2-2)
+------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | | | | | | | | (E-UTRA/NR FR1) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 1 | DL EN-DC Intra-band | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | non-contiguous with NR | | | | | FR1 BW Class | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | Combination A/A | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 2 | DL EN-DC Intra-band | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | non-contiguous with NR | | | | | FR1 BW Class | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | Combination C/A | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 3 | DL EN-DC Intra-band | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | non-contiguous with NR | | | | | FR1 BW Class | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | Combination D/A | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.2-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR1
FFS
##### A.4.3.2B.2.3 EN-DC Inter-band
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.1 EN-DC Inter-band with FR1 (two bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.1-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR1 and two bands (for one or more of the supported DC
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.1-2)
+------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | | | | | | | | (E-UTRA/NR FR1) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 1 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A/A (two | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 2 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A/C (two | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 3 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A-A/A (two | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.1-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR1 (two bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.2 EN-DC Inter-band with FR1 (three bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.2-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR1 and three bands (for one or more of the supported DC
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.2-2)
+------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | Item | Bandwidth Class | Ref. | Comments | | | | | | | | (E-UTRA/NR FR1) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 1 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A/C (three | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 2 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination C/A (three | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 3 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A-A/A | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 4 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A-A/C | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 5 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A-C/A | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 6 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A-D/A | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 7 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A-E/A | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 8 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A/nAA | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+ | 9 | EN-DC Inter-band with | 36.101, 5.6A | | | | NR FR1 BW Class | | | | | Combination A/A-A | 38.101-1, 5.3A.5 | | | | (three bands) | | | +------+------------------------+------------------+----------+
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.2-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR1 (three bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.3 EN-DC Inter-band with FR1 (four bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.3-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR1 and four bands (for one or more of the supported DC
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.3-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.3-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR1 (four bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.4 EN-DC Inter-band with FR1 (five bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.4-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR1 and five bands (for one or more of the supported DC
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.4-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.4-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR1 (five bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.5 EN-DC Inter-band with FR1 (six bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.5-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR1 and six bands (for one or more of the supported DC
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.5-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.5-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR1 (six bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.6 EN-DC Inter-band with FR2 (two bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.6-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR2 and two bands (for one or more of the supported DC
> configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.6-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.6-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR2 (two bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.7 EN-DC Inter-band with FR2 or with both FR1 and FR2
(three bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.7-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2, and three bands (for one
> or more of the supported DC configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.7-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.7-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2 (three bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.8 EN-DC Inter-band with FR2 or with both FR1 and FR2 (four
bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.8-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2, and four bands (for one or
> more of the supported DC configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.8-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.8-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2 (four bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.9 EN-DC Inter-band with FR2 or with both FR1 and FR2 (five
bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.9-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2, and five bands (for one or
> more of the supported DC configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.9-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.9-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2 (five bands)
FFS
###### A.4.3.2B.2.3.10 EN-DC Inter-band with FR2 or with both FR1 and FR2 (six
bands)
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.10-1: Bandwidth Class Combination capabilities for EN-DC
> Inter-band with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2, and six bands (for one or
> more of the supported DC configurations in Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.10-2)
FFS
> Table A.4.3.2B.2.3.10-2: Supported EN-DC Intra-band non-contiguous
> configurations with NR FR2, or with both FR1 and FR2 (six bands)
FFS
### A.4.3.3 PDCP Implementation Capabilities
Table A.4.3.3-1: UE PDCP Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item UE PDCP Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic M If indicated
\"Yes\" the feature shall be implemented and successfully tested for the
corresponding release Comments 1 Support 12 bit length of PDCP sequence number
38.306, 4.2.4 Rel-15 pc_shortSN Yes
* * *
### A.4.3.4 RLC Implementation Capabilities
Table A.4.3.4-1: UE RLC Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item UE RLC Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic M If indicated
\"Yes\" the feature shall be implemented and successfully tested for the
corresponding release Comments 1 Support RLC AM with 12 bit length of RLC
sequence number 38.306, 4.2.5 Rel-15 pc_am_WithShortSN Yes  
2 Support RLC UM with 12 bit length of RLC sequence number 38.306, 4.2.5
Rel-15 pc_um_WIthLongSN Yes  
3 Support RLC UM with 6 bit length of RLC sequence number 38.306, 4.2.5 Rel-15
pc_um_WithShortSN Yes
* * *
### A.4.3.5 MAC Implementation Capabilities
Table A.4.3.5-1: UE MAC Implementation Capabilities
* * *
Item UE MAC Implementation Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic M If indicated
\"Yes\" the feature shall be implemented and successfully tested for the
corresponding release Comments 1 Support long DRX cycle 38.306, 4.2.6 Rel-15
pc_longDRX_Cycle Yes  
2 Support short DRX cycle 38.306, 4.2.6 Rel-15 pc_shortDRX_Cycle Yes  
3 Support skipping of UL transmission for an uplink grant indicated on PDCCH
if no data is available for transmission 38.306, 4.2.6 Rel-15
pc_skipUplinkTxDynamic No
* * *
### A.4.3.6 Measurement Capabilities
Table A.4.3.6-1: UE Measurement Capabilities
* * *
Item UE Measurement Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic M If indicated \"Yes\"
the feature shall be implemented and successfully tested for the corresponding
release Comments 1 Support **_NR measurements and events A triggered
reporting_** 38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_eventA_MeasAndReport Yes  
2 Support two independent measurement gap configurations for FR1 and FR2
38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_independentGapConfig No  
3 Support **_NR intra-frequency and inter-frequency measurements and at least
periodical reporting_** 38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_intraAndInterF_MeasAndReport
Yes  
4 Support CSI-RSRP and CSI-RSRQ measurement as specified in TS38.215 [21],
where CSI-RS resource is configured with an associated SS/PBCH 38.306, 4.2.9
Rel-15 pc_**_csi_RSRP_AndRSRQ_MeasWithSSB_** No  
5 Support inter-RAT E-UTRA **_measurements and events B triggered reporting_**
38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_eventB_MeasAndReport Yes  
6 Support SS-SINR measurents 38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_ss_SINR_Meas No
* * *
### A.4.3.7 General Capabilities
Table A.4.3.7-1: UE General Capabilities
* * *
Item UE General Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic M If indicated "Yes" the
feature shall be implemented and successfully tested for the corresponding
release Comments 1 **_Support UL transmission via either MCG path or SCG path
for the split SRB as specified in TS 37.340[20]_** 38.306, 4.2.2 Rel-15
pc_**_splitSRB_WithOneUL_Path_** No  
2 Support **_UL transmission via both MCG path and SCG path for the split DRB
as specified in TS 37.340[20]_** 38.306, 4.2.2 Rel-15
pc_splitDRB_withUL_Both_MCG_SCG Yes  
3 Support **_direct SRB between the SN and the UE as specified in TS
37.340[20]_** 38.306, 4.2.2 Rel-15 pc_srb3 Yes  
4 Support of reflective QoS 38.306, 4.2.2 Rel-15 pc_as_ReflectiveQoS No  
5 Support of NAS reflective QoS 24.501, 6.2.5.1.4.1, 9.11.4.1 Rel-15
pc_nas_ReflectiveQoS No  
6 Support of SMS over NAS 24.501, 5.5.1.2 Rel-15 pc_sms_over_NAS No  
7 Support of CMAS message on NR 38.331, 5.2.2.2.2 Rel-15 pc_CMAS_NR No  
8 Support of ETWS message on NR 38.331, 5.2.2.2.2 Rel-15 pc_ETWS_NR No  
9 The UE supports additional UE-requested PDU establishment 24.501, 6.4.1.5
Rel-15 pc_Additional_PDU_establishment No
pc_ExpectedNoOfPDUSessionsAtRegistration +1 10 The UE includes the SM PDU DN
request container IE in the PDU PDU SESSION ESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message
24.501, 6.4.1.2 Rel-15 pc_SM_PDU_DN_RequestContainer No  
11 Support of emergency services fallback 24.501, 9.11.3.5 Rel-15
pc_EmergencyService_fallback No
* * *
### A.4.3.8 Mobility Capabilities
Table A.4.3.8-1: UE Mobility Capabilities
* * *
Item UE Mobility Capabilities Ref. Release Mnemonic M If indicated \"Yes\" the
feature shall be implemented and successfully tested for the corresponding
release Comments 1 Support inter-RAT **_Handover to EUTRA connected to EPC_**
38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_interRAT_EUTRA_Handover Yes  
2 Support inter-frequency Handover from the corresponding duplex mode or from
the corresponding frequency range. 38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15 pc_handoverInterF Yes  
3 Support **_Handover between FR1 and FR2_** 38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15
pc_FR1toFR2_Handover Yes  
4 Support Handover between FDD and TDD 38.306, 4.2.9 Rel-15
pc_**_FDDtoTDD_Handover_** Yes  
5 Support inter-RAT Handover to E-UTRA **_connected to 5GC_** 38.306, 4.2.9
Rel-15 pc_interRAT_eLTE_Handover Yes
* * *
A.4.3.9 Additional capabilities for UE declared capability
**Table A.4.3.9-1** : UE declared capabilities
* * *
**Item** **UE declared capabilities** **Ref.** **Release** **Mnemonic**
**Comments** 1 Enhanced Type X Receiver for NR 38.101-4, 5 Rel-15
pc_nr_enh_typeX_receiver Support for Enhanced Type X Receiver
* * *
Table A.4.3.9-2: UE declared multi-band peak EIRP relaxation factors for FR2
power class 3
Item | Supported FR2 bands set | Ref. | Release | peak EIRP relaxation factor per band, MBp (dB) (Note 1) | Maximum sum of MBp, ∑MBP (dB) (Note 2) | Comments |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | n257 | n258 | n260 | n261 |  |   
1 | n257, n258 | 38.101-2, 6.2.1.3 | Rel-15 |  |  | N/A | N/A | 1.3 |   
2 | n257, n260 |  |  |  | N/A |  | N/A | 1.0 |   
3 | n258, n260 |  |  | N/A |  |  | N/A | 1.0 |   
4 | n258, n261 |  |  | N/A |  | N/A |  | 1.0 |   
5 | n260, n261 |  |  | N/A | N/A | N/A | N/A | 0.0 | No relaxation factor allowed  
6 | n257, n258, n260 |  |  |  |  |  | N/A | 1.7 |   
7 | n257, n258, n261 |  |  |  |  | N/A |  | 1.7 |   
8 | n257, n260, n261 |  |  |  | N/A |  |  | 0.5 |   
9 | n258, n260, n261 |  |  | N/A |  |  |  | 1.5 |   
10 | n257, n258, n260, n261 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1.7 |   
Note 1: UE vendor to fill in the needed relaxation factor per band that is ≥0. One row to be filled in, the one matching the supported FR2 bands of the UE as declared in Table A.4.3.1-3. Note 2: Max allowed sum of MBp over all supported FR2 bands as defined in TS 38.521-2 clause 6.2.1.1.3.3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table A.4.3.9-3: UE declared multi-band peak EIRP Spherical coverage
relaxation factors for FR2 power class 3
Item | Supported FR2 bands set | Ref. | Release | EIRP Spherical coverage relaxation factor per band, MBs (dB) (Note 1) | Maximum sum of MBs, ∑MBs (dB) (Note 2) | Comments |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  | n257 | n258 | n260 | n261 |  |   
1 | n257, n258 | 38.101-2, 6.2.1.3 | Rel-15 |  |  | N/A | N/A | 1.25 |   
2 | n257, n260 |  |  |  | N/A |  | N/A | 0.75 | Maximum 0.4 dB relaxation allowed for n260  
3 | n258, n260 |  |  | N/A |  |  | N/A | 0.75 | Maximum 0.4 dB relaxation allowed for n260  
4 | n258, n261 |  |  | N/A |  | N/A |  | 1.25 |   
5 | n260, n261 |  |  | N/A | N/A |  |  | 0.75 | No relaxation allowed for n260  
6 | n257, n258, n260 |  |  |  |  |  | N/A | 1.75 | Maximum 0.4 dB relaxation allowed for n260  
7 | n257, n258, n261 |  |  |  |  | N/A |  | 1.75 |   
8 | n257, n260, n261 |  |  |  | N/A |  |  | 1.25 | Maximum 0.4 dB relaxation allowed for n260  
9 | n258, n260, n261 |  |  | N/A |  |  |  | 1.25 | Maximum 0.4 dB relaxation allowed for n260  
10 | n257, n258, n260, n261 |  |  |  |  |  |  | 1.75 | Maximum 0.4 dB relaxation allowed for n260  
Note 1: UE vendor to fill in the needed relaxation factor per band that is ≥0. One row to be filled in, the one matching the supported FR2 bands of the UE as declared in Table A.4.3.1-3 Note 2: Max allowed sum of MBs over all supported FR2 bands as defined in TS 38.521-2 clause 6.2.1.1.3.3 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## A.4.4 Additional information
Table A.4.4-1: Additional information
* * *
Item Additional information Ref. Release Mnemonic Comments 1 Support of ICMP
or ICMP IPv6 RFC 792 OR RFC 4443, RFC 4884 NA pc_IP_Ping UE supports ICMP or
ICMPv6 protocol to enable IP Ping Operation 2 Support of IMS 24.229, Annex U
Rel-15 pc_IMS_5GS
* * *
Table A.4.4-2: Definition of UE implementation capabilities
* * *
**Item** **Definition of UE implementation capabilities** **Ref.** **Release**
**Mnemonic** **Comments** 1 UE-requested PDU session establishment for IMS
after REGISTRATION 24.501 Rel-15 pc_PDU_IMS Configured to initiate PDU session
establishment for IMS after REGISTRATION. 2 UE-requested PDU session
establishment for Internet after REGISTRATION 24.501 Rel-15 pc_PDU_Internet
Configured to initiate PDU session establishment for Internet after
REGISTRATION. 3 Number of UE-requested PDU session establishments after
REGISTRATION 24.501 Rel-15 pc_noOf_PDUs Number of UE-requested PDU session
establishments after REGISTRATION.
* * *
#