# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
**The basic multiple access scheme for NR is orthogonal for both downlink and
uplink data transmissions, e.g., time and frequency physical resources of
different users are not overlapped. On the other hand, non-orthogonal
multiple-access schemes recently gained wide interest.**
**Non-orthogonal transmission can be applied to both grant-based and grant-
free transmission. The benefits of non-orthogonal multiple access,
particularly when enabling grant-free transmission, may encompass a variety of
use cases or deployment scenarios, including eMBB, URLLC, mMTC etc. In
RRC_CONNECTED state, it saves the scheduling request procedure assuming UE is
already uplink synchronized. In RRC_INACTIVE state, data can be transmitted
even without RACH procedure or with 2-step RACH. The saving of the signalling
naturally also saves UE\'s power consumption, reduces latency and increases
system capacity.**
# 1 Scope
This document is intended to gather all technical outcome of the study item
\"Study on non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) for NR\" [1], and draw a
conclusion on a way forward.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP RP-170829, \"New Study Item proposal: Study on non-orthogonal
multiple access (NOMA) for NR\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
eMBB enhanced Mobile BroadBand
EPA Expectation Propagation Algorithm
ESE Elementary Signal Estimator
MMSE Minimum-Mean Squared Error
mMTC massive Machine-Type Communication
MPA Message-Passing Algorithm
NOMA Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access
NR New Radio
SIC Successive Interference Cancellation
SISO Soft-Input-Soft-Output decoder
URLLC Ultra Reliable Low Latency Communication
# 4 Deployment scenarios
## 4.1 mMTC scenario
## 4.2 URLLC scenario
## 4.3 eMBB scenario
# 5 Uplink NOMA transmission side processing
Editor\'s notes:
# 6 Uplink NOMA receivers
Editor\'s notes:
# 7 Procedures related to NOMA
Editor\'s notes:
# 8 Link level performance evaluation
Editor\'s notes:
## 8.1 Performance metrics
## 8.2 Evaluation results
# 9 System level performance evaluation
Editor\'s notes:
## 9.1 Performance metrics
## 9.2 Evaluation results
# 10 Conclusions and Recommendations
## 10.1 Conclusions
## 10.2 Recommendations
###### ## Annex A: Simulation scenarios and assumptions
# A.1 Link level simulation assumptions
# A.2 Link-to-system modelling
# A.3 System level simulation assumptions
#