# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to record the discussion and agreements
that arise from the study item \"CU-DU lower layer split for NR\" in RP-170818
[2]. The study is continued from that which was conducted within the NR Access
Technology Study Item, where the results are captured in sub-clause 11.1 and
Annex A of TR 38.801 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-170818: \"New SID on CU-DU lower layer split for New Radio \".
[3] 3GPP TR 38.801: \" Study on new radio access technology: Radio access
architecture and interfaces \".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviation
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**lls-CU:** When lower layer split applies, gNB CU which hosts layers above
PHY (i.e. MAC, RLC, PDCP, SDAP and RRC) and also some higher parts of PHY
layer depending on the lower layer functional split option, and which controls
the operation of one or more lls-DUs.
**lls-DU:** When lower layer split applies, gNB DU which hosts all or some
lower parts of PHY layer depending on the lower layer functional split option,
and _which_ is partly controlled by lls-CU.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Functionalities and distribution between lls-CU and lls-DU
## 4.1 One possible implementation of NR L1 processing chain
One possible implementation of NR L1 processing chain at gNB is illustrated in
Figure 4.1-1.
Figure 4.1-1: One possible implementation of NR L1 processing chain\ at gNB
for DL (left) and UL (right)
It should be noted that Figure 4.1-1 just illustrates one possible
implementation which is considered solely for the purpose of study. Other
implementations are possible and possibly different in terms of functions
description and functional chain order. A digital beamforming function may be
supported by means of implementation. Such function may be concentrated in one
block along the function chain or it might be spread across different
functions of the PHY, but this is not illustrated in Figure 4.1-1.
A non-exhaustive list of disclaimers is provided below:
\- 3GPP Specifications do not describe any base station receiver
functionality.
\- Future 3GPP work, including extended focus on new types of services such as
mMTC/NB-IoT may impact the functionality of the physical layer, including
rearrangement of functionality as well as adding new functional blocks.
\- Beam-forming, including the open-loop beam-forming, e.g., precoder cycling,
and analog beam-forming, will largely be a specification-transparent
functionality that may be implemented at different places within the sequence
of transmitter steps.
\- Regarding the receiver processing chain, IDFT block doesn\'t exist when CP-
OFDM is applied for UL transmission. It should be noted that the uplink
waveform can vary per UE, and different PUCCH formats may be transmitted with
different waveforms.
\- In the UL-L1, the receive path may not be linear as the figure in appendix
suggests. It is possible to use iterative reception (such as SIC or Turbo
Equalization), where the data might be moved back and forth between 1 or more
functional blocks multiple times.
For the DL, the bandwidth depends on implementation of Pre-coding and digital
beamforming. As an example, if DL digital spatial weight is applied only in
the Pre-coding block, the numbers of signal dimension are transmission layers
and antenna ports before and after the Pre-coding block, respectively. As
another example, if DL digital spatial weight is applied in the Pre-coding
block and also somewhere after the Pre-coding block, the numbers of signal
dimension are transmission layers before the Pre-coding block and antenna
ports after the point where all DL digital spatial weight are applied. In this
case, the signal dimension between Pre-coding and the point where all DL
digital spatial weight are applied is up to gNB implementation. Similarly, the
UL is up to gNB implementation.
## 4.2 Functions distribution between lls-CU and lls-DU
Taking the NR L1 processing chain described in clause 4.1, possible (non-
exhaustive) functional split options are illustrated in Figure 4.2-1.
Figure 4.2-1: Possible, non-exhaustive, functional split options for DL (left)
and UL (right)
It should be noted that Figure 4.2-1 only focuses on the data and control
channels, and it leaves out reference signals, PRACH, etc. It should be also
noted that the functional split options for DL and UL are independent, and
that any combinations of DL split option and UL split option are not
precluded.
Option 7-1, Option 7-2, Option 7-3 (DL only) and Option 6 are the same as
those which were identified during the Rel-14 NR SI and captured in TR 38.801
[3].
> **Option 7-1**
In the UL, FFT and CP removal functions reside in the lls-DU, the rest of PHY
functions reside in the lls-CU.
> In the DL, iFFT and CP addition functions reside in the lls-DU, the rest of
> PHY functions reside in the lls-CU.
>
> **Option 7-2**
In the UL, FFT, CP removal and resource de-mapping functions reside in the
lls-DU, the rest of PHY functions reside in the lls-CU.
In the DL, iFFT, CP addition, resource mapping and precoding functions reside
in the lls-DU, the rest of PHY functions reside in the lls-CU.
> **Option 7-3 (Only for DL)**
Only the encoder resides in the lls-CU, and the rest of PHY functions reside
in the lls-DU.
> **Option 6**
All of the PHY functions reside in the DU.
Additional potential functional split options were also raised during the
study. For the UL, there was a proposal to split between IDFT and Channel
estimation / Equalization. Also, for both DL and UL, the possibility to split
somewhere between Option 7-1 and Option 7-2 was proposed in light of digital
beamforming.
# 5 Evaluation criteria and comparison of options
The required fronthaul bandwidth is identified as evaluation criteria for
lower layer split options. Keeping other parameters like signal bandwidth or
modulation type fix, the fronthaul bandwidth changes dependent on number of
transmission layers and number of antenna ports involved. The example
calculation on the required fronthaul bandwidth for the split options in
subclause 4.2 is shown in Annex A. It is noted that the required fronthaul
bandwidth figures shown in the Annex are the worst case figures.
# 6 Low Layer Split operation
## 6.0 General
The Low Layer Split should fulfill the normal network operations in term of
features support, UE capabilities, deployments, etc. This clause describes a
set of network operations expected to be supported by the Low Layer Split.
## 6.1 Simultaneous use of different split architectures
### 6.1.1 Description
In case more than one of the architectural split options are feasible and need
to be supported, the following cases can be analysed either in isolation or
combined:
\- Different low layer splits can be adopted for UL and DL communication with
the UE.
\- Different low layer splits can be adopted for communication over different
carriers and bands.
\- E-UTRA and NR can share the same carrier and serve the UE (FFS).
\- Different low layer splits can be adopted for communication via different
RF (FFS).
Figure 6.1.1-1 provides an example case reflecting the above operation cases.
Figure 6.1.1-1: Example of different architecture usage to serve same UE
The study should analyse the implications of these cases on the design of
possible interfaces between different entities of the low layer splits.
The study should analyse how coordination of control and data transmissions
over different low layer split architectures can be achieved.
The study should analyse how the lls-gNB-CU and lls-gNB-DU can schedule
traffic over different transports serving different low layer splits.
The study should analyse whether carrier sharing between LTE and NR has any
implications on LLS architectures and what are the conditions needed to
efficiently design systems supporting carrier sharing between LTE and NR.
(FFS).
# 7 Conclusion
The following is concluded:
\- The Study on CU-DU lower layer split for New Radio has extended the
analysis already carried out in the Rel 14 Study on New Radio (NR) Access
Technology [3]. An overall good and detailed amount of information has been
produced regarding low layer split architecture options.
\- RAN1 specifications themselves do not provide a single standardised
functional model for a low layer split architecture, as functions which are
specification transparent (e.g. beamforming) may be implemented at the base
station (for both DL and UL) and RAN1 specifications do not specify base
station receiver functionality (i.e. UL).
\- Regardless, efforts were made during the study to consider possible
implementations, and several lower layer split options were identified.
However, actual implementations may be different due to various reasons (as
outlined in clause 4.1). RAN3 could not converge on down-selection of a single
option.
\- Further, from the attempt on fronthaul bandwidth evaluations, it can be
observed that the fronthaul bandwidth depends greatly on the particular split
option. But it can also be observed that fronthaul bandwidth depends greatly
on radio configuration (e.g. system bandwidth, number of MIMO layers and
antenna ports) too, and all of the identified lower layer split options are
feasible depending on the particular radio configuration.
\- It is concluded that all identified low layer split options are technically
feasible.
Based on the above, the following can be concluded: as of today, there is a
preference for 3GPP to be open to all of the identified lower layer split
options (and even further to the variants thereof). It appears difficult to
converge on a single split option.
###### ### Annex A: Fronthaul bandwidth
The example calculation on the required fronthaul bandwidth for the split
options in subclause 4.2 is shown in this Annex. The required fronthaul
bandwidth figures in this Annex are the worst case figures.
Following Tables A-2 and A-3 show the calculation on the required fronthaul
bandwidth for the parameter sets in Table A-1.
Table A-1: Parameter sets for fronthaul bandwidth evaluation
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | P | Channel | Mo | Number | IQ | Number | | arameter | BW | dulation | of MIMO | bitwidth | of | | set | [MHz] | scheme | layer | [bit] | antenna | | | | | | | ports | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | TR | 100 | D | DL:8 | DL: | 32 | | 38.801 | (DL/UL) | L:256QAM | | 2 | (DL/UL) | | [3] | | UL:64QAM | UL: 8 | x(7\~16) | | | | | (NOTE 1) | | | | | | | | | UL: | | | | | | | 2x | | | | | | | (10\~16) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #1 | 100 | 256QAM | DL:8 | DL: 2x16 | 32 | | | (DL/UL) | (DL/UL) | | | (DL/UL) | | | | | UL: 4 | UL: 2x16 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #2 | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | (DL/UL) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #3 | 200 | | | | 32 | | | (DL/UL) | | | | (DL/UL) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #4 | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | (DL/UL) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #5 | 400 | | | | 32 | | | (DL/UL) | | | | (DL/UL) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #6 | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | (DL/UL) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | While | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | A-2 in | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | 38.801 | | | | | | | states | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | 256QAM\" | | | | | | | for UL, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | cal | | | | | | | culation | | | | | | | in Table | | | | | | | A-1 in | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | 38.801 | | | | | | | is based | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | 64QAM. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | For IQ | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | width, | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | 2x16 is | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | (for | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | rameters | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | et#1-6) | | | | | | | since | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ntention | | | | | | | is to | | | | | | | show the | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | values. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table A-2: The required fronthaul bandwidth for split points and parameter
sets in DL
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | Option | Option | Option | Option | | | | | 6 | 7-3 | 7-2 | 7-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | (NOTE | | | | | | | 1) | 1) | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | R | TR | 4.133 | 4.133 | 10. | 37. | | | equired | 38.801 | | | 1\~22.2 | 8\~86.1 | | | FH BW | [3] | | | | | | | \ | | | | (NOTE | (NOTE | | | [Gbps] | | | | 2) | 2) | | | | | | | | | | | (a | | | | | | | | ssuming | | | | | | | | worst | | | | | | | | case) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | Pa | #1 | 4.546 | 4.546 | 29.3 | 113.6 | | | rameter | | | | | | | | sets | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | | #2 | 4.546 | 4.546 | 29.3 | 28.4 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | | #3 | 9.092 | 9.092 | 58.6 | 227.3 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | | #4 | 9.092 | 9.092 | 58.6 | 56.82 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | | #5 | 18.18 | 18.18 | 117.2 | 454.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | | | #6 | 18.18 | 18.18 | 117.2 | 113.6 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | FH BW | | | | | | | | figures | | | | | | | | are the | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | since | | | | | | | | coding | | | | | | | | rate r | | | | | | | | = 1 is | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ssumed. | | | | | | | | With | | | | | | | | coding | | | | | | | | rate r | | | | | | | | \< 1, | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | FH BW | | | | | | | | figure | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Option | | | | | | | | 6 would | | | | | | | | be less | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Option | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | equired | | | | | | | | FH BW | | | | | | | | figures | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | shown | | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | ill | | | | | | | | ustrate | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | | endence | | | | | | | | on IQ | | | | | | | | bi | | | | | | | | twidth. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+-------+
**Option 6 and 7-3**
For DL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3] was calculated as follows:
\- A1 = A0 * B1 * C1 * D1 + E1;
\- Where:
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- A0 = Peak data rate of LTE reference = 150 Mbps;
\- B1 = System BW scaling = (100 MHz / 20 MHz);
\- C1 = MIMO layer scaling = (8 layer / 2 layer);
\- D1 = QAM scaling = (8bits per symbol / 6 bits per symbol);
\- E1 = Overhead = 133 Mbps (accounts for scheduling/control signalling).
For DL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter sets are calculated as follows:
\- A2 = A1 * B2 * C2 * D2 * E2 *F2;
\- Where:
\- A2 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter set {#1 - #6}
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B2 = System BW scaling = ({100 MHz, 200 MHz, 400 MHz} / 100 MHz);
\- C2 = MIMO layer scaling = (8 layer / 8 layer);
\- D2 = QAM scaling = (8 bits per symbol / 8 bits per symbol);
\- E2 = Spectrum Usage scaling (NOTE 1) = (99 % / 90 %);
\- F2 = Margin for an upper bound estimation (NOTE 2) = (120 % / 100 %);
**Option 7-2**
For DL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3] was calculated as follows:
\- A1 = B1 * C1 * D1 * E1* F1 + G1;
\- Where:
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B1 = Num of Sub-Carrier of LTE reference for 20 MHz = 1200 SC / 20 MHz;
\- C1 = System BW scaling = (100 MHz / 20 MHz);
\- D1 = OFDM symbol rate = 14 symbol / ms
\- E1 = MIMO layer = 8 layer;
\- F1 = IQ bitwidth = 2*16 bits;
\- G1 = Overhead = 713.9 Mbps (accounts for scheduling/control signalling).
For DL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter sets are calculated as follows:
\- A2 = A1 * B2 * C2 * D2 * E2 * F2;
\- Where:
\- A2 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter set {#1 - #6}
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B2 = System BW scaling = ({100 MHz, 200 MHz, 400 MHz} / 100 MHz);
\- C2 = MIMO layer scaling = (8 layer / 8 layer);
\- D2 = IQ bitwidth scaling = (2 x 16 bits / 2 x 16 bits);
\- E2 = Spectrum Usage scaling (NOTE 1) = (99 % / 90 %);
\- F2 = Margin for an upper bound estimation (NOTE 2) = (120 % / 100 %);
**Option 7-1**
For DL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3] was calculated as follows:
\- A1 = B1 * C1 * D1 * E1 * F1+ G1;
\- Where:
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B1 = Num of Sub-Carrier of LTE reference for 20 MHz = 1200 SC / 20 MHz;
\- C1 = System BW scaling = (100 MHz / 20 MHz);
\- D1 = OFDM symbol rate = 14 symbol / ms
\- E1 = Antenna port = 32 Ant;
\- F1 = IQ bitwidth = 2 x 16 bits;
\- G1 = Overhead = 121 Mbps (accounts for scheduling/control signalling).
For DL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter sets are calculated as follows:
\- A2 = A1 * B2 * C2 * D2 * E2 * F2;
\- Where:
\- A2 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter set {#1 - #6}
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B2 = System BW scaling = ({100 MHz, 200 MHz, 400 MHz} / 100 MHz);
\- C2 = Num of Ant port scaling = ({8 Ant, 32 Ant} / 32 Ant);
\- D2 = IQ bitwidth = (2 x 16 bits / 2 x 16 bits);
\- E2 = Spectrum Usage scaling (NOTE 1) = (99 % / 90 %);
\- F2 = Margin for an upper bound estimation (NOTE 2) = (120 % / 100 %);
NOTE 1: The maximum spectrum usage of LTE and NR are 90 % and 99 %
respectively.
NOTE 2: 20 % of margin (due to e.g. additional traffic such as scheduling and
beamforming command and extra overhead of the transport layer) is considered
as an upper bound estimation while actual values will be expected to be
smaller.
Table A-3: The required fronthaul bandwidth for split points and parameter
sets in UL
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | Option 6 | Option | Option | | | | | | 7-2 | 7-1 | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | Required | TR | 5.64 | 13 | 53 | | | FH BW | 38.801 | | .6\~21.6 | .8\~86.1 | | | [Gbps] | [3] | | | | | | | | | (NOTE) | (NOTE) | | | ( | | | | | | | assuming | | | | | | | worst | | | | | | | case) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | P | #1 | 4.93 | 14.25 | 113.6 | | | arameter | | | | | | | sets | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | #2 | 4.93 | 14.25 | 28.4 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | #3 | 9.92 | 28.51 | 227.3 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | #4 | 9.92 | 28.51 | 56.8 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | #5 | 19.85 | 57.0 | 454.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | | | #6 | 19.85 | 57.0 | 113.6 | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | Required | | | | | | | FH BW | | | | | | | figures | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | shown as | | | | | | | a range | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | il | | | | | | | lustrate | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | pendence | | | | | | | on IQ | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | itwidth. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+
**Option 6**
For UL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3] was calculated as follows:
\- A1 = A0 * B1 * C1 * D1 + E1;
\- Where:
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- A0 = Peak data rate of LTE reference = 50 Mbps;
\- B1 = System BW scaling = (100 MHz / 20 MHz);
\- C1 = MIMO layer scaling = (8 layer / 1 layer);
\- D1 = QAM scaling = (6 bits per symbol / 4 bits per symbol);
\- E1 = Overhead = 2640 Mbps (accounts for control signalling).
For UL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter sets are calculated as follows:
\- A2 = A1 * B2 * C2 * D2 * E2 *F2;
\- Where:
\- A2 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter set {#1 - #6}
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B2 = System BW scaling = ({100 MHz, 200 MHz, 400 MHz} / 100 MHz);
\- C2 = MIMO layer scaling = (4 layer / 8 layer);
\- D2 = QAM scaling = (8 bits per symbol / 6 bits per symbol);
\- E2 = Spectrum Usage scaling (NOTE 1) = (99 % / 90 %);
\- F2 = Margin for an upper bound estimation (NOTE 2) = (120 % / 100 %);
**Option7-2**
For UL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3] was calculated as follows:
\- A1 = B1 * C1 * D1 * E1* F1 + G1;
\- Where:
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B1 = Num of Sub-Carrier of LTE reference for 20 MHz = 1200 SC / 20 MHz;
\- C1 = System BW scaling = (100 MHz / 20 MHz);
\- D1 = OFDM symbol rate = 14 symbol / ms
\- E1 = MIMO layer = 8 layer;
\- F1 = IQ bitwidth = 2 x 16 bits;
\- G1 = Overhead = 120 Mbps (accounts for control signalling).
For UL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter sets are calculated as follows:
\- A2 = A1 * B2 * C2 * D2 * E2 * F2;
\- Where:
\- A2 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter set {#1 - #6}
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B2 = System BW scaling = ({100 MHz, 200 MHz, 400 MHz} / 100 MHz);
\- C2 = MIMO layer scaling = (4 layer / 8 layer);
\- D2 = IQ bitwidth = (2 x 16 bits / 2 x 16 bits);
\- E2 = Spectrum Usage scaling (NOTE 1) = (99 % / 90 %);
\- F2 = Margin for an upper bound estimation (NOTE 2) = (120 % / 100 %);
**Option7-1**
For UL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3] was calculated as follows:
\- A1 = B1 * C1 * D1 * E1 * F1+ G1;
\- Where:
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B1 = Num of Sub-Carrier of LTE reference for 20 MHz = 1200 SC / 20 MHz;
\- C1 = System BW scaling = (100 MHz / 20 MHz);
\- D1 = OFDM symbol rate = 14 symbol / ms
\- E1 = Antenna port = 32 Ant;
\- F1 = IQ bitwidth = 2 x 16 bits;
\- E1 = Overhead = 80 Mbps (accounts for scheduling/control signalling).
For UL, Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter sets are calculated as follows:
\- A2 = A1 * B2 * C2 * D2 * E2 * F2;
\- Where:
\- A2 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for Parameter set {#1 - #6}
\- A1 = Required FH BW [Gbps] for TR 38.801 [3];
\- B2 = System BW scaling = ({100 MHz, 200 MHz, 400 MHz} / 100 MHz);
\- C2 = Num of Ant port scaling = ({8 Ant, 32 Ant} / 32 Ant);
\- D2 = IQ bitwidth = (2 x 16 bits / 2 x 16 bits);
\- E2 = Spectrum Usage scaling (NOTE 1) = (99 % / 90 %);
\- F2 = Margin for an upper bound estimation (NOTE 2) = (120 % / 100 %);
#