# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Work Item on New Radio (NR)
Access Technology, covering the new frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz for
NR.
> Note: NR band n261 (TDD 27500 - 28350 MHz) which was introduced by the same
> Rel-15 work item was not considered in TR 38.815. The n261 requirements are
> based on an FCC report [2] and differ from the n257 (TDD 26500 - 29500 MHz)
> requirements in several aspects.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
> \- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
> edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
>
> \- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
>
> \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of
> a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
>
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] FCC-16-89A1
> https://apps.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-16-89A1.pdf
>
> [3] RSCOM16-40rev3 https://cept.org/Documents/ecc-pt1/34326/ecc-
> pt1-17-055_5g-mandate
>
> [4] "International Telecommunications Union Radio Regulations", Edition
> 2016, Volume 1 -- Articles, ITU.
>
> [5] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329-12, "Unwanted emissions in the spurious
> domain".[6] Recommendation ITU-R SM.328-11, "Spectra and Bandwidth of
> Emissions".
[7] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1539-1, "Variation of the boundary between the
out-of-band and spurious domains required for the application of
Recommendations ITU-R SM.1541 and ITU-R SM.329".
[8] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1540, "Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band
domain falling into adjacent allocated bands".
[9] Recommendation ITU-R SM.1541-6, "Unwanted emissions in the out-of-band
domain".
[10] ECC Recommendation (02)05, "Unwanted Emissions", October 2002, amended
March 2012.
[11] CEPT/ERC/RECOMMENDATION 74-01, "Unwanted Emissions in the Spurious
Domain", Cardiff 2011.
[12] ETSI EN 301 908, "IMT cellular networks; Harmonized EN covering the
essential requirements of article 3.2 of the R&TTE Directive;" (22 parts).
[13] 3GPP TS 38.213: \"NR; Physical layer procedures for control\".
[14] 3GPP TR 38.817-2: \"General aspects for Base Station (BS) Radio Frequency
(RF) for NR".
[15] 3GPP TR 38.817-1: "General aspects for User Equipment (UE) Radio
Frequency (RF) for NR".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\".
[17] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Operating band:** frequency range in which NR operates (paired or unpaired),
that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
ΔF~Raster~ Band dependent channel raster granularity
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
BS Base Station
BW Bandwidth
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
> EIS Equivalent Isotropic Sensitivity
FR Frequency Range
GSCN Global Synchronization Channel Number
> ICS In-Channel Selectivity
>
> ITU‑R Radiocommunication Sector of the International Telecommunication Union
NR New Radio
NR-ARFCN NR Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
OTA Over The Air
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TDD Time division Duplex
TX Transmitter
TRP Total Radiated Power
# 4 Background
International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) systems have contributed to
global economic and social development of both developed and developing
countries. IMT systems are now being evolved to provide diverse usage
scenarios and applications such as enhanced mobile broadband (eMBB), massive
machine-type (mMTC) and ultra-reliable and low-latency communications (URLLC)
requiring larger contiguous blocks of spectrum than currently available
bandwidth to realize those applications.
It is then important to note that the properties of higher frequency bands,
such as shorter wavelength, would better enable the use of advanced antenna
systems including multiple-input and multiple-output (MIMO) and beam-forming
techniques in supporting enhanced broadband.
Adequate and timely availability of spectrum with appropriate regulatory
provisions, as well as improved technologies, are essential to support the
future growth of IMT. Harmonized worldwide frequency bands and harmonized
frequency arrangements for these systems are highly desirable in order to
facilitate global roaming and the benefits of economies of scale.
## 4.1 NR spectrum plans in the range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
Spectrum harmonization remains important for the development of NR and even
more important for higher frequencies above 24 GHz in order to support the
development of a new ecosystem as well as the deployment of very advanced
antenna systems. Recently, many countries and regions such as USA, Europe,
Korea, Japan and China have announced their "5G" spectrum strategies and
roadmaps for the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz as a key frequency
band to deploy commercial systems for NR as follows.
On July 2016, the USA Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted a Report
and Order (R&O) with new rules to enable rapid development and deployment of
next generation (5G) technologies and services in the millimetre wave (mmW)
bands [2]. These new rules open up nearly 11 GHz of high-frequency spectrum
for flexible, mobile and fixed use wireless broadband: 3.85 GHz of licensed
spectrum and 7 GHz of unlicensed spectrum by creating a new Upper Microwave
Flexible Use service (UMFUS) in the 28 GHz (27.5-28.35 GHz), 37 GHz (37-38.6
GHz), and 39 GHz (38.6-40 GHz) bands, and a new unlicensed band at 64-71 GHz.
On December 2016, the European Commission (EC) and the 48 countries of
European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications (CEPT) agreed to
recommend the 24.25-27.5 GHz as a pioneer band for 5G above 24 GHz [3]. The
European countries should develop harmonisation measures on the basis of the
radio spectrum decision in this band before 2020 and make available a portion
of this frequency band for 5G in response to market demand, taking into
account that 5G deployment in this frequency range is likely to remain
geographically limited by 2020.
On January 2017, Korean Ministry of Science and ICT (MSIT) announced the K-ICT
Spectrum Plan in order to use the 28 GHz (26.5-29.5 GHz) band for 5G
commercial service. In particular, the Republic of Korea is planning to use
the band for not only 5G trial services during the 2018 Winter Olympic Games
but also 5G commercial services around 2020.
Japanese Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC) published the
final report on the 2020 Japan Radio Policy on July 2016 with regard to the 5G
candidate spectrum bands including 27.5-29.5 GHz band, in order to meet agreed
international technical specifications for the 2020 summer Olympic games in
Tokyo. Meanwhile the national policy makers and regulators are also
investigating all bands for 5G that are within the scope of the ITU WRC-19
Agenda Item 1.13. Early system trials for 5G are planned for the ranges 3600
-4100 MHz, 4405-4895 MHz and 27.5-28.28 GHz.
On June 2017, Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT)
is launching a consultation regarding the planning and use of mmW spectrum for
the development of 5G networks. The MIIT is seeking industry advice on the
planning and use of the 24.75-27.5GHz, 37-42.5GHz and other mmW bands. The
public consultation is intended to collect feedback from the industry on such
aspects as suggestions regarding the deployment status of the proposed
frequency bands, future planning on the use of these bands for 5G system.
The following figure summarizes future plans and spectrum for NR from each
country/region.
{width="5.909722222222222in" height="2.0347222222222223in"}
Figure 4.1-1: NR spectrum plans in the range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
## 4.2 Compatibility studies with services in adjacent bands
In World Radiocommunication Conference 2015 (WRC-15), Agenda item 1.13 to
consider identification of frequency bands for the future development of IMT
was adopted for WRC-19. The agenda item calls for studies to determine the
spectrum needs for the terrestrial component of IMT in the frequency range
between 24.25 GHz and 86 GHz, as well as sharing and compatibility studies,
taking into account the protection of services to which the band is allocated
on a primary basis, for the frequency bands:
\- 24.25-27.5 GHz, 37-40.5 GHz, 42.5-43.5 GHz, 45.5-47 GHz, 47.2-50.2 GHz,
50.4‑52.6 GHz, 66-76 GHz and 81-86 GHz, which have allocations to the mobile
service on a primary basis; and
\- 31.8-33.4 GHz, 40.5-42.5 GHz and 47-47.2 GHz, which may require additional
allocations to the mobile service on a primary basis.
Task Group 5/1 is responsible for the development of draft Conference
Preparation Meeting (CPM) text under WRC-19 Agenda item 1.13. In developing
sharing studies and draft CPM text, Task Group 5/1 is to consider, conduct and
complete in time for WRC-19, in accordance with Resolution 238 (WRC-15), the
results of appropriate studies from Working Party 5D on the spectrum needs,
technical and operational characteristics including protection criteria, and
deployment scenarios for the terrestrial component of IMT, as well as
propagation models, technical characteristics including protection criteria
for existing services allocated in, or adjacent to, the bands identified in
resolves to invite ITU-R 2 of Resolution 238 (WRC-15). Task Group 5/1 is also
requested to conduct the appropriate sharing and compatibility studies, taking
into account the protection of services to which the band is allocated on a
primary basis.
Table 4.2-1 is the information of the services allocated in the 23.6-31 GHz as
adjacent bands that to be studied on the sharing and compatibility with of the
frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz by September 2018.
Table 4.2-1: Allocation information in the 23.6-31 GHz frequency range [4]
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **23.6-31 GHz** | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Allocation to | | | | services** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Region 1** | **Region 2** | **Region 3** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **23.6-24** EARTH | | | | E | | | | XPLORATION-SATELLITE | | | | (passive) | | | | | | | | RADIO ASTRONOMY | | | | | | | | SPACE RESEARCH | | | | (passive) | | | | | | | | 5.340 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **24-24.05** AMATEUR | | | | | | | | AMATEUR-SATELLITE | | | | | | | | 5.150 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **24.05-24.25** | | | | RADIOLOCATION | | | | | | | | Amateur | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (active) | | | | | | | | 5.150 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **24.25-24.45** | **24.25-24.45** | **24.25-24.45** | | | | | | FIXED | RADIONAVIGATION | RADIONAVIGATION | | | | | | | | FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **24.45-24.65** | **24.45-24.65** | **24.45-24.65** | | | | | | FIXED | INTER-SATELLITE | FIXED | | | | | | INTER-SATELLITE | RADIONAVIGATION | INTER-SATELLITE | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | RADIONAVIGATION | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 5.533 | 5.533 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **24.65-24.75** | **24.65-24.75** | **24.65-24.75** | | | | | | FIXED | INTER-SATELLITE | FIXED | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | RADIOLOCATION-\ | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | | (Earth-to-space) | SATELLITE | (Earth-to-space) | | 5.532B | (Earth-to-space) | 5.532B | | | | | | INTER-SATELLITE | | INTER-SATELLITE | | | | | | | | MOBILE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | 5.533 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **24.75-25.25** | **24.75-25.25** | **24.75-25.25** | | | | | | FIXED | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | FIXED | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | 5.535 | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | | (Earth-to-space) | | (Earth-to-space) | | 5.532B | | 5.535 | | | | | | | | MOBILE | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **25.25-25.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | INTER-SATELLITE | | | | 5.536 | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | Standard frequency | | | | and time | | | | signal-satellite | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **25.5-27** EARTH | | | | E | | | | XPLORATION-SATELLITE | | | | (space-to Earth) | | | | 5.536B | | | | | | | | FIXED | | | | | | | | INTER-SATELLITE | | | | 5.536 | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | SPACE RESEARCH | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | 5.536C | | | | | | | | Standard frequency | | | | and time | | | | signal-satellite | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | | | | | 5.536A | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **27-27.5** | **27-27.5** | | | | | | | FIXED | FIXED | | | | | | | INTER-SATELLITE | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | 5.536 | (Earth-to-space) | | | | | | | MOBILE | INTER-SATELLITE | | | | 5.536 5.537 | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **27.5-28.5** FIXED | | | | 5.537A | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.484A 5.516B 5.539 | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | 5.538 5.540 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **28.5-29.1** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.484A 5.516B 5.523A | | | | 5.539 | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.541 | | | | | | | | 5.540 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **29.1-29.5** FIXED | | | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.516B 5.523C 5.523E | | | | 5.535A\ | | | | 5.539 5.541A | | | | | | | | MOBILE | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.541 | | | | | | | | 5.540 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **29.5-29.9** | **29.5-29.9** | **29.5-29.9** | | | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | FIXED-SATELLITE\ | | (Earth-to-space) | (Earth-to-space) | (Earth-to-space) | | 5.484A 5.484B 5.516B | 5.484A 5.484B 5.516B | 5.484A 5.484B 5.516B | | 5.527A 5.539 | 5.527A 5.539 | 5.527A 5.539 | | | | | | Earth | MOBILE-SATELLITE\ | Earth | | ex | (Earth-to-space) | ex | | ploration-satellite\ | | ploration-satellite\ | | (Earth-to-space) | Earth | (Earth-to-space) | | 5.541 | ex | 5.541 | | | ploration-satellite\ | | | Mobile-satellite | (Earth-to-space) | Mobile-satellite | | (Earth-to-space) | 5.541 | (Earth-to-space) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5.540 5.542 | 5.525 5.526 5.527 | 5.540 5.542 | | | 5.529 5.540 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **29.9-30** | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.484A 5.484B 5.516B | | | | 5.527A\ | | | | 5.539 | | | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | | | | | Earth | | | | e | | | | xploration-satellite | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.541 5.543 | | | | | | | | 5.525 5.526 5.527 | | | | 5.538 5.540 5.542 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **30-31** | | | | FIXED-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | 5.338A | | | | | | | | MOBILE-SATELLITE | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | | | | | | | Standard frequency | | | | and time | | | | signal-satellite | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.542 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 4.3 Regulatory aspect
### 4.3.1 ITU-R
The Radio Regulations [4] is an international binding treaty for how RF
spectrum is used. It is updated and agreed at the WRC that is held every 3 to
4 years. One RF parameter related to unwanted emissions is defined directly in
the radio regulation:
\- ITU Radio Regulations No. S1.153 ‎[4] provides a definition of _Occupied
bandwidth_.
ITU-R Study Group 1 is responsible for Spectrum management principles and
techniques and develops international recommendations for unwanted emissions.
The following ITU-R recommendations provide generic limits and some guidelines
for how to specify unwanted emissions:
> \- ITU-R SM.329-12 [5] provides terminology and definitions in the area of
> spurious emissions. It also gives recommendations of how limits are applied
> and recommended limit values and reference bandwidths. Limits are given in
> different "Categories", where Category A limits are generally applicable
> while other Categories have regional application for certain services. Some
> limits are further described in Annexes to the recommendation, where in
> particular Annex 7 gives reference bandwidths for Category B limits in the
> land mobile service.
>
> \- ITU-R SM.328-11 [6] provides terminology and definitions in the area of
> spectra and bandwidth of emissions. It is intended to provide guidance in
> deriving limits for out-of-band emissions and gives examples of how emitted
> spectra can be classified and what parameters can be used to specify it.
> Most of the text concerns analogue and narrowband modulation.
>
> \- ITU-R SM.1539-1 [7] specifically deals with the boundary between the out-
> of-band and spurious domains. It proposes variations to the default "250%
> rule" for wideband emissions for different frequency ranges, where the
> highest interval is above 26 GHz.
>
> \- ITU-R SM.1540 [8] gives recommendations for emissions falling into an
> adjacent band allocation.
>
> \- ITU-R SM.1541-6 [9] gives recommendations for emission in the out-of-band
> domain. Annex 11 covers land mobile services, but there is only discussion
> of narrowband systems (up to 30 kHz).
NOTE: The term _Out-of-band (OOB) emissions_ can cause some confusion and is
for this reason mostly avoided in 3GPP BS specifications. Regulation defines
OOB emissions as "_Emission on a frequency or frequencies immediately outside
the necessary bandwidth which results from the modulation process, but
excluding spurious emissions_ ". OOB emissions are thereby the emissions
[closest to]{.underline} the transmitted carrier(s) and the term "Out-of-band"
[does not]{.underline} refer to emission being outside the operating band or
an operator's assigned band. Note that spurious emissions and OOB emissions
are mutually exclusive through the definition, making the boundary between
them very important. OOB emissions are for WCDMA and LTE BS defined through
ACLR, spectrum mask (for WCMDA) and operating band unwanted emissions (for
LTE).
### 4.3.2 European regulation
The European regulations include unwanted emission levels. As basis, the
limits included in ITU-R documents. Limits applicable in Europe are in ITU-R
SM.329-12 [5] identified as _Category B_ requirements are used. In addition,
the following European recommendations are developed and maintained by
CEPT/ECC regarding unwanted emissions as follows:
> \- ECC Rec (02)05 [10] is an "umbrella" recommendation on unwanted
> emissions, giving general guidelines on out-of-band and spurious emissions,
> the boundary between out-of-band and spurious domains, with reference to
> ITU-R recommendations and the ERC Rec. 74-01 on spurious emissions [11]
>
> \- ERC Rec. 74-01 [11] provides terminology and definitions in the area of
> spurious emissions, with recommended limit values and reference bandwidths
> for the spurious domain. It corresponds to the Category B limits in ITU-R
> Rec. SM 329-12 [5], but has in addition provisions for mobile services
> covering multi-carrier and multi-RAT base stations.
CEPT/ECC publishes decisions, recommendations and reports related to spectrum
usage. These may include emission limits. In many cases, the spectrum
decisions are also confirmed in a spectrum decision by the European Union
(EU). Here it should be noted that the EU has 28 member states while CEPT has
48 national administrations as members. The spectrum decisions made by the EU
are the basis for national licensing conditions in countries across Europe. In
addition, ECC decision and/or recommendations are used.
The radio equipment requirements for products in Europe are set by _Harmonized
Standards_. The harmonized standard for IMT equipment is EN 301 908 [12],
divided into individual parts for each type of equipment. The parts for UMTS
and LTE equipment are based on extracts from the 3GPP RAN4 and RAN5 test
specifications.
### 4.3.3 U.S. regulation (FCC)
A new Part 30 (Upper Microwave Flexible Use Service) is added and licenses
issued in the 27.5-28.35 GHz band. The following subparts relate directly to
RF aspects [2]:
\- § 30.202 Power limits: Max EIRP limits
\- § 30.203 Emission limits: OOBE and spurious emissions limits (conducted or
total radiated power)
The new Part 30 power limits from FCC-16-89A1 [2] are shown in Table 8.1.3-1
and the Emission limits in Table 8.1.3-2.
Table 4.3.3-1: Part 30.202 Power limits (from FCC-16-89A1 [2])
Stations Maximum allowable EIRP
* * *
Fixed/Base stations 75 dBm/100 MHz^(NOTE)^ Mobile stations 43 dBm
Transportable stations 55 dBm NOTE: For channel bandwidths less than 100 MHz
the EIRP must be reduced proportionally and linearly based on the bandwidth
relative to 100 MHz.
Table 4.3.3-2: Part 30.203 Emission limits (from FCC-16-89A1 [2])
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Outband frequency range | Conductive power /Total radiated | | | power | +==================================+==================================+ | Channel assignment^1^ edge \~ | -5 dBm | | 10% of the Authorized | | | Bandwidth^2^ | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Beyond 10% of Authorized | -13 dBm | | Bandwidth | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: **Channel assignment** | | | is the channel that is | | | determined by standards | | | (defining center frequency), the | | | FCC usually defines this as the | | | bandwidth at which 99% of the | | | emission power is contained. | | | | | | NOTE 2: **Authorized bandwidth** | | | is the maximum width of the band | | | of frequencies permitted to be | | | used by a station. This is | | | normally considered to be the | | | necessary or occupied bandwidth, | | | whichever is greater. | | | | | | NOTE 3: **Measurement | | | Requirements:** | | | | | | 1) Measurement is based on the | | | use of measurement | | | instrumentation employing a | | | resolution bandwidth of 1 | | | megahertz or greater. | | | | | | 2) When measuring the emission | | | limits, the nominal carrier | | | frequency shall be adjusted as | | | close to the licensee\'s | | | frequency block edges as the | | | design permits. | | | | | | 3) The measurements of emission | | | power can be expressed in peak | | | or average values. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### 4.3.4 Korean regulation (MSIT)
The Korean regulation of the wireless equipment for the mobile system is
divided into individual parts for each technical type of equipment, i.e.,
CDMA, PCS, UMTS, LTE-FDD and LTE-TDD. The parts for UMTS and LTE equipment
include essential RF parameters such as frequency ranges, channel bandwidths
and emission levels as summarized in Table 4.3.4-1, and they are based on
extracts from the 3GPP RAN4 and RAN5 test specifications.
Table 4.3.4-1: Parameters in Korean regulation
               **Parameters**
* * *
**Common** Frequency range  
Channel bandwidth  
**BS** **Tx** Frequency error Output power ACLR Out-of-band emissions Spurious
emissions **Rx** Receiver spurious emissions **UE** **Tx** Frequency error
Maximum output power ACLR Spectrum emission mask Spurious emissions **Rx** Rx
spurious emissions
On July 2017, the MSIT established a study group to develop another part for
NR system that will be operated in 28 GHz band. For the harmonized standard
for IMT equipment, as the current regulation for the previous part of the
systems, the group also has been waiting for the output of core specification
from 3GPP RAN4 for the range of 26.5-29.5 GHz and willing to review the result
within this year in order to launch NR service in timely manner in Korea.
# 5 NR Frequency band definition
The band plans for 24.25-29.5 GHz frequency range are shown in Figure 5-1. Two
bands are defined in the range, one is for 26.5-29.5 GHz (n257) and the other
is for 24.25-27.5 GHz (n258), and they are noticeably 1 GHz overlapped that
can be considered allowing economies of scale and early equipment
availability. NR as a technology will evolve over time and leverage a variety
of spectrum ranges, but these two bands have broad support in FR2.
{width="5.902777777777778in" height="1.6875in"}
Figure 5-1: Band definition in the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
Summary of the new NR bands are provided in Table 5-1 below:
Table 5-1: New NR bands in the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
**Band number** **UL** **DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n257 26.5 - 29.5 GHz 26.5 - 29.5 GHz TDD n258 24.25 - 27.5 GHz 24.25 - 27.5
GHz TDD
# 6 Channel numbering and channel bandwidth
The NR-ARFCN that are applicable in the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
are given in table 6-1.
Table 6-1: Applicable NR-ARFCN in the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
+-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+ | NR Operating Band | ΔF~Raster~ | Uplink and Downlink | | | | | | | (kHz) | Range of N~REF~ | | | | | | | | (First -- \ \-- Last) | +===================+============+==================================+ | n257 | 60 | 2054166 -- \ \-- 2104165 | +-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+ | n258 | 60 | 2016667 -- \ \-- 2070832 | +-------------------+------------+----------------------------------+
The synchronization raster in the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz is
given in Table 6-2. The distance between applicable GSCN entries is given by
the \ indicated in Table 6-2 with the step size interval of
17.28MHz.
Table 6-2: Applicable SS raster entries in the frequency range between
24.25-29.5 GHz
+----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NR Operating | SS Block SCS | SS Block | Range of GSCN | | Band | | pattern^1^ | | | | | | (First -- | | | | | \ | | | | | -- Last) | +================+==============+================+================+ | n257 | 120 kHz | Case D | [22388 -- | | | | | \ \-- | | | | | 22558] | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 240 kHz | Case E | [22390 -- | | | | | \ \-- | | | | | 22556] | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | n258 | 120 kHz | Case D | [22257 -- | | | | | \ \-- | | | | | 22443] | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | | 240 kHz | Case E | [22258 -- | | | | | \ \-- | | | | | 22442] | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: SS Block | | | | | pattern is | | | | | defined in | | | | | subclause 4.1 | | | | | in TS 38.213 | | | | | [13]. | | | | +----------------+--------------+----------------+----------------+
BS and UE channel bandwidth and Bandwidth combination sets have been defined
as found in TR 38.817-02 [14] and TR 38.817-01 [15], respectively. They are
captured to support at least 50 MHz as a minimum channel bandwidth and up to
400 MHz as a maximum channel bandwidth in FR2 by using the different data sub-
carrier spacing (SCS) in Rel-15. In order to apply the same requirement for
Band n257 and 258 to Table 5.3.5-1 in TS 38.101-2 [16], Table 6-3 highlights
in the extract of the table below.
Table 6-3: NR channel bandwidth in the frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz
NR band Channel bandwidth
* * *
Band number data SCS(kHz) 50 MHz 100 MHz 200 MHz 400 MHz n257 60 Yes Yes Yes  
120 **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** n258 **60** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes**  
**120** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes** **Yes**
# 7 Common RF requirements for band n257 and n258
According to current study in RAN4 at least RF requirements summarized in
Table 7-1 should be the band agnostic RF requirements for FR2 which are
applicable for band n257 and n258 as well. Besides that, the RF requirements
which are band specific but common between band n257 and n258 are gathered in
this section.
Table 7-1: Summary on band agnostic of RF requirements for FR2
**BS TX side capture in TS 38.104 [17]** **BS RX side capture in TS 38.104
[17]** **UE TX side capture in TS 38.101-2 [16]** **UE RX side capture in TS
38.101-2 [16]**
* * *
9.2 Radiated transmit power 10.3 OTA reference sensitivity level 6.3.1 Minimum
output power 7.4 Maximum input level 9.3 OTA Base station output power 10.5
OTA In-band selectivity and blocking 6.4 Transmit signal quality  
9.4 OTA Output power dynamics 10.7 OTA Receiver spurious emissions 6.5.1
Occupied bandwidth  
9.5 OTA Transmit ON/OFF power 10.9 OTA In-channel selectivity 6.5.2.1 Spectrum
emission mask: General  
9.6 OTA Transmitted signal quality  
9.7.2 OTA Occupied bandwidth  
9.7.5 OTA Transmitter spurious emissions
The common RF requirements for Band n257 and n258 are listed in following
sections with expected changes in TS 38.101-2 [16] and TS 38.104 [17] for UE
and BS respectively.
## 7.1 UE specific
### 7.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.1.1.1 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR)
For Band n257 and Band n258, and the general ACLR requirements is 17dB and
more test parameters are shown in table 7.1.1.1-1:
Table 7.1.1.1-1: General ACLR requirements for Band n257 and Band n258
+---------------+---------------+-----------+------------+------------+ | | Channel | | | | | | bandwidth / | | | | | | NR~ACLR~ / | | | | | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | +===============+===============+===========+============+============+ | | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +---------------+---------------+-----------+------------+------------+ | NR~ACLR~ for | 17 dB | 17 dB | 17 dB | 17 dB | | band n257, | | | | | | n258 | | | | | +---------------+---------------+-----------+------------+------------+ | NR channel | 47.52 MHz | 95.04 MHz | 190.08 MHz | 380.16 MHz | | Measurement | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | +---------------+---------------+-----------+------------+------------+ | Adjacent | +50 | +100.0 | +200 | +400 | | channel | | | | | | centre | / | / | / | / | | frequency | | | | | | offset | -50 | -100.0 | -200 | -400 | | [MHz] | | | | | +---------------+---------------+-----------+------------+------------+
### 7.1.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.1.2.1 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
For Band n257 and Band n258, the ACS requirements is 23dB and more parameter
are shown in table 7.1.2.1-1, Table 7.1.2.1-2 and Table 7.1.2.1-3:
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
* * *
                                    Channel bandwidth
* * *
Rx Parameter Units 50\ 100\ 200\ 400\ MHz MHz MHz MHz
ACS for band n257, n258 dB 23 23 23 23
* * *
Table 7.1.2.1-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | P | | b | | | | | arameter | | andwidth | | | | +==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Power in | dBm | REFSENS | | | | | Tran | | + 14 dB | | | | | smission | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **P~Int | dBm | REFSENS\ | REFSENS\ | REFSENS\ | REFSENS\ | | erferer~ | | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | | for band | | dB | dB | dB | dB | | n257, | | | | | | | n258** | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | BW~Inter | | | | | | | ferer~**| | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ |** F~Int | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | erferer~ | | | | | | | (o | | / | / | / | / | | ffset)** | | | | | | | | | -50 | -100 | -200 | -400 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 7.1.2.1-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
+-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | Parameter | | bandwidth | | | | +=============+=======+=============+=========+=========+=========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power in | dBm | -46.5 | -46.5 | -46.5 | -46.5 | | T | | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | | Bandwidth | | | | | | | Co | | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | | for band | | | | | | | n257, n258 | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | **P~In | dBm | -25 | | | | | terferer~** | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | **BW~In | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | terferer~** | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+ | **F~ | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | Interferer~ | | | | | | | (offset)** | | / | / | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | -50 | -100 | -200 | -400 | +-------------+-------+-------------+---------+---------+---------+
## 7.2 BS specific
### 7.2.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.2.1.1 Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio (ACLR)
The BS OTA ACLR limit for Band n257 and n258 is defined based on TRP and
specified ACLR1 in table 7.2.1.1-1. The OTA ACLR2 limit is not specified since
the emission level at the ACLR2 range will be close to noise floor.
Table 7.2.1.1-1: Base Station OTA ACLR
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **BS | BS adjacent | Assumed | Filter on | ACLR limit | | Channel | channel | adjacent | the | | | bandwidth | centre | channel | adjacent | (dB) | | of | frequency | carrier | channel | | | low | offset | | frequency | | | est/highest | below the | | and | | | NR carrier | lowest or | | co | | | tr | above the | | rresponding | | | ansmitted** | highest | | filter | | | | carrier | | bandwidth | | | ** | centre | | | | | BW~Channel~ | frequency | | | | | [MHz]__| transmitted | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 50, 100, | BW~Channel~ | NR of same | Square\ | 28 (Note 3) | | 200, 400 | | BW | ( | | | | | | BW~Config~) | | | | | (Note 2) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | BW~Channel~ | | | | | | and | | | | | | BW~Config~ | | | | | | are the_ BS | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth_ | | | | | | and | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | of the | | | | | | low | | | | | | est/highest | | | | | | NR carrier | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | on the | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | channel | | | | | | frequency. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | With SCS | | | | | | that | | | | | | provides | | | | | | largest | | | | | | t | | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | | | (B | | | | | | W~Config~). | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | Applicable | | | | | | to bands | | | | | | defined | | | | | | within the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | spectrum | | | | | | range of | | | | | | 24.25 -- | | | | | | 33.4 GHz | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: BS OTA ACLR absolute limits are Band agnostic requirements in the
frequency range between 24.25-29.5 GHz.
#### 7.2.1.2 Spectrum emission mask
BS unwanted emissions for Band n257 and n258 shall not exceed the maximum
levels specified in table 7.2.1.2-1 and table 7.2.1.2-2.
Table 7.2.1.2-1: SEM applicable for [P~Tx~ ≥ 35 dBm] in the frequency range
24.25 -- 33.4 GHz
Frequency offset from "edge of transmission" Δf Limit Measurement bandwidth
* * *
0 ≤ ∆f \< 10% of the total transmission bandwidth -5 dBm 1 MHz 10% of the
total transmission bandwidth ≤ ∆f \< OOB boundary -13 dBm 1 MHz
Table 7.2.1.2-2: SEM applicable for [P~Tx~ \< 35 dBm] in the frequency range
24.25 -- 33.4 GHz
Frequency offset from "edge of transmission" Δf Limit Measurement bandwidth
* * *
0 ≤ ∆f \< 10% of the total transmission bandwidth [Max(P~Tx~ -- 40 dB, -12
dBm)] 1 MHz 10% of the total transmission bandwidth ≤ ∆f \< OOB boundary
[Max(P~Tx~ -- 48 dB, -20 dBm)] 1 MHz ∆f ≥ OOB boundary Spurious domain limits
### 7.2.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.2.2.1 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
The BS OTA ACS for Band n257 and n258 is defined based on EIS and the OTA
wanted and the interfering signal are specified in table 7.2.2.1-1 and table
7.2.2.1-2 for ACS.
Table 7.2.2.1-1: OTA ACS requirement in the frequency range 24.25 -- 33.4 GHz
BS channel bandwidth of the lowest/highest carrier received [MHz] Wanted
signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal mean power [dBm]
* * *
50, 100, 200, 400 EIS~REFSENS~ + 6dB EIS~REFSENS~ + 27.7
Table 7.2.2.1-2: OTA ACS interferer frequency offset in the frequency range
24.25 -- 33.4 GHz
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS channel bandwidth | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | of the | centre frequency | signal | | lowest/highest | offset from the | | | carrier received | lower/upper Base | | | [MHz] | Station RF Bandwidth | | | | edge or sub-block | | | | edge inside a | | | | sub-block gap | | | | [MHz] | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 50 | ±24.29 | 50MHz DFT-s-OFDM NR | | | | signal | | | | | | | | 60kHz SCS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 100 | ±24.31 | 50MHz DFT-s-OFDM NR | | | | signal | | | | | | | | 60kHz SCS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 200 | ±24.29 | 50MHz DFT-s-OFDM NR | | | | signal | | | | | | | | 60kHz SCS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 400 | ±24.31 | 50MHz DFT-s-OFDM NR | | | | signal | | | | | | | | 60kHz SCS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 8 NR band n257 specific issues
This section captures band specific RF requirements for n257.
## 8.1 UE specific
### 8.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 8.1.1.1 Transmitter power
##### 8.1.1.1.1 Maximum output power
For FR2, a single power class is defined for handheld UEs, the power class
value is defined as the minimum peak EIRP and is band dependent, and table
8.1.1.1.1-1 lists the value for n257.
Table 8.1.1.1.1-1: NR FR2 UE Power Class for n257
NR band Handheld Power Class Min Peak EIRP (dBm)
* * *
n257 22.4 NOTE: minimum peak EIRP is defined as the lower limit without
tolerance
The maximum output power requirements on upper limit TRP and max allowed EIRP
are defined as table 8.1.1.1.1-2 for n257.
Table 8.1.1.1.1-2: NR UE Maximum Output Power Limits for n257
+---------+--------------------+------------+ | NR band | TRP Handheld (dBm) | EIRP (dBm) | | | | | | | | Handheld | +=========+====================+============+ | n257 | TBD | 43 | +---------+--------------------+------------+
##### 8.1.1.1.2 Maximum output power with additional requirements
#### 8.1.1.2 Additional spectrum emission mask
#### 8.1.1.3 Spurious emission
##### 8.1.1.3.1 Additional spurious emission
##### 8.1.1.3.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
This clause specifies the requirements for the specified NR band, for
coexistence with protected bands.
Table 8.1.1.3.2-1: Requirements
* * *
**NR Band** **Spurious emission**  
**Protected band/frequency range** **Frequency range (MHz)** **Maximum Level
(dBm)** **MBW (MHz)** **NOTE**  
n257 NR Band n260 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ [-2] 100  
Frequency range 23600 - 24000 [TBD] 200  
Frequency range 57000 - 66000 [2] 100  
NOTE: The protection of frequency range 23600-2400MHz is meant for protection
of satellite passive services.
* * *
### 8.1.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 8.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity power level
The Reference sensitivity power level is specified as table 8.1.2.1-1 for
n257.
Table 8.1.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity for n257
Operating band REFSENS (dBm) / Channel bandwidth
* * *
                   50 MHz                              100 MHz               200 MHz   400 MHz
n257 88.3 [-89.1 to -82.4 ] [-83.1 to -76.4 ]
#### 8.1.2.2 In-band blocking
In-band blocking requirements for n257 are specified as table 8.1.2.2-1.
Table 8.1.2.2-1: In band blocking requirements for n257
+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | p | | b | | | | | arameter | | andwidth | | | | +==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Power in | dBm | REFSENS | | | | | Tran | | + 14dB | | | | | smission | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | BW~Inter | | | | | | | ferer~**| | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | dBm | REFSENS | REFSENS | REFSENS | REFSENS | | *P~Inter | | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | | ferer~** | | dB | dB | dB | dB | | | | | | | | | **for | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | n257** | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **F~Io | MHz | 100 / | 200 / | 400 / | 800 / | | ffset~** | | -100 | -200 | -400 | -800 | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _F~Inter | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | ferer~_ * | | + 25 | + 50 | + 100 | + 200 | | | | | | | | | | | to\ | to\ | to\ | to\ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | - 25 | - 50 | - 100 | - 200 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 8.2 BS specific
### 8.2.1 Radiated transmitter characteristics
The related requirement limits have been covered by section 7.2.1.
### 8.2.2 Radiated receiver characteristic
The related requirement limits have been covered by section 7.2.2.
# 9 NR band n258 specific issues
This section captures band specific RF requirement for n258.
## 9.1 UE specific
### 9.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 9.1.1.1 Transmitter power
##### 9.1.1.1.1 Maximum output power
For FR2, a single power class is defined for handheld UEs, the power class
value is defined as the minimum peak EIRP and is band dependent, and table
9.1.1.1.1-1 lists the value for n258.
Table 9.1.1.1.1-1: NR FR2 UE Power Class for n258
NR band Handheld Power Class Min Peak EIRP (dBm)
* * *
n258 22.4 NOTE: minimum peak EIRP is defined as the lower limit without
tolerance
The maximum output power requirements on upper limit TRP and max allowed EIRP
are defined as table 9.1.1.1.1-2 for n258.
Table 9.1.1.1.1-2: NR UE Maximum Output Power Limits for n258
+---------+--------------------+------------+ | NR band | TRP Handheld (dBm) | EIRP (dBm) | | | | | | | | Handheld | +=========+====================+============+ | n258 | TBD | 43 | +---------+--------------------+------------+
##### 9.1.1.1.2 Maximum output power with additional requirements
#### 9.1.1.2 Additional spectrum emission mask
#### 9.1.1.3 Spurious emission
##### 9.1.1.3.1 Additional spurious emission
##### 9.1.1.3.2 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
This clause specifies the requirements for the specified NR band, for
coexistence with protected bands.
Table 9.1.1.3.2-1: Requirements
* * *
**NR Band** **Spurious emission**  
**Protected band/frequency range** **Frequency range (MHz)** **Maximum Level
(dBm)** **MBW (MHz)** **NOTE**  
n258 Frequency range 23600 - 24000 [TBD] 200  
Frequency range 57000 - 66000 [2] 100  
NOTE 1: The protection of frequency range 23600-2400MHz is meant for
protection of satellite passive services.
* * *
### 9.1.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 9.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity power level
The Reference sensitivity power level is specified as table 9.1.2.1-1 for
n258.
Table 9.1.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity for n258
Operating band REFSENS (dBm) / Channel bandwidth
* * *
                   50 MHz                              100 MHz               200 MHz   400 MHz
n258 [-92.1 to -85.4 ] [-89.1 to -82.4 ] [-83.1 to -76.4 ]
#### 9.1.2.2 In-band blocking
In-band blocking requirements for n258 are specified as table 9.1.2.2-1.
Table 9.1.2.2-1: In band blocking requirements for n258
+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Rx | Units | Channel | | | | | p | | b | | | | | arameter | | andwidth | | | | +==========+=======+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | 50 MHz | 100 MHz | 200 MHz | 400 MHz | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Power in | dBm | REFSENS | | | | | Tran | | + 14dB | | | | | smission | | | | | | | B | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | Confi | | | | | | | guration | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ** | MHz | 50 | 100 | 200 | 400 | | BW~Inter | | | | | | | ferer~**| | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | dBm | REFSENS | REFSENS | REFSENS | REFSENS | | *P~Inter | | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | + 35.5 | | ferer~** | | dB | dB | dB | dB | | | | | | | | | **for | | | | | | | bands | | | | | | | n258** | | | | | | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **F~Io | MHz | 100 / | 200 / | 400 / | 800 / | | ffset~** | | -100 | -200 | -400 | -800 | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | NOTE 5 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | * | MHz | F~ | F~ | F~ | F~ | | _F~Inter | | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | DL_low~ | | ferer~_ * | | + 25 | + 50 | + 100 | + 200 | | | | | | | | | | | to\ | to\ | to\ | to\ | | | | F~D | F~D | F~D | F~D | | | | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | L_high~ | | | | - 25 | - 50 | - 100 | - 200 | +----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 9.2 BS specific
### 9.2.1 Radiated transmitter characteristics
The related requirement limits have been covered by section 7.2.1.
### 9.2.2 Radiated receiver characteristic
The related requirement limits have been covered by section 7.2.2.
# 10 Required changes to NR, E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
No changes identified.
#