# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Work Item on New Radio (NR)
Access Technology, covering the new frequency range between 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz for
NR.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
P~Interferer~ Modulated mean power of the interferer
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BW Bandwidth
NR New Radio
RF Radio Frequency
SCS Sub-Carrier Spacing
TDD Time division Duplex
UE User Equipment
# 4 Background
Recently, two countries such as Japan and China have announced their "5G"
spectrum strategies and roadmaps for the frequency range between 4.4-5.0 GHz
to deploy commercial stems for NR as follows.
{width="4.456000656167979in" height="1.965644138232721in"}
Figure 4-1: NR spectrum plans in the range between 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz
# 5 NR Frequency band definition
Considering the spectrum plans in each country described in the section 4, the
band plan for 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz frequency range is decided as shown in Figure
5-1.
{width="4.613923884514436in" height="1.0599026684164479in"}
Figure 5-1: Band definition in the frequency range between 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz
# 6 Channel numbering and channel bandwidth
Band numbering for the range and applicable duplex mode for 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz are
provided in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1: New NR band in the frequency range between 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz
**Band number** **UL** **DL** **Duplex mode**
* * *
n79 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz 4.4 -- 5.0 GHz TDD
Available channel bandwidths for n79 are summarized below.
Table 6-2: Channel Bandwidths for n79
NR band / SCS / UE Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
NR Band | SCS kHz | 5 MHz | 101,2 MHz | 152 MHz | 202 MHz | 252 MHz | 30 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100 MHz  
n79 | 15 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
| 30 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
| 60 |  |  |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
NOTE 1: 90% spectrum utilization may not be achieved for 30kHz SCS. NOTE 2: 90% spectrum utilization may not be achieved for 60kHz SCS. NOTE 3: This UE channel bandwidth is applicable only to downlink. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 7 NR band 4.4-5.0 GHz issues
## 7.1 UE specific
### 7.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.1.1.1 UE maximum output power
The MOP requirements for Band 42 and 43 single-carrier were specified as 23
dBm +2/-3 dB for power class 3 based on simulation results shown in Table
7.1.1.1-1 in August 2011.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Simulation results for combined Band 42 and Band 43 filter
[R4-114656]
             Bandwidth   Max IL (corner)   2f~0~ rejection   2.7 GHz rejection
* * *
Design 7 400 MHz 1.9 20 dB 30 dB Design 8 400 MHz 2.3 15 dB 10 dB Design 9 400
MHz 2.0 20 dB 15 dB
BPFs for Band n79 are provided in Table 7.1.1.1-2 and 7.1.1.1-3.
Table 7.1.1.1-2: Simulation results for combined Band 42 and Band 43 filter
[R4-114656]
{width="4.565277777777778in" height="3.2in"}
F [GHz] 4.4 4.8 4.99 5.0
* * *
IL +25C [dB] 0.88 0.60 0.59 0.59 IL ETC -40\~+90C [dB] 1.1 0.8 0.80 0.80
Table 7.1.1.1-3: Simulation results for combined Band 42 and Band 43 filter
[R4-114656]
* * *
                        typ IL \[dB\]                                                                 worst IL \[dB\]   Attenuation \[dB\]
frequencies [GHz] 4.4 4.8 5 4.4 4.8 5 2.3-2.69 0.617-2.2 3.3-4.2 3.3-3.8
5.15-5.925 5.250-5.925 n79 filter TR 2.3 1 2.3 2.5 1.2 2.5 >35 >25 >15 >15 >40
>40 comment 4.4-4.5GHz range must demonstrate coexistence with altimeter band
for China  
improved rejection in WiFi band
* * *
From these tables, no significant filter IL degradation for Band n79 can be
seen compared to that of Band 42 and 43 at ETC condition. Therefore, MOP for
Band n79 should be aligned with those of Band 42 and 43 at least.
Agreement: MOP for Band n79 is to be 23 dBm +2/-3 dB
### 7.1.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity
With the same investigation as UE maximum output power described in 7.1.1.1,
no significant filter IL degradation for Band n79 can be seen compared to that
of Band 42 and 43 at ETC condition. In addition, from LNA perspective, the
fractional bandwidth of Band n79 pass-band is 12.8 % which is smaller than
that of Band n78 (14.1 %). Hence, NF of Band n79 shouldn't be higher than that
of Band n78. Therefore, reference sensitivity for Band n79 should also be
aligned with those of Band n78 at least.
Agreement: REFSENS for Band n79 should be 1 dB larger than that of bands which
have NR smallest sensitivity (less RF challenges) such as Band n1.
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity for Band n79
Operating Band SCS kHz 40 50 60 80 100 Duplex Mode
* * *
                             MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     
                             (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)
n79 15 -89.6 -88.6 TDD 30 -89.7 -88.7 -87.9 -86.6 -85.6  
60 -89.9 -88.8 -88.0 -86.7 -85.7
#### 7.1.2.2 Blocking
##### 7.1.2.2.1 Out-of-band blocking
Based on filter performance shown in Table 7.1.1.1-1 and 7.1.1.1-2, out-of-
band blocking requirement needs to be optimized as with LTE band 42 and 43 as
below.
Table 7.1.2.2.1-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for Band n79
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | **Rx |** Units**|** Channel | | | | | | Pa | | ba | | | | | | rameter**| | ndwidth** | | | | | +===========+===========+===========+=======+=======+=======+========+ | | | **40\ |** 50\ | **60\ |** 80\ | **100\ | | | | MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | MHz**| MHz** | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | Power in | dBm | REFSENS + | | | | | | Tra | | channel | | | | | | nsmission | | bandwidth | | | | | | Bandwidth | | specific | | | | | | Conf | | value | | | | | | iguration | | below | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | | | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-------+-------+--------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | ansmitter | | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | | set to | | | | | | | | 4dB below | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | minimum | | | | | | | | uplink | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | iguration | | | | | | | | specified | | | | | | | | TBD with | | | | | | | | PCMAX_L | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | subclause | | | | | | | | 6.2.5. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | asurement | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | is TBD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | REFSENS | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level is | | | | | | | | TBD | | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-------+-------+-------+--------+
Table 7.1.2.2.1-2: Out of band blocking for Band n79
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **NR |** Par | * | **Fre | | | | band** | ameter**| *Units** | quency**| | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | |** Range | **Range |** Range | | | | | 1**| 2** | 3** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n79 | F~Int | MHz | N/A | -150 \ 3650 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \< 5750 | | | | | | | MHz. For | | | | | | | CBW | | | | | | | equal or | | | | | | | larger | | | | | | | than 50 | | | | | | | MHz, the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Range 2 | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | offset | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | 3*CBW | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | edge. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 8 Required changes to NR, E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
No changes identified.
#