# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for New frequency range for NR
(3.3-4.2 GHz). The purpose of this technical report is to provide
specification support for NR bands 3.3-3.8 GHz and 3.3-4.2 GHz.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] R4-1706893, "WF on 3.5GHz NR band definition", CMCC, Vodafone, Ericsson,
Qualcomm, Skyworks, Huawei, HiSilicon, CATT, ZTE, Telecom Italia, Orange,
Deutsche Telekom, BT, Broadcom, China Telecom, China Unicom
[3] R4-1709181, "WF on band numbering", NTT DOCOMO
[4] R4-1708845, "WF on UE mandatory channel bandwidth", Nokia
[5] R4-1711732, "WF on BS channel BW set", Huawei, Hisilicon, Vodafone,
Ericsson
[6] R4-1710957, "TP to TR 38.817-01: Futher ACLR agreements", Nokia
[7] R4-1710962, "TP to TS 38.101-1 Output RF spectrum emissions", Nokia
[8] TS 38.101-1: "NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception;
Part 1: Range 1 Standalone".
[9] TR _37.843_ : "Radio Frequency (RF) requirement background for Active
Antenna System (AAS) Base Station (BS) radiated requirements".
[10] TR 38.817-01: "General aspects for UE RF for NR".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
F~Interferer~ Frequency of the interferer
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink _operating band_
P~CMAX~ The configured maximum UE output power.
P~CMAX~, _~c~_ The configured maximum UE output power for serving cell _c_.
P~Interferer~ Modulated mean power of the interferer
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
In 3GPP RAN4 #AH2 meeting, it is proposed that new bands for NR are assigned
band numbers on a "first come first served" basis in reserved ranges
regardless of duplex mode or RAT. Then, in RAN4 #84 meeting, band 3.3-3.8 GHz
and band 3.3-4.2GHz are assigned band number n78 and n77 respectively.
# 5 NR Frequency band definition
In 3GPP, RAN 4 specified two NR operating bands n77 and n78 in 3.3GHz-4.2GHz.
A UE supporting n78 band is not required to support n77 band [2].
{width="2.9166666666666665in" height="0.6086953193350831in"}
{width="1.8645833333333333in" height="0.6317935258092738in"}
# 6 Band numbering and channel bandwidth
## 6.1 Band numbering
For 3.3-4.2GHz frequency range the NR frequency bands are defined as in Table
6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: NR frequency bands
* * *
NR Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating band\
Duplex Mode BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
* * *
                      FUL\_low -- FUL\_high         FDL\_low -- FDL\_high
n77 3300MHz-4200MHz 3300MHz-4200MHz TDD
n78 3300MHz-3800MHz 3300MHz-3800MHz TDD
* * *
## 6.2 Channel bandwidth
### 6.2.1 Channel bandwidth Set [NR_newRAT]
The superset of channel bandwidth for UE was agreed in Table 6.2.1-1:
Table 6.2.1-1 UE channel bandwidth set
NR Band | Data SCS = 15kHz | Data SCS = 30kHz | Data SCS = 60kHz (for more than 1GHz bands) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| 10 MHZ | 15 MHz | 20 MHZ | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 10 MHZ | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100 MHz | 10 MHz  
(NOTE) | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40 MH z | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100 MHz  
n77 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
n78 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes  
NOTE: 90% spectrum utilization may not be achieved |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
For band n77 and band n78, addition to the UE channel BWs for the band, 30
MHz, 70 MHz and 90 MHz are supported for BS. These new BS CBWs have low
priority compared to the UE channel BWs.
# 7 NR band 3.3GHz - 3.8GHz specific issues
## 7.1 UE specific
### 7.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.1.1.1 UE maximum output power
The MOP requirements for Band 42 and 43 single-carrier were specified as 23
dBm +2/-3 dB for power class 3 based on simulation results shown in Table
7.1.1.1-1 in August 2011.
Table 7.1.1.1-1. Simulation results for combined Band 42 and Band 43 filter
[R4-114656]
             Bandwidth   Max IL (corner)   2f~0~ rejection   2.7 GHz rejection
* * *
Design 7 400 MHz 1.9 20 dB 30 dB Design 8 400 MHz 2.3 15 dB 10 dB Design 9 400
MHz 2.0 20 dB 15 dB
When specifying MOP requirements of Band n77 and n78, the delta to be checked
is IL impact of BPF due to the extension of pass-bandwidth. It is shown in
Table 7.1.1.1-2.
Table 7.1.1.1-2. Simulation results for Band n77 and n78
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Para | Freq | V | V | V | | | | | meter | uency | endor | endor | endor | | | | | | range | 1 | 2 | 3 | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | | Band | Band | Band | Band | Band | Band | | | | n78 | n77 | n78 | n77 | n78 | n77 | | | | BPF | BPF | BPF | BPF | BPF | BPF | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Inse | 3300 | 1.05 | 1.05 | 2.0 | 2.0 | 1.9 | 1.9 | | rtion | -3400 | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | dB | | loss | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (ETC) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 3400 | 1.0 | 1.0 | 1.5 | 1.5 | | | | | -3800 | dB | dB | dB | dB | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 3800 | - | 1.25 | - | 2.0 | - | | | | -4200 | | dB | | dB | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | A | 698 | 41.0 | 41.0 | 45 dB | 35 dB | 46.3 | 47.8 | | ttenu | -2690 | dB | dB | | (ETC) | dB | dB | | ation | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Typ) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 5150 | 40.2 | 40.2 | 35 dB | 35 dB | 40.8 | 35.6 | | | -5925 | dB | dB | | (ETC) | dB | dB | | | MHz | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
With comparison between Table 7.1.1.1-1 and Table 7.1.1.1-2, it was concluded
that there is no degradation of IL at ETC even with the extension and agreed
to specify the same MOP as that of Band 42 and 43 (i.e., 23 dBm +2/-3 dB) for
Band n77 and n78 of power class 3.
Agreement: MOP is to be specified as 23 dBm +2/-3 dB for Band n77 and n78 of
power class 3
The following NR UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth for non-CA configuration
and UL-MIMO unless otherwise stated.
Table 7.1.1.1-3: NR UE power classes
**NR Operating band** **Class 2** **Class 3** **Comments**
* * *
n77 26 dBm +2/-3 dB 23 dBm +2/-3 dB 3.3 - 4.2 GHz n78 26 dBm +2/-3 dB 23 dBm
+2/-3 dB 3.3 - 3.8 GHz n79 26 dBm +2/-3 dB 23 dBm +2/-3 dB 4.4 - 5 GHz
For a power class 2 UE, applicability to certain restriction of
uplink/downlink configuration is TBD.
If UE is configured for power class 2 UE, the requirements in Table 7.1.1.1-4.
Table 7.1.1.1-4: P~CMAX~ tolerance
* * *
P~CMAX,_c_ \ Tolerance T(P~CMAX,_c_ ~)\ ~(dBm) (dB)
* * *
23 \ **_Agreement: Protected bands required for Band n77 are to be the same as
> those for Band n78 (i.e., not only Japanese bands but also ones required for
> other regions such as Europe, Korea and China)_**
No changes to Table 7.1.1.6-1 are needed as a result of Band n78 power class 2
operation.
#### 7.1.1.7 Tx requirements for UL MIMO with PC2
##### 7.1.1.7.1 UE maximum output power
For PC2 UE with two transmit antenna connectors in closed-loop spatial
multiplexing scheme, the maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth
within the channel bandwidth is specified in Table 7.1.1.7.1-1. For UE
supporting UL-MIMO, the maximum output power is measured as the sum of the
maximum output power at each UE antenna connector. The period of measurement
shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
The requirements shall be met with the UL-MIMO configurations of using 2-layer
UL-MIMO transmission with codebook of{width="0.6666666666666666in"
height="0.4270833333333333in"}. Whether other code book will be introduced in
Rel-15 is FFS. DCI Format for UE configured in PUSCH transmission mode for
uplink single-user MIMO shall be used.
Table 7.1.1.7.1-1: UE Power Class for UL-MIMO in closed loop spatial
multiplexing scheme
NR band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
n77 26 +2/-3  
n78 26 +2/-3
If UE is configured for transmission on single-antenna port, the requirements
in Table 7.1.1.7.1-2 shall apply.
Table 7.1.1.7.1-2: UE Power Class
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
n77 23 ±2  
n78 23 ±2
For a power class 2 capable UE supporting UL MIMO, applicability to certain
restriction of uplink/downlink configuration is TBD.
##### 7.1.1.7.2 Configured transmitted power
For UE supporting UL-MIMO, the transmitted power is configured per each UE.
For PC2 UE with two transmit antenna connectors in closed-loop spatial
amultiplexing scheme, the tolerance is specified in Table 7.1.1.7.2-1. The
requirements shall be met with UL-MIMO configurations described in sub-clause
7.1.1.7.1.
Table 7.1.1.7.2-1: P~CMAX,_c_ ~ tolerance in closed-loop spatial multiplexing
scheme
* * *
P~CMAX,_c_ \ Tolerance\ Tolerance\ ~(dBm) T~LOW~(P~CMAX_L,_c_ ~) (dB)
T~HIGH~(P~CMAX_H,_c_ ~) (dB)
* * *
P~CMAX,_c_ ~ =26 3.0 2.0
23 ≤ P~CMAX,_c_ ~ \35 >35
n78 (3.3-3.8 GHz) 1.5 1.8 >35 >35
* * *
Table 7.1.2.1-2. Filter simulation results reported by Vendor B in
[R4-1711334]
* * *
Filter IL [dB] Min Attenuation [dB] @
* * *
                      Nominal     Worst Case                 693-2690\   5150-5925\   Radio Altimeter
                                                             MHz         MHz
n77 (3.3-4.2 GHz) 1.87 TBC 44 46
n78 (3.3-3.8 GHz) 1.56 TBC 40.5 51
* * *
Table 7.1.2.1-3. Filter simulation results reported in [R4-1711334]
Filter IL [dB] Min Attenuation [dB]
* * *
                        Nominal     Worst case
Frequencies [GHz] 3.3 3.8 4.2 3.3 3.8 4.2 2.3-2.69 0.617-2.2 4.4-5.0 4.8-5.0
5.15-5.925 5.250-5.925 n77 (3.3-4.2 GHz) 2.6 1.9 2.4 2.9 2.1 2.6 35 45 5 18 40
45 n78 (3.3-3.8 GHz) 2.1 1.8 - 2.3 2.1 - 35 40 22 25 40 45
> **_Agreement: REFSENS for Band n77 at 3.3-3.8 GHz and n78 should be 1 dB
> larger than that of bands which have NR smallest sensitivity (less RF
> challenges) such as Band n1. REFSENS for Band n77 at 3.8-4.2 GHz is
> increased by 0.5 dB compared to that of Band n78._**
Table 7.1.2.1-4. Reference sensitivity for Band n78
Operating Band SCS kHz 10 15 20 40 50 60 80 100 Duplex Mode
* * *
                             MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz      
                             (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)    (dBm)
n78 15 -95.8 -94.0 -92.7 -89.6 -88.6 TDD 30 -96.1 -94.1 -92.9 -89.7 -88.7
-87.9 -86.6 -85.6  
60 -96.5 -94.4 -93.1 -89.9 -88.8 -88.0 -86.7 -85.7
#### 7.1.2.2 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive a NR signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency
of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter attenuation on
the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter attenuation on the
adjacent channel(s).
It is not possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the lower and upper
range of test parameters are chosen in Table 7.1.2.2-2 and Table 7.1.2.2-3
where the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 of TS
38.101-1 [8] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-
signal as described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 of TS 38.101-1 [8]).
Table 7.1.2.2-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | 40 MHz | 50  
MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100  
MHz  
n78 | ACS | dB | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0]  
Table 7.1.2.2-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100 MHz  
n78 | Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | REFSENS + 14 dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| PInterferer | dBm | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5] dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB  
| BWInterferer | MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 100  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 15kHz | MHz | 10+0.0125 / -10-0.0125 | 15+0.0075 / -15-0.0075 | 20+0.0025 / -20-0.0025 | 40+0.0125 / -40-0.0125 | 50+0.0025 / -50-0.0025 | N/A | N/A | N/A  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 30kHz | MHz | 10+0.005 / -10-0.005 | 15+0.015 / -15-0.015 | 20+0.025 / -20-0.025 | 40+0.005 / -40-0.005 | 50+0.025 / -50-0.025 | 60+0.015 / -60-0.015 | 80+0.025 / -80-0.025 | 100+0.005 / -100-0.005  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 60kHz | MHz | 10+0.050 / -10-0.050 | 15+0.030 / -15-0.030 | 20+0.010 / -20-0.010 | 40+0.050 / -40-0.050 | 50+0.010 / -50-0.010 | 60+0.030 / -60-0.030 | 80+0.010 / -80-0.010 | 100+0.050 / -100-0.050  
Table 7.1.2.2-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40 MHz | 50 MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100 MHz  
n78 | Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5]  
| PInterferer | dBm | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| BWInterferer | MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 100  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 15kHz | MHz | 10+0.0125 / -10-0.0125 | 15+0.0075 / -15-0.0075 | 20+0.0025 / -20-0.0025 | 40+0.0125 / -40-0.0125 | 50+0.0025 / -50-0.0025 | NA | NA | NA  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 30kHz | MHz | 10+0.005 / -10-0.005 | 15+0.015 / -15-0.015 | 20+0.025 / -20-0.025 | 40+0.005 / -40-0.005 | 50+0.025 / -50-0.025 | 60+0.015 / -60-0.015 | 80+0.025 / -80-0.025 | 100+0.005 / -100-0.005  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 60kHz | MHz | 10+0.050 / -10-0.050 | 15+0.030 / -15-0.030 | 20+0.010 / -20-0.010 | 40+0.050 / -40-0.050 | 50+0.010 / -50-0.010 | 60+0.030 / -60-0.030 | 80+0.010 / -80-0.010 | 100+0.050 / -100-0.050  
#### 7.1.2.3 Blocking
##### 7.1.2.3.1 Out-of-band blocking
Based on filter performance shown in Table 7.1.1.1-2, out-of-band blocking
requirement needs to be optimized as with LTE band 42 and 43 as shown in Table
7.1.2.3-1. Wanted signal level is the same as that of LTE refarming bands.
Agreement: Out-of-band blocking for n78 should be specified as below.
Table 7.1.2.3.1-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for n78
**Rx Parameter** | **Units** | **Channel bandwidth** |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | **10  
MHz** | **15  
MHz** | **20  
MHz** | **40  
MHz** | **50  
MHz** | **60  
MHz** | **80  
MHz** | **100  
MHz**  
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | REFSENS + channel bandwidth specific value below |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 6 | 7 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9  
NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set to 4dB below PCMAX_L at the minimum uplink configuration specified TBD with PCMAX_L as defined in subclause 6.2.5. NOTE 2: Reference measurement channel is TBD NOTE 3: The REFSENS power level is TBD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 7.1.2.3.1-2: Out of band blocking for Band n78
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **NR |** Par | * | **Fre | | | | band** | ameter**| *Units** | quency**| | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | |** Range | **Range |** Range | | | | | 1**| 2** | 3** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n78 | F~int | MHz | -60 \ 2700 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \ 3GHz - 2.2
For the ACS and blocking requirements in section in 7.1.2.2 and 7.1.2.3 as
well as Spurious response and Receiver intermodulation requirements, it should
be noted that the REFSENS power level for these requirements represents for
two and four antenna ports, respectively.
## 7.2 BS specific
The operating band Band n78 is 3300MHz\~3800MHz, belonging to FR1, therefore
only 3 distinct types of NR BS each has a different architecture and
requirements set are applied, which are _BS type 1-C_ , _BS type 1-H_ and _BS
type 1-O._
For Band n78 power class 2 HPUE, it can be foreseen that there are no
additional BS receive blocking such as in-band blocking and out-of-band
blocking requirements introduced.
### 7.2.1 Operating band unwanted emissions
The operating band unwanted emission (OBUE) limits are defined from Δf~OBUE~
below the lowest frequency of each supported downlink operating band up to
Δf~OBUE~ above the highest frequency of each supported downlink operating
band. According to the WF in R4-1706223, Δf~OBUE~=40 MHz for NR bands wider
than 100 MHz as baseline for the boundary between UEM and spurious emission(
for both Cat A and Cat B ). Therefore for Band n78, Δf~OBUE~ should be40 MHz.
#### 7.2.1.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The _basic limits_ of the operating band unwanted emission for Band n78 is the
based on the same principles as for LTE, where the unwanted emission limits
for >=5MHz channel bandwidth of each BS classes( Wide Area BS(band >1GHz),
Medium Range BS and Local Area BS) can be applied to Cat A and Cat B for the
unwanted emission basic limits for Band n78.
\- For BS type 1-C, the operating band unwanted emissions requirement for each
_antenna connector_ shall be defined based on _basic limits_ with no scaling
and no antenna considered.
\- For BS type 1-H, the operating band unwanted emissions requirements are for
each _TAB connector TX_ shall be defined based on _base limits_. _The power
summation emission at the TAB connectors of the TAB connector TX min cell
shall not_ exceed the _basic limit_ \+ X, where X =
10log~10~(N~TXU,countedpercell~).
#### 7.2.1.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The OTA operating band unwanted emissions requirements are applied at RIB and
based on the emission scaling, where the emission limits are defined as basic
limit+9dB, where the basic limits are specified in subclause 7.2.1.1.
### 7.2.2 Additional spurious emissions requirements
#### 7.2.2.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The additional spurious emission requirement may be applied for the protection
of system operating in frequency ranges other than the BS downlink operating
band. It is proposed that the same limits as TDD E-UTRA bands (i.e. -52
dBm/MHz) can be applied for the _basic limits_ for NR band n78.
In addition, since the Band n77 and n78 are overlapping operating bands, and
these two bands may be deployed in the same geographical area, thus this
requirement does not apply to BS operating in Band n77 and n78.
_For BS type 1-C_ , the emissions requirements for each _antenna connector_
shall be defined based on _basic limits_ with no scaling and no antenna
considered.
_For BS type 1-H_ , the emissions requirements are for each _TAB connector
shall be defined based on the basics limits, The power summation emission at
the TAB connectors of the TAB connector TX min cell shall not_ exceed the
_basic limit_ \+ X, where X = 10log~10~(N~TXU,countedpercell~).
#### 7.2.2.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The OTA minimum requirements are applied at RIB and based on the emission
scaling, where the emission limits are defined as basic limits+9dB, where the
basic limits are specified in subclause 7.2.2.1.
### 7.2.3 Co-location with other base stations
#### 7.2.3.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The conduct requirements assume a 30dB coupling loss between transmitter and
receiver and are based on co-location with base stations of the same class.
Thus, it is proposed that the same limits as E-UTRA for different BS classes
can be applied for the _basic limits_ of co-location requirements for each BS
classes for NR Bands n78.
For BS type 1-C, the emissions requirements for each antenna connector shall
be defined based on basic limits with no scaling and no antenna considered.
For BS type 1-H, the emissions requirements are for each _TAB connector shall
be defined based on the basics limits, The power summation emission at the TAB
connectors of the TAB connector TX min cell shall not_ exceed the _basic
limit_ \+ X, where X = 10log~10~(N~TXU,countedpercell~).
7.2.3.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The OTA co-location with other base stations requirements are specified as co-
location requirements using the co-location reference antenna, as described in
TR 37.843 [9].
The output of the _co-location reference antenna_ of any spurious emission
shall not exceed the _basic limits_ in subclause 7.2.3.1 + X dB, where X = -21
dB.
### 7.2.4 General blocking requirement
#### 7.2.4.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The blocking requirements apply in the in-band blocking frequency range, which
is from 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink operating band up to
60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink operating band for NR Band
n78, but excludes the downlink frequency range of the operating band.
The blocking requirements apply in the out-of-band blocking frequency range,
which is from 1MHz to 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink
operating band or from 60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink
operating band to 12750MHz for NR BS operating in Band n78, but includes the
downlink frequency range of the operating band.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector_ for _BS
type 1-C_ and at the _TAB connector_ for _BS type 1-H_.
#### 7.2.4.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The blocking requirements apply in the in-band blocking frequency range, which
is from 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink operating band up to
60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink operating band for NR Band
n78, but excludes the downlink frequency range of the operating band.
The _BS type 1-O_ in-band blocking requirements apply at the RIB when the AoA
of the incident wave of a received signal and the interfering signal are from
the same direction and are within OTA REFSEN _RoAOA_ and _minSENS RoAoA._
The blocking requirements apply in the out-of-band blocking frequency range,
which is from 30MHz to 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink
operating band or from 60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink
operating band to 12750MHz for NR BS operating in Band n78, but includes the
downlink frequency range of the operating band.
The _BS type 1-O_ out-of -band blocking requirements apply at the RIB when the
AoA of the incident wave of a received signal and the interfering signal are
from the same direction and are within _minSENS RoAoA._
### 7.2.5 Blocking requirement for co-location with other base stations
7.2.5.1 Minimum requirement for _BS type 1-C_ and _BS type 1-H_
The conduct requirements assume a 30dB coupling loss between interfering
transmitter and receiver and are based on co-location with base stations of
the same class. Thus, it is proposed that the same limits as E-UTRA for
different BS classes can be applied for the _base limits_ of co-location
requirements for each BS classes for NR Bands n78.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector_ for _BS
type 1-C_ and at the _TAB connector_ for _BS type 1-H_.
7.2.5.2 Minimum requirement for _BS type 1-O_
The OTA co-location blocking requirements are specified as co-location
requirements using the co-location reference antenna, as described in TR
37.843 [9].
The interferer power level is specified per polarization and defined as a
power into the conducted input of the co-location reference antenna.
# 8 NR band 3.3GHz - 4.2GHz specific issues
## 8.1 UE specific
For Power Class 2 UE in Band n77 supporting UL MIMO, the requirements in
Clause 7.1.1.7 and 7.1.2.4 apply.
For UE in Band n77 supporting 4Rx, the requirements in Clause 7.1.2.5 apply.
### 8.1.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 8.1.1.1 UE maximum output power
Based on the same discussion as UE maximum output power of Band n78 described
in clause 7.1.1.1, the following was agreed.
Agreement: MOP is to be specified as 23 dBm +2/-3 dB for Band n77 and n78 of
power class 3
The following NR UE Power Classes define the maximum output power for any
transmission bandwidth within the channel bandwidth for non-CA configuration
and UL-MIMO unless otherwise stated.
Table 8.1.1.1-1: NR UE power classes
**NR Operating band** **Class 2** **Class 3** **Comments**
* * *
n77 26 dBm +2/-3 dB 23 dBm +2/-3 dB 3.3 - 4.2 GHz n78 26 dBm +2/-3 dB 23 dBm
+2/-3 dB 3.3 - 3.8 GHz n79 26 dBm +2/-3 dB 23 dBm +2/-3 dB 4.4 - 5 GHz
For a power class 2 UE, applicability to certain restriction of
uplink/downlink configuration is TBD.
If UE is configured for power class 2 UE, the requirements in Table 8.1.1.1-2.
Table 8.1.1.1-2: PCMAX tolerance
* * *
P~CMAX,_c_ \ Tolerance T(P~CMAX,_c_ ~)\ ~(dBm) (dB)
* * *
23 \ **_Agreement: Protected bands required for Band n77 are to be the same as
> those for Band n78 (i.e., not only Japanese bands but also ones required for
> other regions such as Europe, Korea and China)_**
No changes to Table 8.1.1.6-1 are needed as a result of Band n77 power class 2
operation.
### 8.1.2 Receiver characteristics
No changes to receiver characteristics are needed as a result of Band n77
power class 2 operation.
#### 8.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity
Based on the same discussion as reference sensitivity of Band n78 described in
clause 7.1.2.1, the following was agreed.
> **_Agreement: REFSENS for Band n77 at 3.3-3.8 GHz and n78 should be 1 dB
> larger than that of bands which have NR smallest sensitivity (less RF
> challenges) such as Band n1. REFSENS for Band n77 at 3.8-4.2 GHz is
> increased by 0.5 dB compared to that of Band n78._**
Table 8.1.2.1-1. Reference sensitivity for Band n77
Operating Band SCS kHz 10 15 20 40 50 60 80 100 Duplex Mode
* * *
                                   MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     MHz     
                                   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)   (dBm)
n77 (3.3 to 3.8 GHz) 15 -95.8 -94.0 -92.7 -89.6 -88.6 TDD 30 -96.1 -94.1 -92.9
-89.7 -88.7 -87.9 -86.6 -85.6  
60 -96.5 -94.4 -93.1 -89.9 -88.8 -88.0 -86.7 -85.7  
n77 (3.8 to 4.2 GHz) 15 -95.3 -93.5 -92.2 -89.1 -88.1 TDD 30 -95.6 -93.6 -92.4
-89.2 -88.2 -87.4 -86.1 -85.1  
60 -96.0 -93.9 -92.6 -89.4 -88.3 -87.5 -86.2 -85.2
#### 8.1.2.2 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS)
Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) is a measure of a receiver\'s ability to
receive a NR signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of an
adjacent channel signal at a given frequency offset from the centre frequency
of the assigned channel. ACS is the ratio of the receive filter attenuation on
the assigned channel frequency to the receive filter attenuation on the
adjacent channel(s).
It is not possible to directly measure the ACS, instead the lower and upper
range of test parameters are chosen in Table 8.1.2.2-2 and Table 8.1.2.2-3
where the throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 of TS
38.101-1 [8] (with one sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-
signal as described in Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1 of TS 38.101-1 [8]).
Table 8.1.2.2-1: Adjacent channel selectivity
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | 40 MHz | 50  
MHz | 60 MHz | 80 MHz | 100  
MHz  
n77 | ACS | dB | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0] | [33.0]  
Table 8.1.2.2-2: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 1
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40MHz | 50 MHz | 60MHz | 80MHz | 100 MHz  
n77 | Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | REFSENS + 14 dB |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| PInterferer | dBm | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB | REFSENS [+45.5]dB  
| BWInterferer | MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 100  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 15kHz | MHz | 10+0.0125 / -10-0.0125 | 15+0.0075 / -15-0.0075 | 20+0.0025 / -20-0.0025 | 40+0.0125 / -40-0.0125 | 50+0.0025 / -50-0.0025 | N/A | N/A | N/A  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 30kHz | MHz | 10+0.005 / -10-0.005 | 15+0.015 / -15-0.015 | 20+0.025 / -20-0.025 | 40+0.005 / -40-0.005 | 50+0.025 / -50-0.025 | 60+0.015 / -60-0.015 | 80+0.025 / -80-0.025 | 100+0.005 / -100-0.005  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 60kHz | MHz | 10+0.050 / -10-0.050 | 15+0.030 / -15-0.030 | 20+0.010 / -20-0.010 | 40+0.050 / -40-0.050 | 50+0.010 / -50-0.010 | 60+0.030 / -60-0.030 | 80+0.010 / -80-0.010 | 100+0.050 / -100-0.050  
Table 8.1.2.2-3: Test parameters for Adjacent channel selectivity, Case 2
NR band | Rx Parameter | Units | Channel bandwidth |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | 40MHz | 50 MHz | 60MHz | 80MHz | 100 MHz  
n77 | Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5] | [-56.5]  
| PInterferer | dBm | -25 |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| BWInterferer | MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | 40 | 50 | 60 | 80 | 100  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 15kHz | MHz | 10+0.0125 / -10-0.0125 | 15+0.0075 / -15-0.0075 | 20+0.0025 / -20-0.0025 | 40+0.0125 / -40-0.0125 | 50+0.0025 / -50-0.0025 | N/A | N/A | N/A  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 30kHz | MHz | 10+0.005 / -10-0.005 | 15+0.015 / -15-0.015 | 20+0.025 / -20-0.025 | 40+0.005 / -40-0.005 | 50+0.025 / -50-0.025 | 60+0.015 / -60-0.015 | 80+0.025 / -80-0.025 | 100+0.005 / -100-0.005  
| FInterferer (offset) For SCS of 60kHz | MHz | 10+0.050 / -10-0.050 | 15+0.030 / -15-0.030 | 20+0.010 / -20-0.010 | 40+0.050 / -40-0.050 | 50+0.010 / -50-0.010 | 60+0.030 / -60-0.030 | 80+0.010 / -80-0.010 | 100+0.050 / -100-0.050  
#### 8.1.2.3 Blocking
##### 8.1.2.3.1 Out-of-band blocking
Based on the same discussion as out-of-band blocking of Band n78 described in
clause 7.1.2.3.1, the following was agreed.
Agreement: Out-of-band blocking for Band n77 and n78 should be specified as
below.
Table 8.1.2.3.1-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for Band n77 and n78
**Rx Parameter** | **Units** | **Channel bandwidth** |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  | **10  
MHz** | **15  
MHz** | **20  
MHz** | **40  
MHz** | **50  
MHz** | **60  
MHz** | **80  
MHz** | **100  
MHz**  
Power in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration | dBm | REFSENS + channel bandwidth specific value below |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
|  | 6 | 7 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9  
NOTE 1: The transmitter shall be set to 4dB below PCMAX_L at the minimum uplink configuration specified TBD with PCMAX_L as defined in subclause 6.2.5. NOTE 2: Reference measurement channel is TBD NOTE 3: The REFSENS power level is TBD |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 8.1.2.3.1-2: Out of band blocking for Band n77 and n78
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **NR |** Par | * | **Fre | | | | band** | ameter**| *Units** | quency**| | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | |** Range | **Range |** Range | | | | | 1**| 2** | 3** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | P~Int | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | | erferer~ | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | n77 | F~int | MHz | -60 \ 2700 | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | F~Int | | | | | | | erferer~ | | | | | | | \=5MHz channel bandwidth of each BS classes( Wide Area BS(band >1GHz),
Medium Range BS and Local Area BS) can be applied to Cat A and Cat B for the
unwanted emission basic limits for Band n77.
For _BS type 1-C_ , the operating band unwanted emissions requirement for each
_antenna connector_ shall be defined based on _basic limits_ with no scaling
and no antenna considered.
For _BS type 1-H_ , the operating band unwanted emissions requirements are for
each _TAB connector TX_ shall be defined based on _base limits_. _The power
summation emission at the TAB connectors of the TAB connector TX min cell
shall not_ exceed the _basic limit_ \+ X, where X =
10log~10~(N~TXU,countedpercell~).
#### 8.2.1.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The OTA operating band unwanted emissions requirements are applied at RIB and
based on the emission scaling, where the emission limits are defined as basic
limit+9dB, where the basic limits are specified in subclause 8.2.1.1.
### 8.2.2 Additional spurious emissions requirements
#### 8.2.2.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The additional spurious emission requirement may be applied for the protection
of system operating in frequency ranges other than the BS downlink operating
band. It is proposed that the same limits as TDD E-UTRA bands (i.e. -52
dBm/MHz) can be applied for the _basic limits_ for NR band n77.
In addition, since the Band n77 and n78 are overlapping operating bands, and
these two bands may be deployed in the same geographical area, thus this
requirement does not apply to BS operating in Band n77 and n78.
For _BS type 1-C_ , the emissions requirements for each _antenna connector_
shall be defined based on _basic limits_ with no scaling and no antenna
considered.
For _BS type 1-H_ , the emissions requirements are for each _TAB connector TX
shall be defined based on the basics limits, The power summation emission at
the TAB connectors of the TAB connector TX min cell shall not_ exceed the
_basic limit_ \+ X, where X = 10log~10~(N~TXU,countedpercell~).
#### 8.2.2.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The OTA minimum requirements are applied at RIB and based on the emission
scaling, where the emission limits are defined as basic limit+9dB, where the
basic limits are specified in subclause 8.2.2.1.
### 8.2.3 Co-location with other base stations
#### 8.2.3.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The conduct requirements assume a 30dB coupling loss between transmitter and
receiver and are based on co-location with base stations of the same class.
Thus, it is proposed that the same limits as E-UTRA for different BS classes
can be applied for the _basic limits_ of co-location requirements for each BS
classes for NR Bands n77.
For BS type 1-C, the emissions requirements for each _antenna connector_ shall
be defined based on _basic limits_ with no scaling and no antenna considered.
For BS type 1-H, the emissions requirements are for each _TAB connector shall
be defined based on the basics limits, The power summation emission at the TAB
connectors of the TAB connector TX min cell shall not_ exceed the _basic
limit_ \+ X, where X = 10log~10~(N~TXU,countedpercell~).
#### 8.2.3.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The OTA co-location with other base stations requirements are specified as co-
location requirements using the co-location reference antenna, as described in
TR 37.843 [9].
The output of the _co-location reference antenna_ of any spurious emission
shall not exceed the _basic limits_ in subclause 7.2.3.1 + X dB, where X = -21
dB.
### 8.2.4 General blocking requirement
#### 8.2.4.1 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-C and BS type 1-H
The blocking requirements apply in the in-band blocking frequency range, which
is from 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink operating band up to
60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink operating band for NR Band
n77, but excludes the downlink frequency range of the operating band.
The blocking requirements apply in the out-of-band blocking frequency range,
which is from 1MHz to 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink
operating band or from 60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink
operating band to 12750MHz for NR BS operating in Band n77, but includes the
downlink frequency range of the operating band.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector_ for _BS
type 1-C_ and at the _TAB connector_ for _BS type 1-H_.
#### 8.2.4.2 Minimum requirement for BS type 1-O
The blocking requirements apply in the in-band blocking frequency range, which
is from 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink operating band up to
60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink operating band for NR Band
n77, but excludes the downlink frequency range of the operating band.
The _BS type 1-O_ in-band blocking requirements apply at the RIB when the AoA
of the incident wave of a received signal and the interfering signal are from
the same direction and are within OTA REFSEN _RoAOA_ and _minSENS RoAoA._
The blocking requirements apply in the out-of-band blocking frequency range,
which is from 30MHz to 60 MHz below the lowest frequency of the uplink
operating band or from 60 MHz above the highest frequency of the uplink
operating band to 12750MHz for NR BS operating in Band n77, but includes the
downlink frequency range of the operating band.
The _BS type 1-O_ out-of -band blocking requirements apply at the RIB when the
AoA of the incident wave of a received signal and the interfering signal are
from the same direction and are within _minSENS RoAoA._
### 8.2.5 Blocking requirement for co-location with other base stations
8.2.5.1 Minimum requirement for _BS type 1-C_ and _BS type 1-H_
The conduct requirements assume a 30dB coupling loss between interfering
transmitter and receiver and are based on co-location with base stations of
the same class. Thus, it is proposed that the same limits as E-UTRA for
different BS classes can be applied for the _base limits_ of co-location
requirements for each BS classes for NR Bands n77.
Minimum conducted requirement is defined at the _antenna connector_ for _BS
type 1-C_ and at the _TAB connector_ for _BS type 1-H_.
8.2.5.2 Minimum requirement for _BS type 1-O_
The OTA co-location blocking requirements are specified as co-location
requirements using the co-location reference antenna, as described in TR
37.843 [9].
The interferer power level is specified per polarization and defined as a
power into the conducted input of the co-location reference antenna.
# 9 Required changes to NR, E-UTRA, UTRA and MSR specifications
No changes identified
#